Statement of Corporate Governance Introduction The Company is committed to a high standard of corporate governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in place a framework for corporate governance, which it believes is appropriate for an investment trust and which enables it to comply with the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance Code for listed companies published in July 2003.
The Association of Investment Trust Companies AITC also published the AITC Code, which forms a comprehensive guide in best practice in certain areas of governance where the specific characteristics of investment trusts suggest alternative approaches that may be preferable to those set out in the Code.
There is a certain amount of overlap with the Code, although the focus of attention is on the points of difference.
Application of the Code The Board is accountable to the Companys Shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the principles identified in the Code have been applied by the Company.
Save for the exceptions noted below, the Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout the year to 31 December 2005.
The Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority require the Board to report on compliance with the Code provisions throughout the year.
In instances where the Code and AITC Code differ, an explanation will be given as to which Code has been applied and the reason for that decision.
The exception to compliance with the Code, which is explained more fully under the heading of The Board is as follows: a senior independent non-executive Director has not been appointed.
the Chairman was a member of the Audit Committee until 24 February 2005.
Sir Raymond Johnstone, who was a non-independent Director, was a member of the Remuneration Committee until 3 May 2005..
The Board The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered to be independent of the Manager Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited or the Manager and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
It should be noted that: Sir Raymond Johnstone, who retired from the Board on 3 May 2005, was, until 24 February 1992, the Chairman of the former manager, Murray Johnstone Limited, which, in December 2000, became a subsiduary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
the Chairman was independent on appointment and, in compliance with the AITC Code, continues to be so.
Biographies of the Directors appear on pages 3 to 5 of this report and indicate their high level and range of industrial, commercial and professional experience, within an international perspective.
The Board sets the Companys values and objectives and ensures that its obligations to its Shareholders are met.
During the year ended 31 December 2005 the Board met seven times and also held a Strategy Meeting.
The primary focus at regular Board Meetings is a review of investment performance and associated matters, including gearing, asset allocation, marketing and investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
Between these meetings, the Board maintains regular contact with the Manager.
It has formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
These matters include: the maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk management policies.
the monitoring of the business activities of the Company ranging from analysis of investment performance through to annual budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance analysis.
Companies Act requirements such as the approval of the interim and annual Financial Statements and approval and recommendation of the interim and final dividends respectively.
setting the level of gearing which the Manager may operate.
Board appointments and removals and the related terms subject to appropriate shareholder approval.
appointment and removal of the Manager and the terms and conditions of the management and administration agreements relating thereto.
terms of reference and membership of Board Committees.
Stock Exchange UK Listing Authority Financial Services Authority responsibility such as approval of all circulars, listing particulars and approval of all releases concerning matters decided by the Board.
Murray International Trust PLC 35 Statement of Corporate Governance continued In addition there were three meetings of the Nomination Committee, three meetings of the Audit Committee and one each of the Remuneration Committee and the Management Engagement Committee.
The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
A senior non-executive Director has not been appointed as all the Directors are non-executive and the Board considers that each of the Directors has different qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead.
Consequently no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its appointed representatives who are responsible to the Board: for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good information flows with the Board and its committees, as well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional development as required.
for advising through the Chairman on all corporate governance matters.
When a Director is appointed, an induction meeting is arranged by the Manager.
Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors have attended Board meetings and Committee meetings, held during the year as shown below: Board and Management Strategy Audit Nomination Remuneration Engagement Meetings Committees Committees Committee Committee Attended attended attended attended attended Number of meetings 833 11 J F H Trott 813 1 Lady Balfour of Burleigh 833 11 D H Benson 713 1 J D Best 4 2 1 Sir Raymond Johnstone 3 A C Shedden 833 11 To enable the Board to function effectively and allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including the Managers review and discussion documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have made further enquiries where necessary.
The Board and Committees have undertaken their annual performance evaluation, by means of general and individual discussion, to ensure that all its members have devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board and Committees.
The Chairman has been evaluated by his fellow Directors.
External agencies The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, including the Manager and other service providers, certain services: the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets, the registration services and the day to day accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers reports from the Manager on a regular basis.
In addition ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as requested.
Committees The composition of the Committees is shown below under the headings of each Committee.
Terms of reference for each Committee are available on request.
36 Murray International Trust PLC Nomination Committee A Nomination Committee has been established with written terms of reference and comprises the following members, all of whom are independent from any relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their responsibilities: Mr J F H Trott Chairman of the Committee Lady Balfour of Burleigh Mr D H Benson Mr J D Best appointed 30 June 2005 Mr A C Shedden As a result of Sir Raymond Johnstone indicating his intention to retire at the Annual General Meeting on 3 May 2005, a search consultant was appointed to identify suitable candidates for the Board.
As a result of this process on 30 June 2005, Mr J D Best was appointed to the Board.
In considering the appointment of any new Director, the Committee ensures that the Board continues to have the right balance of skills, experience, age and length of service.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the following matters: the identification and nomination of candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise for the approval of the Board.
The identification of such candidates is carried out by an independent firm of consultants: plans for succession: the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office: the re-election by Shareholders of any Director under the retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles of Association: the continuation in office of any Director at any time: and: the appointment of any Director to another office e. g. Chairman of the Audit Committee other than to the position of Chairman, the recommendation for whom would be considered at a meeting of the Board.
The Committee recommended to the Board the nomination for re-election of Mr Best following his appointment.
They also recommended, following particularly rigourous review, Mr Shedden, who is seeking re-election beyond six years, as his knowledge and experience are greatly valued by his fellow Directors.
Details of their other directorships are shown on pages 4 and 5.
Details of attendance at the Nomination Committee is shown on page 36.
Audit Committee An Audit Committee has been established with written terms of reference and comprises the following members, all of whom are independent and free from any relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their responsibilities: Mr A C Shedden Chairman of the Committee Lady Balfour of Burleigh Mr D H Benson appointed 24 February 2005 Mr J D Best appointed 30 June 2005 Mr J F H Trott resigned 24 February 2005 Mr J T Trott was, until 24 February 2005, a member of the Committee, when he was replaced by Mr D H Benson who had given up some of his appointnments in the United States where best practice was to limit the number of such appointments.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are reviewed and re-assessed for their adequacy on an annual basis.
These include: the review of the effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Company to assist in this the Company receives reports from the internal and external auditors on a regular basis: the review of the annual accounts and interim report: the review of the terms of appointment of the Auditors together with their remuneration as well as the non-audit services provided by the Auditors if applicable : the review of the scope and the results of the audit and the objectivity of the Auditors it should be noted that the Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, change the partner responsible for the audit every five years : the review of the Auditors management letter and the management response: the review of the management agreement: and Murray International Trust PLC 37 Statement of Corporate Governance continued meetings with representatives of the Manager.
Details of attendance at the Audit Committee is shown on page 36.
Management Engagement Committee As recommended by the AITC Code, a Management Engagement Committee has been established with written terms of reference, all of whom are independent and free from any relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their responsibilities: Mr J F H Trott Chairman of the Committee Lady Balfour of Burleigh Mr D H Benson Mr J D Best appointed 30 June 2005 Mr A C Shedden It annually reviews matters concerning the management agreement which exists with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Details of the management agreement are shown on page 31 of the Annual Report.
Details of attendance at the Management Engagement Committee is shown on page 36.
Remuneration Committee Under the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rule 15.4.
15R, where an investment trust has only non-executive Directors, the Code principles relating to Directors remuneration do not apply.
However, the Company does have a Remuneration Committee, comprising the following members: Lady Balfour of Burleigh Chairman of the Committee Mr D H Benson Mr J D Best appointed 30 June 2005 Sir Raymond Johnstone resigned 3 May 2005 Mr A C Shedden The new Combined Code recommends that all the members of the Committee should be independent.
The remuneration of the Directors has been set in order to attract individuals of a calibre appropriate to the future development of the Company.
The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, together with details of the remuneration of each Director, is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 and 34.
Details of attendance at the Remuneration Committee is shown on page 36.
Directors terms of appointment All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, subject to re-election and Companies Act provisions and, in accordance with the existing Articles of Association, stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The Articles of Association state that Directors must offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Any Director who seeks re-election beyond six years will be subject to particularly rigorous review to ensure their performance continues to be effective.
Any Director who reaches the age of 70 is subject to annual re-election.
Policy on Tenure The Board takes the view that independence is not necessarily compomised by length of tenure on the Board and that experience can add significantly to the Boards strength.
Communication with Shareholders The Company places a great deal of importance on communication with its Shareholders.
The Manager has an annual programme of meetings with institutional Shareholders and reports back to the Board on these meetings.
The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures that, when shares in Murray International Trust are held in the name of nominee companies and notification has been received in advance, nominee companies will be provided with copies of Shareholder communications for distribution to their customers.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings and speak at meetings when invited by the Chairman.
38 Murray International Trust PLC Participants in the Savings Plan, whose shares are held in the nominee names of the plan administrator, are given the opportunity to vote by means of a Letter of Directions enclosed with the Annual Report.
The Letter of Directions is forwarded to the administrator of the Savings Plan, who will complete a proxy on behalf of the participants and forward it to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the voting figures.
Those participants who attend the Annual General Meeting are given the opportunity to speak when invited by the Chairman.
As required under the Combined Code, the Annual Report is posted to Shareholders at least twenty business days before the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the meeting and the resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 and 34 and in the Directors Report on pages 28 to 32.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
The Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting is an event at which all Shareholders are encouraged to attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to the meeting outlining the key investment issues that affect the Company.
All Shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The amount of proxy votes is relayed to Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the free Shareholder information telephone service run by the Manager and the Company and the Manager responds to letters from Shareholders.
The Manager meets regularly with major Shareholders and reports back to the Board on these visits.
A website from which the Companys reports and other publications can be downloaded is maintained on www.
co. uk Accountability and audit The Directors Statement of Responsibilities in respect of the Financial Statements is on page 41 and the Statement of Going Concern is included in the Directors Report on page 31.
The Independent Auditors Report is on page 42.
Internal control The Board of Directors of Murray International Trust has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company, that has been in place for the full year under review and up to the date of approval of the Financial Statements, and that this process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by the Company and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
The Directors have delegated the investment management of the Companys assets to the Manager within overall guidelines and this embraces implementation of the system of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit function which undertakes periodic examination of business processes, including compliance with the terms of the management agreement, and ensures that recommendations to improve controls are implemented.
Risks are identified and documented through a risk management framework by each function within the Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the TurnbuIl guidance and includes financial, regulatory, market operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Company and timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required is monitored and feedback provided to the Company.
The key components designed to provide effective internal control for the year under review and up to the date of this Report are outlined below: the Investment Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its investment performance: the Board and Investment Manager have agreed clearly defined investment criteria, Murray International Trust PLC 39 Statement of Corporate Governance continued specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including performance statistics and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Board.
The Investment Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies concerned include detailed appraisal and due diligence: as a matter of course the compliance department of Aberdeen Asset Managers continually reviews the Investment Managers operations: written agreements are in place which specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Investment Manager and other third party service providers: and twice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carries out an assessment of internal controls by considering documentation from the Manager, including its internal audit and compliance functions and taking account of events since the relevant period end.
In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly documented contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities that that have been delegated to external professional organisations.
The Head of Internal Audit of the Manager reports six monthly to the Audit Committee of the Company and has direct access to the Directors at any time.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Manager votes against resolutions that it considers might damage Shareholders rights or economic interests, Aberdeen Asset Managers gives due weight to what it considers to be socially responsible investment when making investment decisions but the overriding objective is to produce good investment returns for Shareholders.
Exercise of voting powers The Company has operated a corporate governance voting policy which, in summary, is based on the governance recommendations of the Code, with the intention of voting in accordance with best practice, whilst remaining a primary focus on financial returns.
In the case of the Companys investments, the Company has given discretionary voting powers to the Investment Manager, Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
