33 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Cairn is committed to achieving compliance with the principles and provisions set out in the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Authority the Listing Rules and to ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained.
The Board considers that the Company is compliant with the Combined Code, other than in the areas detailed on page 42.
The Chairman and the Deputy Chairman met with Research Recommendations and Electronic Voting RREV to discuss current corporate governance issues, their report on the Companys annual report and accounts for the previous financial year and, in particular, the steps that had been taken by the Company during 2005 to strengthen further the procedures that had been put in place to ensure the continuing independence of the Deputy Chairman.
Set out below is a statement of how the Company applied the principles of the Combined Code for the year ended 31 December 2005.
The Board Cairns business is international in scope and carries political, commercial and technical risks.
Accordingly, particular attention is paid to the composition and balance of the Board to ensure that it has wide experience of the sector and regulatory environment in which Cairn operates and appropriate financial and risk management skills.
In each Board appointment, whether executive or non-executive, the Board considers that objectivity and integrity, as well as skills, experience and ability which will assist the Board in its key functions, are pre-requisites for appointment.
The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other executive directors and five independent nonexecutive directors.
Hamish Grossart, Deputy Chairman, is Cairns senior independent non-executive director.
The directors biographies are on page 31.
All of the directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment to the Board and to re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
In addition, any non-executive director who has served on the Board for more than nine years is subject to annual re-election.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
These reserved matters include determination of the overall strategy of the Group and approval of the annual report and accounts and any other financial statements, the Groups annual budget and amendments to that budget over a particular amount, borrowing and security, acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure over a specified amount, amendments to the organisational structure of the Group and Board, approval of significant changes to accounting policies and approval of management incentive schemes and Group policy on pensions.
The Board delegates operational management of the Group on a day-to-day basis to the Group Management Board the GMB, which comprises the executive directors and Simon Thomson Group Commercial Manager, Richard Heaton Head of Exploration India and Jann Brown Group Financial Controller.
The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to enable it to perform its duties.
In addition, each director has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and Deputy Company Secretary.
There is also a procedure agreed by the Board for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense, up to a pre-determined limit.
During 2005 eight scheduled meetings of the Board were held.
Seven of those meetings were held in Edinburgh: the other Board meeting was held in Rajasthan, India.
Details of attendance at each of those meetings, and at meetings of Board committees, is set out on page 38.
Prior to and after the Board meeting held in India, the Board visited the Companys operations and the Companys co-venturers in Rajasthan, met with Government officials and observed a number of the Groups corporate and social responsibility initiatives in India, details of which are set out in the accompanying Corporate Responsibility Report.
During the year, additional meetings to deal with specific matters were held at short notice when required.
When a specific matter requires consideration at short notice, there is a procedure setting out when those matters must be considered at a short notice Board meeting and when they may be dealt with by a committee of the Board comprising at least two non-executive directors one of whom must be the Chairman or Deputy Chairman and two executive directors.
All directors unable physically to attend Board and committee meetings are given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting by telephone or in writing.
Video conferencing facilities are also used when directors are not able to attend meetings in person.
34 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Board continued The formal agenda, which regularly includes presentations from senior operational management, for each scheduled Board meeting is set by the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Formal minutes of all Board and committee meetings are circulated to all directors prior to the next Board meeting and are considered for approval at that Board meeting.
In addition, the Board is in frequent contact between meetings to progress the Groups business.
The non-executive directors also meet informally, without any executives present, on a regular basis to discuss matters in respect of the business.
New directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the Board.
This involves meetings with other Board members, members of the GMB and certain of the Companys principal advisers.
In addition, a new director is provided with an induction pack which contains background materials and general information on the Company, the Companys policies and procedures, financial information, an operational review and a briefing on directors legal and regulatory responsibilities.
No new directors were appointed during 2005.
The Company provides the necessary resources for developing and updating its directors knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, the Company is committed to the provision of continuing professional development training to its directors and in 2005 held a number of seminars for Board members on subjects appropriate to the Companys business, such as changes to legislation, regulation and market practice.
These seminars, which are regularly presented by the Companys external advisers, were held at the end of Board meetings and were attended by all directors present at the meeting.
This process is continuing in 2006.
Any director may request that a particular subject is covered in a seminar.
In addition, all press cuttings relating to the Company and all brokers and analysts reports on the Company are distributed to all directors.
At least once a year, the Board visits an operational site and in November 2005 all of the directors visited the Companys operations in Rajasthan.
The Company has directors and officers liability insurance in place.
Performance Evaluation The Board has a formal annual process of rigorous performance evaluation for the Board, audit, nomination and remuneration committees and individual directors.
The Board reviews on an annual basis whether such performance evaluation should be conducted using an external resource.
The Board has decided, however, that there is value in conducting the process internally to develop an appropriately tailored approach and benefit first hand from direct input from individual directors.
The performance evaluation of the Board and the Board committees was primarily based upon answers to a detailed questionnaire which had been updated since the previous years evaluation and which was prepared internally following a review of external papers on the subject.
The questionnaire was distributed to all Board members and the Company Secretary.
The areas covered in the questionnaire included the effectiveness of the Board and Board committees, performance against objectives, preparation for and performance at meetings and corporate governance matters.
The questionnaire addressed all of the issues raised by Derek Higgs in his review of the role and effectiveness of non-executive directors published in January 2003.
The review process carried out pursuant to the questionnaires can be summarised as follows: Evaluators Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors Evaluating Board Chairman Board committees Executive directors Non-executive directors Self assessment Once a questionnaire had been completed by each member of the Board and the Company Secretary, the Chairman held a meeting with each director and the Company Secretary individually to discuss their responses.
The Chairman then reported the results of the process to the Board at a Board meeting, which discussed the comments and implemented the conclusions.
The Board and Board committees are satisfied that they are operating effectively.
35 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED The Deputy Chairman, who is also the Companys senior independent non-executive director, sought the views of the executive directors and met with each of the other non-executive directors, in the absence of the Chairman, to discuss and assess the Chairmans performance.
The Board not including the Chairman is satisfied that the Chairmans performance is effective and that he demonstrates continued commitment to the role.
The executive directors have their performance individually reviewed by the remuneration committee against objectives which are set annually.
The bonus payable to the executive directors under the Companys cash bonus scheme described further on page 50 is linked directly to the results of these reviews.
The evaluation indicated areas for improvement, but no significant problems were identified.
A performance evaluation of the Board, the Board committees and individual directors will continue to be conducted annually and the process for such review will continue to be reviewed by the Board in order to optimise the process.
Independence of Non-executive Directors The Board evaluation and review process also covered the independence of each of the non-executive directors, taking into account their integrity, objectivity and contribution to the Board and its committees.
In particular, the process considered the independence of Hamish Grossart and Mark Tyndall.
Hamish Grossart Since Mr Grossart has served on the Board for more than ten years, in terms of the Combined Code he can be counted as independent only if the Board deems him to be so.
The Board concluded, after rigorous review and without Mr Grossart being present, that Mr Grossart remains independent in character and judgement and that his performance continues to be effective and he demonstrates continued commitment to the role.
In particular, the Board noted that Mr Grossart does not participate in the Companys cash bonus scheme, share option plans, long term incentive plan or pension scheme and is not dependent upon the fees received from the Company as his primary source of income.
Mr Grossart is also a non-executive director of Artemis Investment Management Limited, which has a shareholding in the Company although this shareholding is not large enough to be classed as a notifiable interest under the Companies Act 1985.
The Head of Compliance at Artemis has confirmed in writing to the Company that Mr Grossart does not participate in any investment management decisions at Artemis.
The Company seeks such confirmation on an annual basis.
Mr Grossart has indicated that he is willing to stand for re-election as a director of the Company on an annual basis and a resolution will be proposed at the AGM to be held on 20 April 2006 to this effect.
The Board believes that it is in shareholders interests for Mr Grossart to be re-elected as an independent non-executive director of the Company.
The Board believes Mr Grossart continues to challenge rigorously the executive directors, the Board and the committees on which he sits in both a constructive and appropriate manner and brings considerable expertise to his position as Deputy Chairman and senior independent director.
As indicated on page 33, the Chairman and Mr Grossart met with RREV during 2005 to discuss the steps taken by the Company to ensure further the ongoing independence of Mr Grossart.
Mark Tyndall Mark Tyndall is the chief executive of Artemis Investment Management Limited, which has a shareholding in the Company.
As stated above, however, this shareholding is not large enough to be classed as a notifiable interest under the Companies Act 1985.
Furthermore, the Company seeks confirmations from Artemis on an annual basis in respect of the chinese wall arrangements that are in place and that Mr Tyndall does not participate in any investment management decisions at Artemis in respect of Cairn.
The Board concluded, after rigorous review and without Mr Tyndall being present, that he is independent in character and judgement and that his performance is effective and that he demonstrates continued commitment to the role.
Following the evaluation and review process, the Board believes that, in addition to Mr Grossart and Mr Tyndall, all of the other non-executive directors are independent in character and judgement.
36 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Board Committees The Board has established an audit committee, a remuneration committee and a nomination committee, each of which has formal terms of reference approved by the Board.
The terms of reference for each of these committees satisfy the requirements of the Combined Code and are reviewed internally on an ongoing basis by the Board.
Copies of the terms of reference are available for inspection on request and will be available for inspection before and during the AGM to be held on 20 April 2006.
The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the remuneration and nomination committees and the Deputy Company Secretary acts as secretary to the audit committee.
The minutes of all committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
Set out below are reports from each of the audit committee, remuneration committee and nomination committee.
Audit Committee Report The audit committee comprises three non-executive directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
Currently, its members are Andrew Shilston chairman, Hamish Grossart and Ed Story.
The Board is satisfied that two members of the committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
Mr Shilston was the Finance Director of Enterprise Oil plc from 1993 to 2002 and is currently the Finance Director of Rolls-Royce plc.
Mr Grossart serves on audit committees of other listed companies and trained as an investment banker.
Norman Murray stood down as a member and chairman of the audit committee following the conclusion of the AGM on 3 June 2005.
Since then, Mr Murray has attended a number of meetings of the committee as an observer, on being invited to do so by the committee.
Andrew Shilston became chairman of the audit committee with effect from 3 June 2005.
The audit committee met seven times in 2005.
At the request of the audit committee, the Finance Director and senior members of the Finance Department attended six and seven meetings respectively during the year.
In addition, five of these meetings were attended by the external auditors and four meetings were attended by the internal auditors.
For part of each of the meetings attended by the external auditors, the committee can meet with the auditors without any executives being present.
The external auditors receive copies of all audit committee papers including papers to be considered at meetings when they are not in attendance and minutes of all committee meetings.
In addition, the chairman of the committee regularly meets with the external audit partner to discuss matters relevant to the Company.
The role of the committee includes: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance and reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and disclosures in financial reports: reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and risk management systems: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: overseeing the Companys relationship with the external auditors, including making recommendations to the Board as to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditors, reviewing their terms of engagement, and monitoring the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness: and reviewing the Companys whistleblowing procedures and ensuring that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow up action.
The audit committee has established a policy in relation to the supply of non-audit services by the external auditors and other third parties.
The Company will engage an external adviser to provide non-audit services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the work, whether benefit will be derived as a result of the third partys knowledge of the Company, and cost.
These advisers may include the Companys external auditors for a restricted list of non-audit services, although, before the engagement commences, the audit committee must be satisfied that the auditors objectivity and independence would not be compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to carry out those services.
If the cumulative fees to be paid to an external adviser for the provision of non-audit services are below a certain level, the adviser may be engaged in accordance with the Companys financial delegations of authority after a quotation has been received.
If the fees payable are expected to exceed that level on a cumulative basis, the engagement must be approved by the audit committee in advance after following a tender process.
37 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED KPMG LLP has been appointed by the audit committee to supervise and co-ordinate the Companys internal audit function, using a combination of the Companys own internal resources and external third party resources.
The audit committee receives updates on the internal audit workplan on an ongoing basis.
The Company undertook an audit tender process in 2003, as a result of which Ernst & Young LLP were re-engaged as the Companys auditors.
The Company monitors its auditors performance on an ongoing basis, including an annual assessment carried out by the audit committee with input from the Finance Director and other key members of the finance team.
Following such assessment, the audit committee meets to discuss what actions, if any, require to be taken.
Remuneration Committee Report The remuneration committee comprises four non-executive directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
Currently, its members are Hamish Grossart chairman, Ed Story, Mark Tyndall and Todd Hunt.
The Chief Executive, at the request of the committee, attends its meetings.
In addition, he is consulted by the committee on its proposals, but does not participate in any meetings or any discussions relating to his own remuneration.
Norman Murray stood down as a member of the remuneration committee and was replaced by Todd Hunt, an independent non-executive director, following the conclusion of the AGM on 3 June 2005.
The role of the committee includes: determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for all the executive directors, the Chairman and the members of the GMB: within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual remuneration package for each executive director: determining the level of awards made under the Companys share option plans and long term incentive plan and the performance conditions which are to apply: determining bonuses payable under the Companys cash bonus scheme: determining the vesting of awards under the Companys long term incentive plan and exercise of share options: and determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments for executive directors.
The remuneration committee met seven times in 2005.
Details of the Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 54.
Nomination Committee Report The nomination committee comprises Norman Murray chairman, two independent non-executive directors, Hamish Grossart and Ed Story and, to ensure input from the executive, one executive director, Sir Bill Gammell Chief Executive.
The Code requires there to be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors, which should be meritocratic and made against objective criteria.
For this purpose, the Board has established the nomination committee, whose role includes considering the composition, balance and skills of the Board and making recommendations to the Board on these matters, on the appointment of new directors and on the re-appointment and orderly succession of existing directors.
No new appointments to the Board were made during 2005.
The nomination committee met three times in 2005.
Organisational Planning During 2005 the Company completed its work with Ashridge Consulting Limited on an organisational development project.
This initiative established a set of core competencies which reflect the values and behaviours important to the Company.
These competencies are now used in many of the Companys human resources processes, including staff appraisal and identification of training requirements.
These behavioural competencies will also be used in the recruitment processes and succession planning in 2006.
The Company is now in the process of developing a set of technical competencies which will further complement the work already done on behavioural competencies.
38 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Directors Attendance at Board and Board Committee Meetings The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled Board and Board committee meetings during 2005: Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Meetings held during 2005 8 7 7 3 Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Meetings attended Executive Directors 1 2 Sir Bill Gammell 8 n a n a 3 Dr Mike Watts 8 n a n a n a 2 Kevin Hart 8 n a n a n a Malcolm Thoms 8 n a n a n a Phil Tracy 8 n a n a n a Non-executive Directors 4 4 Norman Murray 8 2 4 3 Hamish Grossart 7 6 6 3 5 5 Ed Story 8 3 4 2 3 Todd Hunt 8 n a 2 n a Mark Tyndall 7 n a 5 n a Andrew Shilston 8 7 n a n a Notes: 1 n a not applicable where a director is not a member of the committee.
2 During 2005, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the audit committee and remuneration committee by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
3 Todd Hunt was appointed as a member of the remuneration committee with effect from 3 June 2005.
The number of remuneration committee meetings attended is stated with effect from that date.
4 Norman Murray stepped down as a member of the audit committee and remuneration committee following the Companys AGM on 3 June 2005.
The number of audit committee and remuneration committee meetings attended is stated for the period prior to then.
Mr Murray attended a number of meetings of the audit committee and remuneration committee after 3 June 2005 by invitation.
Details of these attendances have not been included in the table.
5 Where Ed Story was unable to attend meetings of Board committees, he reviewed the relevant papers for the meetings and provided his comments to the committees in advance of such meetings.
Relations with Shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority by the Board.
Cairn sends both its annual report and accounts and interim report and accounts to all shareholders.
In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders there is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings after the announcement of the year end and interim results.
The Chairman attends a number of these meetings.
At the Board meeting immediately following these meetings, a detailed report is given to all directors who were not in attendance at those meetings.
In addition, the Company maintains an external relations database which details all meetings attended by the directors with third party stakeholders.
All analysts and brokers reports on the Company are also distributed to all directors.
Cairn responds to all correspondence from shareholders and also has a website which contains a range of information, including a dedicated investor relations section.
Mr Grossart, the senior independent non-executive director, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Each of the non-executive directors is available to attend meetings with major shareholders without the executive directors present, if requested by such major shareholders.
39 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Annual General Meeting The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
It is our policy for all directors to attend the AGM if at all possible.
Whilst this may not always be possible for business or personal reasons, in normal circumstances this means that the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees will attend the AGM and be available to answer questions.
It is part of our policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the Company and to give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the Companys activities and prospects.
Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM on 20 April 2006 can be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 100 to 102 and on the Companys website.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, will be counted before the AGM and the results will be made available at the meeting after the shareholders have voted on each resolution on a show of hands.
Directors Responsibility Statement These are the Groups first consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Company Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
UK company law requires the directors to prepare Group and Company Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have also elected to prepare the Company Financial Statements in accordance with IFRS.
The Group and Company Financial Statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and Company Financial Statements, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
For the Group and Company Financial Statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to assume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Going Concern The directors have considered the factors relevant to support a statement on going concern.
They have a reasonable expectation that the Group will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and have therefore used the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal Control The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
As an oil and gas exploration and production company with current operations concentrated in South Asia, Cairn is, by virtue of the nature of its business and the countries in which it operates, subject to a variety of business risks.
However, the directors believe that Cairn derives its competitive edge by focusing activities in this core area.
40 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Internal Control continued Operations in any country are only possible when values are shared, and the directors believe that Cairns values of integrity, social and environmental responsibility, teamwork and nurturing of individuals, creativity, risk management and alliancing with key partners are ingredients that are central to Cairns success.
The ability to recognise the value of working as a partnership with host governments, both nationally and regionally, has also been a critical ingredient in Cairns approach and success.
The Groups system of internal control plays a critical role in managing the risks towards the achievement of Cairns corporate vision and objectives, and is also central to safeguarding Cairns shareholders interests and the Groups assets.
An ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and is in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control.
The process has been in place in respect of the Group for the 2005 accounting period and up to the date of approval of the report and accounts.
During 2005, steps have been taken to continue to strengthen Cairns system of internal control, which have included: strengthening the business risk management strategy, organisation and processes so that they are more performance focused and embedded within the Groups operations: and establishing a more robust assurance framework which recognises the Groups operational growth and external developments which impact upon it.
The Board has carried out regular reviews of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls during 2005, and will ensure that such reviews are performed on a regular basis in 2006.
The Board is satisfied that effective control is in place and that risks have been mitigated to an acceptable level.
The key elements of the internal control system and the processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness of the system include the following: 1.
Strategic Direction The Cairn business model is conventional in that Group strategy is set by the directors and approved by the Board, and its implementation is delegated to the GMB.
Operating Management Cairn operates several business units in three different countries and with various partners.
Work programmes and budgets are prepared annually to meet the Group strategy, starting at the asset level before being consolidated at both country and Group levels.
After an iterative process, the country budgets are presented as part of the Group budget to the GMB and the Board for approval.
Each country then prepares a detailed business plan to meet the agreed annual work programme and budget.
This sets out detailed objectives and key performance indicators KPIs for each asset and supporting functional department, and is consolidated into the country business plan.
The country business plans are firstly approved by the in-country management teams and are then submitted to the GMB and the Board for approval.
The in-country management teams then have the required authority to implement the business plans and to deliver the agreed work programme within the approved budget and delegation of authorities, and in accordance with the internal control framework.
The remit of the GMB is to oversee the delivery of the Group strategy through the annual work programmes, budgets and the country business plans.
The directors have also appointed Group Functional Heads whose role includes providing input and challenge to the work programmes, budgets and business plans, and supplying the relevant director with full and accurate information and to make statements on the adequacy of internal control.
In view of the significance of the Rajasthan northern fields development, the GMB has established a Project Board and project governance process Cairn Gated Process to ensure these fields are developed efficiently and in accordance with the project boundary conditions agreed by the GMB and Board.
41 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED 3.
Risk Management The Risk Management Committee RMC, established by the Board in 1999, continues to be responsible for the development of risk management strategy and processes within the Group and for overseeing the implementation of the requirements of this strategy.
It does this by ensuring the Groups framework for the identification, assessment, mitigation and reporting on all areas of risk is fit for purpose and that appropriate assurance arrangements are in place in relation to these risks.
The RMC is chaired by the Finance Director and comprises executive directors, senior country and Group functional management.
In order to improve transparency of key business risks, the committee meetings were also attended by non-executive directors during 2005, including Norman Murray, Andrew Shilston and Mark Tyndall.
The Board intends to periodically change the chairman and RMC membership in order to maintain a robust and challenging approach to risk management.
An updated version of the Business Risk Management Guidelines BRMG, that define the processes through which Cairn seeks to systematically identify, analyse, assess, treat and monitor the business risks faced by the Group, was distributed in April 2005.
The BRMG also identifies the risk management organisational structure through which business risks are managed and regularly reviewed at operating, asset and country levels.
Country level Risk Management Committees have also been established in India and Bangladesh.
Business risks, together with the identified mitigating measures and responsibilities are recorded in Asset and Country Risk Registers, which following endorsement by the in-country Risk Management Committees are reported through to the Group Risk Register.
These Country and Group Risk Registers are regularly reviewed by the RMC to ensure that the business understands the key risks it faces and that there is an embedded risk management approach in place.
At each Group RMC meeting a specific risk item has been reviewed in more detail, through presentations by and questioning of the responsible manager.
During 2005 these more detailed reviews have included business continuity, security risk management and the business processes employed by the exploration and commercial departments.
Since KPMGs appointment to manage the internal audit process in August 2004, steps have been taken to ensure internal audits integration with the risk management process, including attendance at RMC meetings.
The RMC reports on the Groups risk profile to both the audit committee and the Board.
Additionally, the Board receives internal reviews of the effectiveness of internal control relative to the key risks on a regular basis.
The conclusion of the Board following these reviews during 2005 is that the internal controls in respect of key risks are appropriate.
Assurance The integrated assurance framework adopted by the Board provides for three levels of assurance against the risks facing the Group: firstly at the operational level: secondly through overview by Group functional management and the RMC: and thirdly through internal, external or joint venture audits.
During 2005 the directors regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of financial and non-financial controls, including operational and compliance controls, risk management and the Groups high level internal control arrangements.
The directors derive assurance from the following internal and external controls: a regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for a decision by the Board: policies and procedures for key business activities: an appropriate organisational structure: control over non-operated joint venture activities through delegated Cairn representatives: specific delegations of authority for all financial and other transactions: segregation of duties where appropriate and cost effective: business and financial reporting, including KPIs: functional management reviews: annual letters of assurance process, through which country managers confirm the adequacy of internal financial and nonfinancial controls, their compliance with Group policies and report any control weaknesses identified in the past year: internal audits to assess compliance the internal auditor implements a number of audits during the year in line with the annual internal audit plan approved by the audit committee and Board: reports from the audit committee and RMC: reports from the external auditor on matters identified during its statutory audit: reports from audits by governments and co-venturers: and independent third party reviews commissioned by Cairn.
42 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Compliance With Combined Code Throughout 2005 the Company complied with the provisions of the new Combined Code, except in the following areas: Provision of the Combined Code Company Position Explanation A.
4.1 a majority of the members Throughout 2005 the nomination The Board believes that the membership of the of the nomination committee committee comprised two committee is appropriate and effective.
should be independent nonindependent non-executive executive directors.
directors, the Chairman and one executive director.
2.1 the Board should establish The Company complied with At the start of 2005, the remuneration committee a remuneration committee of at this provision from 3 June 2005 comprised three independent non-executive directors least three members who should onwards.
Following the conclusion of the all be independent non-executive AGM in 2005, the Chairman stood down as a member directors.
of the remuneration committee and Todd Hunt, an independent non-executive director, was appointed as a member of the remuneration committee.
The remuneration committee now comprises four independent non-executive directors.
C. 3.1 the Board should establish The Company complied with At the start of 2005, the audit committee comprised an audit committee of at least this provision from 3 June 2005 three independent non-executive directors and the three members, who should all onwards.
Following the conclusion of the AGM in be independent non-executive 2005, the Chairman stood down as a member of the directors.
The audit committee now comprises three independent non-executive directors.
D. 2.4 the Company should The Notice of AGM and related The Company is committed to ensuring that the arrange for the Notice of AGM papers are being sent to AGM is used constructively.
Due to the unavailability and related papers to be sent to shareholders 16 working days of certain key members of the Board in late April and shareholders at least 20 working 26 clear days including weekends early May, a decision was taken to hold the AGM on days before the AGM.
and bank holidays prior to the 20 April 2006 which, although providing shareholders AGM this year.
This complies with less than the 20 working days notice, will enable with the statutory minimum all directors to attend and therefore provide investors notice period contained in the with the opportunity to ask questions of such Companies Act 1985. directors.
