hc, has been a non-executive Eng, D, MA, was appointed as a non-executive director B. Com.
CA SA, MBA, has been a non-executive director of the Company since March 1999.
He is also a non-executive director director since March 2005.
He is a qualified chartered Chairman of Nedbank Group Limited and Nedbank of Nedbank Group and has been selected to succeed accountant, a former Chief Executive of The New Limited in May 2004, having previously been their Warren Clewlow as Chairman of that company when Partnership for Africas Development NEPAD, a current Deputy Chairman.
He has also been Chairman of Mr Clewlow retires in May 2006.
Mr Khoza is Chairman member of the steering committee of NEPAD, and a Barloworld Limited since 1991.
He was previously Chief of Aka Capital, which is 20% owned by each of Old former economic adviser to South African President Executive of the Barloworld group and has managed Mutual South Africa and Nedbank Group and the single Thabo Mbeki.
He is also a non-executive director of the many of its various divisions.
He is also a non-executive largest participant in Nedbanks Corporate Client Scheme Companys South African life subsidiary, Old Mutual Life director of Sasol Limited.
established as part of its BEE ownership arrangements.
Assurance Company South Africa Limited.
His previous Mr Khoza is also a non-executive director of the JSE, appointments include presidency of the South African 1,2 8 Russell Edey 63 Protea Hospitality Holdings and Crobrik, and his previous Institute of Chartered Accountants, and Chairmanship of FCA, has been a non-executive director of the Company appointments include Chairmanship of Eskom and nonthe Development Bank of Southern Africa.
He is Chairman of Anglogold Ashanti executive directorships of Glaxo Wellcome SA, IBM SA, Limited, a non-executive director of FKI plc, deputy Vodacom, JCI, Standard Bank and Liberty.
chairman of N M Rothschild Corporate Finance Limited 2,3 and a member of the Conseil fide Surveillance of Paris- 10 Michael Marks 64 Key: 1 Orlans, SA.
He previously served on the boards of CBE, has been a non-executive director of the Company Member of the Group Audit Committee 2 English China Clays plc, Wassall plc, Northern Foods since February 2004.
He is one of the founding Member of the Nomination Committee 3 plc and Express Dairies plc.
His career began in the partners of New Smith Capital Partners LLP and is also Member of the Remuneration Committee Finance Division of the Anglo American Corporation of a non-executive director of RIT Capital Partners plc.
South Africa Limited in Johannesburg.
In the 1970s he Until February 2003 he had held a number of senior was General Manager Corporate Finance of Capel roles with Merrill Lynch, including Executive Chairman Court Corporation in Melbourne.
He joined Rothschild in of Merrill Lynch Europe, Middle East and Africa, and 1977 and was Head of Corporate Finance from 1991 Executive Vice-President of Merrill Lynch & Co.
Prior to to 1996. joining Merrill Lynch in 1995, he had been Chairman of Smith New Court plc, having earlier been responsible for the international operations of that company in New York, Hong Kong, Singapore and South Africa.
He was also formerly a non-executive director of the London Stock Exchange, Chairman of the London Investment Banking Association and Vice-President of the British Bankers Association.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 45 Corporate governance and Directors Report Introduction and Combined Code compliance Index to this section of the Report The directors of Old Mutual plc submit their report and the audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Introduction and Combined Code compliance 46 The Group is committed to the objective of achieving high standards of Board of Directors 46 corporate governance, which are designed to provide assurance that Membership and directors interests the organisation is directed and controlled by its Board of Directors and Rotation and re-election of directors through systems of delegation and escalation so as to be able to Skill, experience and review achieve its business objectives responsibly and in accordance with high Mandate, governance and Scheme of Delegated Authority standards of accountability and integrity.
Executive and non-executive roles Independence of non-executive directors The principal governance rules that apply to UK companies listed on 2005 operations and Turnbull statement the London Stock Exchange are set out in the Combined Code appended to the Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure Rules of the Management Board and Group Executive 50 Financial Services Authority the Combined Code.
As the Companys primary listing is on the London Stock Exchange, this report mainly Board Committees 50 addresses the matters covered by the Combined Code, but the Group Audit Committee Company also has regard, where appropriate, to governance Actuarial Review Committee expectation in the five other territories where its shares are listed Remuneration Committee South Africa, Sweden, Namibia, Zimbabwe and Malawi.
Nomination Committee Executive Committee In the year ended 31 December 2005 and in the preparation of this Group Capital Management Committee Annual Report and these Accounts, the Company has complied with Terms of reference the main and supporting principles and provisions set out in the Combined Code as described in the following sections of this Report.
Attendance record 52 The Companys compliance with Combined Code provisions C1.1, C2.1, C3.1, C3.2, C3.3, C3.4, C3.5, C3.6 and C3.7, and the Auditors 53 statement relating to the going concern basis adopted in preparing the financial statements, have been reviewed by the Companys auditors, General Meetings 53 KPMG Audit Plc, in accordance with guidance published by the Results of the Annual General Meeting 2005 Auditing Practices Board.
Results of the EGM and Court Meeting relating to the Groups BEE ownership proposals Board of Directors Results of the EGM relating to the Companys Membership and directors interests offer for Skandia The Board currently has eleven members, consisting of two executive and nine non-executive directors.
All of the current directors except for Internal control environment 55 Professor Nkuhlu and Mr Khoza who were appointed to the Board on Approach to risk management 1 March 2005 and 27 January 2006 respectively served throughout Risk governance the year ended 31 December 2005.
Mr Levett retired from the Board Internal audit as non-executive Chairman at the end of the Annual General Meeting Risk appetite on 11 May 2005.
Mr Collins succeeded Mr Levett as Chairman of the Group risk principles Board and Mr Broadhurst succeeded Mr Collins as the senior Risk methodologies independent director on 11 May 2005.
Management of specific risks Treasury management Details of the directors interests within the meaning of section 346 of the Companies Act 1985, including interests of connected persons in Policy matters 57 the share capital of the Company and quoted securities of its Investor relations subsidiaries at the beginning and end of the year under review are set Employment matters out in the following tables, while their interests in share options and Directors shareholdings and share dealings restricted share awards are described in the section of the Directors indemnities Remuneration Report entitled Directors Interests Under Employee Supplier payment policy Share Plans.
There have been no changes to any of these interests Charitable contributions between 31 December 2005 and 27 February 2006, except for the Environmental matters releases of restricted shares to Mr Roberts and Mr Sutcliffe on 27 February 2006 as described on page 63.
Other Directors Report matters 59 Political donations Dividend Share capital Substantial interests in shares Business review Going concern Old Mutual plc 46 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Mutual & Federal Nedbank Insurance Company Old Mutual plc Group Limited Limited Number of shares Number of shares Number of shares At 31 December 2005 N D T Andrews R Bogni 19,000 N N Broadhurst 2,416 W A M Clewlow 30,700 2,849 C D Collins 5,541 R P Edey 2,500 M J P Marks W L Nkuhlu 12,600 2 1 J V F Roberts 452,375 500 2 J H Sutcliffe 1,069,317 Mutual & Federal Nedbank Insurance Company Old Mutual plc Group Limited Limited Number of shares Number of shares Number of shares At 1 January 2005 or date of appointment as a director, if later N D T Andrews R Bogni 19,000 N N Broadhurst 2,416 W A M Clewlow 30,700 2,849 C D Collins 5,541 R P Edey M J P Marks W L Nkuhlu 12,600 2 1 J V F Roberts 250,103 500 2 J H Sutcliffe 815,996 Former director at 1 January 2005 and date of resignation, 11 May 2005 1 M J Levett 5,465,130 17,804 500 Notes: 1 The interests in 500 shares in Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited were held non-beneficially as qualification shares.
2 These figures do not include rights to restricted shares, which are described in the Remuneration Report.
No director had a material interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Additional details of various non-material transactions between the directors and the Group are reported, on an aggregated basis along with other transactions by senior managers of the Company, in note 47 iii to the Accounts.
Rotation and re-election of directors Skills, experience and review The Articles of Association of the Company require that any newly Plans for refreshing and renewing the Boards composition are appointed directors be subject to election at the next following Annual proactively managed by the Nomination Committee so as to ensure that General Meeting and also that at least one-third of the directors changes take place without undue disruption and that there is an excluding those appointed by the Board during the year shall retire by appropriate balance of experience and length of service.
That Committee rotation each year.
These provisions are applied in such a manner that also has regard, in making recommendations, to independence of each director will submit himself for election or re-election at regular candidates and their suitability and willingness to serve on other intervals and at least once every three years.
All of these aspects are currently believed by that Committee to be satisfactory and appropriate for the requirements The Nomination Committee considered the candidates who are of the Groups business.
While there are currently only two executive standing for election or re-election at this years Annual General directors, members of the Board have regular contact with the other Meeting as referred to in Ordinary Resolutions 3 i to iv in the most senior executive management including the chief executives of Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 221 to 223 of this the most significant business units of the Group, through the periodic document at its meeting in February 2006.
In accordance with its participation in Board meetings and other briefing sessions by those findings, it recommends to shareholders the election of Mr Khoza and executives.
The Board also receives Minutes of Management Board the re-election of Mr Andrews, Mr Bogni and Mr Broadhurst as meetings, which are attended by those and other senior executives and non-executive directors based upon their respective professional at which high-level business and strategic matters are considered and qualifications, prior business experience and prospective contribution to discussed.
With Mr Roberts change of role from Group Finance the Board.
Biographical details of each of the candidates are contained Director to Chief Executive of Skandia towards the end of February in the descriptions accompanying their photographs on pages 44 and 2006, it is anticipated that the Board will soon have a third executive 45 of this document.
director, in the form of his successor as Group Finance Director.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 47 Corporate governance and Directors Report continued Mandate, governance and Scheme of Delegated Authority On appointment, new directors receive induction, including information The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership to the about matters of immediate importance to the Group, such as the Company within a framework of prudent and effective controls which current budget, strategy document, management accounts, the Scheme enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the of Delegated Authority and details of the Companys directors and Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary financial and officers liability policy.
They are also have a series of meetings with human resources are in place for it to meet its objectives and reviews other directors, senior management and external advisers such as the management performance.
It regularly reviews strategic issues through auditors.
the Chief Executives report and has a two-day strategy session during the second quarter of each year at which high-level strategic matters Processes are in place for any potential conflicts of interest to be are thoroughly debated.
The Board sets the Companys values and disclosed and for directors to recuse themselves from participation in standards, and ensures that its obligations to shareholders and others any decisions where they may have any such conflict or potential are understood and met.
The Board receives a wide array of information on the Groups The directors may take independent professional advice at the businesses on a regular basis.
Monthly management accounts are Companys expense, if necessary, for the furtherance of their duties, circulated to each member of the Board within three weeks of the whether as members of the Board or of any of its committees.
These contain detailed analysis of the businesses financial performance, including comparisons against budget.
Any issues arising The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance in from these are addressed at Board Meetings or can be raised directly respect of legal action against its directors.
The Board calendar ensures that all key matters are dealt with on a scheduled basis over the course of the year, including All directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is responsible presentations on each of the Groups major businesses.
Board to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
meetings are held regularly in the principal overseas territories where the Group operates, at which local management make detailed There is an agreed list of matters reserved for the Boards decision: presentations of business and strategic issues affecting those these are set out in the Companys Scheme of Delegated Authority and businesses.
currently include, among other things, the following: The Board has oversight of the Groups wholly-owned businesses, but payment or recommendation of dividends: also: i delegates specific responsibilities for certain matters to its approval of results announcements, interim and annual reports and committees Executive, Group Capital Management, Nomination, any other public statement relating to the Groups financial position Remuneration, Group Audit, and Actuarial Review, subject to their that is likely to have a material impact on the Groups reputation: respective terms of reference: and ii receives assurance from boards approval of the Groups budgets and the formulation of medium and and their respective committees at the Groups subsidiaries, Old long-term direction and strategy for the Group: Mutual Life Assurance Company South Africa Limited, Old Mutual establishment of committees of the Board, their constitution and US Holdings, Inc. and Old Mutual Financial Services UK plc.
It is terms of reference: anticipated that similar arrangements will apply to Skandia as it is monitoring of compliance with the Groups environmental policies: assimilated into the Group.
approval of the acquisition or disposal of any business or investment for a consideration of 25 million or more: The governance relationships with the Groups majority-owned approval of expenditure by a principal subsidiary in excess of its subsidiaries, Nedbank Group Limited and Mutual & Federal Insurance respective delegated expenditure authority: Company Limited, are somewhat different, in recognition of their own approval of significant changes to the accounting policies or governance expectations as separately-listed entities on the JSE and the practices of the Group: fact that they each have minority shareholders.
approval of any proposal as a result of which either Nedbank Group Limited or Mutual & Federal Insurance Company Limited would With respect to Nedbank Group, the Company entered into a cease to be a majority-owned subsidiary of the Company: relationship agreement in February 2004 setting out the Companys approval of appointments to the Board and renewal of nonrequirements and expectations as its majority shareholder.
The full text executive directors appointments, following prior review by the of that relationship agreement is available on the Companys website.
Nomination Committee: Among the matters covered are: i transactions involving members of approval of any major decision relating to the conduct or settlement the Nedbank Group that require prior consultation with or agreement of any material litigation involving the Company or its subsidiaries: by the Company: ii provision of information, including that required appointment and removal of the Company Secretary: for assuring the Company about various aspects of corporate appointment or termination of appointment of key professional governance: iii consultation over senior appointments: and advisers to the Group: and iv business cooperation.
any other matters that are likely to have a material effect on the Groups financial position, future strategy or reputation.
The policyholders funds of the Groups South African and Zimbabwean life assurance operations have holdings representing in aggregate in Executive and non-executive roles excess of 20% of the issued share capital of a number of major South The executive element of the Board is balanced by a strong African and Zimbabwean companies listed on the JSE and the independent group of non-executive directors so that no individual or Zimbabwe Stock Exchange, respectively.
These are held purely as small group of individuals can dominate the Boards decision-making.
investments, and the companies concerned are not subject to the The non-executive directors scrutinise the performance of management governance or control structures of the Group.
in meeting agreed goals and objectives, and monitor the reporting of performance.
Procedures are in place to enable them to satisfy The Chairman and Company Secretary are both involved in ensuring themselves on the integrity of the Groups financial information and good information flows within the Board and its committees and between that financial controls and systems of risk management are robust and senior management and the non-executive directors, as well as in defensible.
facilitating induction and encouraging non-executive directors to attend courses at the Companys expense to update their skills and knowledge.
Old Mutual plc 48 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Those non-executive directors who are members of the Remuneration automatic and the continued suitability of each non-executive director Committee are responsible for determining appropriate levels of is assessed by the Nomination Committee before renewal of his remuneration for the executive directors, and members of the appointment takes place.
A particularly searching review is carried out Nomination Committee have a primary role in recommending the at the end of six years.
The section of the Remuneration Report entitled appointment, and where necessary removal, of executive directors.
Non-Executive Directors Terms of Engagement describes the current The Board as a whole receives and considers regular reports on talent position of each of the non-executive directors with respect to their management and succession planning.
maximum three terms of three years and how the extension process has been applied to the directors concerned.
Separately from the formal Board meeting schedule, the Chairman holds periodic meetings with the other non-executive directors, without any The Board conducts an annual self-assessment exercise to evaluate the executives being present, in order to provide a forum for any issues to effectiveness of its procedures.
In 2005, this process was carried out be raised.
He also conducts, in consultation with the senior independent through a detailed questionnaire, with returns being submitted non-executive director, an annual performance evaluation of each of the anonymously to the Company Secretary, who collated a report on the other non-executive directors, the results of which are reported to the outputs for the Chairman and the Board.
The Chairman took these into Nomination Committee.
These are designed to ensure that each director account in one-to-one meetings between himself and the other is continuing to contribute effectively and to demonstrate commitment directors, so as to ensure that any concerns about Board processes or to the role including commitment of time for Board and Committee capabilities were identified and aired.
As a consequence of the 2005 meetings and any other duties.
The outputs from these performance survey a number of topics have been identified as warranting additional evaluations are taken into account by the Nomination Committee in coverage at Board meetings to be held during 2006. deciding whether to recommend to the Board the extension of engagement of any non-executive director and also whether to Independence of non-executive directors recommend to shareholders the re-election of any non-executive Six of the eight non-executive directors other than the Chairman director who is due to retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
Messrs Andrews, Bogni, Broadhurst, Edey and Marks and Prof They would also form the basis, if the need arose, for the Chairman to Nkuhlu are considered by the Board to be independent within the act to address any weaknesses identified in the Board by seeking the meaning of, and having regard to the criteria set out in, paragraph resignation of underperforming directors or proposing, through the A.
3.1 of the Combined Code i. e. independent in character and Nomination Committee, that additional directors be appointed.
judgement and there being no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
Informal meetings among the non-executive directors, without the Chairman or any executive being present, are also facilitated by the The Board decided in December 2004, following a review by the Company.
Among the activities carried out at such meetings is the Nomination Committee, that it was no longer appropriate to classify annual review of the Chairmans own performance, under the aegis of Mr Clewlow as independent, in view of his increased involvement, as the senior independent non-executive director, who also obtains input Chairman of Nedbank Group, in supporting the executive management for such purpose from the executive directors.
As Mr Khoza will succeed Mr Clewlow in that role in May 2006 and there are also material business interests between his Where directors have concerns that cannot be resolved about the company, Aka Capital, and Nedbank, the Board has decided that he, running of the Company or a proposed action, they are encouraged to too, should not be classified as independent at this time.
make their views known and these are recorded in the Minutes of the Board meeting.
No written statements on resignation containing Mr Broadhurst succeeded Mr Collins as the senior independent matters of concern, such as are referred to in paragraph A.
1.4 of the non-executive director in May 2005.
The senior independent Combined Code, have been received by the Chairman.
non-executive director is available to shareholders if they have concerns that are unresolved after contact through the normal channels of the The division of responsibilities between the current Chairman, Chairman, Chief Executive or Group Finance Director or where such Mr Collins, and the Chief Executive, Mr Sutcliffe, is documented so as contact would be inappropriate.
His contact details can be obtained to ensure that there is a clear division of responsibilities between the from the Company Secretary martin.
running of the Board and executive responsibility for running the Companys business.
This was updated and approved by the Board The terms and conditions of engagement of each of the non-executive when Mr Collins succeeded Mr Levett as Chairman in May 2005. directors are available in the Corporate Governance section of the This, together with the Scheme of Delegated Authority and the matters Companys website, and these include details of the expected time reserved for decision by the Board, ensures that no one individual has commitment involved which each of the non-executive directors has unfettered powers of decision.
Other significant commitments of potential appointees are considered by the Nomination Committee as part of the selection Responsibilities of Mr Collins as Chairman include those contained in process and are disclosed to the Board when recommendation of an the Supporting Principle to paragraph A.
2 of the Combined Code, appointment is submitted.
Non-executive directors are also required to namely leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects inform the Board of any subsequent changes to such commitments, of its role and setting its agenda: ensuring that the directors receive which must be pre-cleared with the Chairman if material.
accurate, timely and clear information: ensuring effective communication with shareholders: facilitating the effective contribution to the Board of The executive directors are permitted to hold one external non-executive directors in particular: and ensuring constructive i. e. non-Group non-executive directorship but not a chairmanship relationships between the executive and non-executive directors.
of another listed company, subject to prior clearance by the Board and the directorship concerned not being in conflict or potential conflict The Board has determined that, in the absence of exceptional with any of the Groups businesses.
Neither Mr Sutcliffe nor Mr Roberts circumstances, no non-executive directors three-year cycle of currently holds such a directorship.
appointment which is itself subject to re-election and to Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a director should be renewed more than twice, i. e. that non-executive directors should serve a maximum of nine years in that role, and that no non-executive director should continue beyond his seventieth birthday.
The renewal of non-executive directors terms for successive three-year cycles is not Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 49 Corporate governance and Directors Report continued 2005 operations and Turnbull statement The role and responsibilities of the Committee include: The Board met on a scheduled basis regularly during the year.
Meetings were coordinated with the Companys reporting calendar to monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company allow for detailed consideration of the interim and preliminary results and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial and the first and third quarters trading updates.
Sessions were also performance, including reviewing significant financial reporting specifically devoted to strategy and business planning.
In addition, the judgements contained in them: Board met ad hoc, as and when required, to deal with specific matters reviewing the Companys internal financial controls: requiring its consideration.
During 2005, there were a large number of monitoring and reviewing the independence and effectiveness of the such ad hoc meetings, often convened at short notice, to deal with Companys internal audit function and its activities.
An internal various aspects of, firstly, the Groups Black Economic Empowerment audit charter, reviewed and approved by the Committee, governs BEE ownership proposals and, secondly, the Companys offer for internal audit activity within the Group and is conducted in Skandia.
As a consequence, in addition to the ten scheduled Board accordance with an annual audit plan.
Progress against that plan is meetings, there were sixteen ad hoc Board meetings.
reported regularly to the Committee: receiving and reviewing reports on risk.
Management teams in each The scheduled meetings included a three-day site visit to the Groups subsidiary and business unit have applied the Criteria of Control businesses in South Africa, which included presentations to the Board Model CoCo developed by the Canadian Institute of Chartered by the senior management teams of Nedbank and Mutual & Federal as Accountants to produce a control integrity profile for successive well as by Old Mutual South Africa.
assurances given at increasingly higher levels of management and finally to the Committee.
This process is coordinated by the Group Management Board and Group Executive risk function: The composition during 2005 of the Management Board and its role making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to shareholders are described on page 8. for their approval in general meeting, in relation to appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors and approving Standing invitations during 2005 to its meetings were extended to their remuneration and terms of engagement: the Company Secretary Mr Murray, the Director, Group Corporate reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and Development Mr Deane, and the Managing Director of Mutual & objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into Federal Mr Campbell.
consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the From February 2006, following the acquisition of Skandia, membership external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account of the Management Board has been reconstituted so that, in addition to relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services the members mentioned above, the three standing invitees have by the external audit firm, and reporting to the Board any matters in become full members and the following additional members have respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed joined: the Head of the Nordic region, Skandia Mr Engman, the Head and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken: and of UK and Offshore, Skandia Mr Poyntz-Wright, the Head of Europe reviewing whistleblowing arrangements.
and Latin America, Skandia Mr Wolf, the Director of the CEOs Office Mr Bicket, the Director, Group Development Mr Newman, and the At its meetings in 2005, the Committee received reports covering, Director, Corporate Affairs Ms Bell.
Mr Roberts has remained a among other things: member of the Management Board in his new role as CEO of Skandia and his successor as Group Finance Director will also join the the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the Management Board on appointment.
It is envisaged that the Groups accounts, including the impact on the Companys results of reconstituted Management Board will meet quarterly.
A Group the transition to reporting under International Financial Reporting Executive will operate alongside the Management Board to deal with Standards: management matters on a more regular basis.
Its membership will be significant accounting and actuarial issues the latter by way of Messrs Sutcliffe, Askari, Bicket, Head, Murray, Newman, Powers and escalation from its special purpose sub-committee, the Actuarial Roberts, Ms Bell and the new Group Finance Director.
Review Committee, described below : tax, litigation and contingent liabilities affecting the Group: Board Committees any significant findings or control issues arising from internal audits The Board has a number of standing committees or sub-committees, carried out around the Group: and to which it has delegated various matters in accordance with their environmental and corporate social responsibility matters.
It also establishes committees on an ad hoc basis to deal with particular matters as and when thought fit.
During the year, it also assisted the Remuneration Committee in In doing so, it specifies a remit, quorum and appropriate mix of executive reviewing amendments to be made to performance conditions applicable and non-executive participation.
Further information on the main to long-term incentive arrangements resulting from the transition of the standing committees and sub-committees of the Board is set out below.
accounting principles on which the Companys results are calculated from UK GAAP to International Financial Reporting Standards.
Group Audit Committee Members and years of appointment: N N Broadhurst Chairman A number of audit or audit, risk and compliance committees operated 1999, N D T Andrews 2003, R Bogni 2002, R P Edey 2004, at subsidiary level during 2005, including at Old Mutual Life Prof Nkuhlu 2005.
Other member during part of the year: C D Collins Assurance Company South Africa Limited, Old Mutual US Holdings, appointed 1999, ceased 11 May 2005.
Secretary and year of Inc. Nedbank Group Limited, Mutual & Federal Insurance Company appointment: M C Murray 1999 Limited and Old Mutual UK, with terms of reference in relation to the All of the members of the Group Audit Committee are independent businesses under their respective remit broadly equivalent to those of non-executive directors.
The Chairman of the Committee, Mr Broadhurst, the Committee.
The Committee received minutes of the proceedings is a Chartered Accountant and has recent and relevant financial and reports from subsidiary audit committees on a regular basis and experience, having been Finance Director of Railtrack plc until 2000.
Chairmen of these subsidiary audit committees were invited to attend All members of the Committee are expected to be financially literate meetings of and report to the Committee periodically.
A planning and to have relevant corporate finance experience.
meeting was held between the Chairman of the Committee and the Chairmen of the subsidiary audit committees mentioned above, the regional heads of internal audit and representatives of the Groups Old Mutual plc 50 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 auditors in October 2005 to co-ordinate the audit committees activities accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related and to review and approve the scope of internal audit plans for 2006. matters.
Any matters so reported are investigated and escalated to the Such planning meetings now take place annually.
Efforts are also made to educate staff around the Group about the existence of the whistleblowing facility and The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and to help them detect the possible signs of fraudulent or improper activity.
monitoring the Groups policy on external audit.
The policy assigns overall responsibility for monitoring the independence and objectivity The Committee holds private meetings with the external auditors twice of, and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements by, the yearly or more often, if requested by the auditors to review key issues.
external auditors to the Committee and day-to-day responsibility to the The Chairman of the Committee also has regular interaction with the Group Finance Director.
external auditors and Group Internal Audit Director, as well as with the Chairmen of subsidiary audit committees and the Group Finance The Groups policy on external audit sets out the categories of Director, so as to remain abreast of issues as they arise during the year.
non-audit services which the external auditors will and will not be allowed to provide to the Group.
Further details of this policy are set Actuarial Review Committee out under the heading Auditors later in this report.
Members and years of appointment: R Bogni Chairman 2002, N N Broadhurst 2005, J H Sutcliffe 2005.
Other members during To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external part of the year: M J Levett appointed 2002, ceased 11 May 2005, auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: J V F Roberts appointed 2002, ceased 11 May 2005.
Secretary and year of appointment: M Carey 2002 changes in key external audit staff in the external auditors plan for The Actuarial Review Committee is a sub-committee of the Group Audit the year: Committee and covers the Groups life operations worldwide.
The role the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit relationship: of the Committee is: i to review the actuarial content of the life a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements to assurance figures included in the Groups externally published financial identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: and statements annual and interim : ii to verify the appropriateness of the the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external actuarial methods and assumptions used and changes thereto and the auditors, in addition to their case-by-case approval of the provision appropriateness of the financial results that depend on actuarial of non-audit services by the external auditors.
calculations: and iii to review the financial soundness of each of the life assurance companies within the Group.
The Committee met four To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Committees times during 2005: each meeting was attended by all of the then reviewed: members, except for one from which Mr Broadhurst was absent.
the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed auditor plan and Upon Mr Levetts retirement in May 2005, Mr Broadhurst replaced him variations from the plan: and as a member of the Committee and Mr Sutcliffe replaced Mr Roberts, the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling so that there would continue to be a qualified actuary as a member of of the key accounting and audit judgements.
To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process, the Remuneration Committee Committee reviewed: Members and years of appointment: R Bogni Chairman 2005, N D T Andrews 2002, N N Broadhurst 1999, M J P Marks the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope of 2004.
Other member during part of the year: C D Collins appointed the audit as set out in the external auditors engagement letter for 1999, ceased 11 May 2005.
Secretary and year of appointment: the year: M C Murray 1999 the external auditors overall work plan for the year: Details of the role and activities of the Remuneration Committee and the external auditors fee proposal: how the Remuneration Committee and the Board have applied the any major issues that arose during the course of the audit and their main and supporting principles and the Code Provisions in Section B of resolution: the Combined Code relating to remuneration matters are provided in the key accounting and audit judgements: the Remuneration Report.
the levels of errors identified during audit: and any recommendations made by the external auditors in their Nomination Committee management letter and the adequacy of managements response.
Members and years of appointment: C D Collins 1999, became Chairman in May 2005, N D T Andrews 2005, R Bogni 2003, Based on its satisfaction with the results of the activities outlined N N Broadhurst 1999, W A M Clewlow 1999, R P Edey 2005, above, the Committee has recommended to the Board that the external M J P Marks 2005, Prof W L Nkuhlu 2005, J H Sutcliffe 2003. auditors be re-appointed.
Other member during part of the year: M J Levett appointed 1999, ceased 11 May 2005.
Secretary and year of appointment: In relation to internal audit, the Committee reviewed: M C Murray 1999 The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board in internal audits terms of reference, reporting lines and access to the relation to the appointment of directors, the structure of the Board and Committee and members of the Board: membership of the Boards main standing committees.
It also reviews internal audits plans and resources and its achievement of the development and succession plans for the most senior executive activities planned as part of the agreed programme for the year: management of the Group and proposed appointments to the Boards the results of key audits and other significant findings, the adequacy and standing committees of principal subsidiaries where these are of managements responses and the timeliness of resolution: and material in the context of the Group as a whole.
It is chaired by the statistics on staff numbers, qualifications and experience and Chairman of the Board, Mr Collins, and a majority of its members timeliness of reporting.
six out of nine are independent non-executive directors.
The Groups whistleblowing arrangements enable employees of the The Nomination Committee seeks to ensure that its process for Group and others to report, in confidence, via a dedicated hotline identifying candidates for recommendation to the Board as new operated by an independent firm of accountants, complaints on directors is formal, rigorous and transparent.
Vacancies generally arise Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 51 Corporate governance and Directors Report continued in the context of either planned refreshing and renewal of the Board, In addition, it is tasked: i to ensure that the strategic investment goals replacing directors who are due to retire, or rebalancing the balance of of the Group are clearly disseminated: ii to consider and approve the knowledge, skills or independence of the Board.
overall investment strategy of the Groups shareholders funds, including those supporting regulatory and solvency capital, in order Professor Nkuhlu, who joined the Board from 1 March 2005, was that the shareholders assets are managed prudently having regard to selected from a short list of eligible South African candidates to replenish risk, liquidity, tax and the need to support the Groups businesses: and South African representation on the Board following Mr Liebenbergs iii to consider projects referred to it and to approve or, where and ahead of Mr Levetts retirements.
Mr Khoza was appointed as a appropriate, refer up for approval those deemed most likely to support non-executive director of the Company in February 2006 in anticipation the Groups core strategies and to build shareholder value.
The of his succession to Mr Clewlow as Chairman of Nedbank Group and to Committee met twice during 2005 and both meetings were attended ensure continuity of communication of Nedbank-related matters at by all of the then members.
Terms of reference In identifying candidates, appropriate regard is paid to ensuring that they The terms of reference of each of the principal committees of the Board will have sufficient time available in the light of their other commitments are available in the Corporate Governance section of the Companys to devote to discharging their duties as directors of the Company.
website and may also be obtained from the Company Secretary at the registered office.
During 2005, the Committee also provided input into the processes for Chairmans succession planning at Nedbank Group and Mutual & The membership and chairmanship of the Boards standing committees Federal, and was consulted over contingent plans for the senior are regularly reviewed by the Nomination Committee so as to ensure management structure at Skandia, in anticipation of Skandias that they are refreshed and that undue reliance is not placed on becoming part of the Group.
Executive Committee Each of the Group Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees Members: J V F Roberts, J H Sutcliffe conducted a self-assessment exercise during 2005 to address, inter The Executive Committee is a committee comprising the executive alia, whether their respective terms of reference had been satisfactorily directors of the Company, to which executive control and decisionfulfilled during the year, whether the Committees had the necessary making are delegated, subject to reservation of matters that require skills and resources and were receiving a satisfactory level of approval by the Board itself.
A quorum comprises the two executive information in order to discharge their responsibilities, and whether directors.
The Committee met 19 times during 2005. their processes and methods could be improved.
These were each conducted by anonymous questionnaires to members of the Committee Group Capital Management Committee concerned and other key participants in the Committees activities Members and years of appointment: J V F Roberts Chairman including the external auditors, in the case of the Group Audit 2002, D I Hope 2002, A Patterson 2003, J H Sutcliffe 2002.
Committee and the results were collated by the Company Secretary Secretary: D I Hope 2002 and reported to the Committees for consideration.
The Group Capital Management Committee is a sub-committee of the Executive Committee.
Its role is: i to set an appropriate framework Attendance record and guidelines to ensure the appropriate management of the Groups The following table sets out the number of meetings held and capital: ii to support the Business Planning and Quarterly Business individual directors attendance records at the Board and its principal Review process in terms of allocating capital to the Groups businesses: standing committees based on membership of those committees, and iii to monitor the return based on allocated capital per business rather than attendance as an invitee in 2005: relative to the hurdle rate and limit the allocation of capital to underperforming businesses, as appropriate.
Group Board Audit Remuneration Nomination scheduled Committee Committee Committee No.
of meetings held 10 6 4 5 N D T Andrews 9 10 5 6 3 4 4 5 R Bogni 10 10 6 6 3 3 5 5 N N Broadhurst 10 10 6 6 4 4 5 5 W A M Clewlow 10 10 5 5 C D Collins 10 10 2 3 1 1 5 5 R P Edey 10 10 4 6 5 5 M J P Marks 9 10 3 4 5 5 Prof W L Nkuhlu 8 8 4 5 3 3 J V F Roberts 10 10 J H Sutcliffe 10 10 5 5 Former director M J Levett 4 4 3 3 Old Mutual plc 52 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Messrs Levett until May 2005, Collins from May 2005, Roberts and The following process governs the provision of non-audit services Sutcliffe attended all of the Group Audit Committee Meetings held provided by the auditors: during the year at the invitation of the Chairman of that Committee but members of management were absent for the private sessions between All non-audit work costing less than 50,000 is to be approved by members of that Committee and the auditors.
Messrs Levett until May the Group Deputy Finance Director Business Unit Chief Financial 2005, Collins from May 2005 and Sutcliffe also attended all of the Officer: Remuneration Committee Meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of All non-audit work in excess of 50,000 placed with the external the Remuneration Committee, but absented themselves for any matters auditors is to be agreed by the Group Finance Director or designate: relating to their own respective remuneration arrangements.
No one All non-audit work in excess of 300,000 placed with the external other than the Chairman and the members of the Group Audit auditors is to be subject to competitive tender and agreed by the Committee, Nomination Committee or Remuneration Committee has a Group Finance Director and Group Chief Executive: right to be present at their respective meetings.
Attendance by others is All non-audit work in excess of 1.0 million placed with external always at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee concerned.
auditors is to be approved by the Group Audit Committee: Cumulative fees in respect of non-audit services for any financial Auditors quarter should not exceed 250,000 without approval of the Group During the year ended 31 December 2005 fees paid by the Group to Audit Committee or its Chairman: and KPMG Audit Plc, the Groups auditors, and its associates KPMG Cumulative fees in respect of non-audit work for the Group should totalled 6.0 million for statutory audit services, 0.4 million for other not exceed total statutory audit and audit-related fees in any one audit and assurance services, and 4.6 million for tax and other year without the approval of the Group Audit Committee.
In addition to the above, Nedbank Group paid a further 2.8 million to Deloitte in respect of joint audit arrangements.
The KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office primary component within the 4.6 million paid to KPMG for tax and as auditors to the Company and, following a recommendation by other services was 1.8 million in relation to advisory work in the Group Audit Committee to the Board, a resolution proposing its connection with the Groups transition to reporting under International re-appointment will be put to the Annual General Meeting Resolution Financial Reporting Standards, and due diligence related to the 4 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Arrangements have been made, in conjunction with KPMG, for The following guidelines have been approved by the Group Audit appropriate audit partner rotation in accordance with recommendations Committee as part of the Groups policy on non-audit services: of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
As a result of these, a new lead audit partner in the UK, Mr Alastair Prior to accepting a proposed non-audit engagement, the lead audit Barbour, succeeded Mr Richard Bennison in 2005. engagement partner and management will assess the threats to objectivity and independence and consider safeguards to be General Meetings applied.
Such assessment will be undertaken whenever the scope The Board uses the Annual General Meeting AGM to provide an update and objectives of the non-audit service change significantly.
Before on the Groups first quarters trading.
A record of the AGM proceedings is accepting a proposed engagement to provide a non-audit service to made available on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the Group and its subsidiaries, the audit engagement partner and the end of the Meeting.
All items of formal business at the AGM are management will: conducted on a poll, rather than by a show of hands.
The Company has consider whether it is probable that a reasonable and informed arrangements in place through its registrars, Computershare Investor third party would regard the objectives of the proposed Services, to ensure that all validly submitted proxy votes are counted, and engagement as being inconsistent with the objectives of the a senior member of Computershares staff acts as scrutineer to ensure audit of the financial statements: that votes cast are properly received and recorded.
identify and assess the significance of any related threats to the firms objectivity including any perceived loss of independence: Each substantially separate issue at the AGM is dealt with by a and separate resolution and the business of the AGM always includes a identify and assess the effectiveness of the available safeguards resolution relating to the approval of the Report and Accounts.
All to eliminate or reduce threats to an acceptable level.
directors, including the Chairmen of the Group Audit, Remuneration Where it is assessed that it is probable that an informed party and Nomination Committees who are available to answer any would regard the objectives of the proposed service as being questions on the matters covered by these Committees, are expected inconsistent with the objectives of the firm as auditors, the firm will to attend the AGM and all of them did so in 2005. not be permitted to undertake the non-audit service.
Reports are tabled quarterly at Group Audit Committee meetings The notice of AGM and related materials contained in the Report and setting out the details of the non-audit services being provided by Accounts or Summary Financial Statements are sent out to shareholders the Groups auditors.
These include a comparison of fees paid for in time to arrive in the ordinary course of the post at least 20 working audit services and fees paid to other accounting firms engaged for days before the date of the AGM.
The Company and its auditors have agreed that they will not, directly or indirectly, solicit the employment of key senior staff and management of the respective organisations without prior written mutual consent.
Partners and directors of the audit firm who have acted as lead partner or as a key audit partner for the Group will not be permitted to join Old Mutual Group as a director or in a senior management position until at least two years have passed since the partner director ceased to be associated with the audit.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 53 Corporate governance and Directors Report continued Results of the Annual General Meeting 2005 Resolution 7 The results of the polls on the resolutions at the AGM held on 11 May Authority to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount 2005 were as follows: of 38,544,000 In favour Against % in favour Ordinary resolutions Resolution 1 2,062,088,615 53,539,610 97.47 To receive and adopt the directors report and accounts Special Resolutions In favour Against % in favour Resolution 8 2,044,705,400 21,380,274 98.97 Authority to allot equity securities up to maximum nominal aggregate amount of 19,272,000 Resolution 2 In favour Against % in favour To declare a final dividend of 3.5 pence per ordinary share 2,093,099,501 26,161,532 98.77 In favour Against % in favour 2,123,670,694 78,692 100.00 Resolution 9 Authority in accordance with section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 Resolution 3 i to purchase up to 385,442,000 Ordinary Shares of 10p each in the Election of R P Edey as a director of the Company Company by way of market purchase In favour Against % in favour In favour Against % in favour 2,112,503,571 1,468,620 99.93 2,121,039,052 1,381,400 99.93 Resolution 3 ii Resolution 10 i Election of W L Nkuhlu as a director of the Company Approval of contingent purchase contract to enable shares to be bought back on the JSE In favour Against % in favour In favour Against % in favour 2,112,053,579 1,686,519 99.92 2,112,368,541 1,246,814 99.94 Resolution 3 iii Re-election of C D Collins as a director of the Company Resolution 10 ii Approval of contingent purchase contract to enable shares to be bought In favour Against % in favour back on the Namibian Stock Exchange 2,112,785,918 1,393,048 99.93 In favour Against % in favour 2,111,729,249 1,469,121 99.93 Resolution 3 iv Re-election of J H Sutcliffe as a director of the Company Resolution 10 iii In favour Against % in favour Approval of contingent purchase contract to enable shares to be bought back on the Zimbabwe Stock Exchange 2,100,469,892 13,763,824 99.35 In favour Against % in favour Resolution 4 2,111,812,582 1,394,528 99.93 Re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company In favour Against % in favour Resolution 10 iv Approval of contingent purchase contract to enable shares to be bought 2,096,801,795 4,741,165 99.77 back on the Malawi Stock Exchange Resolution 5 In favour Against % in favour Authority to the Audit Committee of the Company to settle the 2,111,667,972 1,537,636 99.93 remuneration of the auditors In favour Against % in favour Each of the resolutions at the 2005 AGM was accordingly duly passed.
2,119,929,135 2,882,448 99.86 Resolution 6 Approval of the Remuneration Report in the Companys report and accounts In favour Against % in favour 2,062,583,556 25,446,472 98.78 Old Mutual plc 54 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Results of the EGM and Court Meeting relating to the Groups BEE Results of the EGM relating to the Companys offer for Skandia ownership proposals The Company held an EGM on 14 November 2005 Skandia EGM The Company held an Extraordinary General Meeting BEE EGM and to consider the Companys offer for Skandia and certain related also a Meeting of Shareholders convened by order of the UK High matters.
The results of the polls on the resolutions at the Skandia Court the Court Meeting on 6 July 2005 to consider the Groups BEE EGM were as follows: ownership proposals and certain related matters.
The results of the polls on the resolutions at the BEE EGM were as follows: Resolution 1 Approval of the offer for, and acquisition of, Skandia Resolution 1 In favour Against % in favour Adoption and establishment of the Old Mutual South Africa Broad-Based Employee Share Plan 1,835,510,382 150,556,139 92.42 In favour Against % in favour Resolution 2 1,900,898,195 9,243,123 99.52 Authority to the Remuneration Committee to amend the performance conditions applicable to certain long-term incentive arrangements Resolution 2 granted by the Company Adoption and establishment of the Old Mutual South Africa Senior In favour Against % in favour Black Management Share Plan 1,734,209,321 145,741,685 92.25 In favour Against % in favour 1,899,513,924 10,382,957 99.46 Resolution 3 Increase in the Companys authorised share capital Resolution 3 In favour Against % in favour Adoption and establishment of the Old Mutual South Africa Management Incentive Share Plan 1,856,134,456 147,239,524 92.65 In favour Against % in favour Resolution 4 1,867,060,973 9,580,903 99.49 Authority to allot relevant securities in connection with the acquisition of Skandia Resolution 4 In favour Against % in favour Authority to allot relevant securities in connection with the Companys BEE proposals 1,840,659,990 162,732,113 91.88 In favour Against % in favour Each of the resolutions at the Skandia EGM was accordingly duly passed.
1,891,807,779 18,490,972 99.03 Internal control environment Special Resolutions The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for the Groups Resolution 5 system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the Authority to disapply pre-emption rights in allotting certain equity role of executive management is to implement Board policies on risk securities in connection with the Companys BEE proposals and control.
In favour Against % in favour Executive management has implemented an internal control system designed to facilitate the effective and efficient operation of the Group 1,893,084,590 8,238,857 99.57 and its business units and aimed at enabling management to respond appropriately to significant risks to achieving the Groups business Resolution 6 objectives.
It should be noted that the system is designed to manage, Approval of the Groups BEE proposals, including the related scheme of rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Groups business arrangement, and making certain consequential changes to the objectives, and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, Companys Group Share Incentive Scheme rules and Memorandum assurance against material misstatement or loss.
and Articles of Association This system of internal control helps to ensure the quality of internal and In favour Against % in favour external reporting, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and internal policies with respect to the conduct of business.
1,900,403,315 9,400,921 99.51 The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal Votes cast at the Court Meeting on the resolution to approve the control during and at the end of the year.
This review covered all scheme of arrangement were as follows: material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
In favour Against % in favour 1,889,305,538 7,651,422 99.60 The Board is of the view that there is a sufficient ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, and that this process has been in place for the year ended Each of the resolutions at the BEE EGM and at the Court Meeting 31 December 2005 and up to the date of approval of this Report.
The resolution was accordingly duly passed.
The scheme of arrangement process accords with the Turnbull guidance set out in Internal Control relating to the Companys BEE ownership arrangements was confirmed Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and is regularly on 18 July 2005, without amendment, by the UK High Court and reviewed by the Board.
implemented by the Company on 4 August 2005.
Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 55 Corporate governance and Directors Report continued Approach to risk management Internal audit Creating shareholder value is the Groups overriding business objective, The Group internal audit function operates on a decentralised basis, and the Group therefore derives its approach to risk management and with teams established at all major businesses.
Reports are submitted control from a shareholder value perspective.
As a result, the risk directly to the Group Internal Audit Director, who in turn reports to the process is based on an Enterprise Risk Management ERM concept, Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and the Group Chief which takes a holistic approach to managing risks on an Executive.
Internal audit carries out regular risk-focused reviews of enterprise-wide basis.
This involves focusing on the identification of the the control environment and reports on these to local executive key risks that affect the achievement of Groups objectives.
It also enjoys unrestricted access to the audit committees are firstly understood on an inherent basis, which involves of the Groups principal subsidiaries.
understanding the main drivers to such risks in the absence of any controls.
Thereafter there is an assessment of the residual level of risks, The internal audit function has recently moved to a single audit taking into account the controls that are in place to manage such risks.
methodology, updated and aligned to current international standards Where the residual level is outside the risk appetite, further controls by a Professional Practice Unit, which is a centralised function and action are defined to bring the risks within the risk appetite.
An responsible for ensuring quality and consistency of internal audit important aspect of this approach is the recognition that risk working practices and staff competency around the Group.
The roll-out management is not limited solely to the downside or risk avoidance, of this methodology has been timed to coincide with the change to the but is about taking risk knowingly.
TeamMate software, which is now used by all internal auditors across the Group.
In order to meet its ERM objectives, the Group applies the ERM framework issued in September 2004 by COSO Committee of The next major review of internal audit by external experts is planned Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission.
This risk for 2008, in keeping with the IIA Inc standards of professional practice.
framework contains the following components: i a robust risk governance structure: ii risk appetites established at Group and Risk appetite subsidiary level: iii Group-wide risk policies: and iv methodologies The fundamental purpose of the Groups risk appetite is to define how that focus on risk identification, risk measurement, risk assessment, much risk the Group is willing to take.
Risks or events falling outside action plans, monitoring and reporting.
Each component is explained the agreed risk appetite are identified for immediate remedial action in more detail below.
and subjected to executive management and audit committee oversight.
The Groups risk appetite framework is developing well.
Risk governance Upon completion it will encompass: i a process for setting the Group The Groups risk governance model is based on three lines of defence.
risk appetite: ii a process for allocating the Group risk appetite among This model distinguishes between functions owning and managing the business units: iii risk reporting against those limits: iv risks, functions overseeing risks, and functions providing independent application of stress and scenario testing: and v risk appetite assurance: governance laid down in a Group risk appetite policy.
Under the first line of defence, the Board sets the Groups risk Some components of the Group risk appetite are dependent on the appetite, approves the strategy for managing risk and is responsible Groups Economic Capital Project, which is currently scheduled to be for the Groups system of internal control.
The Group Chief completed later this year.
Executive, supported by the Management Board, has overall responsibility for the management of risks facing the Group and is Group risk principles supported in the management of these risks by management at the Group risk principles have been established for each major risk operating subsidiaries.
Management and staff within each business category to which the Group is exposed.
These are designed to provide have the primary responsibility for managing risk.
They are required management teams across the Group with guiding principles within to take responsibility for the identification, assessment, which to manage risks.
Business unit risk policies expand on these management, monitoring and reporting of enterprise risks arising principles and contain detailed requirements for the specific business within their respective areas.
The second line of defence comprises, firstly, the Group Chief Executive supported by the Management Board and the principal Adherence to these principles provides the Board and the Companys subsidiary and business unit management when performing risk stakeholders with assurance that high-level common standards are monitoring and oversight, and, secondly, the Group Finance consistently applied throughout the Group and also contributes to how Director, Deputy Group Finance Director, Head of Group Risk & the Group governs itself.
Compliance, subsidiary Chief Risk Officers, supported by their respective Finance and Risk functions, and other specialist in-house Risk methodologies functions at Company and subsidiary levels, who provide technical Risk identification support and advice to operating management to assist them with Strategic objectives reflect managements choice as to how the Group the identification, assessment, management, monitoring and will seek to create value for its stakeholders.
Strategic objectives are reporting of financial and non-financial risks.
The Group risk translated into business unit objectives.
Risks and risk events are function recommends Group Risk Policies to the Board for approval, then identified that would prevent the achievement of both the strategic provides objective oversight and co-ordinates ERM activities in and business objectives, i. e. objective-setting is a pre-condition to the conjunction with other specialist risk-related functions.
Group Risk risk management process.
For this reason, risk identification is part of is not, however, accountable for the day-to-day management of the annual business planning process as well as an ongoing process.
The resultant risks are recorded in a risk log with details of risk owners, The third line of defence is designed to provide independent objective existing controls or actions to mitigate the risks and any associated assurance on the effectiveness of the management of enterprise time frame, and a measure of the residual risk.
This is provided to the Board through the Group internal audit function, the external auditors and the Group Audit Committee, supported by audit committees at subsidiaries.
Old Mutual plc 56 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Risk assessment and measurement Monthly management reports, reports by the Group Finance Director, Various means of assessing and measuring enterprise risks and risk risk logs, control logs and exposure reports described under Monitoring events are used throughout the Group.
These include estimating the and control above also form part of the reporting process.
financial impact and the likelihood of risk occurrence, trend and traffic light assessments and high medium low assessments.
With regard to Management of Specific Risks credit risk, asset and liability risk and market risk, a mixture of Details of some of the principal risks arising in each key subsidiary are quantitative and qualitative measurement methods is used by the contained in the Business Review earlier in this Annual Report.
business units commensurate with the complexity of the risk, such as exposures against limits, stress and scenario testing, sensitivity analysis Treasury management and value-at-risk measures.
The Group operates a centralised treasury function responsible for recommending and implementing the funding strategy for the Group, Action plans including the ongoing management of related debt facilities, managing Action plans to implement the risk management strategy in respect of the relationship with banks and ratings agencies and managing Old key risks or to remedy a material breakdown in control are recorded on Mutual plcs operational cash flow requirements.
risk and control logs maintained by each business grouping.
It is also responsible for the provision of capital to the Groups Monitoring and control subsidiaries, as approved by the Old Mutual plc Board and the Group The Board regularly receives and reviews reports on risks and controls Capital Management Committee.
These reviews cover all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management Policy matters systems.
Relations with shareholders and analysts The Company regards clear and direct dialogue with its shareholders Management teams in each subsidiary and business unit have and analysts as important in raising their understanding of the Groups performed annual reviews of the control environment in their business strategy, operational and financial performance, management and and have produced reports reflecting appropriate assurances.
Its Investor Relations department has a dedicated programme for facilitating regular communication between the Risk monitoring is further undertaken at Group, principal subsidiary executive management team and a wide range of institutions and and business unit level by management, ERM functions, specialised investors worldwide within the constraints of the Listing, Prospectus risk management functions, internal audit and subsidiary audit and Disclosure Rules.
A significant amount of the investor relations committees.
activity in 2005 was devoted to keeping investors and analysts informed on the Groups Black Economic Empowerment ownership The following are some of the other key processes of risk monitoring transactions and the Companys offer for Skandia.
used around the Group: In 2005 the Company held over 400 group, one-on-one and roadshow The Group Finance Director provides the Board with monthly meetings and two educational workshops in the USA and South Africa.
performance information, which includes key performance and risk These meetings were mainly hosted by the Chief Executive or the indicators.
These are complementary to the monthly management Group Finance Director.
Members of the divisional management team reports, which include a status report on key risks to the took part occasionally, in order to provide detailed insight into the achievability of business objectives: Groups operations.
Items on risk logs and control logs which contain details of any control failures are reported pursuant to an escalation protocol to Twenty sell-side analysts currently cover Old Mutual in their research, the appropriate level of management board or committee, where offering views on the Companys performance and valuation.
The rectification procedures and progress are closely monitored.
Planned Investor Relations department encourages as wide a group of sell-side corrective actions are independently monitored for timely completion analysts as possible to cover the Companys shares, in order to assist by internal audit and, as appropriate, by the Group Audit Committee investors in assessing the Groups performance and the business and Board: environment in which it operates, and in making meaningful Exposure reporting, risk concentrations and solvency and capital comparisons with peers.
adequacy reports are submitted to the relevant credit and capital management committees in the normal course of business.
Where The Board is regularly updated on key issues arising from any exposures are in excess of limits, they are treated in the same way shareholder communications and provided with reports to enable it to as control breakdowns and reported on the relevant control log for monitor accurately changes in market or shareholder opinion.
Company commissions Makinson Cowell, an independent capital market consultancy firm, to conduct surveys of opinion from its major Reporting shareholders, the findings of which are reported directly to the Board.
As part of the Boards annual review process, the Chief Executive of The Chairman, with the senior non-executive director and other each of the Groups major businesses completes a letter of members of the Board, is available to meet investors by prior representation.
This letter confirms that there has been no indication of arrangement.
any significant business risk occurring, nor any material malfunction in controls, procedures or systems during the reporting period, resulting in The Companys public announcements and statements, including its loss or reputational damage, which impacts negatively on the annual and interim reports, are intended to give a detailed account of attainment of the businesss objectives during the year and up to the the Groups activities, its operational and financial performance and its date of approval of the Annual Report.
Exceptions are noted and prospects.
Documents of this nature are always posted to the reported.
In addition the letter confirms that the business unit will Companys website in a timely fashion.
This award-winning website is continue as a going concern for the year ahead.
The collated results of developed and updated regularly in order to provide a valuable source these letters are reported to the Group Audit Committee.
of both historical and current information, as well as useful tools relating to share price and dividend calculations, for use by all levels and types of investors in all geographies.
Group strategy and performance are communicated to financial Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 57 Corporate governance and Directors Report continued markets through annual and interim reports, news releases, speeches, using the Top Leadership Group, of approximately 100 senior transcripts and presentations, using a wide range of internal and people from across the Group, to communicate and promote external communication channels.
The Company holds two results strategic initiatives and talent management initiatives: and meetings a year, at the time of its preliminary and interim results, continuing to focus on leadership and management development, which are hosted and webcast simultaneously in London and supported by the Old Mutual Business School in Cape Town.
In addition, in May and November the Company holds analyst teleconference calls to present its quarterly trading statements.
The benefits of a continuous drive to promote performance Transcripts and materials are made available on the Companys website management across the Group over the last three years are now being to allow access subject to applicable legal restrictions for those unable seen in improvements in performance management processes and to be present.
All major announcements by the Company are emailed culture, measurement of performance and delivery, and the relationship to the Investor Relations departments investor database as they are between performance and reward.
Key initiatives at the Groups South African businesses during the year Employment matters included: The Groups employment policies are designed to promote a working environment that supports the recruitment and retention of highly HIV AIDS workplace programmes, which enable improved access to effective employees, improves productivity and fosters relationships that counselling of employees and their families on HIV AIDS-related issues: build on the diversity of its workforce.
They are regularly reviewed and and updated to ensure their relevance for the locations to which they apply.
acceleration of employment equity primarily through the structures Whilst local employment policies and procedures are developed by and partnership set up within the Black Economic Empowerment each business according to its own circumstances, the following key arrangements, which were implemented in the South African principles of employment are applied consistently throughout the Group: businesses in 2005, as well as through voluntary early retirement, management transformation and cultural diversity programmes.
employees are recruited, retained, trained and promoted on the basis of their suitability for the job, without discrimination in terms Directors shareholdings and share dealings of race, religion, national origin, colour, gender, age, marital status, During 2005, the Remuneration Committee adopted guidelines on sexual orientation or disability whether in existence at the shareholdings by executive directors of the Company.
Under these, the commencement of employment or developing subsequently Chief Executive is expected to build up a holding of shares in the unrelated to the task at hand.
In South Africa this principle is Company equal in value to at least 150% of basic annual salary within balanced with the requirement to address issues of employment five years of appointment: the equivalent figure for other executive equity and transformation, and the local businesses practices take directors is 100% of basic annual salary.
The Board has considered due account of this: whether to adopt a shareholding requirement for non-executive clear goals are established, together with training and feedback on directors, but does not consider this to be necessary or appropriate, performance, to deliver the Group or business objectives: in view of the importance of their being seen to be independent.
a working environment is provided that at least meets the health and safety standards of the Group and local regulations and allows All directors of the Company, together with other persons discharging employees to work to the best of their abilities, free from managerial responsibilities in relation to the Company and other discrimination and harassment: employee insiders of the Group, are restricted persons for the purposes employee involvement, consultation and communication are of the Model Code annexed to Section LR9 of the Listing Rules of the promoted through in-house publications, briefings, roadshows and Financial Services Authority.
That Code imposes restrictions on the internet-based channels and relevant employee representative periods when restricted persons may deal in affected securities which bodies: and comprise shares and other listed securities of the Company and other the efforts of employees in contributing to the success of the Group quoted entities within the Group.
Dealings by restricted persons during are appropriately recognised.
Compensation systems are structured open periods must be pre-cleared through the appropriate designated to recognise and reward both the efforts of individuals and the officer of the Company, and any dealings in affected securities by the performance of the sector of the business in which they work.
directors or other persons discharging managerial responsibilities are required to be publicly announced once they have been notified to the Various initiatives have been implemented to enhance talent Company.
The lists of persons discharging managerial responsibilities management processes across the Group including: and other employee insiders are regularly reviewed.
Currently all members of the Management Board are regarded as persons agreeing a common set of values to be applied consistently across discharging managerial responsibilities.
the Group and embedding their adoption and implementation through surveys, road shows, written media and incorporation into Directors indemnities the performance appraisal cycle: Following a change in applicable UK law introduced by the Companies identifying international and other cross-business employment Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004, the opportunities to develop talented individuals across the Group: Company has entered into formal deeds of indemnity in favour of each reviewing and revising senior executive incentive schemes to create of the directors.
These are all dated 19 October 2005, except for greater alignment with shareholders interests and revising benefit Mr Khoza, whose deed is dated 24 February 2006.
A specimen copy of arrangements where required to make a market competitive offering the indemnities is available for inspection in the Corporate Governance within the Group total cost to company remuneration approach section of the Companys website.
setting an objective for each of the Groups businesses to be an employer of choice, supported by the creation of centres of Supplier payment policy excellence in human resource practice in the larger and more In most cases suppliers of goods or services to the Group do so under established businesses, which support and assist the development standard terms of contract that lay down terms of payment.
In other and implementation of world-class practice in the Groups newer cases, specific terms are agreed to beforehand.
It is the Groups policy and smaller businesses: to ensure that the terms of payment are notified in advance and adhered to.
The Company has signed the Better Payment Practice Code, an initiative promoted by the Department of Trade and Industry in the UK to encourage prompt settlement of invoices.
Old Mutual plc 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2005
