Corporate governance The Board of Directors is committed to the principles of All of the non-executive directors are independent of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on management and all are appointed for fixed terms.
They Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial are kept fully informed of all relevant operational and Reporting Council in July 2003.
Throughout the year ended strategic issues and bring a strongly independent and 30 September 2005 the Company complied with the experienced judgement to bear on these issues.
provisions of the Code, except for Code provision A4.1 in All directors have access to the advice and services of the relation to the constitution of the Nomination Committee.
Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for An explanation of this departure is given under the section ensuring that board procedures are complied with.
Both of this Report headed Directors.
the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary Directors are a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Board of Directors comprises the Chairman, four All directors are able to take independent professional executive and four non-executive directors, all of whom advice in the furtherance of their duties whenever it is bring to the Company a broad and valuable range of considered appropriate to do so.
Jonathan Perry has been Chairman since The Board also operates through a number of committees February 1992 and Nigel Terrington Chief Executive since covering certain specific matters, these being: June 1995.
In accordance with the Code, all directors will submit themselves for re-election at least once in every The Remuneration Committee, consisting of Gavin three years.
The names of the directors in office at the Lickley, who chairs the Committee, David Beever and date of this report and their biographical details are set Robert Dench.
Christopher Newell was a member of out on page 11. the Committee until 28 September 2005.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and During the year ended 30 September 2005 there Chief Executive is clearly established, set out in writing were five meetings of the Remuneration Committee and agreed by the Board.
There is a strong non-executive and all meetings were attended by Gavin Lickley and representation on the Board, including David Beever who Christopher Newell, three were attended by has been nominated as the Senior Independent Director.
David Beever and one meeting was attended by This provides effective balance and challenge.
The Board Robert Dench following his appointment to the is responsible for overall Group strategy, for approving Committee on 23 February 2005. major agreements, transactions and other financing Further information about the Remuneration Committee matters and for monitoring the progress of the Group is given in the Report of the Board to the Shareholders against budget.
All directors receive sufficient relevant on Directors Remuneration on pages 18 to 26. information on financial, business and corporate issues The Audit and Compliance Committee, consisting of prior to meetings and there is a formal schedule of Christopher Newell, who chairs the Committee, David matters reserved for decision by the Board, which Beever, Gavin Lickley and Robert Dench.
The Board is includes material asset acquisitions and disposals, satisfied that all members of the Committee have recent granting and varying authority levels of the Chairman and and relevant financial experience.
The Committee meets the executive directors, determination and approval of the at least three times per year.
It monitors the integrity of Groups objectives, strategy and annual budget, the Groups financial reporting, reviews the Groups investment decisions, corporate governance policies and internal control and risk management systems, financing and dividend policies.
monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups Normally, there are ten regular Board meetings a year internal audit function, monitors the relationship with other meetings being held as required.
All directors between the Group and the external auditors and attended each of the ten regular meetings held during the provides a forum through which the Groups external year ended 30 September 2005 with the exception of David and internal audit functions report to the non-executive Beever, who attended nine of the meetings.
The Committee is also responsible for ensuring that the system and controls for regulatory compliance are effective.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 29 The Audit and Compliance Committee reviews the scope There is a formal process for the appointment of and the results of the annual external audit, its cost directors, starting with a review of the Board structure, effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the size and composition, leading to the preparation of a external auditors.
Both the Audit and Compliance written job specification and the identification of suitable Committee and the external auditors have in place candidates.
The Nomination Committee ensures that safeguards to avoid compromises of the independence prospective non-executive directors can devote sufficient and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Group has a time to the appointment.
The Board recognises the formal policy for the engagement of its external auditors benefits that can flow from non-executive directors to supply non-audit services.
The policy is designed to holding other appointments but requires them to seek ensure that neither the nature of the service to be the agreement of the Chairman before entering into any provided nor the level of reliance placed on the services commitments that might affect the time they can devote could impact the objectivity of the external auditors to the Company.
In identifying a suitable candidate as a opinion on the Groups financial statements.
The policy non-executive director, the Nomination Committee incorporates a comprehensive system for reporting to would usually use a search consultant.
The choice of the Audit and Compliance Committee all proposals appointee would be based entirely on merit.
considered and the level of fees payable to the external The Asset and Liability Committee, consisting of auditors for the provision of non-audit services.
appropriate heads of functions and chaired by Nigel At each meeting the Audit and Compliance Committee Terrington, the Chief Executive.
It meets regularly and receives reports of reviews conducted throughout the monitors Group interest rate risks, currency risks and company by the Internal Audit and, from time to time, treasury counterparty exposures.
The Credit Committee, consisting of appropriate senior The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and other executives and chaired by Nicholas Keen, the Finance executive directors, Director of Financial Accounting and Director.
It meets regularly and is responsible for Group Company Secretary, Director of Business Analysis establishing credit policy and monitoring compliance and Planning, Director of Legal Services, Head of therewith.
Internal Audit and a Partner from the external auditors All Board committees operate within defined terms of normally attend meetings of the Committee.
reference and sufficient resources are made available to During the year ended 30 September 2005 there were them to undertake their duties.
three meetings of the Audit and Compliance Committee and all members of the Committee were present at each The composition of the Board and its committees is kept meeting with the exception of Robert Dench who under review, with the aim of ensuring that there is an attended one meeting of the Committee following his appropriate balance of power and authority between appointment to the Committee on 23 February 2005. executive and non-executive directors and that the directors collectively possess the skills and experience The Nomination Committee, consisting of Jonathan necessary to direct the Company and the Groups Perry, who chairs the Committee, Nigel Terrington and business activities.
three non-executive directors, David Beever, Robert Dench and Christopher Newell.
Following the There is an established process for external appointments appointment of Robert Dench to the Committee during through the Nomination Committee.
Ultimately, the the year a majority of the Committees members are appointment of any new director is a matter for the Board.
independent non-executive directors, in accordance with Executive director appointments are based upon merit and Code provision A4.1.
The Committee is convened as business need.
Non-executive appointments are based required to nominate candidates for membership of the upon the candidates profiles matching those drawn up by Board, although ultimate responsibility for appointment the Nomination Committee.
In all cases the Board rests with the Board.
There were no meetings of the approves the appointment only after careful consideration.
Nomination Committee in the year ended 30 September 2005 and the Committee will only engage in the process of identification of suitable candidates for appointment to the Board when requested by the Board to do so.
30 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC The Board, individual directors and Board committees The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director have are appraised annually.
The performance of the a full programme of meetings with institutional investors Chief Executive is appraised by the Chairman.
The during the course of the year and the Companys web site performance of the Finance Director and the other at www.
co. uk provides access to executive directors is appraised by the Chief Executive information on the Company and its businesses.
in conjunction with the Chairman.
The results of these Accountability and audit appraisals are presented to the Remuneration Committee Detailed reviews of the performance of the Groups main for consideration and determination of remuneration.
business lines are included within the Chairmans In 2004 the Board utilised the services of an external Statement and Chief Executives Review.
The Board uses consultant to facilitate a Board evaluation.
All Board these, together with the Directors Report on pages 12 to directors were required to complete a detailed 15 to present a balanced and understandable assessment questionnaire on the performance of the Board and Board of the Companys position and prospects.
During 2005 the Board reconsidered the The directors responsibility for the financial statements is specific matters raised by the questionnaire and, through described on page 27. a discussion facilitated by the Chairman, engaged in a An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and formal and rigorous performance review.
managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which At the Annual General Meeting the Chairman will confirm is regularly reviewed by the Board, was in place for the to shareholders, when proposing the re-election of any year ended 30 September 2005 and to the date of these non-executive director, that, following formal performance financial statements.
The directors confirm that they have evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
internal control for this period and that these procedures The non-executive directors meet at least annually to accord with the guidance Internal Controls: Guidance for review the performance of the Chairman.
Directors on the Combined Code.
Directors remuneration The directors are responsible for the system of internal The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of control throughout the Group and for reviewing its executive directors and members of senior management effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage prior to determining its recommendations on annual rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve remuneration, performance bonuses and share options for business objectives, and can provide reasonable, but not the Boards determination.
absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss and that assets are safeguarded The Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors against unauthorised use or disposition.
In assessing what Remuneration is on pages 18 to 26. constitutes reasonable assurance, the directors have Relations with shareholders regard to the relationship between the cost and benefits The Board encourages communication with the from particular aspects of the control system.
Companys institutional and private investors.
All The system of internal control includes documented shareholders have at least twenty working days notice of procedures covering accounting, compliance, risk the Annual General Meeting at which the directors and management, personnel matters and operations, clear committee chairmen are available for questions.
The reporting lines, delegation of authority through a formal Annual General Meeting is held in London during business structure of mandates, a formalised budgeting, hours and provides an opportunity for directors to report management reporting and review process, the use of key to investors on the Groups activities and to answer their performance indicators throughout the Group and regular questions.
Shareholders will have an opportunity to vote meetings of the Asset and Liability and Credit Committees separately on each resolution and all proxy votes lodged and senior management.
are counted and the balance for and against each resolution is announced.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 31 The Board receives regular reports setting out key performance and risk indicators.
In addition the Board operates a formal risk management process, from which the key risks facing the business are identified.
The process results in reports to the Board on how these risks are being managed.
The Board has a programme of regular presentations from senior management to enable the Board to review the operation of internal controls in relation to the risks associated with their specific areas.
The system of internal control is monitored by management and by an internal audit function that concentrates on the areas of greater risk and reports its conclusions regularly to management and the Audit and Compliance Committee.
The internal audit work plan is approved annually by the Audit and Compliance Committee, which reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control annually and reports its conclusions to the Board.
Going concern basis After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
32 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC
