Statement of directors responsibilities in relation to financial statements The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the prepare financial statements for each financial year which Company keeps accounting records which disclose with give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and which enable them to ensure that the financial and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors consider that in preparing the financial The directors have general responsibility for taking such statements on pages 34 to 71, the Company has used steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and other irregularities.
estimates, and that all accounting standards which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
Independent auditors report To the members of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC We have audited the financial statements of The Paragon Respective responsibilities of directors Group of Companies PLC for the year ended 30 September and auditors 2005 which comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, As described in the statement of directors responsibility, the the balance sheets, the consolidated cash flow statement, the Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of the reconciliation of movement in consolidated shareholders financial statements in accordance with applicable United funds and the related notes 1 to 36.
These financial Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also statements have been prepared under the accounting policies responsible for the preparation of the other information set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the contained in the annual report including the directors part of directors remuneration report that is described as remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial having been audited.
statements and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act auditing standards.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial required to state to them in an auditors report and for no statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do statements and the part of the directors remuneration report not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the described as having been audited have been properly Company and the Companys members as a body, for our prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
report to you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law or the Listing Rules regarding directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 27
