Corporate governance report The directors are committed to high standards of corporate The table on page 42 details the number of Board and Committee governance and support the Combined Code on Corporate meetings attended by each director throughout the year.
A further Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
six Board Committee meetings took place during the year.
In Apart from the requirement under the Code that shareholders be addition, the Chairman met with the non-executive directors sent the notice of Annual General Meeting at least 20 working without the executive directors being present in March, July days before the meeting, the Company has complied throughout and December.
the financial year ended 31 December 2005 with all the Code The Boards terms of reference, which are regularly reviewed, set provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
As a result of the late out those matters specifically reserved to it for decision, in order publication of FRS 27, Life Assurance which was only released on to ensure that it exercises control over the Groups affairs.
These 13 December 2004, the Company was unable to comply with the include, amongst other things, approval of the annual and interim 20 working day requirement under the Code and so gave the results, strategy and corporate objectives, operating plans, statutory 21 clear days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
significant transactions and matters affecting the Companys We have applied the principles of the Code in the manner share capital.
described below and in the remuneration report.
A corporate governance framework approved by the Board maps The Board out the internal approvals processes and those matters which As at 31 December 2005, the Board comprised the Chairman, may be delegated.
These principally relate to the operational five executive directors and seven independent non-executive management of the Groups businesses and include pre-determined directors.
Since the year end, Nick Prettejohn has been appointed authority limits delegated by the Board to the Group Chief as an additional executive director with effect from 1 January 2006.
Executive for further delegation by him in respect of matters The non-executive directors bring a wide range of business, which are necessary for the effective day-to-day running and financial and global experience to the Board.
Biographical details management of the business.
of the current Board members appear on pages 36 and 37.
The The chief executive of each business unit, who in respect of his roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and business unit responsibilities reports to the Group Chief Executive, clearly defined, and have been approved by the Board so that no has authority for management of that business unit and has individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The Chairman is established a management board comprising its most senior responsible for the leadership and governance of the Board as a executives.
In accordance with the Group Governance Framework, whole and the Group Chief Executive for the management of the business unit chief executives are required to certify annually their Group and the implementation of Board strategy and policy on the compliance with the requirements of the framework.
In discharging his responsibility, the Group Chief has adopted a Code of Business Conduct, which sets out the Executive is advised and assisted by the Group Executive behaviour expected of staff in their dealings with shareholders, Committee, comprising all the business unit heads and a Group customers, fellow employees, suppliers and other stakeholders of Head Office team of functional specialists.
Rob Rowley is the the Group.
A copy of the Companys Code of Business Conduct Companys Senior Independent Director, to whom concerns may may be found on the website www.
co. uk prudentialbe conveyed by shareholders if they are unable to resolve them plc cr managementpolicies codeofconduct through the existing mechanisms for investor communications, or where such channels are inappropriate.
The Chairman meets, The Board is responsible for ensuring that an effective system for at least annually, with the non-executive directors without the succession planning and management development is in place.
This is delivered through an established review process that is applied across all the businesses and covers both director and During 2005, the Board met 14 times and held a separate two-day senior management succession and development.
Each year, one of the Board meetings is held reviews the outcomes of the review annually and actions arising at one of the Groups business operations to facilitate a fuller from the review are implemented as part of the management understanding of the diversity of the business.
Board meeting was held in Beijing, following a day of discussion on the Asian business and future market opportunities for Prudential All directors have direct access to the services of the Company Corporation Asia across the region.
Presentations were given by Secretary who advises them on all corporate governance matters, senior members of the Prudential Corporation Asia management team.
on Board procedures, and on compliance with applicable rules and regulations.
In order to ensure good information flows, full Board All the directors attended all scheduled Board meetings occurring and Committee papers are provided to the directors by the during their period of appointment, apart from Jonathan Bloomer Company Secretary approximately one week before each Board and Mark Wood, who were not required to attend Board meetings or Committee meeting.
The Company Secretary also supports the after it had been agreed that they would cease to be directors of Chairman in providing tailored induction programmes for new the Company.
There were four additional Board meetings, and the directors and on-going training for all directors.
majority of the directors attended most of those meetings.
Where a director was not able to attend any of the additional meetings, Other commitments of the Chairman and changes during the year their views were canvassed by the Chairman prior to the meeting.
are detailed in his biography on page 36.
The Board is satisfied that 38 Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 these other commitments are not such as to interfere with the the appropriate time of the year.
The principal business of the performance of the Chairmans duties for the Group.
Committees meetings includes: Board Committees Half year and full year results, press releases and annual report The Board has established the following standing committees of and accounts: non-executive directors with written terms of reference which are accounting policies and key judgmental areas, Group policies for kept under regular review: compliance with relevant regulations worldwide, including Audit Committee report Sarbanes-Oxley procedures: At Prudential, the Audit Committee is a key element of the US filings and related external audit opinion: governance framework.
This report sets out its responsibilities and the work the Committee has done to meet its objectives.
external auditors interim management letter, external auditors full year memorandum, external audit opinion and final Role of the Committee management letter: The Committees principal oversight responsibilities cover: auditor independence, external auditors plans and audit strategy, Internal control and risk management: effectiveness of the external audit process, external auditors internal audit: qualifications, expertise and resources and economic service: external audit including auditor independence : and framework and effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and Turnbull compliance statement: financial reporting.
effectiveness of the Group Risk Framework and half-yearly key The Committee has formal terms of reference set by the Board, risk report: which are reviewed regularly.
internal audit plan and resources, reassurance on the audit Membership framework and internal audit effectiveness: All the members of the Audit Committee are independent nonexecutive directors.
The members of the Committee are: effectiveness of compliance processes and controls and performance against the Group Compliance Plan: Rob Rowley FCMA Chairman Keki Dadiseth FCA appointed 5 May 2005 Audit Committee effectiveness and Audit Committee terms Kathleen ODonovan ACA of reference: James Ross Group Security annual report, report on anti-money laundering Full biographical details of the members of the Audit Committee, and reporting of allegations from whistleblowers: including their relevant experience, are set out on page 37. International Accounting Standards IAS and practices, including The Board has designated Rob Rowley as its Audit Committee EEV and IFRS: and financial expert for Sarbanes-Oxley Act purposes: he also has changes in and implementation of Group Accounting Policies recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of in compliance with IAS and practices, including the European the Code.
CFO Forum Principles and Guidance on Embedded Values EEV The Committee continued to receive detailed presentations from and IFRS.
senior management throughout the year.
These presentations During the year, the Committees standing agenda items also were designed to keep members up to date and aware of the included reports from Group Internal Audit, Group Risk, Group impact on the business of changes to international accounting Compliance and Group Security.
In addition, the Committee standards and practices, including International Financial Reporting also received presentations from some of the business unit Standards IFRS and European Embedded Value EEV.
Meetings The Audit Committee Chairman reported to the Board on matters The Audit Committee met nine times during the year.
Additionally, of particular significance after each Committee meeting.
The minutes by invitation, the Chairman of the Board, Group Chief Executive, of Committee meetings were circulated to all Board members.
Group Finance Director, Group Chief Risk Officer, Group Company Secretary, Heads of Internal Audit, Group Risk and Group The Committee recognises the need to meet without the presence Compliance, as well as the external auditor, attended some of executive management.
Such a session was held in July 2005 of the meetings.
with the external and internal auditors.
The Chairman held preparatory meetings with the Group Chief Business unit audit committees Internal Auditor, the Group Chief Risk Officer, the external auditor Each business unit has its own audit committee whose members and the Group Finance Director before each Committee meeting.
and chairman are independent of the individual business unit.
A detailed forward agenda has been developed which ensures all The chairman of these committees is approved by the Chairman matters for which the Committee is responsible are addressed at of the Group Audit Committee.
The committees are attended by Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 39 Corporate governance report continued business unit senior management including the Chief Executive conducted in 2005, to ensure that the activities and resources of and heads of finance, risk, compliance and internal audit.
Business internal audit are most effectively organised to support the unit committees have similar terms of reference to the Group Audit oversight responsibilities of the Committee.
Committee, and report significant issues to the Group Audit External audit Committee when they arise.
They approve the business unit The Audit Committee has a key oversight role in relation to the internal audit plans and oversee the adequacy of internal audit external auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, whose primary relationship resources: receive presentations from external audit: and meet is with the Committee.
The Groups Auditor Independence privately with local external audit and the business unit heads of Policy ensures that the independence and objectivity of the internal audit.
external auditor is not impaired, and that the Group maintains a Internal control and risk management sufficient choice of appropriately qualified audit firms.
The policy The Audit Committee reviewed the Groups statement on internal sets out four key principles which underpin the provision of control systems prior to its endorsement by the Board.
It also non-audit services by the external auditor, namely that the auditor reviewed the policies and processes for identifying, assessing and should not: managing business risks.
The Committee also received the minutes Audit its own firms work: of the Disclosure Committee and the Group Operational Risk Committee and noted their activities.
Further information on these make management decisions for the Group: Committees appears on pages 44 and 45. have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group: or From 31 December 2006, the Group must undertake an annual be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
In The Committee reviewed and updated the policy in December 2005. common with other companies, which must comply with this The Group has a policy that at least once every five years, the legislation, this has required the Group to undertake a significant Audit Committee undertakes a formal review to assess whether project to document and test its internal controls over financial the external audit should be re-tendered.
The Committee has overseen the progress of this was last put out to competitive tender in 1999 when the present project through regular status reports submitted by management auditor was appointed.
In both February 2004 and July 2005, the in 2005.
During the year, the Groups external auditor, KPMG Committee formally considered the need to re-tender the external Audit Plc, reported to the Committee on the Companys progress audit service and concluded that given the significant changes in towards compliance with Section 404. audit and regulatory requirements, the interests of the Company Internal audit were better served by retaining the existing auditor through a The Audit Committee regards its relationship with internal audit as period of transition.
In addition, the Committee concluded that a particularly important one.
Group Internal Audit plays an important there was nothing in the performance of the auditor requiring role in supporting the Committee to fulfil its responsibilities under a change.
the Code and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Each of the Groups During the year, the Audit Committee assessed the qualification, business units has an internal audit team, the heads of which, from expertise and resources, effectiveness and independence of the 1 January 2006, report to the Group-wide Internal Audit Director.
In addition to the questioning of the external Internal audit resources, plans and work are overseen by the auditor and the Group Finance Director that is a regular feature Group Audit Committee and by business unit audit committees.
of meetings, the review of the effectiveness of the external audit Across the Group, total internal audit headcount stands at 113. process was conducted through a questionnaire-based exercise The Group-wide Internal Audit Director reports functionally to administered by Group Internal Audit, supplemented by interviews the Committee and for management purposes to the Group Chief with senior finance staff and Audit Committee members.
For the year ended 31 December 2005, fees for audit services of During the year, the committees reviewed and approved internal 6.8 million were approved by the Committee.
All fees for nonaudits plans, resources and the results of its work.
Reporting to audit services were approved by the Committee, in accordance the Group Audit Committee by Group Internal Audit is through with the Groups Auditor Independence Policy, prior to work the formal reports four times during the year and through private commencing.
The Audit Committee reviewed the non-audit meetings, as well as regular private meetings between the services being provided to the Group by its external auditor at Chairman of the Committee and the Group-wide Internal Audit regular intervals in 2005.
During the year, fees for non-audit Director.
Additionally, the Chairman of the Committee attended services of 5.6 million were approved by the Audit Committee.
the Groups internal audit conference in September 2005.
Fees for non-audit services amounted to 45 per cent of total fees The Committee assesses the effectiveness of internal audit through paid to KPMG Audit Plc.
These fees primarily related to assurance a review carried out by external advisers, and through ongoing services associated with the implementation of IFRS and EEV dialogue with the Group-wide Internal Audit Director.
An internal accounting requirements, Sarbanes-Oxley requirements and other review of internal audit arrangements and standards was also regulatory changes, and also to due diligence work related to the 40 Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 acquisition of the Egg minority.
A more detailed analysis is set out Schedule A to the Code.
The remuneration report prepared by in note I4 on page 180. the Board is set out in full on pages 46 to 57.
In preparing the report, the Board has followed the provisions of the Code and Financial reporting The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The Audit Committee reviewed the interim and annual financial statements before their submission to the Board, paying particular Except in relation to the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive, attention to critical accounting policies and practices and any when only the Chairman is consulted, the Remuneration Committee changes in them: decisions requiring a major element of consults the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive about the judgement: unusual transactions: clarity of disclosures: significant Committees proposals relating to the remuneration of all executive audit adjustments: the going concern assumption: compliance with directors.
Following the publication of the Code in July 2003, the accounting standards: and compliance with obligations under the terms of reference of the Committee were reviewed and amended.
Code and other applicable laws and regulations.
They were widened to include monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for a defined population of senior management As described above, the Committee is regularly briefed by senior as determined by the Board.
The Committee agreed principles for management on developments in international accounting the level and structure of remuneration for this population.
The standards, and during the year it continued to review the progress Committee has access to professional advice inside and outside of the Groups project to implement IFRS and EEV reporting.
Confidential reporting Nomination Committee report At each meeting, the Committee received and reviewed a report Sir David Clementi Chairman on calls to the confidential reporting line, which is made available Jonathan Bloomer until 5 May 2005 to employees to enable them to communicate confidentially on Bridget Macaskill matters of concern, and actions taken in response to these calls.
Kathleen ODonovan until 22 September 2005 The Committee also considered whether any internal control James Ross from 22 September 2005 implications arose from communications received.
No internal Rob Rowley control implications were raised from calls to the confidential helpline.
The Nomination Committee now comprises exclusively Audit Committee effectiveness independent non-executive directors and the Chairman and until During the year, the Audit Committee undertook a formal review 5 May 2005 included the former Group Chief Executive.
The of its own effectiveness and the Committee is satisfied, based on current Group Chief Executive is also closely involved in the work the findings of this review, that it had been operating as an of the Committee and is invited to attend and contribute to effective Audit Committee, meeting all applicable legal and meetings of the Committee.
The Committee meets as required to regulatory requirements.
Further reviews of the effectiveness of consider candidates for appointment to the Board and to make the Audit Committee will be undertaken annually.
recommendations to the Board in respect of those candidates.
The Remuneration Committee report Committee, in consultation with the Board, evaluates the balance Roberto Mendoza Chairman of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and makes Keki Dadiseth appointed 1 April 2005 recommendations regarding appointments based on merit and Michael Garrett against objective criteria and the requirements of the Groups Bridget Macaskill business.
In appropriate cases, search consultants are used to Kathleen ODonovan until 22 September 2005 identify suitable candidates.
James Ross until 22 September 2005 During 2005, the Committee held four meetings resulting in the Rob Rowley until 22 September 2005 appointment by the Board of Mark Tucker as Group Chief Full biographical details of the members of the Remuneration Executive on 6 May 2005, and Nick Prettejohn as executive Committee, including their relevant experience, are set out on director on 1 January 2006.
Full biographical details of these new page 37. directors are set out on page 36.
The Remuneration Committee is comprised exclusively of During the year, the Nomination Committee continued the search independent non-executive directors of the Company.
While the for additional non-executive directors and employed professional Chairman and Group Chief Executive are not members, they search consultants who oversaw the initial process.
This process attend meetings unless they have a conflict of interest.
The Remuneration Committee normally has scheduled meetings Board Committees terms of reference at least three times a year and a number of additional meetings, The full terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and as required, to review remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Nomination Committees are available on the Companys website at Committee determines the remuneration packages of the www.
co. uk prudential-plc aboutpru Chairman and executive directors.
During 2005, a total of corporategovernance boardcommittees 11 meetings were held.
In framing its remuneration policy, the Hard copies may be obtained upon written request to the Committee has given full consideration to the provisions of Company Secretary at the Companys registered office.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 41 Corporate governance report continued Attendance at Board and Committee meetings The number of full Board and Committee meetings attended by each director during 2005 was as follows: Full  Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Number of meetings in year 14 9 11 4 Sir David Clementi 14 14 n a n a 4 4 1 Jonathan Bloomer 4 7 n a n a 0 2 Philip Broadley 14 14 n a n a n a 2 Keki Dadiseth 9 9 5 5 6 6 n a 3 Michael Garrett 11 14 n a 11 11 n a Bridget Macaskill 14 14 n a 11 11 3 4 Clark Manning 14 14 n a n a n a Michael McLintock 14 14 n a n a n a Roberto Mendoza 14 14 n a 11 11 n a Mark Norbom 14 14 n a n a n a Kathleen ODonovan 14 14 9 9 7 7 2 2 James Ross 14 14 8 9 7 7 4 4 Rob Rowley 14 14 9 9 7 7 4 4 4 Mark Tucker 7 7 n a n a n a 5 Mark Wood 10 11 n a n a n a Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings in the period in which the individual was a Board or Committee member.
During 2005 there were 10 scheduled Board meetings and four additional Board meetings.
During 2005 there were eight scheduled Audit Committee meetings and one additional meeting.
During 2005 there were eight scheduled Remuneration Committee meetings and three additional meetings.
Resigned as a director on 5 May 2005 but not required to attend Board or Committee meetings on or after 24 March 2005.
Appointed as a director on 1 April 2005.
Attended all scheduled meetings, but was unable to attend additional meetings because of prior commitments and submitted his comments to the Chairman prior to each additional meeting.
Appointed as a director on 6 May 2005.
Resigned as a director on 17 October 2005 but not required to attend Board meetings on or after 16 October 2005.
Independent professional advice During the year, cross-directorships existed with Roberto Mendoza The Board has approved a procedure whereby directors have the and Philip Broadley who both sat on the board of Egg plc, the right in furtherance of their duties to seek independent Companys subsidiary which, until 20 February 2006, had its own professional advice at the Companys expense.
listing on the London Stock Exchange.
Under the Companys Relationship Agreement with Egg, established prior to its flotation Copies of any instructions and advice given by an independent in 2000, the Company agreed with Egg that, absent specific professional adviser to a director are supplied by the director to events, the number of Company related directors should represent the Company Secretary who will, where appropriate, circulate to less than half the total number of directors in office.
The Company other directors sufficient information to ensure that other members had the right, whilst it continued to own more than 10 per cent of of the Board are kept informed on issues arising which affect the the voting shares, to nominate one director and also, whilst it Company or any of its subsidiaries.
continued to own more than 15 per cent of the voting shares, Directors independence, development and re-election to appoint the Chairman of the board.
Jonathan Bloomer was Throughout the year all the non-executive directors were accordingly appointed as the Companys nominated director and considered by the Board to be independent in character and on his retirement from the Board of the Company on 5 May 2005, judgement.
No non-executive director: Philip Broadley was appointed the Companys nominated representative on the board of Egg.
Roberto Mendoza was Has been an employee of the Group within the last five years: appointed as the Chairman of the board of Egg.
Consequently, has, or has had within the last three years, a material business Roberto Mendoza and Philip Broadley disclosed their interests as relationship with the Group: Chairman and director of Egg.
The Board does not consider that this relationship in any way affected Mr Mendozas status as an receives remuneration from the Group other than a directors fee: independent director of the Company.
On 1 December 2005, the has close family ties with any of the Groups advisers, directors or Company announced its intention to acquire the remaining 21 per senior employees: cent of Egg plc.
Mr Mendoza and Mr Broadley did not participate in discussions at Egg regarding this acquisition.
Nor did they represents a significant shareholder: or form part of the Independent Committee of the board of Egg has served on the Board for more than nine years.
recommending the Offer from the Company.
Since the year-end 42 Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 on 20 February 2006, Egg delisted its shares from the London in line with the requirements of the Code.
The aim was to improve Stock Exchange.
On 15 March 2006, the Company owned individual contributions, the effectiveness of the Board and its 96.66 per cent of Egg.
Committees and the Groups performance.
It is proposed that Keki Dadiseth will be appointed a director The evaluation of the Board as a whole and of the Chairman was of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, an Indian carried out by an independent consultant, following a briefing by company which is owned 26 per cent by Prudential, and of the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
Interviews Prudential ICICI Asset Management Company Limited, an Indian were conducted with each Board member by the independent company which is owned 49 per cent by Prudential.
The interview questions were based on the Code does not consider that these appointments will in any way affect and sought views on the effectiveness of the Board and on the Mr Dadiseths status as an independent director of Prudential.
The independent consultant prepared its report based on the interviews with directors.
The overall The Group is one of the UKs largest institutional investors and results of the evaluation were presented to and reviewed by the the Board does not believe that this situation compromises the Board in February 2006.
The non-executive directors met, under independence of those non-executive directors who are also on the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, to consider the boards of companies in which the Company has a shareholding.
the report of the independent consultant and to review the The Board also believes that such shareholdings should not performance of the Chairman.
The performance of individual nonpreclude the Company from having the most appropriate and executive directors and the Group Chief Executive was evaluated highest calibre non-executive directors.
by the Chairman in a meeting with each non-executive director Non-executive directors are appointed initially for a three-year and with the Group Chief Executive.
The Group Chief Executive term.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive individually appraised the performance of the executive directors.
directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered Relations with shareholders office during normal business hours and at the Annual General As a major institutional investor, the Company is acutely aware of Meeting.
Their appointment is reviewed towards the end of this the importance of maintaining good relations with its shareholders.
period against performance and the requirements of the Groups The Company regularly holds discussions with major shareholders businesses.
Upon appointment, all directors embark upon a wideand a programme of meetings took place during 2005.
Board ranging induction programme covering, amongst other things, the members also regularly receive copies of the latest analysts and principal bases of accounting for the Groups results, the role of brokers reports on the Company and the sector, to further the Audit Committee and the ambit of the internal audit function.
develop their knowledge and understanding of external views In addition, they receive detailed briefings on the Groups principal about the Company.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent businesses, its product range, the markets in which it operates and Director gave feedback to the Board on issues raised with them the overall competitive environment.
Other areas addressed by major shareholders.
Should major shareholders wish to meet include legal issues affecting directors of financial services newly appointed directors they are welcome to do so.
companies, the Groups governance arrangements, its investor relations programme, as well as its remuneration policies.
The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Auditorium, The Mermaid Conference Centre, Puddle Dock, Blackfriars, London A programme of on-going professional development was EC4V 3DB on 18 May 2006 at 11.00am.
The Company believes the undertaken for all directors in 2005, which covered a number Annual General Meeting is an important forum for both institutional of sector-specific and business issues as well as legal, accounting and private shareholders and encourages attendance by all its and regulatory changes and developments.
At its Annual General Meeting in 2005, the Company programme was a series of presentations made to the Board by indicated the balance of proxies lodged for and against each the Prudential Corporation Asia management team on the Asian resolution after it had been dealt with on a show of hands, and the business and future market opportunities, during the Board visit total percentage of share capital voted on all resolutions.
This practice to Beijing in June 2005.
Throughout their period in office, the provides shareholders present with sufficient information regarding directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses and the level of support and opposition to each resolution.
The Company the regulatory and industry-specific environments in which it discloses the number of the proxy votes cast on each resolution on operates.
These updates can be in the form of written briefings its website after the Annual General Meeting.
At the 2006 Annual or meetings with senior executives and, where appropriate, General Meeting, as with last years meeting, shareholders will be external sources.
Directors are also advised on appointment given the opportunity to put questions to the Board on matters of their legal and other duties and obligations as a director of a relating to the Groups operation and performance.
listed company both in writing and in face-to-face meetings with the Company Secretary.
The Group maintains a corporate website www.
co. uk containing a wide range of information of interest to private and All directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at institutional investors including the Groups financial calendar.
the Annual General Meeting at least every three years, and annually following their reaching the age of 70.
Financial reporting The directors have a duty to report to shareholders on the Performance evaluation performance and financial position of the Group and are An evaluation was carried out of the performance of the Board and responsible for preparing the financial statements on pages 62 to its Committees, and of the individual directors, for the year 2005, Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 43 Corporate governance report continued 195 and the European Embedded Value EEV basis supplementary Group Risk Framework information on pages 204 to 229.
It is the responsibility of the The Board believes that good risk management and mitigation auditor to form independent opinions, based on its audit of the protects and enhances the Groups embedded and franchise value.
financial statements and its review of the EEV basis supplementary The Group Risk Framework requires that all of the Groups information: and to report its opinions to the Companys businesses and functions establish processes for identifying, shareholders.
Its opinions are given on pages 197 and 230. evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group.
The Risk management and internal control Group Risk Framework is based on the concept of three lines As a provider of financial services, including insurance, the Groups of defence.
Primary management responsibility for strategy, business is the managed acceptance of risk.
The system of internal performance management and risk control lies with the Board, the control is an essential and integral part of the risk management Group Chief Executive and the Chief Executive and management process.
Prudential management has established a comprehensive of each business unit the first line of defence.
The second line of framework of internal controls for the management of risk within defence is oversight of the Group Risk Framework by the Group the Group and its business units.
The Board has overall responsibility Risk Committees, Group Chief Risk Officer and the Group Risk for the internal controls.
The Board has conducted a review of the function working with counterparts in the business units, in effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The focus addition to other Group functions, including Group Compliance on aligning the taking of risk with the achievement of business and Group Security.
The third line of defence is independent objectives means that the control procedures and systems the assurance on the effectiveness of the Groups and business unit Group has established are designed to manage, rather than control and risk management systems provided by internal audit eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives and can reporting to business unit and Group Audit Committees.
During only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 2005, a Group Chief Risk Officer was appointed, reporting directly material mis-statement or loss.
The system of internal control to the Group Chief Executive.
The Group Chief Risk Officer includes financial, operational and compliance controls and risk oversees the Group Risk function, Group Compliance, Group management.
Aspects are delegated to the Group-level risk Security and, for management purposes, Group Internal Audit.
committees and Group Executive Committee as well as to senior This demonstrates the importance which the Board and management within the Group and business units.
management attach to risk management within Prudential.
It also increases the Groups ability to manage risk in a co-ordinated way The Groups internal control framework includes detailed and benefit from optimising the management of the risk oversight procedures laid down in financial and actuarial procedure manuals.
and compliance functions under the Group Chief Risk Officer.
The Group prepares an annual business plan with three-year projections.
Executive management and the Board receive monthly The Group Risk Framework includes the following Group-level reports on the financial position of the Group and actual performance committees: the Group Asset Liability Committee: the Group against plan, together with updated forecasts.
The insurance Operational Risk Committee and the Group Balance Sheet operations of the Group all prepare a financial condition report, Management Committee.
which is reported on to the Board.
The Group Asset Liability Committee is the senior management As part of the annual preparation of its business plan, all of the forum responsible for oversight of market, credit and insurance Groups businesses and functions are required to carry out a risks across the Group.
It is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer review of risks.
This involves an assessment of the impact and and its membership includes senior business unit and Group likelihood of key risks and of the effectiveness of the controls in executives involved in the management of market, credit and place to manage them.
The assessment is reviewed regularly insurance risks framework.
The Group Asset Liability Committee throughout the year.
In addition, business units review opportunities reports to the Group Chief Executive.
and risks to business objectives regularly with the Group Chief The Group Balance Sheet Management Committee is the senior Executive and Group Finance Director and the Group Chief management forum responsible for oversight of the Groups Risk Officer.
balance sheet strategy, including debt capacity and capital Business units are required to confirm annually that they have structure.
Its membership includes senior management involved undertaken risk management during the year as required by the in the operation of the Groups policies for balance sheet Group Risk Framework and that they have reviewed the management, including liquidity, financing and capital adequacy.
effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The results of this The Group Balance Sheet Management Committee is chaired review are reported to and reviewed by the Group Audit by the Group Finance Director and reports to the Group Committee, and it was confirmed that the processes described Chief Executive.
above and required by the Group Risk Framework were in place The Group Operational Risk Committee is the senior management throughout the period covered by this report, and complied with forum responsible for oversight of the non-financial operational Internal Control: Guidance on the Combined Code the Turnbull risks, business environment risks, and strategic risks facing the guidance.
Business unit internal audit teams execute risk-based Group and oversight of the Group Risk Framework including audit plans throughout the Group, from which all significant issues monitoring operational risk and related policies and processes as are reported to the Group Audit Committee.
44 Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 they are applied throughout the Group.
The Group Operational The Company has already adopted procedures to comply with all Risk Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer and its applicable provisions of the Act.
membership includes representatives of the business unit and In particular, in relation to Section 302 of the Act which covers Group Risk functions.
The Group Operational Risk Committee disclosure controls and procedures, a Disclosure Committee has reports to the Group Chief Executive.
been established, reporting to the Group Chief Executive, chaired The Group Chief Risk Officer and the Group Risk Committees are by the Group Finance Director and comprising members of senior supported by the Group Risk function and the risk committees and management.
The objectives of this Committee are to: risk functions in each business unit.
Quarterly risk reports from the Assist the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director business units and Group are reported to Group Risk covering risks in designing, implementing and periodically evaluating the of Group significance.
Regular reports are also made to the Group Companys disclosure controls and procedures: and business unit audit committees by management, internal audit and compliance functions.
Updates on the Group Risk Framework monitor compliance with the Companys disclosure controls and the Groups risk profile have been reported to the Group and procedures: Executive Committee and Group Audit Committee and Board review and provide advice to the Group Chief Executive and the during 2005.
This has included the Group Executive Committee Group Finance Director with regard to the scope and content assessment of Group-level risks.
of all public disclosures of the Company which are of material Group Risk acts as secretariat and facilitates the agenda of the significance to the market or investors: and Group Asset Liability Committee and Group Operational Risk review and consider, and where applicable follow up on, matters Committee.
Group Risk acts as adviser in respect of all risks faced raised by other components of the disclosure process, including by Prudential Group, and establishes and maintains the risk assessments made by the Group Audit Committee, the internal management agenda across the Group, including through the auditor or the external auditor of the Companys internal controls design, implementation and maintenance of economic capital to the extent they are relevant to the disclosure process.
models, a consistent and harmonised risk management framework and policies, including recommendations as to risk appetite and In discharging these objectives, the Committee helps to support risk-adjusted profitability.
The Group Economic Capital Framework the Group Chief Executives and the Group Finance Directors includes the modelling and quantification of the Groups financial certifications of the effectiveness of disclosure procedures and and non-financial operational risk economic capital position.
controls required by Section 302 of the Act.
Business units undertake risk self-assessments in accordance with The provisions of Section 404 of the Act require Prudentials the Group Risk Framework, with dedicated risk functions and management to report on the effectiveness of internal control over named individuals responsible for the operation of the Group Risk financial reporting in its annual report on Form 20-F which is filed Framework within each business unit.
The operation of this with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The first includes business units communication and application of the requirement for this report is for the year ended 31 December Group Risk Framework internally, including risk co-ordinators, 2006, and in common with other companies which have to comply identified risk owners, and regular risk reviews.
Quarterly risk with this requirement, the Group has undertaken a significant reports from the business units and Group are reported to Group project to document and test its internal control over financial Risk and the Group-level risk committees covering risks of Group reporting in the format required by the Act.
Regular reports are also made to the Group and Additionally, the Disclosure Committee has regard to the UK business unit audit committees by management, internal audit, Listing Regime, effective from 1 July 2005, and evaluates whether compliance and legal functions.
or not a particular matter would constitute inside information and The Group is committed to developing its risk management therefore would require to be disclosed to the market.
techniques and methodologies, both to maintain high standards of risk management practice, and to fulfil the requirements of regulators.
The control system continues to evolve and Group Risk carry out reviews and research to identify industry best practice together with ensuring that the standards and policies within the Group are progressively developed to improve risk management practice.
Disclosure Committee The Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 the Act was passed by the US Congress in July 2002 to establish new or enhanced standards for corporate accountability in the US.
As a result of the listing of its securities on the New York Stock Exchange, the Company must comply with the relevant provisions of the Act.
