10697 Capita 2005 mid 14 3 06 09:53 Page 44 44 Capita Corporate governance The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance, for Board composition which the Group Board is accountable.
The Directors acknowledge the need to segregate the responsibility for operating the Group Board from the management of the underlying Further explanation of how the Combined Code on Corporate Governance business.
Consequently, the roles of Executive Chairman Rod Aldridge has been applied is set out below and, in connection with Directors and Chief Executive Paul Pindar are separated.
The Group Board remuneration, in the Directors remuneration report.
The Group has additionally comprised, throughout 2005, two further Executive Directors, complied throughout the year with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Peter Cawdron is the Senior Board responsibilities and effectiveness Independent Non-Executive Director and is available, as necessary, to The Group Board is collectively responsible to shareholders for setting lead meetings of the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive the direction of the business and monitoring the Groups ongoing affairs.
Directors and or the Chairman being present and meet with shareholders It is also responsible for ensuring an effective internal control environment to understand their concerns.
Biographies of the Directors appear on that identies and manages appropriately the risks associated with page 40. the business.
During 2005 the Group Board met nine times, excluding ad hoc meetings The Group Board demonstrates its commitment to the strategic direction solely to deal with procedural matters, at which all Directors were present, and control of the Group by scheduling a series of meetings in the year.
except for apologies from Eric Walters on two occasions, Rod Aldridge on It can meet as necessary outside of this schedule to consider any urgent two occasions and Paul Pindar and Paddy Doyle on one occasion each.
It sets the strategic objectives of the Group, Any Directors non-attendance at Board Meetings or meetings of the ensuring sufficient financial and human resources are in place to meet Audit, Remuneration or Nomination Committees was due to illness or an those aims.
The Group Board sets the Groups values and standards and absence previously agreed with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief ensures that its obligations to customers, employees, the community, Executive or the Chairman of the relevant committee.
and other key stakeholders are understood and met.
The Group Board Board balance and independence has a formal schedule of matters specically reserved to it for decision The executive element of the Board is balanced by a strong independent including the Groups business strategy, annual budget, annual and group of Non-Executive Directors, such that no individual or small group interim financial results, dividends and major corporate activities.
of individuals can dominate the Boards decision making.
The Groups The Group Board also considers regular reports from the Executive Non-Executive Directors, Peter Cawdron, Eric Walters and Martina King are Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Operations regarded as independent and free from any business or other relationship Director.
The Group Board is provided with complete, timely and relevant that could materially interfere with their judgment.
information to ensure that informed judgments are made in pursuit of the Groups objectives.
Director induction and professional development Martina King received a comprehensive induction programme on joining It also reviews the performance of management in meeting business the Board involving appropriate documentation, meetings and visits to objectives, plans the succession of key executives, and determines Capita businesses with other Directors, attendance at Divisional Board appropriate remuneration levels through the Remuneration Committee, meetings and discussions with advisers and senior management from a committee of the Group Board.
The operational management of the across the Group.
Group is delegated to the Executive Management Board which meets monthly.
Its composition is set out in the Executive Management All Group Board members have access to independent advice on any Board section, page 41. matters relating to their responsibilities as Directors and as members of the various Committees of the Group Board, at the Groups expense.
The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to challenge The Company Secretary is available to all Directors and he is responsible constructively and independently the business development plans that are for ensuring that all Group Board procedures are complied with.
proposed by executive management and monitor the performance of the management teams in the delivery of agreed business objectives and During the year, the Directors received appropriate ongoing briengs targets.
The Executive Chairman encourages and engages in an open and information, including updates on governance and regulatory issues, dialogue with Non-Executive Directors in particular, who are at liberty to enable them to perform their roles.
They also attended external courses to meet with him as a group or individually as they feel t, without the where appropriate.
Board performance evaluation A new Non-Executive Director, Martina King was appointed to the Group At the January 2006 Board meeting, the Group Board reviewed the report Board with effect from 1 January 2005, see page 40.
Robert Alcock retired from the first board performance evaluation process carried out last year from the Group Board on 24 February 2005. and updated the action plan in order to address any further outstanding suggestions for improvements.
The various Committees repeated the selfDirectors and ofcers liability insurance is maintained.
assessment exercise carried out last year in order to assess whether their terms of reference had been satisfactorily fullled and how their processes and methods could be improved.
The performance of individual Executive Directors is appraised annually by the Chief Executive, to whom they report.
The performance of the Chairman is reviewed by the NonExecutive Directors, led by Peter Cawdron, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
The performance review of the Chief Executive is conducted by the Chairman, taking into account the views of other Directors.
Non-Executive Directors performance is reviewed by the Chairman, taking into account the views of other Directors.
10697 Capita 2005 mid 14 3 06 09:53 Page 45 45 Capita Corporate governance Re-appointment At their meetings the Committee reviewed a wide range of financial All Directors are subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting reporting and related matters including the half-year and annual accounts after their appointment and to re-election at intervals of no more than prior to their submission to the Group Board.
The Committee focused in three years in accordance with the Combined Code.
particular on critical accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group and any significant areas of judgment that materially impact The Executive Chairman has, following the evaluation process described reported results.
It also monitored the internal controls that are operated above, considered the performance of Gordon Hurst and Eric Walters who by management to ensure the integrity of information reported to are subject to re-election at the 2006 Annual General Meeting and is shareholders.
The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the satisfied that they continue to be effective and demonstrate a clear Groups external auditors, and it advised the Group Board on the commitment to the role.
A particularly rigorous review, taking into account appointment, independence and objectivity of the external auditors the need for progressive refreshing of the Board, was carried out in respect and on their remuneration both for statutory audit and non-audit work.
of Eric Walters who will have served a 6 year term in October 2006.
It also discussed the nature, scope and timing of the statutory audit with Nomination Committee the external auditors.
The Audit Committee annually performs an The Nomination Committee comprised Peter Cawdron Chairman, independent assessment of the suitability and performance of the Eric Walters and Martina King throughout the year.
Robert Alcock was a external auditors in making its recommendation to the Group Board member until his retirement on 24 February 2005.
The Committee reports for their re-appointment.
to the Group Board and its duty is to seek suitably skilled and experienced The Committee reviewed the appropriateness of the annual internal audit candidates to be Non-Executive Directors and ensures plans are in place programme for the Group, to ensure that the business risk management for orderly succession for appointments to the Board.
The terms of and internal audit functions are adequately sponsored and resourced.
reference of the Nomination Committee are displayed in the investor It also monitors the resourcing levels and performance of the Groups centre at www.
The Committee met once during the year and all members were in At the meeting to review the 2005 Annual Report & Accounts, the attendance.
Committee considered the level of non-audit services being provided by During 2004, the Committee instructed external search consultants to the Groups external auditors in order to satisfy itself that the objectivity provide advice and support in relation to the appointment of an and independence of the external auditors is safeguarded.
An updated appropriate Non-Executive Director to ll the vacancy created on the policy for use of the auditors for non-audit services was approved at retirement of Robert Alcock.
A detailed role specication was drawn up, this meeting.
Details of audit and non-audit fees are given in note 6 on informed by the Executive Chairmans and the Committees assessment page 68. of the mix of skills, knowledge and experience of the continuing Directors The lead audit partner is rotated on a 5 year basis and consequently and the requirements of the Board.
Interviews were conducted with a a new lead partner will take over following the publication of this range of potential candidates by the external search consultants, Annual Report.
members of the Committee and other Directors.
As a result of this process, the Committee recommended to the Board, and the Board agreed, that Dialogue with institutional shareholders Martina King be appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director with The Group Board encourages and seeks to build up a mutual effect from January 2005.
The anticipated time commitment for her role understanding of objectives between the Group and its institutional has been discussed and agreed and she has confirmed that she can and will shareholders.
As part of this process, the Executive Chairman, Chief make sufficient time available to carry out her responsibilities.
Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Operations Director make regular presentations to institutional shareholders and meet with Remuneration Committee shareholders to discuss any issues of concern and to obtain feedback.
Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities are given in the Members of the Group Board have met with institutional shareholders Directors remuneration report on page 47.
Its terms of reference are during the year to consider Corporate Governance issues.
All the displayed in the investor centre section at www.
Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with shareholders to Audit Committee understand their views more fully.
The Executive Chairman is personally The Audit Committee comprised the Non-Executive Directors throughout available to the significant shareholders in the Group to address any the year and was chaired by Robert Alcock until he retired on 24 February concerns and discuss any issues.
2005 when Peter Cawdron assumed the chairmanship.
Mr Cawdron has The Corporate Communications team has effective day-to-day significant and recent relevant financial experience.
Audit Committee responsibility for managing communications with institutional meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the Executive Chairman, shareholders and private shareholders and always acts in close Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of Risk Management and consultation with the Board.
Each year shareholders receive the Annual by representatives of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee met Report & Accounts.
During the year the shareholders can receive up-to- 3 times during the year and all members attended all meetings.
It is date information through the investor centre section of the companys intended that the Committee will meet 4 times per annum in future.
This provides share price information, RNS Announcements, The Committee has written terms of reference that outline its authority copies of presentations to analysts and answers to frequently asked and duties.
These are displayed in the investor centre section at questions.
A telephone helpline is available on 0870 162 3100 which www.
The terms of reference were updated and approved by provides a contact point directly to the Groups registrars.
the Group Board at its meeting in November 2005.
All members of the Group Board, including Non-Executive Directors, receive a report on any significant discussions with shareholders and the feedback that follows the half yearly presentations to investment analysts and shareholders is also circulated.
All brokers reports and analysts briengs are circulated to Directors.
The Group Board encourages shareholders to attend its Annual General Meeting.
Directors, including the chairmen of the various committees, are present to answer any questions from shareholders.
The Group uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors and encourages their participation.
10697 Capita 2005 mid 14 3 06 09:53 Page 46 46 Capita Corporate governance Internal control the risk management framework is monitored and developed as required The Group Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control by the Group Risk and Business Assurance function, in conjunction with and for regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
Procedures have been the Group Compliance function, to ensure that it remains appropriate to designed for, inter alia, the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use business requirements and consistent with best practice or disposition, maintaining proper accounting records and the reliability of the Group Risk and Business Assurance function reports to the Group financial information used within the business or for publication.
Such a Finance Director and independently to the Group Audit Committee.
system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to In addition to independently facilitating the Groups risk management achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not framework, it delivers a risk-based internal audit programme, to provide absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
assurance on the effectiveness of the internal control structures operating There is an ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and managing the across the business.
The annual audit programme is focused on areas of significant risks faced by the Group, which has been in place throughout greatest risk to the Group as determined by the group risk framework, the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual and the independent view of those risks taken by the Group Risk and Report & Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Group Board.
Business Assurance function The Groups key internal control procedures include the following: in addition, regulatory risks and compliance matters are overseen by the Group Compliance function reporting through the Group Operations the Executive Management Board has responsibility to set, Director and independently to the Group Audit Committee.
The Group communicate and monitor the application of policies, procedures and Compliance Director and his team, in conjunction with dedicated standards in areas including operations: finance: legal, commercial Compliance teams within the relevant businesses, independently monitor and regulatory compliance: human resources and health and safety: regulatory compliance by way of risk-based work programmes and information security and property management and corporate social support operations in identifying and mitigating regulatory risks as an responsibility and the environment integral part of the Groups risk framework authority to operate the individual businesses comprising the Divisions both the Group Compliance function and the Group Risk and Business that make up the Group is delegated to their respective Managing Assurance function routinely apprise the Groups senior management and Directors within limits set by the Executive Management Board under the Group Audit Committee of their work programmes and findings.
powers delegated by the Group Board.
The appointment of executives to the most senior positions within the Group, other than Group Board The Group Board keeps under review the effectiveness of this system of appointments, requires the approval of the Executive Management Board.
The key mechanisms used by the Group Board to achieve It establishes key operational, functional and financial reporting standards this include regular reports from the Executive Management Board: for application across the whole Group.
These are supplemented by periodic updates from the Audit Committee based on its review of risk operating standards set by local management teams, as required for the management, business assurance and compliance reports by the relevant type of business and geographical location of each subsidiary and Group functions: discussions with and reports from the external auditors business unit and other advisers and periodic reports from relevant Regulators.
In addition, the Divisional Executive Directors and Divisional Finance comprehensive annual financial plans are prepared at the individual Directors provide annual conrmation that the Divisions internal controls business unit level and summarised at the Divisional and Group level.
and systems are designed: Financial plans are reviewed and approved by both the Executive Management Board and the Group Board.
Capital expenditure is subject to provide accurate financial information to rigorous budgetary control beyond specified levels and detailed to adequately safeguard, verify and maintain accountability of the written proposals have to be submitted to the Group Board.
Expenditure Groups assets on acquisitions is the subject of appropriate consideration, review and approval by the Group Board to ensure that provision is made for all amounts known to be irrecoverable at the balance sheet date results are monitored routinely by means of comprehensive management accounts and actual progress against plan is challenged directly by to ensure that accruals are accurately stated and, to the extent that they executive members of the Group Board on a Group-wide basis at the are known, all potential liabilities have been notied.
business unit level each month At several of its meetings during the year, the Group Board considered the a framework is in place to identify, assess and mitigate the major business means by which it monitors the effectiveness of internal controls and risks, including credit, liquidity, operations, reputation, regulatory and concluded that it was satisfied with the process and its compliance with fraud.
The framework also includes specic provision for risk-based due the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued diligence in respect of business acquisitions and new customer contracts.
by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Exposure to business risks is monitored as an integral part of the Social and environmental responsibility monthly challenge to business results discussed above, and by the Details of how we manage our social and environmental responsibilities Group Audit Committee can be found on pages 34 to 37. the risk framework is supplemented in certain of the Groups businesses, including all financial services-related business streams, by a number of formally constituted management boards, which in turn are underpinned by dedicated risk committees.
These provide an appropriate means to routinely monitor the risk prole of these businesses, including regulatory risks, and for proposed mitigating actions to be challenged and tracked
