Corporate governance The company is committed to high standards of corporate The non-executive directors combine broad business and governance, business integrity and professionalism in all its commercial experience with independent and objective activities.
The balance between non-executive and executive directors enables the Board to provide clear and effective Throughout the year ended 31 December 2005, the company leadership and maintain the highest standards of integrity has complied with all of the provisions set out in the revised across the companys business activities.
The names and Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in biographies of all Board members are set out on page 109.
July 2003 the Code except in relation to the authority reserved to the Board to make the final determination of the The composition of the Board is subject to continuing review remuneration of the executive directors, which is explained and the provisions of the Code will be taken into account in 115 below in the paragraph headed Remuneration Committee.
respect of the balance of the Board.
The Code requires the Board to determine whether its non-executive members are The company has also complied with the Smith Guidance on independent.
Audit Committees in all material respects.
The Board comprises nine independent and five nonUnder the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, enhanced standards independent directors including executive directors, in of corporate governance and business and financial disclosure addition to the Chairman.
Sir Tom McKillop is Chairmanapply to companies, including the company, with securities designate and Bob Scott has been nominated as the senior registered in the US.
The Group complies with all currently independent director.
applicable sections of the Act.
The Board considers that all non-executive directors are Board of directors independent for the purposes of the Code, with the exception The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the company.
of Bud Koch who was formerly Chairman, President and Chief It has overall responsibility for leading and controlling the company Executive Officer of Charter One Financial, Inc. which was and is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational acquired by Citizens Financial Group, Inc. in 2004. performance.
The Board approves Group strategy and monitors performance.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of Re-election of directors matters detailing key aspects of the companys affairs reserved At each Annual General Meeting, one third of the directors to it for its decision.
This schedule is reviewed annually.
retire and offer themselves for re-election and each director must stand for re-election at least once every three years.
Any The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are non-executive directors who have served for more than nine distinct and separate, with a clear division of responsibilities.
years will also stand for annual re-election and the Board may The Chairman leads the Board and ensures the effective consider their independence at that time.
The proposed reengagement and contribution of all non-executive and executive election of directors is subject to prior review by the Board.
The Group Chief Executive has responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with the authority The names of directors standing for re-election at the 2006 delegated by the Board.
Responsibility for the development of Annual General Meeting are contained on page 111 and further policy and strategy and operational management is delegated to information will be given in the Chairmans letter to shareholders the Group Chief Executive and other executive directors.
in relation to the companys Annual General Meeting.
All directors participate in discussing strategy, performance Information, induction and professional development and the financial and risk management of the company.
All directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on Meetings of the Board are structured to allow open discussion.
Any requests for further information or clarification are dealt with or co-ordinated by the Group The Board met nine times during 2005 and was supplied with Secretary.
comprehensive papers in advance of each Board meeting section covering the Groups principal business activities.
Members of The Group Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, the executive management attend and make regular through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
All directors 02 presentations at meetings of the Board.
have access to the advice and services of the Group Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board balance and independence Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four executive regulations are complied with.
In addition, all directors are directors and ten non-executive directors.
The Board functions able, if necessary, to obtain independent professional advice effectively and efficiently, and is considered to be of an at the companys expense.
appropriate size in view of the scale of the company and the diversity of its businesses.
The directors provide the Group with Each new director receives a formal induction, including visits the knowledge, mix of skills, experience and networks of to all the Groups major businesses and meetings with senior contacts required.
The Board Committees contain directors management.
The induction is tailored to the directors specific with a variety of relevant skills and experience so that no requirements.
Existing directors undertake such professional undue reliance is placed on any individual.
development as they consider necessary in assisting them to carry out their duties as directors.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance Governance Corporate governance continued Performance evaluation Remuneration Committee The annual performance evaluation of the Board and its All members of the Remuneration Committee are independent Committees was undertaken in the autumn of 2005.
The Remuneration Committee holds at evaluation, which covered the operation and effectiveness of least three meetings each year.
the Board, the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee, was conducted by the Group Secretary using a The Remuneration Committee is responsible for assisting the detailed questionnaire and meetings with each director.
Board in discharging its responsibilities and making all relevant Amongst the areas reviewed were the composition of the disclosures in relation to the formulation and review of the Board, Board processes and performance against objectives.
The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the 116 In addition, each director discussed his or her own remuneration arrangements for its executive directors and the performance with the Chairman and the senior independent Chairman.
The Directors Remuneration Report is contained director met individually with the executive directors and with on pages 121 to 129. the non-executive directors as a group without the Chairman present, to consider the Chairmans performance.
The report Responsibility for determining the remuneration of executive on the Board evaluation, which was designed to assist the directors has not been delegated to the Remuneration Board in further improving its performance, was considered Committee, and in that sense the provisions of the Code have and discussed by the Board as a whole and specific actions not been complied with.
The Board as a whole reserves the are currently being implemented.
authority to make the final determination of the remuneration of directors as it considers that this two stage process allows A review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee was greater consideration and evaluation and is consistent with the undertaken during the year by  and unitary nature of the Board.
No director is involved in decisions was the subject of a separate report to the Board.
Amongst regarding his or her own remuneration.
the areas reviewed were the composition and performance of the Committee and the Committees role in relation to internal Nominations Committee and external audit, risk management and financial reporting.
The Nominations Committee comprises independent nonexecutive directors, under the chairmanship of the Chairman of Board Committees the Board.
The Nominations Committee meets as required.
In order to provide effective oversight and leadership, the Board has established a number of Board Committees The Nominations Committee is responsible for assisting the with particular responsibilities.
The Committee chairmanship Board in the formal selection and appointment of directors.
It and membership are reviewed on a regular basis.
The names considers potential candidates and recommends appointments and biographies of all Board Committee members are set out of new directors to the Board.
The appointments are based on on page 109. merit and against objective criteria, including the time available to, and the commitment which will be required of, the potential The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and director.
Nominations committees and the standard terms and conditions of the appointment of non-executive directors are In addition, the Nominations Committee considers succession available on the Group's website www.
com and copies planning for the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and nonare available on request.
The Nominations Committee takes into account the knowledge, mix of skills, experience and networks Audit Committee of contacts which are anticipated to be needed on the Board All members of the Audit Committee are independent nonin the future.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive and nonexecutive directors.
The Audit Committee holds at least five executive directors meet to consider executive succession meetings each year.
The Audit Committees report is contained planning.
No director is involved in decisions regarding his or on pages 119 and 120. her own succession.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as non-executive directors of the company.
Corporate governance Meetings independent director attended results presentations to The number of meetings of the Board and the Audit, enhance his understanding of the views of major shareholders Remuneration and Nominations Committees and individual and would be available to shareholders if concerns could not attendance by members is shown below.
be addressed through the normal channels.
The arrangements used to ensure that directors develop an understanding of the Board Audit Remuneration Nominations views of major shareholders are considered as part of the Total number of meetings annual Board performance evaluation.
in 2005 99 5 5 Number of meetings The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director attended in 2005 and, if appropriate, the senior independent director 117 Sir George Mathewson 9 5 communicate shareholder views to the Board as a whole.
Sir Tom McKillop 2 2 In 2005, a survey of investor perceptions was undertaken on Lord Vallance 4 behalf of the Board by independent advisers, and the findings Sir Angus Grossart 4 were considered by the Board.
Sir Fred Goodwin 9 Mr Buchan 9 8 5 Internal control The Board of directors is responsible for the Groups system Dr Currie 9 5 of internal control that is designed to facilitate effective and Mr Fish 6 efficient operations and to ensure the quality of internal and Mr Hunter 9 9 external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and Mr Koch 9 regulations.
In devising internal controls, the Group has regard Mr MacHale 9 9 to the nature and extent of the risk, the likelihood of it Miss Mackay 9 9 5 crystallising and the cost of controls.
A system of internal control is designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of Mr Pell 9 failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide Mr Robertson 3 reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against the risk of Sir Steve Robson 9 9 material misstatement, fraud or losses.
Mr Scott 9 5 4 Mr Sutherland 8 4 The Board has established a process for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks faced Mr Watt 9 by the Group, which operated throughout the year ended 31 December 2005 and to 27 February 2006, the date the Sir Tom McKillop was appointed to the Board on directors approved the Report and Accounts.
This process is 1 September 2005. regularly reviewed by the Board and meets the requirements of the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on Lord Vallance, Sir Angus Grossart and Iain Robertson retired the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered from the Board on 20 April 2005.
Accountants in England and Wales in 1999.
Relations with shareholders The effectiveness of the Groups internal control system is The company communicates with shareholders through the reviewed regularly by the Board and the Audit Committee.
annual report and by providing information in advance of the Executive management committees or boards of directors in Annual General Meeting.
Individual shareholders can raise each of the Groups businesses receive quarterly reports on matters relating to their shareholdings and the business of the significant risks facing their business and how they are being Group at any time throughout the year.
These reports are combined and submitted to the the opportunity to ask questions at the Annual General Meeting Board as quarterly risk and control assessments.
Additional or submit written questions in advance.
The chairmen of the section details of the Groups approach to risk management are given Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are in the Risk management section of the Operating and available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
02 financial review on pages 86 to 106.
The Audit Committee also receives regular reports from Group Risk Management and Communication with the companys largest institutional Group Internal Audit.
In addition, the Groups independent shareholders is undertaken as part of the companys investor auditors present to the Audit Committee reports that include relations programme.
During the year, the directors received details of any significant internal control matters which they copies of analysts reports and a monthly report from the have identified.
The system of internal controls of the Groups investor relations department which includes an authorised institutions and other regulated entities in the Group analysis of share price movements, the Groups performance is also subject to regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas.
against the sector, and key broker comments.
In addition, Additional details of the Groups regulatory oversight are given information on major investor relations activities and changes in the Supervision and Regulation section on pages 253 to 256. to external ratings are provided.
In 2005, the senior Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance Governance Corporate governance continued Disclosure controls and procedures As required by US regulations, the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director have evaluated the effectiveness of the companys disclosure controls and procedures as defined in the rules under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
This evaluation has been considered and approved by the Board which has authorised the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director to certify that as at 31 December 2005, the companys disclosure controls and procedures were adequate and effective and designed to ensure that material 118 information relating to the company and its consolidated subsidiaries would be made known to them by others within those entities.
Changes in internal controls There was no change in the companys internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the companys internal control over financial reporting.
Corporate governance Audit Committee Report The members of the Audit Committee are Archie Hunter Annual audit services include all services detailed in the Chairman, Colin Buchan, Joe MacHale, Eileen Mackay, until annual engagement letter including the annual audit and her retirement on 31 December 2005, and Sir Steve Robson.
interim reviews including US reporting requirements, periodic All members of the Audit Committee are independent nonprofit verifications and reports to regulators including skilled executive directors.
The Audit Committee holds at least five persons reports commissioned by the Financial Services meetings each year, two of which are held immediately prior Authority e. g. Reporting Accountants Reports.
to submission of the interim and annual financial statements to the Group Board.
This core agenda is supplemented by Annual audit services also include statutory or non-statutory additional meetings as required, four being added in 2005. audits required by any Group companies that are not 119 Audit Committee meetings are attended by relevant executive incorporated in the United Kingdom.
Terms of engagement for directors, the internal and external auditors and risk management these audits are agreed separately with management, and are executives.
At least twice per annum the Committee meets consistent with those set out in the audit engagement letter, privately with the external auditors.
The Audit Committee also as local regulations permit.
visits business divisions and certain Group functions under a programme set at the beginning of each year.
The prospectively approved non-audit services include the following classes of service: The Board is satisfied that all the Audit Committee members have recent and relevant financial experience.
Although the capital raising, including consents, comfort letters and Board has determined that each Member of the Audit relevant reviews of registration statements: Committee is an Audit Committee Financial Expert and is independent, each as defined in the SEC rules under the US provision of accounting opinions relating to the financial Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and related guidance, the statements of the Group: members of the Audit Committee are selected with a view to the expertise and experience of the Audit Committee as a provision of reports that, according to law or regulation, whole, and the Audit Committee reports to the Board as a must be rendered by the external auditors: single entity.
The designation of a director or directors as an Audit Committee Financial Expert does not impose on any tax compliance services: such director any duties, obligations or liability that are greater than the duties, obligations and liability imposed on such corporate finance services relative to companies that will director as a member of the Audit Committee and Board in the remain outside the Group: and absence of such a designation.
Nor does the designation of a director as an Audit Committee Financial Expert affect the insolvency work relating to the Groups customers.
duties, obligations or liability of any other member of the Board.
The Audit Committee approves all other permitted non-audit The Audit Committee is responsible for: services on a case by case basis.
The relevant submissions by management outline the service required and confirm that the assisting the Board in discharging its responsibilities and in external auditors independence will not be compromised.
In making all relevant disclosures in relation to the financial addition, the Audit Committee reviews and monitors the affairs of the Group: independence and objectivity of the external auditors when it approves non-audit work to be carried out by them, taking into reviewing accounting and financial reporting and regulatory consideration relevant legislation and ethical guidance.
compliance: Information on the audit and non-audit services carried out by the external auditors is detailed in Note 4 to the Groups reviewing the Groups systems of internal control: and accounts.
section monitoring the Groups processes for internal audit, risk The Audit Committee undertakes an annual evaluation to management and external audit.
assess the independence and objectivity of the external 02 auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking Full details of the responsibilities of the Audit Committee are into consideration relevant professional and regulatory available at www.
com content corporate responsibility requirements.
The results of this evaluation are reported corporate governance downloads group audit.
The Audit Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement The Audit Committee makes recommendations to the Board in of the external auditors to supply audit and non-audit services, relation to the remuneration and terms of engagement of the which takes into account relevant legislation regarding the external auditors and the re-appointment by the shareholders provision of such services by an external audit firm.
The Audit at the Annual General Meeting in April 2006 of Deloitte & Committee reviews the policy annually and prospectively Touche LLP as the external auditors.
approves the provision of audit services and certain non-audit services by the external auditors.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance Governance Corporate governance continued In 2004 KPMG conducted a review of the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit.
It is intended that there will be an external review of the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit every three years, with internal reviews continuing in the intervening years.
In 2005 the Audit Committee conducted a review of Group Internal Audit that involved cross Group participation and the external auditors.
During 2005  conducted an external review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee.
It is 120 intended that there will be an external review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee every three years, with internal reviews by the Board continuing in the intervening years.
In 2005 the Audit Committee reviewed the audit committee structure throughout the Group and as a result proposed to the Board a reorganisation and strengthening of the structure to ensure that audit committees would cover each separate Group business appropriately.
That recommendation was accepted by the Board and is now being implemented.
Archie Hunter Chairman of the Audit Committee 27 February 2006 Corporate governance
