Governance Corporate governance report 24 Corporate governance report This section of the Annual Report and Accounts describes Schroders corporate governance arrangements as follows: Corporate governance review 2005 24 Remuneration report 28 Nominations Committee report 39 Audit Committee report 40 Risk management and internal control 42 Corporate and social responsibility 44 This section of our Annual Report sets out our approach to corporate governance in 2005.
In it you will find information on the Board, how it operated, how it delegated its responsibilities to the Executive team and to the Board Committees, how those Committees discharged their responsibilities and how we evaluated the effectiveness of the Board, the Committees and the Directors.
It also sets out how we engaged with our shareholders and how we approached our corporate and social responsibilities.
The role of the Board Corporate governance review 2005 The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and This section explains our overall approach to corporate delivery of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term governance, how we have applied the principles of the Combined shareholder value.
The Board achieves this through a combination Code on Corporate Governance the Code, the extent to which of direct consideration of issues and proposals, delegating we have complied with the Codes provisions and an explanation responsibility to Board Committees and delegating authority to the of those areas where we have not complied.
Certain matters can only be decided by the Board.
These are contained in the Schedule of Matters Reserved As one of the UKs largest asset managers, corporate governance to the Board and include consideration and approval of such is very important to us.
We are committed to business integrity, matters as: high ethical values and professionalism across all our activities.
The Board of Schroders plc supports the highest standards of the Groups strategy: corporate governance.
major acquisitions and disposals: In 2004 the Board adopted the Schroders Governance significant new business activities: Guidelines.
These guidelines form the basis for how the Board and the Annual Report and Accounts and other financial the Board Committees operate, what is expected of Directors and statements: and how they discharge their duties.
The Guidelines, and all the other the annual budget.
internal documents mentioned in this report, are available on our website at www.
com or from the Company Secretary.
Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate governance report 25 The composition of the Board Time commitment The Board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the non-executive Directors committed sufficient time Following the appointment of Luc Bertrand there are twelve during 2005 to the fulfilment of their duties as Directors of the Directors.
In addition to the Chairman there are four executive Company.
The Chairmans main external commitments did not Directors and seven non-executive Directors, of whom five are change during the year.
None of the non-executive Directors has considered to be independent.
Biographical details of the any conflict of interest which has not been disclosed to the Board Directors are on pages 18 to 21. in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
During the year, David Swensen stood down as a non-executive External non-executive directorships The Board believes, in Director and Richard Horlick stepped down as an executive principle, in the benefit of executive Directors accepting nonDirector.
Alan Brown joined the Board in July 2005 as an executive executive directorships of other companies in order to widen their Director and Luc Bertrand was appointed as an independent skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Company.
The Board non-executive Director with effect from 1 March 2006. has adopted a policy on external appointments, which applies to all employees, including executive Directors.
The policy is The Chairman, Michael Miles, is responsible for leading the designed to ensure that employees remain able to discharge their Board.
His other responsibilities are to ensure the effectiveness of responsibilities to the Group.
Directors and employees are usually the Board, monitor and evaluate the performance of the Chief permitted to retain any fees paid in respect of such appointments.
Executive and ensure that there is appropriate dialogue with our Under the policy, executive Directors may not take on more than shareholders.
one non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company or any chairmanship of such a company.
To avoid potential conflicts of The Chief Executive, Michael Dobson, is responsible for the interest, non-executive Directors are expected to inform the executive management of the business.
This includes Chairman before taking up any additional external appointments.
recommending to the Board the Groups strategy for building shareholder value over the long term.
Board meetings The Board held five meetings during 2005, including a meeting over two days which focused on the Groups The Senior Independent Director, Sir Peter Job, is available to strategy.
The Board has a twelve month rolling plan of items for shareholders if they have concerns which have not or cannot be discussion, which is agreed between the Chairman and the Chief resolved through discussion with the Chairman or the executive Executive.
This plan ensures that all of the matters reserved to the Directors.
Sir Peter also chairs meetings of the non-executive Board as well as other key issues are discussed at the appropriate Directors at which the performance of the Chairman time.
At each meeting the Chief Executive provided a review of the is reviewed.
business and how it was performing and the Chief Financial Officer provided a detailed review of the Groups financial position.
The non-executive Directors The Board considers that Andrew In 2005 the range of subjects discussed included: Beeson, Sir Peter Job, Merlyn Lowther and Kevin Parry were independent non-executive Directors throughout the year.
Each of the strategic development of the Group: them brings to the Board an objective viewpoint and none of the factors implying a lack of independence, as set out in the Code, the Groups financial results: apply.
Luc Bertrand is also considered to be independent.
George the budget for 2006: Mallinckrodt and Bruno Schroder are also non-executive Directors, the level of dividend and the use of the Groups capital: but do not meet the Codes test of independence.
However, the our key business areas including Investment, Distribution, Private Board considers that both of them are independent in character Banking and Private Equity: and judgement and bring valuable experience to Board deliberations and that at all times they act in the best interests of our regional businesses in Asia, Europe and the Americas: all shareholders.
our IT and operational platforms: shareholder relations: and The process for identifying and selecting new Directors is delegated to the Nominations Committee.
Details of its work can regulatory and governance issues.
Governance Corporate governance report 26 Attendance at the 2005 Board meetings is set out in the table Group Management Committee.
This is chaired by the Chief below: Executive and it generally meets weekly to oversee management of the Groups business.
The current Committee members and Maximum Meetings their areas of responsibility are set out below: possible attendance attended Michael Dobson Chief Executive Michael Miles 5 5 Jonathan Asquith Chief Financial Officer Jonathan Asquith 5 5 Andrew Beeson 5 5 Paul Barry Human Resources Alan Brown 3 3 Alan Brown Investment Michael Dobson 5 5 Peter Clark Americas Richard Horlick 1 1 Lester Gray Asia Pacific Sir Peter Job 5 5 Philip Mallinckrodt Corporate Development and Merlyn Lowther 5 5 Private Banking George Mallinckrodt 5 4 Markus Ruetimann Operations and IT Kevin Parry 5 5 Massimo Tosato Distribution Bruno Schroder 5 5 David Swensen 1 1 Howard Trust General Counsel Massimo Tosato 5 5 The Board delegates certain of its responsibilities to its Information to the Board Before each Board meeting Directors Remuneration Committee, Nominations Committee and Audit received comprehensive papers and reports on the issues to be Committee.
Summaries of the terms of reference of these discussed at the meeting.
Senior executives below Board level Committees are set out on pages 28, 39 and 40 respectively, also attended meetings to make presentations on their areas of together with reports on the Committees activities during the year.
This gave the Board the opportunity to have direct Each Committee reported to the Board on the matters considered, and any significant issues that had arisen, at the next Board access to executives below Board level.
In addition to Board meeting after the Committee had met.
All Directors received papers, Directors were provided with relevant information between copies of the minutes of all Committee meetings.
This included information on management changes and the announcement of our trading updates.
Directors also received Board effectiveness minutes of the Group Management Committee meetings.
Evaluation The Board, led by the Chairman, reviewed during the Support to the Board The Board Secretary is responsible for year the effectiveness of the Board and the principal Board advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board on corporate Committees.
The first stage of the evaluation was the completion governance matters.
Directors have access through the Board of a Schroders-specific questionnaire by each Director.
The Secretary to independent professional advice.
The Company responses to the questionnaire were then analysed and discussed maintains appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Areas for possible improvement were identified and appropriate changes are being implemented.
The Chairmans Committee Meetings of the Chairman and nonperformance of individual Directors was considered in this context executive Directors, usually without the executive Directors and is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
present, are held prior to most scheduled Board meetings.
Four such meetings were held in 2005 and matters discussed included The performance of the Chief Executive was considered by the the evaluation of the Board, the performance of the Chairman and Chairmans Committee against his objectives for the year as the Chief Executive, shareholder relations and senior management agreed with the Chairman.
The outcome was discussed by the succession.
The Chief Executive attended two meetings at the Chairman with the Chief Executive.
The Chairmans Committee, led by Sir Peter Job in his role as Delegated authorities The Board has a formal schedule of Senior Independent Director, also assessed the performance of the matters reserved to it, subject to which authority to manage the Chairman with input from the whole Board.
Sir Peter discussed the business is delegated to the Chief Executive.
He in turn delegates outcome of this review with the Chairman.
authority to the senior executive team members who sit on the Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate governance report 27 Separate evaluation questionnaires were used to review the The Annual General Meeting provides shareholders with an effectiveness of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
These opportunity to question the Chairman and other Directors, questionnaires were completed by members of the Committees including the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit and their principal attendees including, in the case of the Audit Committees.
The Annual Report and Accounts and the notice of Committee, representatives of the external auditors.
The meeting are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to responses to the questionnaires were analysed and discussed the date of the Annual General Meeting.
with the respective Chairmen and appropriate changes are being implemented.
Compliance with Code provisions In 2004 the Board was able to report substantial compliance with Induction and professional development All new Directors the requirements of the Combined Code.
In 2004 we reported undertake an induction programme on joining the Board.
The aim that there were three specific Code provisions with which we had of this programme is to introduce new Directors to the Groups not complied for the full year.
In 2005 there were only two business, its operations and its governance arrangements.
The provisions with which we did not comply fully.
These were: induction programme includes meetings with senior management, visits to offices, presentations on key business neither Bruno Schroder nor George Mallinckrodt are considered areas and relevant documentation.
The Board receives independent under the provisions of the Code.
Consequently, presentations on business and functional areas, new business less than half of the Board excluding the Chairman comprised and strategic developments, changes in the regulatory independent non-executive Directors.
The Board believes that environment and the impact of specific initiatives, such as the at this time the size and balance of the Board is appropriate for implementation of the Market Abuse Directive.
Bruno Schroder is a representative of the principal shareholder group and the Board considers that it is Shareholder relations appropriate for this group to be represented on the Board.
Ongoing communication across the Companys shareholder base, George Mallinckrodt is not considered independent as he is a including institutional investors and private and employee former executive Director of the Company.
The Board considers shareholders, is achieved mainly through the publication of the that his business and international experience are of great value annual and interim reports and quarterly trading updates, the to the Board.
announcement of significant developments affecting the Group and the Annual General Meeting.
Corporate and investor Michael Miles was also Chairman of Johnson Matthey plc, information can be found on our website.
Michael Miles was appointed Chairman of both Schroders and Johnson The Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that dialogue Matthey before the provisions of the new Combined Code were with shareholders takes place.
During the year the Chief Executive known.
The Board has reviewed the Chairmans commitments and the Chief Financial Officer conducted a series of meetings and is satisfied that he continues to devote sufficient time to with and presentations to institutional investors to review the Schroders to enable him to discharge his duties effectively.
Groups strategy and prospects and to discuss corporate governance matters.
The Chairman and Senior Independent In 2004 the Audit and Remuneration Committees did not Director are also available to meet institutional shareholders.
comprise solely independent non-executive Directors, as required Feedback from shareholders is made available to the Board from by the Code.
Changes to the composition of both Committees the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
undertaken at the end of 2004 mean that they now comply fully with this provision.
During 2005, the Chairman commissioned a report from independent consultants on shareholder perceptions of Michael Miles Schroders.
As part of the research for their report, the consultants Chairman contacted a number of our major shareholders to obtain their 6 March 2006 views on a wide range of issues including our strategy and our capital management.
The views of some non-shareholders were also obtained.
The consultants produced a written report which was considered by the whole Board.
