Governance Audit Committee report 40 Audit Committee report In this section we set out the role of Audit Committee, its Report on the Committees activities in 2005 membership and what it considered during the year.
Meetings and attendance The Committee met four times in 2005 and there was full attendance by all members.
Role of the Committee The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for To assist the Committee in fulfilling its role, a number of senior overseeing the financial reporting and internal control of the Group executives were invited to attend Committee meetings.
These and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys included the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Compliance and auditors.
The main role of the Committee is to encourage and Risk Director, the Head of Group Internal Audit and the Group safeguard the highest standards of integrity, financial reporting, risk General Counsel.
Each of these provided reports on their areas of management and internal control.
In doing this the principal responsibility to each Committee meeting.
The Groups external responsibilities of the Committee include: auditors,  LLP, also attended at each meeting and presented a report on their activities.
reviewing the form and content and monitoring the integrity of the Companys and the Groups financial statements: During the year the Committee met separately on two occasions with the Groups external auditors and with the Head of Group monitoring and reviewing the arrangements for ensuring the Internal Audit without executive management present.
This objectivity and effectiveness of the external and internal audit provided an opportunity for the external and internal auditors to functions: raise matters of concern in confidence.
No issues of significance were raised in 2005. recommending to the Board the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditors: The Committee has a formal programme of issues which it covers reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys during the year.
This programme is drawn up in conjunction with internal controls and risk management systems: and the Committee chairman and is designed to ensure that all matters that fall within the Committees remit are reviewed at the reviewing and monitoring the Companys ethical standards, appropriate time.
procedures for ensuring compliance with regulatory and financial reporting requirements and its relationship with the relevant Principal issues considered during 2005 were: regulatory authorities.
the annual financial statements for 2004 and interim financial The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on statements for 2005: www.
com or from the Company Secretary.
the external audit plan for 2005: The Composition of the Committee Group Internal Audits plans for 2005 and 2006: The members of the Committee at the end of 2005 were: the Groups risk management process, including key risks facing Kevin Parry Chairman the Group: Andrew Beeson Merlyn Lowther the implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards: All of the members are independent non-executive Directors and the appropriateness of the accounting policies used in drawing all served on the Committee throughout 2005.
For the purposes of up the Groups accounts: the Combined Code, Kevin Parry is considered by the Board to Group Internal Audits quarterly and annual reports on internal have recent and relevant financial experience.
audit activities and the control environment: Luc Bertrand joined the Committee on 1 March 2006. the external auditors year-end report and management letter: the performance, independence and objectivity of the external auditors, including a review of non-audit fees: and the arrangements for staff to raise concerns about possible improprieties relating to the Companys operations.
Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Audit Committee report 41 Other issues As well as the agreed schedule of issues the Committee evaluation As a result of the evaluation undertaken Committee also received reports and presentations on various in respect of 2004 the Committee identified a number of areas subjects connected principally to the control environment within where it felt that action could be taken to enhance the the Group.
These included presentations on the use of effectiveness of the Committee.
The Committee reviewed the derivatives within the business, the requirements of the findings and a separate meeting was held at which the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and fraud prevention within the Group.
The Committee, with members of the executive team and the external Committee also received reports on the provision of Directors auditors, discussed its role in detail and how it could best perform and Officers liability insurance, the governance of the Groups that role.
These discussions have led to a slight change in pension arrangements, the governance of outsourced activities, approach for 2006, when the Committee will look to consider risk the risk management framework, investment risk management, and control matters on a more thematic basis as well as document retention arrangements, the delegation of executive continuing to consider specific issues.
The Committee has also authority within the Group, the Groups approach to tax regulation decided to have more general discussions on important issues in and its transfer pricing policy.
Each of these reports was discussed addition to the formal reports and presentations received at fully by the Committee.
Non-audit services The Group has adopted a policy covering Support to the Committee The Committee received information the provision of non-audit services to the Group by the external and support from management during the year to enable it to auditors.
This policy was adopted by the Committee in 2004 and carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively.
A programme of was introduced to enhance further the governance around the training and briefing has been arranged for Committee members provision of such services and to provide a clear and transparent including specific business related presentations at each framework to ensure the objectivity and independence of the Committee meeting.
The Committee has access to external external auditors.
Under the policy the provision of any service independent advice.
which might lead to a conflict of interest is not permitted unless other possible providers are themselves conflicted.
In such exceptional cases the Audit Committee must approve each service and approval will only be given where the Committee is satisfied that appropriate measures are in place to manage or mitigate any potential conflict of interest.
The policy also has strict rules in relation to the approval of contracts for non-audit services which do not present a possible conflict of interest.
All contracts for non-audit services must be notified to the Group Financial Controller and contracts valued in excess of 5,000 require prior approval.
The Groups external auditors are also required to provide a report to the Audit Committee every six months detailing all non-audit services, including the level of fees charged.
The external auditors are required to confirm annually that their firm, partners and staff are independent of the Group.
The Committee is satisfied that the external auditors remain independent.
