Governance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Nominations Committee report Nominations Committee report 39 In this section we set out the role of the Nominations Committee, Report on the Committees activities in 2005 its membership and what it considered during the year.
Meetings and Attendance The Committee, which meets as often as required, met five times in 2005.
Attendance by Role of the Committee Committee members at each of those meetings is set out in the The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for table below: reviewing and proposing appointments to the Board and for recommending any other changes to the composition of the Maximum Meetings Board or of the Board Committees.
The principal responsibilities of possible attendance attended the Committee include: Michael Miles 5 5 Andrew Beeson 5 5 Sir Peter Job 5 5 reviewing the size and composition of the Board: Merlyn Lowther 5 5 selecting candidates for appointment to the Board to meet the George Mallinckrodt 5 4 desired composition: Kevin Parry 5 5 Bruno Schroder 5 5 setting the procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the David Swensen 1 1 Board: and ensuring succession plans are in place for key Board members.
Principal issues addressed during 2005 were: The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on www.
com or from the Company Secretary.
the process used for Board appointments: and the composition of the Board and proposed new non-executive The composition of the Committee appointments.
In 2004 the Board decided that all non-executive Directors should be directly involved in the process for identifying and selecting new Following the announcement that David Swensen would be appointments to the Board.
Therefore the members of the stepping down as a Director in April 2005, the Board confirmed Committee at the end of 2005 were: that it intended to appoint an additional independent non-executive Director to replace Mr Swensen.
After careful assessment of all the Michael Miles Chairman candidates the Committee recommended to the Board the Andrew Beeson appointment of Luc Bertrand.
Sir Peter Job Merlyn Lowther Support The Committee received information and support from George Mallinckrodt management during the year to enable it to carry out its duties Kevin Parry and responsibilities effectively.
The Committee also sought and Bruno Schroder received external information and advice from Egon Zehnder, international recruitment consultants, in relation to the proposed Luc Bertrand became a member of the Committee on recruitment of non-executive Directors.
