28 In this section we report to you on our structure and corporate governance principles and processes.
The statement regarding compliance with the Revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance, as required by the rules of the UK Listing Authority, is on page 34.
Corporate Structure The Board Corporate Structure Compliance with the Revised Combined Code Investment Trust Status The Second Alliance is an investment company.
After each Directors Biographical accounting period it seeks approval to qualify as an investment Details trust under the Taxes Acts from the Inland Revenue.
Since receiving the last approval, which was for the year ended 31 Accountability and Audit July 2004, the Company has conducted its affairs to enable it to continue to seek approval.
Structure The Company has a subsidiary, Second Alliance Leasing Limited SAL, which administers a lease portfolio.
The Company also owns a 25% interest in both Alliance Trust Savings Limited ATS and Alliance Trust Finance Limited ATF.
ATS, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority, provides and administers a range of wrapper products in the form of PEPs, ISAs, SIPPs and Investment Plans.
ATF invests its assets to generate income and also acts as agent for the acquisition of services required by the Company and the Alliance Trust and its subsidiaries.
The Alliance Trust has a 75% shareholding in each of ATS and ATF.
In the 1920s, the Company decided to conduct its operations alongside those of The Alliance Trust PLC the Alliance Trust, another, larger, self-managed investment trust.
Staffing costs and expenses of operating from Meadow House, Dundee, where both companies have their office, are shared.
Since then, and in order to avoid conflicts of interest, the investment objectives and portfolios of both companies have been substantially aligned and the directors of both companies are the same individuals.
Should any potential conflict of interest arise, each company takes independent advice.
Corporate Governance Report 29 All the non-executive directors serve on one or more The Board committees of the board.
The main committees are the Nomination Committee page 32, the Remuneration Committee The Second Alliance Trust has a board of executive and nonpage 31 and pages 38-41, the Audit Committee page 36 and executive directors who are collectively responsible for the the Risk Review Committee page 36. control of the Company.
The boards main duties are: Lesley Knox was appointed Chairman of the board by her fellow To set the objective of the Company and to use its best directors with effect from 30 April 2004.
She has been a board endeavours to achieve that objective.
The objective is set member since June 2001. out on page 3.
Mrs Knox has several directorships of public companies but, To formulate business strategy.
save for the Alliance Trust, no other chairmanships.
The time To provide leadership within a framework of prudent and commitment of the Chairmanship was fully considered by her effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and and with the other members of the board before her appointment, managed.
and is reviewed with her fellow directors at least annually.
To set the standards and values of the Company and ensure Including the Chairman, non-executive directors form a majority that we understand and meet our obligations to our on the board and, excluding the Chairman, there are four shareholders and others.
independent non-executive directors and four executive directors.
To approve asset allocation and gearing strategy proposed As well as those collective duties which they have as members by management.
of the board, they scrutinise and constructively challenge the performance of the executive, help develop strategies, monitor To monitor performance.
the integrity of the financial information, and satisfy themselves that financial controls and systems of risk management of the Executive Directors Company are robust and defensible.
Non-executive directors, Alan Harden Chief Executive through the Remuneration Committee, fix the remuneration of David Deards Finance Director the executive directors and, through the Nomination Sheila Ruckley Director of Corporate Development Committee, are primarily responsible for succession planning.
Alan Young Investment Director There is a division of responsibility between the Chairman, whose duty is to run the board effectively, and the Chief Each of the executive directors served throughout the year.
Executive, who is charged with delivering the strategic objectives agreed by the board and running the business of the Company Non-executive Directors effectively.
The Chairman has no executive responsibility.
The Lesley Knox Chairman of the Company and Chairman Chief Executive is accountable to the board for the financial of the Nomination Committee and operational performance of the Company.
This separation of William Jack Senior Independent Director and roles is documented in Lesley Knoxs letter of appointment and Chairman of the Risk Review Committee Alan Hardens job description, both of which have been agreed Gordon McQueen Chairman of the Audit Committee by the board as a whole.
Christopher Masters Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The Senior Independent Director is the director to whom Clare Salmon Member of Audit and Remuneration shareholders should turn if they have issues which they Committees consider are not being dealt with by the Chairman or the Chief Executive or if contact with the Chairman or Chief Executive is William Berry retired from the board on 29 April 2005 after inappropriate for any reason.
serving as a non-executive director for 10 years.
Clare Salmon was appointed as a non-executive director on 17 June 2005.
The other non-executive directors served throughout the year.
All directors are required to hold at least 200 shares within 2 months of appointment.
Clare Salmon had not acquired these qualification shares by 17 August 2005 and, as a consequence, automatically vacated office by operation of law.
She acquired the qualification shares on 5 September and was reappointed to the board on 14 September.
30 Corporate Governance Report Independence of Directors Meetings The board has carefully considered the Combined Code guidance The directors meet formally on a regular basis at least ten on independence of non-executive directors.
Ad hoc meetings may also be convened, and the committees of the board meet as required to discharge The board considers that all of the non-executive directors who their specific duties.
served during the year have the independence of mind, strength of character and judgement to satisfy the independence test, Any director, executive or non-executive, can raise issues for notwithstanding that each of the non-executive directors was discussion at a board meeting.
At the direction of the also a director of The Alliance Trust plc.
The Company and the Chairman, the Company Secretary prepares an agenda for each Alliance Trust are directed and managed on the same principles, meeting with appropriate reports and background information.
with the same aims and objectives, the same investment The board may, and in practice does if necessary, ask for further policies, the same management and similar portfolios.
In information before making decisions.
Decisions are made addition, the board believes that the Company derives collectively.
If there were an even division on a subject, the substantial benefit from the relationship with the Alliance Trust.
Chairman would have a casting vote.
Therefore it is not considered that the relationship compromises In addition to regular board meetings, the Chairman meets at the independence of the non-executive directors.
There are no least once each year with the non-executive directors only, and other relationships or circumstances relating to any of the nonthe non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent executive directors which might cause any of them not to be Director, meet at least once a year without the Chairman present.
Ad hoc meetings among these groups also take place if required.
William Berry retired from the board in April 2005.
He had been A record of Directors attendance at meetings appears below.
asked by the board to stay on as a director during the change of both the Chairman and Chief Executive in early 2004 even though as a result his service was for a year longer than that recommended by the Combined Code.
The board does not consider that his independence as a director was thereby compromised.
On William Berrys retirement, William Jack assumed the responsibilities of Senior Independent Director.
Attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Risk Review at Meetings Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of Meetings in the year to 31 July 2005 12 4 4 1 2 Lesley Knox 12 - - 1 2 Alan Harden 12 - - 1 - William Berry 8 9 4 3 1 - David Deards 12 - - - - William Jack 9 4 4 1 - Christopher Masters 11 3 4 1 2 Gordon McQueen 10 - 4 1 2 Sheila Ruckley 11 - - - - Clare Salmon 1 1 - - - - Alan Young 12 - - - - The number of board and committee meetings attended by members during the year are set out in the table above.
Where a director joined the board during the year, or committee membership changed, the maximum number of meetings which that director could have attended is shown in brackets.
One board meeting was held at short notice to deal with a specific issue.
Due to the short notice, Mrs Ruckley, Mr Jack and Mr McQueen were unable to attend.
All directors received notice of the meeting and agreed to it proceeding.
31 Information and Professional Development Evaluation of Directors performance On appointment, each director receives a formal induction to This year for the first time, as required by the Revised the affairs and business of the Company, which may include, Combined Code, a formal evaluation has been carried out to where appropriate, meeting with both institutional and private determine how effectively the board as a whole, its individual shareholders.
Training and professional development courses are directors and its committees are functioning.
The board also made available as required.
approached this evaluation with the intention of focusing on the boards overall contribution and identifying areas for The Chairman ensures that all directors receive accurate, timely potential improvement.
The directors individually made written and clear information for board meetings and, with the comments on the performance of the board as a whole which Company Secretary, that good information flows are maintained were collated by the Company Secretary and discussed by the between the management and the board and within the board board.
The Chairman discussed individual performance with each and its committees.
Non-executive directors meet with senior director and the Senior Independent Director held discussions managers and other staff.
All directors receive briefings and with directors about the Chairmans performance and discussed updates on the business and on legislation and on corporate the results with the Chairman.
The chairman of each of the governance.
board committees required by the Combined Code also received written comments on that Committees performance from its Decision Making members and discussed these with the board as a whole.
Delegation to the executive is necessary for the efficient running of the Company.
While the Chief Executive and his team Audit Committee are responsible for operational matters generally, there are some Please refer to page 36. issues which are specifically reserved for decision of the board as a whole.
This may be because of their strategic importance Risk Review Committee such as borrowings or commencing a new business, their significance such as changes in the Companys management Please refer to page 36. structure or their reputational sensitivity such as litigation.
These issues may cover some operational matters.
The board Remuneration Committee itself decides which matters are reserved to it.
The Remuneration Committee, after taking independent advice, fixes the remuneration of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Access to Advice and, after consulting with the Chief Executive, the remuneration The board has set out for all directors a process whereby, on of the other executive directors.
It also monitors and makes reference to the Chairman or Chairman of the Audit Committee, recommendations on the remuneration policy for senior each may individually access independent professional advice on management.
The Committee members are Christopher Masters matters relating to the Company or his or her office at the Chairman, William Jack, Gordon McQueen and, following her Companys expense, if necessary.
appointment to the board, Clare Salmon.
William Berry was a member until his retirement from the board in April 2005.
Each director has direct access to the Company Secretary to obtain information and assistance as required.
The Company For more detail on the remuneration of directors and the role of Secretary, through the Chairman, advises the board on the Remuneration Committee, please refer to the Directors corporate governance matters.
Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 41.
32 Corporate Governance Report Nomination Committee and Appointments Executive Committee The Nomination Committee members are Lesley Knox, William An Executive Committee, appointed by the Chief Executive, Jack, Christopher Masters, Alan Harden and Gordon McQueen.
considers the more significant management issues to be The terms of reference of the Committee include the determined.
The Committee comprises all the executive responsibility to have regard to the succession of the board and directors together with to identify and nominate candidates to fill vacancies.
It is the Gill Cattanach Head of Marketing Companys policy that the Chairman of the Company does not Grant Lindsay Head of Equities serve on any Nomination Committee dealing with the Steve Smith Head of Human Resources nomination of his or her successor, nor does any director Rowland Strickland Chief Operating Officer proposed to succeed to such office.
When a succession need is identified, the Nomination Material Interests Committee will consider what background skills and qualities During the year, no director had any material interest in any would best suit the needs of the board and the Company and contract, being a contract of significance, with the Company or prepare a specification of the role and a candidate profile.
It any subsidiary company or was connected to any adviser or invites directors to make any proposals, and appoints search supplier who had such an interest.
agents to seek out candidates matching the profile.
The Committee considers all candidates brought to its attention, including those nominated by directors.
The Committee Directors Shareholdings recommends the candidates it considers best fulfil the criteria All directors must hold at least 200 ordinary shares.
Details of to the full board, which decides on the appointment.
their holdings are shown in the table below.
No director, nor any member of any directors immediate family, Committee Terms of Reference has been granted options to subscribe for shares or debentures The Constitutions and terms of reference of each of the board in the Company or in any subsidiary save that the executive committees referred to are available on our website.
directors are interested in the Senior Management Equity Incentive Plan described on page 39.
Acquired between Directors interests 1 August 2005 and As at As at 14 September 2005 ordinary shares of 25p 1 August 2004 31 July 2005 Lesley Knox Chairman 487 840 11 Alan Harden 691 953 37 David Deards 1,671 2,245 22 William Jack 1,000 1,000 - Christopher Masters 541 556 - Gordon McQueen 200 200 - Sheila Ruckley 2,509 3,085 6 Clare Salmon - - 200 Alan Young 1,583 1,621 - Save in the case of Clare Salmon, who acquired her qualification shares, required under the Companys Articles, on 5 September 2005, all acquisitions of shares by directors between 1 August 2005 and 14 September 2005 have been pursuant to standing instructions through plans provided by ATS, and the All-Employee Share Ownership Plan.
33 Below we give a table of notifications to us of a 3% or more Re-election of Directors holding.
It also states the percentage of shares held by the All appointments to the board are subject to approval by the nominee for the ATS customers who retain voting rights.
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM next Ordinary shares following the appointment.
The Articles of Association require as at 14 September 2005 that all directors are subject to re-election by the shareholders Alliance Trust Savings Limited 4,954,295 25.9% at least every three years.
Non-executive directors will normally DC Thomson & Co Limited 1,903,428 9.9% retire from the board after nine years service.
The Standard Life Assurance Company 1,069,567 5.6% Clare Salmons appointment is subject to approval by Legal & General Investment 595,140 3.1% shareholders at the AGM on 28 October, and Alan Young will retire by rotation and stand for re-election.
The board These shares are held by ATS for its customers in PEPs, ISAs recommends the election of Clare Salmon and the and Investment Plans and as trustee of the Select Pension.
re-election of Alan Young by shareholders.
As required by the Companies Act 1985, this notification was given by The Alliance Trust PLC as the parent company In common with the other executive directors, Alan Young has of ATS.
a contract of service with the Company which does not have a fixed term but is terminable by the Company on one years Political and Charitable Donations notice.
Mr. Young is due to retire in September 2006.
In common with the other non-executive directors, Clare Salmon During the year we made no political or charitable donations does not have a service contract.
save that we have been a sponsor of IFS Proshare this year, making a contribution of 2,939 nil.
IFS Proshare, which has Biographical details of all directors are on page 35. charitable status, promotes the rights of private shareholders Shareholders are referred to the Notice of the AGM, which is in and supports education on share ownership.
a separate document from this report and which contains more information about the directors to be elected.
Relationships with Shareholders The board is collectively responsible for ensuring that a meaningful dialogue is maintained with shareholders.
As well as meetings with institutional shareholders, which are largely conducted by the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, the executive directors meet with private shareholders at investor seminars which are held throughout the UK.
The Chairman relates to the board those issues raised with her by shareholders.
All directors see correspondence from shareholders on Company issues.
The AGM is a forum for all those who hold shares in the Company to meet with the directors and to ask questions.
We encourage all shareholders to attend and take part, including those who hold their shares through nominees.
We are required to report to you notifications to us by shareholders who own more than 3% of our shares.
Where the shares are in a nominee for beneficial owners who retain voting rights, the holding must be notified to the Company when it reaches 10% of the issued shares.
34 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Social Responsibility Compliance with The In carrying out our activities and in our relationships with our Revised Combined Code employees, suppliers and community, we aim to conduct ourselves responsibly, ethically and fairly.
Pages 28-37 of this report, together with the directors remuneration report on pages 38-41, disclose the application by Payment of Creditors the Company of the Revised Combined Code on Corporate Investment purchases are settled in accordance with the terms Governance, as required by the UK Listing Authority.
of the exchanges on which the investments are listed.
We try to The board reports that during the year to 31 July 2005 it has achieve favourable terms when buying supplies.
Contracts and complied with the provisions of the Revised Combined Code on payment terms are carefully scrutinised and we aim to pay in Corporate Governance except in the following respects: During accordance with the terms of the contracts, which may be the the year, there was no insurance cover in place in respect of suppliers own terms.
The Company has not adopted any code or legal action against the Companys directors: and from 29 April standard on payment practice.
2005, when William Berry retired from the board, there was not The Company anticipates no change in its purchasing practices a majority of non-executive directors until the appointment of in the current financial year.
Clare Salmon as a director on 17 June.
At 31 July 2005 the Company had no trade creditors.
Green Disclosures In carrying out our activities over the last year, greenhouse gas emissions by reason of the Companys activities office heat and power requirements and employee travel, calculated in accordance with reporting guidelines issued by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs amounted to 54.7 45.3 tonnes of carbon dioxide.
This is the equivalent of operating 4.8 4.0 three bar electric fires for a year.
Social Responsibilities and Environmental Issues We make investments against the background of our overall objective, seeking to achieve long term returns.
As part of our continuing evaluation we consider in an appropriate and balanced manner companies' activities and management and also view them in a wider context, including the impact of public issues such as social and environmental matters.
Such factors have relevance to the current and prospective value of investments.
Voting It is the Company's policy to exercise, wherever practical, its vote at meetings of companies in which it owns shares.
We may engage in dialogue with the company on particular issues, and if not satisfied may vote against the recommendation of the board of a company in which we hold an investment.
Any proposal to vote against the recommendation of the board of the company in which the shares are held requires the approval of an executive director.
Decisions to vote against such recommendations are reported to the board.
