Carillion plc Section 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accountability 30 Corporate Governance Report General principles Directors The Board is firmly committed to high standards of corporate The Board governance.
During the year to 31 December 2005, the Company The Company is led by a Board comprising three Executive and complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined four Non-Executive Directors.
Throughout 2005, the Chairman Code on Corporate Governance July 2003, as detailed below and and the Non-Executive Directors comprised more than half of the in the Remuneration Report.
Board and this continues to be the case.
The Chairman and each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered to be independent of Ethics and Business Integrity Policy management.
They each have wide areas of experience and have Carillion has a clear and unequivocal approach to business integrity no business or other relationship that could materially interfere and ethics which underlies the Groups values of openness, with their independent judgement.
David Garman is the Senior collaboration, mutual dependency, professional delivery, focus on Independent Non-Executive Director.
sustainable, profitable growth and innovation.
The policy requires Carillion to conduct its business to the highest ethical standards.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Executive Directors It applies to all employees and the way Carillion delivers this policy service contracts are terminable by one years notice.
is and will be reflected in the way the Group competes for business, through the quality and value of its work and through the reliability A detailed internal evaluation of the Boards corporate governance and reputation of its employees.
procedures and compliance was again conducted in 2005 by the Chairman in conjunction with the Company Secretary.
The internal The policy is: evaluation took into account the views of each of the Directors on i the role of Directors, ii the performance of the Board, the business integrity: we do not give or accept bribes.
We do not Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, iii Board Committees, sanction or accept any illegal payments, allowances, or gifts-iniv leadership and culture, v Corporate Governance vi Directors kind.
We will investigate fully all alleged breaches.
We will dismiss remuneration, vii relations with shareholders and viii Board any employee who has breached this policy: accountability and audit.
The Board at its meeting in October 2005 mutual respect: we do what we say we will do.
We treat our reviewed the results of the internal evaluation and, where required, people fairly and with respect at all times, avoiding discrimination issues were acted upon in order to further enhance the effectiveness and bullying.
We provide a safe and healthy working environment, of the Boards procedures and working practices.
and respect sustainable principles in all our dealings: trust: we engender trust within our work groups and companies, This is the fourth year that this process has taken place and will be respecting diverse traditions and cultures.
We respect the trust repeated annually as the Board considers it satisfactory.
In addition, placed in us by others, not least when we are asked to take reviews of the performance of each of the Directors has taken place.
responsibility for aspects of their business or resources.
We maintain and demand high professional standards and demand The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief honesty and openness.
We avoid conflicts of interest wherever Executive has been agreed by the Board and encompasses the possible, and we proactively declare any unavoidable conflicts following parameters: for open scrutiny and resolution: legality: we respect the rule of law in all our dealings.
We the primary job of the Chairman of a public company is to provide clearly communicate procedures for disciplining those who do continuity, experience and governance while the Chief Executive not comply with the law or our standards and policies.
We provides leadership, energy, imagination and the driving force: maintain a system for confidential reporting of breaches of the Chairman is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the our standards and policies: and business and the guardian of the interests of the shareholders.
human rights: we support the belief that human rights are Nonetheless, it is essential that the outline of their respective roles universal and adhere to the principles of human rights in our encourages the Chairman and Chief Executive to work well operations.
We support the United Nations Universal together to provide effective and complementary stewardship: Declaration on Human Rights.
the Chairman must: take overall responsibility for the composition and capability of Our policy is carried into our business through a series of detailed the Board: procedures.
They allow us to carry into practice our reputation for consult regularly with the Chief Executive and be available on a conducting business to the highest ethical standard which is flexible basis for providing advice, counsel and support to the essential to our relationships with customers, business partners, Chief Executive: employees, shareholders and the public.
the Chief Executive must: manage the Executive Directors and the Groups day to The Ethics and Business Integrity Policy and its implementation is day activities: reviewed annually by the Board.
prepare and present to the Board strategic options for growth in shareholder value: set the operating plans and budgets required to deliver the agreed strategy: ensure that the Group has in place appropriate risk management and control mechanisms.
Section 06 Carillion plc Accountability Annual Report and Accounts 2005 31 Corporate Governance Report continued The Board usually has a programme of seven meetings during the Nominations Committee year and also meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
A formal Philip Rogerson, Chairman schedule of matters reserved to the Board for consideration and David Garman decision is maintained.
These matters include: David Maloney John McDonough statutory matters such as the approval of final and interim Vanda Murray financial statements and the recommendation of dividends: appointments to and removals from the Board and the terms The Committee reviews the structure, size, composition, balance of reference and membership of Board committees: of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and makes approval of Group strategy and annual budgets: recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes that are approval of authority levels, financial and treasury policies: deemed desirable.
The Committee also reviews succession planning authorisation for any acquisition or disposal: to ensure that processes and plans are in place with regard to both review of the internal control arrangements and risk Board and senior appointments.
management strategies: and review of corporate governance arrangements.
Sir Neville Simms was Chairman of the Nominations Committee until he retired from the Board on 11 May 2005.
Both Andrew Parrish All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, who is and Roger Dickens served on the Remuneration, Audit and responsible to the Board for ensuring that agreed procedures and Nominations Committees during the year under review until they applicable rules and regulations are observed.
The Board approves stood down as a Directors on 11 May and 2 December 2005 the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary.
Any Director may, in furtherance of his duties, take independent Attendance at meetings in 2005 professional advice when necessary, at the expense of the Company.
The number of full scheduled Board and Committee meetings No such advice was sought during the year.
attended by each Director during 2005 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nominations The Board is provided with regular and timely information on the Board Committee Committee Committee financial performance of businesses within the Group, and of the Number of Group as a whole, together with reports on trading matters, meetings held 8 4 2 4 markets, sustainability and other relevant issues.
Roger Dickens 2 2 0 0 Board Committees David Garman 8 4 2 4 The principal Board committees are the Remuneration Committee, Chris Girling 8 the Audit Committee and the Nominations Committee.
The John McDonough 8 Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of these committees.
David Maloney 1 1 1 The terms of reference of each of the Board committees are Vanda Murray 4 2 1 2 available on the Carillion website at www.
com or on request from the Company Secretary.
Andrew Parrish 3 2 1 1 Roger Robinson 8 The membership of each of the principal committees is as follows: Philip Rogerson 8 3 Sir Neville Simms 2 1 Remuneration Committee David Garman, Chairman Retired 11 May 2005 Appointed 1 June 2005 David Maloney Appointed 1 November 2005 Vanda Murray Retired 2 December 2005 The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors and has a key role in reviewing and advising the Board on the appropriate remuneration for the Executive Directors of Carillion plc.
Further details on remuneration issues are given on pages 35 to 41.
Audit Committee David Maloney, Chairman David Garman Vanda Murray This Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
For further information see the Report of the Audit Committee on page 32.
Carillion plc Section 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accountability 32 Corporate Governance Report continued Other Board matters Induction and development of Directors Policy on external appointments Directors are provided with a comprehensive information pack on Recognising that external appointments can broaden their joining the Company and are advised of their legal and other duties knowledge and so be of benefit to the Company, Executive Directors and obligations as a Director of a listed company.
In addition, all are permitted, at the discretion of the Board, to accept a limited new Directors receive induction on their appointment covering such number of such appointments and retain the fees received for such matters as the operation and activities of the Group, the role of appointments.
John McDonough was a Non-Executive Director of the Board, the Companys corporate governance procedures and Exel plc until he retired from the Board on 13 December 2005 social, environmental and ethical SEE matters.
Directors are also following that companys takeover.
Chris Girling is a Non-Executive briefed by the Companys external advisors, where appropriate, on Director of Elementis plc.
changes to legislation or regulation or market practice as well as receiving briefings from business groups throughout the year.
Nomination and remuneration of Directors The appointment of a Director is a matter for resolution by the At least once a year, the Board visits an operational site and in Board as a whole, taking advice from the Nominations Committee.
October 2005 the Directors visited the Groups operations in Canada.
Directors are also encouraged to visit other operations For the Board appointments made in 2005, the Nominations and staff.
Committee used the services of executive recruitment consultants, Odgers Ray & Berndtson.
Details of potential candidates were The regular updating of Directors skills and knowledge is provided by Odgers Ray & Berndtson and initially reviewed by a encouraged and a procedure has been established whereby the sub-committee of the Nominations Committee.
Meetings with Company Secretary is notified by Directors of their requirements selected candidates were then held with Directors.
the Nominations Committee met to recommend appointments which were then approved by the Board.
Relations with shareholders In addition to communicating with shareholders generally from time In the case of Non-Executive Directors, initial appointments are for to time, the Executive Directors and the Director of Group Corporate three years: reappointment is subject to review and is not automatic.
Communications meet regularly with representatives of major shareholders in order to foster the mutual understanding of The fees of Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board objectives.
The details of these meetings are reported to the Board.
as a whole, taking into account the commitment required and The Chairman is available for meetings with representatives of major participation in the work of committees and other advisory services shareholders as required.
in relation to the business of the Group.
In advising the Board on such fees, it is the policy of the Executive Directors to seek Private and institutional shareholders are encouraged to attend the independent external advice concerning the appropriateness of Companys Annual General Meeting.
the amounts by comparison with general practice.
The level of fees currently payable to the Non-Executive Directors is based on The Company complies fully with the provisions of the Combined independent external advice.
Code in respect of the notice, content of agenda and conduct of its Annual General Meetings.
The Chairmen of the Remuneration and The remuneration of the Directors is dealt with in the Remuneration Audit Committees will be present at the Annual General Meeting on Report on pages 35 to 41.
10 May 2006 to respond to shareholders questions.
Retirement of Directors by rotation Accountability and Audit All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at Report of the Audit Committee least every three years.
The Director retiring and seeking re-election The Audit Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 May 2006 is Directors: Roger Robinson.
David Maloney, Chairman Additionally, new Directors are subject to election by shareholders at David Garman the first opportunity following their appointment.
Accordingly, Vanda Murray Vanda Murray and David Maloney will seek election at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
David Maloney is an accountant who previously held a number of senior finance posts including Chief Financial Officer for Le Meridien The service contracts of the Executive Directors and the terms and Hotels and Resorts, Chief Financial Officer for the Thomson Travel conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are Group Holdings plc and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
available for inspection at the registered office of the Company David was appointed to the Audit Committee in December 2005. during normal business hours on any weekday bank holidays excepted and at the Annual General Meeting.
David Garman is Chief Executive of TDG plc and was appointed to the Audit Committee in October 2004.
Section 06 Carillion plc Accountability Annual Report and Accounts 2005 33 Corporate Governance Report continued Vanda Murray is a Director of Ultraframe plc.
Vanda was appointed confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating to the Audit Committee in July 2005. and managing the significant risks both financial and non-financial and including Corporate Social Responsibility risks faced by the Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board.
Group including joint ventures and overseas businesses.
The process has been in place for the year under review and up to the The Audit Committee has in attendance at meetings, by invitation of date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and is regularly the Committee, Executive Directors, representatives of the external reviewed by the Board.
auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, the Group Head of Risk and the Head of Internal Audit.
It is also able to invite others as it requires from time Assurance over the design and operation of internal controls across to time.
The Committee also meets privately with both the external the Group is provided through a mix of techniques: and internal auditors.
Internal Audit carries out audits to assess the adequacy and The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include: effectiveness of internal controls over the key risks faced by the business and reports its findings to management, the Executive the review of the annual and interim financial statements: Directors and the Audit Committee.
The Audit Plan is presented consideration of the impact of changes to accounting regulations to and approved by the Audit Committee annually: and the financial and accounting policies of the Carillion Group: recommendations to improve the system of control are made by compliance with statutory and other external requirements: Internal Audit.
The implementation of these recommendations is reviewing the role of the internal audit function and the results of followed up and reported on quarterly: its audit work and the response of management: Internal Audit independently reviews the risk identification reviewing the scope and results of the external audit and its costprocedures and control processes implemented by management: effectiveness: a process of Control Risk Self-Assessment is used in the Group ensuring that the internal and external audit functions are where Directors and senior managers are required to detail and complementary: certify controls in operation to ensure the control environment in monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external their business areas is appropriate.
They also confirm annually, in auditor and ensuring that the services provided including nonwriting, that risk management processes and appropriate controls audit services provide a proper balance between objectivity and are in place and are operating effectively: and value for money: Internal Audit advises on aspects of the design and application of recommending to the Board the external auditor to be proposed internal controls in key business projects and on policy and to shareholders for appointment.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to i seek any Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee on a regular basis.
information necessary to fulfil its duties ii call any member of staff The Audit Committee reviews the assurance procedures and ensures to be questioned at a meeting of the Committee as and when that the level of confidence required by the Board is obtained.
It also required and iii obtain external professional advice, at the ensures the financial reporting process is credible and reliable.
Companys expense, which might be necessary for the fulfilment The Audit Committee presents its findings to the Board regularly of its duties.
and the Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Audit Committee members.
The members of the Committee receive fees as Non-Executive Directors which also reflect their membership of the Audit An internal appraisal of Internal Audit was carried out during 2004 Committee and other Board committees.
to ensure that it continued to meet the needs of its stakeholders and fulfill its governance role.
This exercise involved extensive Main activities of the Audit Committee in the year to consultation across the Carillion Group.
As a result, minor 31 December 2005 amendments to the resourcing and processes of Internal Audit were Financial statements implemented in 2005.
The Audit Committee reviews and discusses with management and the external auditors the annual and interim statements.
In this Risk Management context, the Committee also reviews the written reports of KPMG The Group Head of Risk is responsible for advising on strategic risk on issues arising from the annual audit and the review of the issues across the Group, and for oversight of risk training.
Head of Risk is also responsible for carrying out an independent appraisal of all projects before submission to the Major Projects Internal controls Committee see page 34.
This appraisal ensures that the The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal differentiating factors of the Groups offer have been properly control.
This responsibility includes clearly determining the control identified so maximising the opportunities available: it also involves environment and reviewing annually the effectiveness of the internal ensuring that all inherent and residual risks associated with the control system.
However, such a system can provide only reasonable project have been properly identified and considered.
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Board Carillion plc Section 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Accountability 34 Corporate Governance Report continued In addition, the Risk Forum, a committee of risk professionals from The KPMG audit director and manager are present at Audit each of the business groups, meets on a quarterly basis to assess the Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters strategic risks facing the Carillion Group.
The conclusions of the Risk relating to the audit.
Forum are reported to the Audit Committee.
The overall performance of the auditor is reviewed annually by the The Major Projects Committee, a committee of the Board, acts Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, as the sanctioning body for major commitments and transactions and feedback is provided to senior members of KPMG unrelated to including capital expenditure, major contracts and company and the audit.
This activity also forms part of KPMGs own system of business acquisitions and disposals.
This committee has delegated quality control.
The Audit Committee also has discussions with the authority up to specified levels, beyond which Board approval auditor, without management being present, on the adequacy of is required.
controls and on any judgmental areas.
These discussions have proved satisfactory to date.
Practical guidance for all staff is maintained in Group policy and procedure documents regarding the authorisation levels for The scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in advance commitments, contract selectivity and bidding, the provision of by the Audit Committee.
Audit fees are reviewed by the Audit guarantees, management accounting as well as reporting and Committee after discussions between the businesses and the local resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
Wherever possible, the KPMG offices and are then referred to the Board for approval.
Board operates a policy of prosecuting individuals found to have Rotation of audit directors responsibilities within KPMG is required defrauded the Company or its subsidiaries.
Learning points for by their professions ethical standards.
The current audit director management are identified and action plans implemented to responsible for the Carillion engagement is in his first year of signing minimise the recurrence of fraud.
the report following appointment at the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
There is also rotation of key members within the Employees are encouraged to raise genuine concerns about audit team.
malpractice at the earliest possible stage and a confidential whistleblowing hotline provided by an independent third party Assignments awarded to KPMG and its associates have been and are is available.
subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the Audit Committee so that audit independence is not compromised.
Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of In summary, the procedures are: significant risks applicable to its areas of business together with the design, operation and monitoring of suitable internal controls.
These audit related services: as auditor this is the main area of work risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a of KPMG and its associates.
If any additional accounting support variety of internal or external sources, including control breakdowns, is required then this is considered competitively: disruption in information systems, competition, corporate social tax consulting: in cases where they are best suited, Carillion uses responsibility, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
KPMG and its associates but the Group also uses other tax Management is also responsible for timely and accurate reporting of consultancies.
Significant pieces of tax work are evaluated business performance and for ensuring compliance with the policies competitively: set by the Board in its areas of business.
Regular performance review general and systems consulting: all significant consulting projects meetings are held where management reports to the Executive are subject to competitive tender.
Directors on business performance, risk and internal control matters.
The results of these meetings are presented to the Board.
Other than audit, the Group Finance Director is required to give prior approval of work carried out by KPMG and its associates The Executive Directors report to the Board on material changes in in excess of a predetermined threshold: part of this review is to the business and the external environment that affect significant determine that other potential providers of the services have been risks.
The Finance Director provides the Board with regular financial adequately considered.
information, which includes key performance indicators and a summary of risk.
Where areas for improvement are identified, the These controls provide the Audit Committee with adequate Board considers the recommendations made both by the Executive confidence in the independence of KPMG in their reporting on Directors and by the Audit Committee.
This report is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
Health and safety A review of the Groups progress on health and safety, Audit independence environmental and social performance is contained in the The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on the Corporate Social Responsibility section on pages 26 to 27. objectivity of the Groups auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, in their reporting to shareholders.
