206697 Report & Accounts Front 20 3 06 7:40 pm Page 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT THE COMPANY IS COMMITTED TO ACHIEVING HIGH STANDARDS OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND TO MAINTAINING HIGH LEVELS OF INTEGRITY AND ETHICAL STANDARDS IN ALL OF ITS BUSINESS DEALINGS.
This report explains the approach the Company has Provision A.
2.2 of the Combined Code relates to taken to apply the principles and provisions set out in the appointment of the Chief Executive as Chairman.
the Combined Code on corporate governance.
The appointment of Mike Wilson as Chairman of the Board in September 2004 was made following The Financial Services Authority requires listed detailed consultation with major shareholders.
Further companies to disclose, in relation to section 1 of the information on the background to this appointment Combined Code, how they have applied its principles was disclosed in the Report and Accounts of the Company and whether they have complied with its provisions for 2004. throughout the accounting year.
The Board considers that by July 2005 the Company had achieved compliance with The Board all of the provisions of the Combined Code as a result The Company applies the provisions of the Combined of the changes made during the year to the composition Code through the Board and its Committees, which meet of the Board and its Committees.
However, betweeen regularly and have ready access to all relevant information 1 January 2005 and 21 July 2005, the Company did not required to enable effective decision making.
comply with the provisions in A.
3.2 and C. 3.1 of the Combined Code, as explained further below.
The Board meets six times a year, with additional meetings arranged on an ad hoc basis as required.
During 2005 there The process to achieve compliance with provision A.
3.2 were six formal Board Meetings at which all Directors were that at least half the Board comprises independent present with the exception of the following: non-executive Directors, began with the resignation of Viscount Weir and Anthony Loehnis with effect from the Meeting Apologies Annual General Meeting on 12 May 2005, to be replaced March 2005 James Crosby, Phil Hodkinson by Simon Gulliford and Mike Power.
Further changes to May 2005 Phil Hodkinson, Michael Sorkin the Board were made throughout the year including July 2005 James Crosby, Phil Hodkinson the appointment of Roger Walsom and John Edwards September 2005 Simon Gulliford, Derek Netherton and the resignation of Grenville Turner, Phil Hodkinson November 2005 John Edwards and Charles Bailey.
Board members are given notice in advance of Board In relation to provision C. 3.1, the Audit Committee now meetings of all matters to be discussed, together with comprises solely independent non-executive Directors supporting documentation.
This will normally include following the resignation of Phil Hodkinson.
detailed reports on current trading, sales, operational issues, compliance, risk, accounting and financial matters.
The Board also receives reports from the Chairmen of the various Committees of the Board.
27 206697 Report & Accounts Front 20 3 06 7:40 pm Page 28 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically other significant commitments of the Chairman reserved to it.
The primary responsibilities of the Board are disclosed in his biography on page 21.
The Chief are to: Executives primary responsibility is to manage the Group and implement the strategies adopted by the Board.
determine the overall strategy of the Group: ensure that the Groups operations are well managed The Board delegates day to day business and risk and proper succession plans are in place: management control to the executive Directors and review major transactions or initiatives proposed by other senior executives, who meet twice a month the executive Directors: to consider operational issues as well as business implement appropriate corporate governance development plans, financial and operating budgets and procedures: forecasts, capital expenditure proposals, compliance periodically review the results and operations of the matters and key performance indicators.
Their decisions Group: are communicated throughout the Group as appropriate.
ensure that proper accounting records are maintained and adequate controls are in place to safeguard the Directors and Directors Independence assets of the Group from fraud and other significant Following the various board changes announced during risks: the year, culminating with the resignation of Charles identify and manage risk: and Bailey in September 2005, the Board consisted of four decide the Groups policy on charitable and political executive and eight non-executive Directors excluding donations.
the Chairman at the end of the financial year.
Six of the non-executive Directors are considered by the Board In addition, a Board Control Manual sets out the primary to be independent of management and free from any policy and decision-making mechanisms within the Group business or other relationships which could materially and defines the terms of reference of the Committees set interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
These are out below and the Groups risk policies.
It also contains Sarah Bates, Derek Netherton, Michael Sorkin, Simon the detailed job descriptions of the Directors showing Gulliford, Mike Power and Roger Walsom.
The Board Control Manual is reviewed by the Board annually.
When determining whether a non-executive Director is independent, the Board considers for each non-executive The statement of Directors responsibilities in preparing Director whether they are independent in character and the accounts is set out on page 34 and the statement from judgement, how they conduct themselves in Board the auditor on its reporting responsibilities is on page 51. meetings, whether they have any relationships or there are The statement on going concern can be found on page 33. any circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement: and whether they act in The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive the best interests of the Company and its shareholders at The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of all times.
The Board has considered the independence of the Board, Mike Wilson, and the Chief Executive, Mark Derek Netherton with particular care, given that he has Lund, is clearly defined and has been approved by the served on the Board for more than nine years.
It is the responsibility of the Chairman, Mike strongly believes that Derek Netherton continues to Wilson, to ensure the continued effectiveness of the Board contribute significantly to the Board and its Committees of Directors and communication with shareholders.
He through his individual skills and considerable knowledge also liaises with the Chief Executive, Mark Lund, to make of both the Company and the financial services industry.
recommendations to the Board on Group strategy.
Any In particular, he continues to demonstrate a strong 28 206697 Report & Accounts Front 20 3 06 7:40 pm Page 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued independence of management in the manner in which he Performance Evaluation discharges his responsibility as a Director at Board and During 2005 the Chairman held separate meetings with Committee meetings by questioning and constructively the non-executive Directors.
Various changes were challenging management as and when he considers it requested by the non-executive Directors following these appropriate.
In addition, shareholders will note that there meetings, for example more meetings with senior have been several changes to the Board over the last 12 management, which have since been implemented.
In view of the above, the Board do not believe addition, led by the Senior Independent Director, the nonthat it would be prudent to replace Derek Netherton with executive Directors also met without the Chairman a further non-executive Director appointment.
However, present to appraise the Chairmans performance and this matter is subject to annual review and the Board with discuss other topical issues.
the assistance of the Nomination Committee plan to continue the process of refreshing the Board over time.
The Board carried out an annual evaluation of its own The terms and conditions of appointment of the nonperformance and of its committees and individual executive Directors are available on request and will be Directors by way of a detailed questionnaire and available at the Annual General Meeting in May 2006. interviews carried out by the Company Secretary.
Various changes were made to Board procedures as a result The Senior Independent Director of feedback arising from the Board evaluation process, Michael Sorkin has acted as the Senior Independent including changes to the information contained in Director since 12 May 2005, following the resignation of Board packs.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board Board Committees is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through the The Board has formally constituted six committees, existing mechanisms for investor communication.
being the Audit, Investment, Nomination, Remuneration, Risk and Urgent Issues Committees.
The membership and Professional Development terms of reference of the Board committees are reviewed Directors receive training in their duties and responsibilities at least annually and are available on request and on the on appointment as part of an induction process designed to Companys website.
assist them in their understanding of the business.
The Directors are also offered training on an ongoing basis via a During 2005 the Board carried out a detailed review rolling programme coordinated by the Company Secretary.
of the Board and Committee structures via a project The Directors are regularly updated on their duties and entitled Managing our Future.
As a result of this review, responsibilities and have access to the advice of the several changes were made to the terms of reference and Company Secretary and to independent professional procedures for Board Committees, the most notable being advice where needed in furtherance of their duties.
Further the establishment of the Risk Committee instead of the training is made available as necessary to ensure that the more narrowly focused Compliance Committee.
whole Board is kept abreast of relevant developments applicable to their roles and topical issues are also addressed A summary of the various Committees of the Board is set before each Board meeting.
Topics covered during these out below.
sessions during 2005 included depolarisation, pensions reform and marketing opportunities.
Non-executive Audit Committee Directors may also meet with major shareholders The Audit Committee now comprises solely independent as necessary.
non-executive Directors, following the resignation of 29 206697 Report & Accounts Front 20 3 06 7:40 pm Page 30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Phil Hodkinson in July 2005.
The Committee, chaired carry out an annual review of the Groups system of by Derek Netherton, also comprises Michael Sorkin and internal control: and Mike Power.
assess the appropriateness of the Groups whistleblowing procedures.
All Committee members have considerable financial experience, as can be seen from the Directors biographical During the year, the Committee formally reviewed draft details, appearing on pages 21 to 23. interim and annual reports and associated preliminary and interim announcements, focussing on key areas of During 2005 the Committee met five times with all judgement, accounting policies and any changes required members present with the exception of the following:- to those.
It reviewed reports of the Risk Management and Internal Audit functions and external audit findings.
The Meeting Apologies Committee reviewed at each meeting a progress report on April 2005 Phil Hodkinson, Derek Netherton the internal audit plan and received regular updates on the July 2005 Phil Hodkinson implementation of that plan.
In addition, the Committee decided to increase the number of meetings from 4 to 5 so The Audit Committee meets with executive Directors and that an entire meeting could be dedicated to the annual management, as well as privately with both the external review of the Groups system of internal controls.
and internal auditors, and its responsibilities are to: The Audit Committee annually reviews the auditors examine any matters relating to the financial affairs of independence and the services being provided by the the Group, including reviewing and advising the external auditors.
In order to ensure auditor objectivity Board on the Companys interim and annual financial and independence, the Committee has established a statements, its accounting policies and compliance with financial limit of 100,000 on the fees that can be paid to accounting standards: the external auditors in respect of non-audit advice and review the nature and scope of the work to be consultancy work.
performed by the external auditors, the results of the audit work and the responses of management: Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors make recommendations on the appointment and during the year for audit and other services are set out remuneration of the external auditors and to monitor in the Notes to the Accounts on page 68. their performance: review any non-audit services provided by the external Remuneration Committee auditors and to maintain responsibility for ensuring the The Remuneration Committee comprises solely independence, cost effectiveness and objectivity of the independent non-executive Directors.
The Committee, external auditors: chaired by Michael Sorkin, also comprises Derek Netherton monitor and oversee the Groups internal control and Simon Gulliford.
A summary of the terms of reference procedures and risk management processes: of the Remuneration Committee is set out below: approve the internal audit plan for the year and review reports on the results of such internal audits including to determine all aspects of executive Director and the response of management: senior management remuneration: review the activities, resources, organisational structure to determine the discretionary bonus scheme for and operational effectiveness of the internal audit executive Directors and to review the performance of function: the Directors against the scheme: receive reports from the internal audit function on the to determine appropriate incentives to executive adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups control Directors to encourage enhanced performance including framework: grants of options or awards of shares and determining 30 206697 Report & Accounts Front 20 3 06 7:40 pm Page 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued the policy and performance conditions of such grants or of candidates were identified as potentially suitable and awards: following thorough interviewing and referencing, the to determine the policy for and scope of termination appointments were recommended to the Board by the payments and severance terms for executive Directors: Committee.
The Committee also considered succession and plans for the Board as a whole and senior management.
to be responsible for selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference for any remuneration consultants Meetings are held on an ad-hoc basis as issues arise and who advise the Committee.
resolutions were passed by written resolution where it was impractical to convene a formal meeting.
The Meetings are held on an ad-hoc basis as issues arise.
The Committee held one formal meeting in 2005 and all Committee met four times during 2005 with all members members were present.
present, with the exception of Lord Weir who was unable to attend one meeting in January 2005.
Risk Committee The Risk Committee, comprising solely non-executive Further details on the work of the Committee is set out in Directors, is chaired by Mike Power and also comprises the Remuneration Report on page 37.
Simon Gulliford and Roger Walsom.
The Committee took over and expanded the remit of the former Compliance Nomination Committee Committee, dealing with all risks affecting the Group.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mike Wilson and also comprises Sarah Bates and Michael Sorkin.
The Committees main responsibilities are: A summary of the terms of reference of the Committee is to foster a culture of effective risk identification and set out below: management throughout the Group: to review the material and emerging risks affecting the to review the structure, size and composition of the Group and to call for reports from management on how Board and evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and material risks are being managed: experience required for a role and the preparation of to report to the Audit Committee and the Board on any a description of any new role and the capabilities material areas of concern or weakness identified by the required: Committee: to consider new appointments and to make to review and approve the Groups risk appetite recommendations on suitable candidates to the Board: and statement and risk policies: to consider succession planning for senior executive to carry out an annual review of the procedures for the positions and the need for the progressive refreshing of identification, recording and mitigation of material risks the Board.
across the Group: and to make recommendations for changes in risk related During 2005 the Committee was actively involved in practices or procedures.
planning and implementing the various changes to the Board, including the appointments of Simon Gulliford, During 2005 the Committee met five times and all Mike Power and Roger Walsom.
For each non-executive members were present with the exception of Charles Director appointment with the exception of John Bailey who was unable to attend the April 2005 meeting.
Edwards, who was appointed under the terms of the HBOS Relationship Agreement a detailed specification of During the year, the Committee oversaw the the role and capabilities was prepared and this specification implementation of recommended actions arising from an was then passed to an external search agency to identify FSA risk visit in September 2004 and the FSA interim risk potential candidates.
As a result of this process, a number assessment in March 2005.
The Committee formally 31 206697 Report & Accounts Front 20 3 06 7:40 pm Page 32 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued considered and reviewed the material, emerging Urgent Issues Committee and topical risks affecting the Group and received a Comprising the Chairman or the Chief Executive and presentation from the Group Services business area on the at least two other Directors, one of whom must be a identification, management and mitigation of risks in that non-executive Director, the role of the Urgent Issues area.
The Committee reviewed at each meeting risk Committee is to make decisions on matters of urgency reports from the Irish life company St. James's Place which cannot await the next meeting of the Board.
It can act International plc and also reviewed the way the business only by unanimous decision.
If this cannot be reached, the implemented changes to its operations as a result of the issue under consideration will be referred for decision to depolarisation changes introduced by the Financial the full Board.
The Committee did not meet during 2005.
Directors and Officers Insurance Investment Committee The Group has taken out insurance covering Directors The Investment Committee comprises Sir Mark Weinberg and officers against liabilities which they may incur in their in the chair, Mark Lund and Sarah Bates and is responsible capacity as Directors or officers.
for monitoring the performance and suitability of the external fund managers, with assistance from investment Relations with Shareholders consultants Stamford Associates.
It met six times during The Board maintains close relationships with institutional 2005.
Its main responsibilities are: shareholders through dialogue and frequent meetings.
In addition, there are regular meetings with the Companys to oversee the Groups investment management brokers, JPMorgan Cazenove and Dresdner Kleinwort approach: Wasserstein, who facilitate meetings with other investors to monitor the performance and suitability of the fund and their representatives.
Attendance notes from such managers and to ensure that they follow the terms of meetings are circulated to members of the Board so they their agreements with the Group: are aware of the views of major shareholders.
The Senior to make recommendations in relation to the appointment Independent Director is available for consultation with or removal of fund managers: shareholders should the need arise.
Non-executive to oversee market risk: and Directors are also available to meet with major to consider and make recommendations in relation to shareholders on request.
the appointment and the continued effectiveness of the investment consultant.
The Companys Annual General Meeting is held in London where members of the Board are available to At the start of the year the Committee increased the answer shareholders questions on the activities of the frequency of its meetings to give more time to both Board and its Committees.
Where possible, the timing and strategic planning issues and longer in-depth meetings with location of the meeting is designed to encourage the individual fund managers.
During the year, apart from participation of small shareholders.
monitoring and, where appropriate, changing specific fund managers, the Committee devoted considerable time to Relationship with HBOS plc longer-term strategic wealth management issues.
The The Company and Halifax Group plc entered into a Committee is currently looking for a suitable replacement Relationship Agreement in order to regulate the for Ted Williams who has announced his intention to retire relationship between the two companies after the from Schroders in the near future.
A copy of the Report completion of the Partial Offer in June 2000.
Following of the Investment Committee 2005, which gives more the merger of Halifax and Bank of Scotland in 2001, the details on the work of the Investment Committee, can be Relationship Agreement was novated to HBOS plc.
obtained by contacting the Company.
32 206697 Report & Accounts Front 20 3 06 7:40 pm Page 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to Group Risk Committee on how these risks and ensure that the Company can operate independently of vulnerabilities are being managed.
The Internal Audit the HBOS group and to provide that the relationship functions work plans are based on the key risks facing between members of the HBOS group and the SJPC the business, including any emerging risks.
As new Group will be conducted on an arms length basis.
Under procedures and working practices are adopted, risk the Agreement, HBOS has power to appoint a number of factors are considered and appropriate internal controls Directors to the Board and its Committees.
The number are embedded into the Groups management systems varies in relation to HBOS shareholding in the Company wherever possible.
and HBOS currently has the right to appoint three nonexecutive Directors to the Board.
As at the date of this The Groups senior management have clearly defined report, HBOS has appointed two non-executive Directors responsibilities and accountabilities for managing specific to the SJPC Board, being James Crosby and John Edwards.
areas of risk and these are documented in individual job descriptions.
These are subject to frequent review Going Concern to ensure that they remain aligned with business The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the developments and any new or emerging risks.
Adherence Company and the Group have adequate resources to to regulatory codes of conduct is required at all times and continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this the Board actively promotes a culture of quality and reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in integrity.
In addition to these ongoing procedures, preparing the accounts.
the Audit Committee conducts an annual review that considers the effectiveness of the Groups systems of Risk Management and Internal Control internal control including financial, operational, The Directors are responsible for the Groups system compliance and other risk management systems.
The of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
review also includes the nature and scope of the ongoing This includes a responsibility for financial, operational and monitoring processes, including the effectiveness of the compliance controls in managing the risks inherent in internal audit function, and the potential impact on these the business.
The formally constituted Audit and Risk processes as a result of any changes during the year to the Committees of the Board along with the appropriately risks that the Group is facing.
staffed and qualified Internal Audit, Risk Management and Compliance functions support the Directors in the When control issues of significance have occurred the discharge of these responsibilities.
Audit Committee has received full and detailed reports from management and internal audit, including proposals The Group has fully complied with provision C. 2.1 of the for amending and strengthening the business systems Code throughout the financial year and up to the date of involved in line with the Groups focus on continuous approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Where appropriate, such cases have been taken forward to the Board by the Chairman of the Audit In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Committee for noting and discussion.
Control, the Directors and senior managers of the Group are committed to maintaining a strong control culture In establishing the system of internal control, the within all business areas and have established processes for Directors have regard to materiality of relevant risk, the evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the likelihood of a risk occurring and the cost of mitigating Group.
In particular, the Groups senior management risk.
It is therefore designed to manage, rather than adopts a risk management process that identifies the key eliminate risk and as such can provide only reasonable vulnerabilities and risks facing each business area and and not absolute assurance against the risk of material reports, via Group Risk, to the Executive Committee and misstatement or loss.
33 206697 Report & Accounts Front 20 3 06 7:40 pm Page 34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued In the Boards view, the information it has received from The group financial statements are required by law and entity wide risk assessment, operational management, and IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, to present fairly the financial the reports issued by the internal auditors was sufficient position of the group: the Companies Act 1985 provides to enable it to review the effectiveness of the Companys that, in relation to such financial statements, references system of internal control in accordance with the that in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements Guidance for Directors on Internal Control Turnbull.
giving a true and fair view, are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
Statement of Business Practice To further the Groups continued commitment to The parent company financial statements are required by Corporate Governance, the Company has published a law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the statement of business practice.
This statement, in the parent company.
form of a booklet entitled Our Approach, is provided to all employees and members of the St. Jamess Place In preparing each of the group and parent company Partnership and covers areas such as: financial statements, the Directors are required to: the Groups objectives: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the St. Jamess Place brand and how its integrity and consistently: value is maintained: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and the Groups corporate culture and management style: prudent: how the Group deals with internal and external for the group financial statements, state whether they communication: and have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs adopted the Groups commitment to the St. Jamess Place by the EU: Foundation, a charitable trust, more details of which for the parent company financial statements, state can be found on pages 19 and 20. whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures The booklet emphasises the values of integrity, trust, disclosed and explained in the parent company financial openness, partnership and teamwork and is designed statements: and to guide individual and corporate actions, decisions and prepare the financial statements on the going concern standards.
basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent company will continue in business.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Report and Accounts The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting The Directors are responsible for preparing the records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time Report and Accounts in accordance with applicable law the financial position of the parent company and enable them and regulations.
to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for Company law requires the Directors to prepare group and taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard parent company financial statements for each financial the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and year.
Under the law they are required to prepare other irregularities.
the group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as The Directors have chosen to prepare supplementary adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the parent information in accordance with the European Embedded company financial statements in accordance with UK Value Principles issued in May 2004 by the CFO Forum as Accounting Standards.
supplemented by the Additional Guidance on European 34 206697 Report & Accounts Front 20 3 06 7:40 pm Page 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005 the EEV Principles.
When compliance with the EEV Principles is stated, those principles require the Directors to prepare supplementary information in accordance with the methodology contained in the EEV Principles and to disclose and explain any non-compliance with the EEV Guidance included in the EEV Principles.
In preparing the EEV supplementary information, the Directors have: prepared the supplementary information in accordance with the EEV Principles: identified and described the business covered by the EEV Principles: applied the EEV Principles consistently to the covered business: determined assumptions on a realistic basis, having regard to past, current and expected future experience and to any relevant external data, and then applied them consistently: and made estimates that are reasonable and consistent.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
