44 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance The Board of Standard Chartered PLC is responsible for ensuring The Board proper standards of corporate governance are maintained and for The Board is made up of the Chairman, five executive directors accounting to shareholders.
and nine independent non-executive directors and is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
All the directors are This report has been prepared in accordance with the principles subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General and provisions of the Code of Best Practice in the Combined Meeting AGM after their appointment and then to re-election Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial at intervals of no more than three years.
Reporting Council in July 2003 the Combined Code.
The directors confirm that the Company complies with the principles The Board meets regularly and has a formal schedule of of the Combined Code except that meeting major shareholders is matters specifically reserved for its decision.
These matters not currently part of the induction programme for non-executive include determining and reviewing the strategy of the Company directors.
An explanation of this exception is given in the section and the Group, overseeing the Groups compliance with statutory on independent non-executive directors below.
Apart from that and regulatory obligations, issues relating to the Companys and exception, the following report explains how the Company applies the Groups capital, the Groups structure and areas of operation, the principles of the Combined Code.
financial reporting, ensuring there is a sound system of internal control and risk management, and appointments to the Board.
The Company is a public company, listed on both the London The Board delegates matters to the executive directors and and Hong Kong stock exchanges, and has sufficient share capital other senior management.
The Board has approximately eight scheduled meetings The directors confirm that, throughout the financial year, each year.
At least two of these meetings are usually held the Company complied with the provisions of Appendix 14 in countries where the Group operates outside the United of the Listing Rules of The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited Kingdom.
The directors use these overseas visits to the HK Listing Rules.
meet staff, corporate customers, and government and The directors confirm that Mrs A A Snow is the Companys regulatory officials.
qualified accountant for the purposes of Rule 3.24 of the HK The directors are given accurate, timely and clear information Listing Rules.
so that they can maintain full and effective control over strategic, The directors confirm that the Company has adopted a code of financial, operational, compliance and governance issues.
conduct regarding securities transactions by directors on terms The following table shows the number of Board and no less exacting than required by Appendix 10 of the HK Listing Committee meetings held during the year and the attendance Rules and that the directors of the Company complied with this of individual directors.
code of conduct throughout the financial period.
Corporate Audit & Risk Responsibility Board Board Audit & Risk Committee and Community Nomination Remuneration Scheduled Ad hoc Committee Ad hoc Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in year 8 1 6 6 3 1 6 B K Sanderson 8 1 3 1 E M Davies 8 1 3 Sir CK Chow 8 1 M B DeNoma 8 0 J F T Dundas 8 1 6 5 1 1 V F Gooding 7 1 1 2 Ho KwonPing 7 0 5 R H P Markham 6 1 6 5 1 R Markland 8 1 6 4 1 6 R H Meddings 8 1 K S Nargolwala 7 1 H E Norton 8 1 6 4 1 6 P A Sands 8 1 P D Skinner 6 0 6 O H J Stocken 7 0 5 Mr Dundas and Miss Gooding were appointed to the Corporate Responsibility and Community Committee on 1 November 2005 and 5 May 2005 respectively.
com 45 The directors have a range of skills and experience and each The terms and conditions of the non-executive directors brings an independent judgement and considerable knowledge appointments are available for inspection at the Companys to the Boards discussions.
On appointment, each director receives registered office.
a full, formal, tailored induction covering the Groups business and Board Committees operations and also the legal, regulatory and other obligations of The Board has four standing committees with specific delegated a director of a dual-listed company.
As well as formal induction, authorities: the Audit and Risk Committee, the Board Nomination directors receive training through a formal and structured Committee, the Board Remuneration Committee and the programme to continually develop and update their knowledge Corporate Responsibility and Community Committee.
Where an independent non-executive director is of these committees and their members are given below.
appointed to one of the Boards standing committees, additional training is given which is relevant to the committee appointment.
Audit and Risk Committee The independent non-executive directors appointed during 2004 The members of the Audit and Risk Committee are: and 2005 have completed their induction programmes.
Mr R H P Markham chairman Ms R Markland The Company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in Mr J F T Dundas Mr H E Norton respect of legal proceedings and other claims against its directors.
In addition, the Company has granted qualifying third All the members of the Committee are independent non-executive party indemnities to the directors of the Company subject to and directors.
The Committees chairman, Mr Markham, is a qualified on terms consistent with the Companys articles of association accountant and has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee currently has six scheduled meetings each year.
The Boards executive directors are not allowed more than one This reflects the importance the Board attaches to the role of the non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.
Details of the Committee and the amount of work it is required to carry out.
directors other directorships can be found in their biographies on The Committee reviews and monitors the integrity of the pages 38 to 39.. Companys annual and interim financial statements, circulars Chairman and Group Chief Executive to shareholders and any formal announcements relating to the The Group Chairman, Mr B K Sanderson, is also chairman of Groups financial performance, including significant financial The British United Provident Association Limited and during the reporting judgements contained in them.
It keeps under review year was appointed as a director of Durham County Cricket Club the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies and Holdings Limited, the Asian University for Women Support considers changes to them.
Ultimate responsibility for the Foundation, the Commonwealth Business Council Limited and approval of the annual and interim financial statements rests the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent with the Board.
Significant changes to the external commitments of At least once a year, the Committee meets with the external the Chairman are reported to the Board for its approval.
auditor and Group Head of Internal Audit without management The roles and objectives of the Chairman and the Group Chief being present to discuss matters relating to the auditors remit Executive are separate and have been approved by the Board.
and any issues arising from the audit.
Independent Non-executive Directors In relation to the Groups internal audit function the Committees The Board considers that all of the non-executive directors are responsibilities include: independent and has received from each of them the annual monitoring and assessing the role and effectiveness of the confirmation of independence required by the HK Listing Rules.
Groups internal audit function and receiving reports from the The names and biographies of the non-executive directors are Group Head of Internal Audit on these matters: and set out on pages 38 and 39.
The non-executive directors are appointed for an initial three-year term and are subject to periodic considering the appointment, resignation or dismissal of the re-appointment in accordance with the Companys articles of Group Head of Internal Audit.
The Chairman has regular meetings with the nonIn relation to the Groups external auditor the Committees executive directors without the executive directors being present.
responsibilities include: The proposals for the re-election of non-executive directors considering and making recommendations to the Board who have served on the Board for more than six years are on the appointment, re-appointment, resignation or dismissal covered in the section on the work of the Board Nomination of the external auditor: Committee below.
approving the terms of engagement, nature and scope of Mr H E Norton is the Senior Independent Director and can the audit: be contacted in writing at the Companys registered office.
reviewing the findings of the audit including any major issues Although not part of their induction programme, the nonthat arose during the course of the audit: and executive directors have the opportunity, if they wish, to attend meetings with major shareholders and analysts and they receive, reviewing and monitoring the cost effectiveness of the audit in a timely manner, accurate information reflecting the views of taking into consideration relevant UK professional and the Companys institutional shareholders and other stakeholders.
regulatory requirements and approving the audit fee.
Major shareholders have the opportunity to meet with the Senior The Committee reviews the Groups internal financial controls and Independent Director to discuss any issues or concerns if they the Groups internal control and risk management systems and wish to do so.
reports on these to the Board.
Details of the Companys internal The Board is aware of the other commitments of its noncontrols and how risk is managed can be found below under the executive directors and is satisfied that these do not conflict heading Internal Controls.
with their duties as directors of the Company.
Changes to the Arrangements have been put in place by which the Companys commitments of the non-executive directors are reported to employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible the Board.
improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
These arrangements are covered in the Companys Speaking Up policy, commonly known as a whistle-blowing policy.
46 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance continued The Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for reviewing Board Remuneration Committee these arrangements and for ensuring that any matters of concern The members of the Board Remuneration Committee are: are investigated.
Mr H E Norton chairman Mr P D Skinner Board Nomination Committee Mr Ho KwonPing Mr O H J Stocken The members of the Board Nomination Committee are: Ms R Markland Mr B K Sanderson chairman Ms R Markland All of the Committee members are independent non-executive Mr R H P Markham Mr H E Norton directors.
The Committee determines the pay and benefits of the Group Chairman, executive directors and senior management.
All of the Committee members, with the exception of The remuneration of all directors and senior management is Mr Sanderson, are independent non-executive directors.
subject to regular monitoring to ensure that levels of remuneration The Committees responsibilities include: and compensation are appropriate.
reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and A statement of the Companys remuneration policy for directors making recommendations with regard to any adjustments that and details of the work of the Committee are included in the the Committee deems necessary to ensure the Board has the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 49 to 61. optimum balance of skills, knowledge and experience: Corporate Responsibility and Community Committee where Board vacancies arise, evaluating the skill, knowledge The members of the Corporate Responsibility and Community and experience needed to fill the vacancy, and identifying and Committee are: nominating suitable candidates to the Board: and Mr B K Sanderson chairman Mr J F T Dundas keeping under review the succession plans for the Group Mr E M Davies Miss V F Gooding relating to both directors and other senior executives and making consequential recommendations to the Board.
The Committee was established by the Board in February 2005, to deal with matters relating to environment protection, social The Committee is also responsible for making recommendations investment, economic development and other corporate for the appointment of the Group Chairman, Group Chief responsibility and community matters.
Executive or any other director.
The Group Chairman will not chair any meeting at which the Committee is considering the The Committees responsibilities include: appointment of a successor to the Group Chairman.
ensuring that the Groups corporate responsibility and In the selection process for new directors, the Committee community aspirations and business activities are aligned: can consult external advisors and an external search consultant responding to emerging corporate responsibility issues was used in the selection process prior to the appointment of arising from new regulation, legislation, stakeholder guidance Miss V F Gooding as an independent non-executive director and reporting: with effect from 1 January 2005. promoting the availability of accurate and reliable corporate Before recommending the appointment of a non-executive responsibility and community data: and director, the Committee would consider the suitability of a candidate against the skills, knowledge and experience required ensuring that the Group is in a position to report annually on to produce a balanced Board.
In addition, the Committee would Corporate Responsibility and Community activity in line with take into account whether the candidate would have an best practice.
appropriate amount of time to devote to their duties.
During the year the Committee received presentations on a range During the year the Committee reviewed the Groups succession of subjects including the Financial Services sectors response to planning processes and the succession plans relating to the climate change, the social and environmental risks associated executive directors and other senior executives.
The Committee with lending activity and microfinance and financial inclusion.
has reviewed the performance of the non-executive directors The Committee ensures that the Group continues to make standing for re-election at the 2006 AGM and made progress in its efforts to understand and respond to the concerns recommendations to the Board on their re-election.
The Group has a formal plan for Sir CK Chow and Mr H E Norton have served on the Board for stakeholder engagement that builds on the comprehensive work more than nine years and at the 2006 AGM will offer themselves already carried out on employee engagement and customer for re-election in accordance with the provisions of the Combined satisfaction.
In 2005, this plan focused at a Group-level on the Code.
In considering the recommendation that these directors socially responsible investment analyst community, nonstand for re-election, the Committee reviewed their performance governmental organisations and on the development and and contribution made to the deliberations and decisions of the environmental divisions within the UK government.
Board during 2005 rigorously and, as part of its review, took into The findings of this ongoing stakeholder research, alongside peer account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
The analysis and consideration of recognised corporate responsibility Committee believes that Sir CK Chow and Mr Norton continue benchmarks and indices are used in setting the agendas for the to be committed to the Company and independent in character Committees meetings.
and judgement and therefore fully supports the proposal to re-elect Sir CK Chow and Mr Norton as independent nonexecutive directors.
com 47 Terms of Reference In addition to audit related services, KPMG provided the following The schedule of matters reserved for the Board, the roles and types of services in 2005: responsibilities of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive and tax advisory and compliance: the terms of reference for the Audit and Risk Committee, the Board Nomination Committee, the Board Remuneration advice and support with due diligence exercises: Committee and the Corporate Responsibility and Community advice on IFRS accounting: Committee are available on the Companys website and available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
regulatory reviews and reporting: Independent Professional Advice anti-money laundering advice: Directors may, in appropriate circumstances, take independent corporate recovery services: and professional advice at the Companys expense.
All of the directors have access to the Group Company Secretary, who risk and compliance advisory services.
is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed Details of the amounts paid to KPMG during the year for audit and that applicable laws and regulations are complied with.
and non-audit services are set out in note 7 to the accounts.
The appointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary is a matter for the whole Board.
Going Concern The Board confirms that it is satisfied that the Group has The Boards standing committees are able to take independent adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable professional advice or use external consultants, where future.
For this reason it continues to adopt the going concern appropriate, at the Companys expense.
basis when preparing the financial statements.
Performance Evaluation Internal Control The Board is responsible for ensuring that a rigorous evaluation The Board is committed to managing risk and to controlling its is carried out of its performance, and that of its committees and business and financial activities in a manner which enables it to individual directors.
maximise profitable business opportunities, avoid or reduce risks which can cause loss or reputational damage, ensure compliance During 2005 a formal evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees was conducted using the services with applicable laws and regulations, and enhance resilience to of an external facilitator who conducted interviews with each of external events.
To achieve this, the Board has established a process for the identification, evaluation and management of the directors, members of the Group Management Committee and the Group Company Secretary.
A report was distributed to the risks faced by the Group which operated through the year each director and discussed by the Board.
In addition, the Audit ended 31 December 2005 and to 2 March 2006, the date the Board approved this annual report and accounts.
It should be and Risk Committee and the Board Remuneration Committee each conducted their own internal reviews of their effectiveness.
recognised that such a process can only provide reasonable, Individual appraisals of the directors have been undertaken not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This process is reviewed regularly by the Board and meets the by the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Board Nomination Committee as appropriate.
The independent non-executive requirements of the guidance entitled Internal Control: Guidance directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, evaluated for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in 1999.
The the Chairmans performance, taking into account the views of all the directors.
system of internal control of the Group is also subject to regulatory oversight in the United Kingdom and overseas.
Relations with Shareholders The Board recognises the importance of good communications The Financial Review on pages 22 to 37 describes the Groups risk management structure.
The Groups business is conducted within with all shareholders.
There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and general presentations are made when the a developed control framework, underpinned by policy statements, financial results are announced.
The AGM is used as an written procedures and control manuals.
This ensures that there are written policies and procedures to identify and manage risk opportunity to communicate with all shareholders.
including operational risk, country risk, liquidity risk, regulatory risk, The Combined Code requires companies to post the notice of the legal risk, reputational risk, market risk and credit risk.
The Board AGM to shareholders at least 20 working days before the date of has established a management structure that clearly defines roles, the meeting.
The Company aims to achieve this and will always responsibilities and reporting lines.
Delegated authorities are give shareholders the 21 days notice required by the Companies documented and communicated.
Executive risk committees Act 1985 and the HK Listing Rules.
Separate resolutions are regularly review the Groups risk profile.
proposed for each substantially separate issue.
The Company The performance of the Groups businesses is reported regularly displays the proxy voting results on each resolution at the AGM and on the Companys website.
The notice of AGM is also to senior line management and the Board.
Performance trends and available on audio cassette and CD.
forecasts, as well as actual performance against budgets and prior periods, are closely monitored.
Financial information is prepared The Company encourages its shareholders to receive the using appropriate accounting policies, which are applied Companys corporate documents electronically.
Operational procedures and controls have been interim financial statements, notice of AGM and dividend circulars established to facilitate complete, accurate and timely processing of are all available electronically.
Shareholders are also able to vote transactions and the safeguarding of assets.
These controls include electronically on the resolutions being put to the AGM.
appropriate segregation of duties, the regular reconciliation of Auditor Independence and Objectivity accounts, and the valuation of assets and positions.
The Company has adopted a policy on the use of non-audit services provided by the Companys external auditor, KPMG Audit Plc KPMG.
The Committees pre-approval is required before the Company uses non-audit services that fall within definitions contained in the policy.
The non-audit services of KPMG will only be used where the Company benefits in a costeffective manner and the auditor maintains the necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
48 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance continued The effectiveness of the Groups internal control system is Group Internal Audit monitors compliance with policies and reviewed regularly by the Board, its committees, Group standards and effectiveness of the Groups internal control management, and Group Internal Audit.
Group Internal Audit structures through its programme of business audits and monitors compliance with policies and standards and the annual Turnbull Review.
effectiveness of internal control structures across the Group.
Key areas of risk are those associated with customers social The work of Group Internal Audit is focused on the areas issues and any impact they may have on the natural environment.
of greatest risk as determined by a risk based assessment The Board recognises its responsibility to manage these risks and methodology.
Group Internal Audit reports regularly to the that failure to manage them adequately would have an adverse Audit and Risk Committee, the Chairman and to the Group impact on the Groups business.
These risks are implicitly Chief Executive.
The findings of all adverse audits are reported recognised in reaching lending decisions explicitly identified in to the Group Chief Executive and immediate corrective action the Groups lending policies.
During 2003, the Group adopted the is required.
Equator Principles that set procedures, based on the International The Audit and Risk Committee has reviewed the effectiveness Finance Corporation guidelines, for recognising the environmental of the Groups system of internal control during the year ended and social impacts and risks associated with project finance.
The 31 December 2005 and reported to the Board.
The review was Principles have been embedded in our project finance lending supported by an annual business self-certification process, which policy and procedures.
was managed by Group Internal Audit.
The Committee has also The Group continues to review and, where appropriate, reviewed the recommendations for provisions against bad or strengthen its money laundering prevention policies, procedures doubtful loans and other credit exposures.
During 2004, Standard Chartered Bank entered into a Written The Board is not aware of any material exceptions to its policies.
Agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the New York State Banking Department to address deficiencies relating to compliance with applicable federal and state laws, rules and regulations governing anti-money laundering.
The Written Agreement remained in place during 2005.
Significant remediation has been achieved and is being closely monitored by the Board.
Group Code of Conduct The Board has approved a Group Code of Conduct relating to the lawful and ethical conduct of business.
These requirements are supported by the Groups core values.
The Group Code of Conduct has been communicated to all employees.
All employees are expected to observe high standards of integrity and fair dealing in relation to customers, staff, and regulators in the communities in which the Group operates.
Social, Ethical and Environmental Responsibilities The Group complies with the guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers on socially responsible investment and reporting on social, ethical and environmental SEE matters and is committed to the communities and environments in which it operates.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that high standards of responsible business are maintained and that an effective control framework is in place.
The Group has established and maintains policies and procedures in relation to SEE related risks.
Details of these policies can be found on the Companys website: www.
Through the Groups risk management structure and control framework, the Board receives regular and adequate information to identify and assess significant risks and opportunities arising from SEE matters.
Formal training arrangements are in place for key SEE issues, including arrangements for directors.
Designated policy owners monitor risks in their area.
They also work with line management to assist them in designing procedures to ensure compliance with these requirements.
In every country, the Country Management Committee Manco supported by the Country Operational Risk Group CORG is responsible for ensuring there are risk management frameworks in place to monitor, manage and report SEE risk.
The Country Chief Executives chair both the Mancos and CORGs.
Compliance with these policies and procedures is the responsibility of all managers.
In assessing, incentivising and rewarding performance, guidance to managers was published during 2002.
This explicitly states that account should be taken of adherence to all relevant Group policies, including those associated with SEE risk.
Significant exceptions and emerging risks are escalated to senior management through clearly documented internal reporting procedures such as Manco.
