SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 30 Corporate governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Senior Independent Director The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to disclose how Anthony Habgood was appointed as Senior Independent Director with they have applied the principles of, and complied with, the provisions of effect from 1 December 2004.
The Senior Independent Director leads the the Combined Code contained in the Listing Rules the Code.
evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through The Board considers that the Company has, throughout the year discussion with the Chairman.
As part of the evaluation process, the nonunder review, complied with the best practice provisions in Section 1 executive Directors meet without the Chairman being present, and the of the Code with the exception of the succession of the Chairman, where Senior Independent Director chairs these meetings.
full disclosure was given in the 2004 Report and Accounts.
Company Secretary Application of code principles The Directors have access to the advice and services of the corporate Role of the Board Company Secretary through its appointed representative, who is The Board determines and monitors the Companys investment responsible to the Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board procedures objectives and policy, decides on individual fund investments and are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
considers the future strategic direction of the Company.
The Board is responsible for presenting a balanced and understandable assessment of Tenure the Companys position and, where appropriate, future prospects in The Directors have adopted a policy on tenure that they consider annual and interim reports and other forms of public reporting.
It appropriate for the Company as a self-managed investment trust.
The monitors and reviews the shareholder base of the Company, marketing Board does not believe that length of service, by itself, leads to a closer and shareholder communication strategies, and evaluates the relationship with the Executive.
The independence of non-executive performance of all service providers, with input from its Committees Directors will continue to be assessed on a case by case basis.
In order to where appropriate.
allow shareholders the opportunity to endorse this policy, however, any non-executive Director who has served for more than nine years will be A procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
independent professional advice at the expense of the Company has been agreed.
Induction and training When a Director is appointed he or she receives a full, formal and Composition and independence tailored induction.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are The Board currently consists of one executive and seven non-executive advised to the Board as they arise.
Profiles of each of the Directors, including age and length of service, may be found on page 16.
The Advisers to the Company also prepare reports for the Board from time to Board considers each of Francis Finlay, Anthony Habgood, Edgar Koning, time.
In addition, Directors may attend ad hoc seminars covering issues Denis Raeburn and Charles Sinclair to be independent.
The and developments relevant to the Company.
independence of each Director is considered on a continuing basis.
Performance evaluation A review of Board composition and balance, including succession The Board has adopted a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its planning for appointments to the Board, is included as part of the annual own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
performance evaluation of the Board, details of which may be found The last evaluation was completed in March 2006.
The evaluation is in below.
During the year under review, the Chairman retired and the two stages.
First, the evaluation of individual Directors is led by the composition of the Committees of the Board were refreshed.
Chairman, and the evaluation of the Chairmans performance is led by the Senior Independent Director.
Evaluation is conducted utilising a The Board is satisfied that it is of sufficient size, with an appropriate questionnaire.
Secondly, the Board evaluates its own performance and balance of skills and experience, and that no individual or group of that of its Committees.
The Board has developed criteria for use at the individuals is or has been in a position to dominate decision making.
evaluation, which focuses on the individual contribution to the Board It intends to add one new independent non-executive Director during and its Committees made by each Director and the responsibilities, the year.
composition and agenda of the Committees and of the Board itself.
The role of the Chairman The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 31 Meetings Relations with shareholders The Board held five scheduled meetings, including one strategy meeting, The Board believes that the maintenance of good relations with both during 2005.
Additional meetings were also arranged as required.
institutional and retail shareholders is important for the prospects of the Attendance at the five scheduled meetings was as set out below: Company.
It has, since its launch, sought engagement with investors.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and other Directors Meetings Maximum possible where appropriate, discuss governance and strategy with major Director attended attendance shareholders and the Chairman ensures communication of shareholders Nicholas Ferguson 5 5 views to the Board.
The Board also receives feedback on the views of Damon Buffini 2 3 shareholders from its corporate broker.
Francis Finlay 5 5 Anthony Habgood 5 5 The Board believes that the Annual General Meeting provides an Edgar Koning 3 5 appropriate forum for investors to communicate with the Board, and Denis Raeburn 5 5 encourages participation.
The Annual Report and Accounts is, when Charles Sinclair 5 5 possible, sent to shareholders at least 20 business days before the Annual Andrew Williams 5 5 General Meeting, which is normally attended by the full Board of John McLachlan 2 2 Directors.
Proceedings include a presentation on the activities of the Company.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question The Board is satisfied that each of the Chairman and the other nonthe chairmen of the Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Details executive Directors commit sufficient time to the affairs of the Company of proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to fulfil their duties as Directors.
to shareholders at the meeting.
The Board believes that the Companys policy of reporting to shareholders as soon as possible after the Information flows Companys year-end is valuable.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 88 and Management reports to the Board on at least a quarterly basis and as 89 sets out the business of the meeting.
The Chairman ensures that Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys Going concern policies, regulatory requirements and internal controls.
The Board The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the receives and considers reports regularly from its advisers and ad hoc going concern basis in preparing the accounts as the Company has reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Committees The Board has delegated certain responsibilities and functions to For this reason, and in accordance with IAS 10, they continue to adopt committees.
Terms of Reference, as well as details of membership and the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
activities for all Committees of the Board, are set out on the following pages.
The Board keeps under review the composition of each of its Committees to ensure that undue reliance is not placed on particular individuals.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 32 Corporate governance continued Internal control The Code requires the Board to review the effectiveness of internal controls.
The Board has previously undertaken a full review of all the aspects covered by the Turnbull guidance under which the Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has adopted an updated risk map that identifies significant strategic, investment-related, operational and service provider risks and adopted an enhanced monitoring system to ensure that risk management and all aspects of internal control are considered on a regular basis.
The Board believes that the key risks identified and the implementation of an on-going system to identify, evaluate and manage these risks are based upon and relevant to the Groups business as an investment trust.
The on-going risk assessment, which has been in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of this report, includes consideration of the scope and quality of the systems of internal control adopted by major service providers, and ensures regular communication of the results of monitoring by third parties to the Board, the incidence of significant control failings or weaknesses that have been identified at any time and the extent to which they have resulted in unforeseen outcomes or contingencies that may have a material impact on the Groups performance or condition.
Although the Board believes that it has a robust framework of internal control in place this can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial misstatement or loss and is designed to manage, not eliminate, risk.
Following an annual review, the Company appointed Deloitte & Touche LLP as its internal auditor and the initial programme of audit commenced in 2002.
The internal audit process is on-going and the findings of the internal auditor are reported to the Audit Committee.
The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control covering all controls including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
This assessment took into account issues arising from the reports reviewed by the Board during the year together with any additional information necessary to enable the Board to take account of all significant aspects of internal control.
