Corporate governance This statement, together with the Directors remuneration report on pages 26 to 31, explains how the Company has applied the principles set out in section 1 of the Combined Code appended to the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules.
The Financial Reporting Council issued a revised Combined Code in July 2003.
The revised Code came into effect for listed companies with reporting years beginning on or after 1 November 2003.
The Company recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of corporate governance.
The principles of good governance adopted by the Company have been applied as follows: The Board The overall strategy and objectives for the Group are agreed by the Board as a whole, with the day-to-day management being delegated to the Chief Executive and the Executive Directors, with each Executive Director being responsible for the performance of his area of the business.
The Board is also responsible for satisfying itself as to the integrity of financial information and the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management processes.
All Directors are equally accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the Groups affairs.
However, the Non-Executive Directors have a particular role to challenge constructively the strategy proposed by the Chief Executive and the Executive Directors: to scrutinise and challenge performance: assess risk and the integrity of financial information and controls: and ensure appropriate remuneration and succession planning arrangements are in place in relation to Executive Directors and other senior executive roles.
A Board performance evaluation exercise, which included the work of the Board Committees, was undertaken in spring 2005, led by the Senior Independent Director and the Chairman.
A number of small issues were identified as being areas for improvement and these will be addressed during the year.
Directors The Board currently consists of five Executive and five Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent under the terms of the Combined Code.
Mr Simon Metcalf and Mr Guy Weston joined the Board as Non-Executive Directors on 1 June 2004 and 2 February 2005, respectively.
Sir Harry Djanogly ceased to act as Senior Non-Executive Director in June 2004 and retired from the Board on 24 March 2005.
The Board met six times during the year under review and six meetings are scheduled for the current year.
The Non-Executive Directors meet privately with the Chairman and Chief Executive at least twice each year.
The Non-Executive Directors meet with no Executive Directors present at least once each year, inter alia to review the performance of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
Under the Companys Articles of Association one-third of the Board is subject to retirement and re-election each year.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Directors have agreed that every Director will submit himself or herself for re-election at least every three years regardless of whether he or she would be required to retire by rotation under the Companys current Articles of Association.
The Board does not consider it necessary to separate the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive at this stage of the Companys development.
The Chairman and Chief Executive has unrivalled knowledge of the floorcoverings market and the Board believes that it is in shareholders interests that he takes a leading role in running the Company.
Over the last two years the Board has taken steps to achieve a balanced membership of the Board with an equal number of Executive Directors and Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman is not a member of any Board Committee although he attends Committee meetings if invited.
All major decisions are taken after full consultation with the Non-Executive Directors and in accordance with the procedures specified under the Schedule of Matters reserved for the Board.
Baroness Noakes became the Senior Independent Director in June 2004.
Each Board member receives monthly trading results, commentary and an update on key business issues and prior to each Board meeting receives a full set of Board papers for each agenda item to be discussed at the meeting.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board covers key areas of the Companys affairs and this was reviewed during the year.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and the Board has established a procedure whereby Directors, wishing to do so in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
In addition, such advice may include training in order to enable them to discharge their roles and responsibilities as a Director.
All new Directors receive an induction tailored to their particular requirements.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2005 22 Attendance at Board and Committee meetings For the year to 30 April 2005 the Directors attendance at meetings was as follows: Nomination Remuneration Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Non-Executive Number of meetings: 6 4 3 6 1 Executive Directors Lord Harris 6 n a n a n a n a M J Harris 6 n a n a n a n a J Kitching 6 n a 3 n a n a D Shapland 6 n a n a n a n a C Sollesse 6 n a n a n a n a Non-Executive Directors Sir Harry Djanogly 6 n a n a 1 1 S Metcalf 5 3 n a 5 1 Baroness Noakes 6 4 n a 6 1 M Toogood 6 4 2 n a 1 G Weston 1 n a n a n a n a Baroness Wilcox 6 n a 3 6 1 Scheduled meetings for 2005 06 6 4231 Sir Harry retired from all Committee memberships in June 2004 and from the Board in March 2005.
Board Committees The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to committees, as described below.
Executive Directors attend both the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee on the request of the respective Chairman of the Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to each Committee.
The Nomination Committee comprised Mr John Kitching, Mr Martin Toogood and Baroness Wilcox Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee considers the re-appointment of Directors retiring by rotation and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors.
During the year Mr Metcalf and Mr Weston were appointed Non-Executive Directors following a recruitment process involving external, independent recruitment consultants and external, independent consultants were also engaged to recruit a Group Finance Director in succession to Mr Shapland.
Baroness Wilcox Committee Chairman and Baroness Noakes served on the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
Sir Harry Djanogly retired from the Committee in June 2004 and Mr Metcalf became a member at that time.
The terms of reference of this Committee are described fully in the Directors remuneration report on pages 26 to 31 and are available on the corporate web site www.
During the year Baroness Noakes was Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Baroness Wilcox and Sir Harry Djanogly retired from the Committee in June 2004 when Mr Metcalf and Mr Toogood joined the Committee.
All the current Committee members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee, which meets at least four times a year, reviews the Companys interim and annual financial statements before submission for approval by the Board and considers any matters raised by the auditors.
In addition it reviews the Companys risk management, internal controls, internal audit procedures and the independence of the external auditors and advises the Board on such matters.
Regular attendees at Audit Committee meetings include the Chairman and Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the Head of Internal Audit.
The Committee regularly meets with the external auditors without the presence of management and similarly with the Head of Internal Audit.
Carpetrights policy is for the auditors to carry out mainly audit and assurance related activities.
The policy was reviewed and updated by the Audit Committee and approved by the Board during the year.
The policy places a premium upon the auditors independence and the auditors are only allowed to undertake non-audit work if this is in line with the policy to ensure that the auditors independence had not been compromised.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2005 23 Corporate governance continued Internal control In accordance with the Turnbull Report the Directors are required to report on their review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Companys and the Groups systems of internal control and for monitoring their effectiveness.
In order to fulfill this responsibility and safeguard shareholder investment and the Companys and the Groups assets, the Directors have established an organisational framework with clear operational procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
The key elements of the Groups systems of internal control are as follows: Identification of business risks The Board is responsible for identifying the major business risks faced by the Group, and determining a suitable response.
To further improve this procedure, during the year the Group established an Executive Directors Group the EDs Group with the objective of identifying and assessing risks to the Companys three-year strategy.
The EDs Group directs the Risk Management Committee, which has been in existence for several years, to provide a risk response to each of the identified risks.
The EDs Group reports on the control environment to the Audit Committee.
The Risk Management Committee comprises the senior management team and reviews, on a monthly basis, the risk management and control process and considers the response to the significant risks which have been identified by management and others and the maintenance of a control environment directed towards the proper management of risk.
The Risk Management Committee oversees the maintenance of risk registers for each department which are an essential tool in the ongoing management of risk throughout the business.
The Corporate Responsibility, Health and Safety and Reputational Risk Sub-Committees, each of which meet at least three times a year, report to the Risk Management Committee.
Health and Safety Enforcing the Health and Safety policy is a high priority for management and fully descriptive manuals are available to all staff, supported by a training programme for stores, distribution centres and the central support office.
Risk assessments are undertaken for all procedures and safe systems of work devised for all procedures involving physical risk.
Failure to adhere to safe systems of work or following unsafe working practices will be subject to review and, if necessary, disciplinary proceedings.
Health and safety issues are included as part of the internal audit review of all premises.
Procedures documentation Business Procedures and Systems Procedures Manuals are available to provide staff with a reliable source of reference on all Company procedures.
Procedures are reviewed regularly and updates are issued as necessary via a weekly bulletin to all stores and central departments.
Compliance with procedures and controls has been augmented by the use of a Store Action Report Book to assist managers with planning.
Planning The Group operates a comprehensive planning system together with formal reviews and approval of annual budgets by the Board.
Actual performance is reported on a monthly basis and measured against the Budget and the prior year and a detailed explanation of significant variances is provided.
Key performance indicators are monitored weekly.
Control procedures The Group has control procedures designed to provide a complete and accurate record of financial transactions, to ensure correct accounting and to minimise the possible exposure to fraudulent transactions.
The Board believes that the measures taken, including physical controls, separation of duties and management reviews provide suitable assurance.
Any issues raised by the Groups auditors or the internal audit function are fully reviewed and considered.
Where necessary, separate working parties are set up to investigate and recommend means of addressing significant areas of concern, in addition to the work undertaken by the Risk Management Committee.
The Internal Audit function undertakes its work, both on central functions and in the field, based on a risk analysis.
In particular, regular store audits take place at varying frequencies based upon a risk model so that audit input is commensurate with identified control risks.
During the year an external whistleblowing service was engaged to provide an independent point of contact for any member of staff to raise concerns they were unable to raise direct with their line manager.
Concerns may be reported anonymously.
Monitoring and effectiveness On behalf of the Board the Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, by reviewing the internal audit programme and its findings, by reviewing the work of the Executive Directors Group, reviewing the half year and annual financial statements, and the nature and scope of the external audit.
Any significant findings or identifiable risks are examined closely so that appropriate action may be taken, or directed.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of its systems of internal control during the year.
In particular, a Risk Register is reviewed regularly and updated annually as a means of identifying and evaluating the significant risks which affect the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
However, such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2005 24 Relations with shareholders The Company maintains good communications with shareholders.
The Executive Directors meet regularly with representatives of institutional shareholders to discuss the strategies and objectives of the Company.
Investors are welcome to meet with the Non-Executive Directors if they wish to do so and have such an opportunity at the Preliminary and Interim Announcements which are attended by the Senior Independent Director and other Non Executives.
Other arrangements are made during the year and investors have an open invitation to contact the Directors at any time.
In accordance with the Companys usual practice, there will be a brief statement by the Chairman at the Annual General Meeting on current trading conditions, followed by further trading updates as listed on the Calendar on the inner back cover.
It is intended that the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees will attend the Annual General Meeting.
All shareholders will have at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
As required by the Code the Board will, at the 2005 Annual General Meeting, announce the proxy votes in favour of and against each resolution following a vote by a show of hands, and the votes cast will be posted on the corporate web site.
Accountability and audit The Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the accounts is set out on page 32.
The Statement by the Auditors on their responsibilities in respect of the accounts is contained in their report on page 33.
Details of the auditors remuneration for audit work and non-audit fees for the periods ended 30 April 2005 and 1 May 2004 are disclosed in Note 3 to the Accounts.
Going concern The Groups accounts have been prepared on the basis that the Group will continue to be a going concern for the foreseeable future.
In forming this opinion the Directors have reviewed the Companys budget for the year ending 29 April 2006 and outline projections for the subsequent two years, including capital expenditure and cash flow forecasts.
Corporate Social Responsibility The Company is very aware of its responsibilities to the wider community and has a Corporate Social Responsibility policy which is available on the corporate web site www.
The policy includes relations with staff, shareholders and the community, trade bodies and suppliers and charitable and political donations and will be updated at least annually.
Compliance with the Combined Code The Company complied with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the period ended 30 April 2005 except provision A.
2.1 as the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are combined, as discussed above.
In addition, the independent Non-Executive Directors did not comprise 50% of the Board in accordance with provision A.
3.2 until Mr Metcalf and Mr Weston had been appointed and Sir Harry Djanogly had retired from the Board in March.
Our auditor,  LLP, has reviewed the Directors statement on the Companys compliance to the extent required by the listing rules and its report appears on page 33.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2005 25
