Corporate governance APPLICATION OF COMBINED CODE information on the financial condition of the Company.
PRINCIPLES Key representatives of IIM attend each Board meeting The Board attaches great importance to ensuring enabling directors to probe on matters of concern or that the Company operates to high ethical and seek clarification on certain issues.
In addition, the Board seeks There were seven Board meetings, three audit to observe the principles set out in the UK Listing committee meetings and four nomination committee Authoritys Combined Code on Corporate meetings held during the year and the attendance by Governance insofar as these are consistent with the the directors was as follows: Companys status and objectives as an investment Number of meetings attended trust.
Audit Nomination The Board also complies with the Code of Corporate Board Committee Committee Governance published by the Association of Investment Trust Companies as far as practical.
The John Reeve 7 3 4 Code provides a guide to best practice in certain Gary Allen 5 1 3 areas of governance where the specific June fide Moller 3 1 1 characteristics of investment trusts suggest that John Hudson 3 1 alternative approaches to those set out in the Richard Jewson 7 2 4 Combined Code may be preferable.
Martin Riley 7 3 4 Field Walton 7 3 4 COMPLIANCE WITH THE DETAILED PROVISIONS OF THE COMBINED CODE appointed a director on 23 May 2005 Operation of the Board resigned as a director on 29 March 2005 Each of the directors is independent of any association with the management company which Independence of the Directors might interfere with the exercise of independent Each of the directors is independent of any judgement.
There is a formal schedule of matters to association with the management company and has be specifically approved by the Board and individual no other relationships or circumstances which might directors may seek independent advice at the be perceived to interfere with the exercise of expense of the Company within certain limits.
Two of the six directors Mr Board has delegated the investment management, Reeve and Mr Walton have served on the Board for within clearly defined parameters and dealing limits, more than nine years from the date of their first and the administration of the business to Investec election, but given the nature of the Company as an Investment Management Limited IIM.
The Board investment trust and the strongly independent makes all strategic decisions, reviews the mindset of the individuals involved, the Board is firmly performance of the Company at Board meetings of the view that all of the directors can be considered and sets the objectives for the Managers.
In arriving at this conclusion the directors have a range of business and financial skills Board makes a clear distinction between the activities or experience relevant to the direction of the of an investment trust and a conventional trading Company.
Mr G J Allen is the Senior Independent company.
An investment trust has no employees or Director.
executive directors, the only significant relationship being with the management company.
In overseeing The Company Secretary is responsible to the this relationship it is the view of the Board that long Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board procedures service aids the understanding, judgement, objectivity are followed and for compliance with applicable rules and independence of the directors and in no way and regulations including the Combined Code.
detracts from any of these qualities.
Appointment or removal of the nominated representative of the Corporate Company Re-election of directors Secretary the Company Secretary is a matter Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders for the Board as a whole.
at the first AGM following their appointment and, thereafter, are subject to retirement by rotation at The content and presentation of Board papers intervals of no more than three years.
In addition, the circulated before each meeting contain sufficient TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 17 Corporate governance continued appointment of each director is reviewed by other Nomination Committee members of the Board every year.
Directors are not, A nomination committee has been established to therefore, subject to automatic reappointment.
Nonoversee a formal review procedure governing the executive directors are not appointed for specified appointment of new directors and to evaluate the terms.
Because of the nature of an investment trust overall composition of the Board from time to time, the Board believes that the contribution and taking into account the existing balance of skills and independence of a director is not diminished by long knowledge.
During the year it was decided to service and, conversely, that a more detailed appoint a new director to the Board.
A search knowledge of the Company and its business has a consultant was not used for these purposes as it beneficial impact.
was felt that the directors could identify a candidate of sufficient quality from a list of contacts already The directors due to stand for annual re-election at known to them without recourse to external the forthcoming AGM are Mr Reeve and Mr Walton.
Mrs fide Moller is due to stand for re-election at the AGM, being the first since her appointment as a The committee is also responsible for assessing the director in May 2005.
The Board has carefully individual performance of directors and for making considered the position of each of these directors recommendations as to whether they should remain and believes it would be appropriate for them to be in office.
This committee is chaired by Mr Reeve.
In arriving at this Upon appointment to the Board each director recommendation the Board is mindful of the fact that receives relevant background information on the four of the directors currently on the Board have Company together with a summary of the duties and served for less than five years.
The Board has, responsibilities of directors.
When a director is therefore, been altered relatively recently.
Each of the appointed an induction meeting is arranged by the directors continues to be effective and to display an Manager covering details about the Company, its undiminished enthusiasm and commitment to the Manager, legal responsibilities, investment role.
processes and investment trust industry matters.
Chairman Directors have also taken part in various training The Chairman is also non-executive chairman of one specific to non-executive directors, including other quoted company and a director of a number of courses and conferences run by the AITC.
He does not have a full time Board Audit Committee Nomination executive role in any organisation and the Board is Committee Director ongoing evaluation satisfied that he has sufficient time available to On an annual basis the Board formally reviews its discharge fully his responsibility as Chairman of the performance, together with that of the audit and Company.
nomination committees and the effectiveness and Audit Committee contribution of the individual directors within the The audit committee is a formally constituted context of service on those bodies.
The review committee of the Board with defined terms of encompasses an assessment of how cohesively reference which are available for inspection at the these bodies work as a whole as well as the AGM and can be inspected at the Registered Office performance of the individuals within them.
It normally meets twice yearly and basis of these reviews the Board has concluded that among its specific responsibilities are the review of it has a proper balance of skills and is operating the Companys annual and half yearly results, effectively.
together with associated documentation, and the Relations with Shareholders review of the internal and financial controls Shareholder relations are given high priority by both applicable to the management company.
All of the the Board and the Manager.
The principal medium directors are members of the audit committee and by which the Company communicates with the Chairman is Mr Allen.
The auditors are invited to shareholders is through the interim and annual attend the audit committee meeting at which the reports.
The information contained therein is annual accounts are considered and any other supplemented by regular NAV announcements and meetings that the Committee deem necessary.
by a monthly factsheet available on the Companys website.
TEMPLE BAR INVESTMENT TRUST 18 Corporate governance continued The Board largely delegates responsibility for The Board has also established a series of communication with shareholders to the investment parameters, which are reviewed annually, management company and, through feedback, designed to limit the risk inherent in managing a expects to be able to develop an understanding of portfolio of investments.
The safeguarding of assets their views.
The current shareholding constituency of is entrusted to an independent reputable custodian the Company is such that there is only one major with whom the holdings are regularly reconciled.
All members of the Board are willing to The effectiveness of the overall system of internal meet with shareholders at any time for the purpose control is reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
of discussing matters in relation to the operation and Such a system can provide only reasonable and not prospects of the Company.
absolute assurance against material misstatement The Board welcomes investors to attend the AGM or loss.
The Board believes that there is a robust and encourages questions and discussion on issues framework of internal controls in place to meet the of concern or areas of uncertainty.
In addition, requirements of the Combined Code.
special arrangements have been established to The Board receives reports from its advisers on allow Temple Bar Savings Scheme investors to internal control matters and does not believe that participate fully at annual general meetings.
A there is scope or necessity for an internal audit separate resolution will be proposed at the AGM in function in addition to that employed by the respect of each substantially separate issue.
This matter is subject to periodic review.
Following the formal AGM proceedings the Manager Based on the foregoing the Group and the Company makes a presentation to the meeting outlining the has a continuing process for identifying, evaluating key investment issues that face the Company.
and managing the risks it faces.
This process has Accountability, Internal Controls and Audit been in place for the reporting period and to the date The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that all of this report and is regularly reviewed by the Board documents released by the Group and the in accordance with the requirements of the Internal Company, including the Annual Report, present a fair Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined and accurate assessment of the Group and the Code the Turnbull Guidance and the Combined Companys position and prospects.
After making enquiries, the directors have a Socially Responsible Investment reasonable expectation that the Group and the The Board believes that its primary duty is to act in Company has adequate resources to continue in the best financial interests of the Company and its operational existence for the foreseeable future, shareholders.
While the Board takes account of the including recourse to a 7.5 million overdraft facility ethical stance of investee companies on matters with HSBC Bank.
Accordingly, the directors such as the environment or society as a whole, the continue to adopt the going concern basis in ultimate objective is to deliver superior investment preparing the accounts.
The directors are responsible for the Group and the Exercise of Voting Rights Companys system of internal control and for The Managers have been instructed to vote on reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to facilitate the behalf of the Company in accordance with control process the Board has requested the recommendations put forward by the National Managers to confirm annually that they have Association of Pension Funds NAPF.
Should the conducted the Group and the Companys affairs in Managers wish to vote in a different way to the compliance with the legal and regulatory obligations recommendation of the NAPF this requires the which apply to the Group and the Company and to specific approval of the Board.
report on the systems and procedures within Investec which are applicable to the management of Temple Bars affairs.
The Board meets on seven scheduled occasions in each year and at each meeting receives sufficient financial and statistical information to enable it to monitor adequately the investment performance and status of the business.
