TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Company is committed to maintaining the highest standard of Corporate Governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for governance of the Companys affairs and this statement describes how the Company has applied the relevant principles.
Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance July 2003 The Board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance July 2003 throughout the year ended 30 April 2005.
AITC Code of Corporate Governance The Directors of TEMIT have considered the provisions of the AITC Code of Corporate Governance and have complied with all material aspects of this Code.
Internal Control The Directors are responsible for overseeing the effectiveness of the internal control systems for the Company, which are designed to ensure that proper accounting records are maintained, that the financial information on which the business decisions are made and which are issued for publication is reliable, and that the assets of the Company are safeguarded.
The Combined Code also requires the Directors to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls.
The Directors, through the procedures outlined below, have kept procedures under review throughout the period covered by these financial statements and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board has identified risk management controls in the key areas of business objectives, accounting, compliance, operations and secretarial as areas for the extended review.
This accords with the guidance in Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report.
The Board recognises its ultimate responsibility for the Companys system of internal controls and for monitoring its effectiveness and believes that an appropriate framework is in place to meet the requirements of the Combined Code.
The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing risks that the Company is exposed to.
This process is conducted throughout the year and has been conducted up to the date of signing of this report.
It has, however, to be understood that systems of internal control, however carefully designed, operated and supervised, can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company does not have its own internal audit function but places reliance on the internal audit, compliance and other control functions of its service providers.
Performance Evaluation The Board has undertaken an evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and of the individual Directors who are being recommended for election and re-election.
Information and Professional Development The Board is supplied, via the Company Secretary, with regular information to enable the Directors to discharge their duties.
The Company Secretary provides the Board with regular updates on regulatory issues and on the latest corporate governance rules and guidelines.
Investment Manager During the year, Templeton Asset Management Ltd TAML acted as investment managers to the Company under an investment management agreement and received from the Company a monthly fee at an annual rate of 1.00% of the net assets of the Company.
The agreement between the Company and TAML can be terminated by either party giving the other one years notice of termination.
30 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued The Board keeps under review the performance of TAML as Investment Manager to the Company.
In the opinion of the Directors the continuing appointment of TAML on the agreed terms is in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole.
The Directors believe that TAML is well resourced to act as investment manager to the Company and well equipped to identify attractive investment opportunities.
Secretarial and Administration Manager During the year FTIML acted as Secretary and Administrator of the Company and received a monthly fee at an annual rate of 0.25% of the total net assets of the Company.
The agreement between the Company and FTIML can be terminated by either party giving the other one years notice of termination.
The Directors also keep under regular review the performance of FTIML as Secretarial and Administration Managers.
Directors The Board currently comprises eight Non-Executive Directors, seven of whom are independent from Franklin Templeton Investments, the management group.
The Chairman is Non-Executive and independent from the management.
On 21 September 2004, the Nomination & Remuneration Committee appointed Peter Smith as the Senior Independent Director.
The Directors biographies are set out on pages 5 to 8.
The Directors meet quarterly and retain full and effective control over the Company through the monitoring of the management team of TAML the Investment Manager, and FTIML the Secretary and Administrator.
The Board is responsible for investment policy and has a schedule of matters reserved for the resolution of the Directors for safeguarding shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The table below lists the number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there were seven Board Meetings, three Audit Committee Meetings and one Nomination and Remuneration Committee Meeting.
Nomination and Board Meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Director Attended Meetings Attended Meetings Attended Sir Ronald Hampel 7 1 Nicholas F Brady 4 1 Sir Peter Burt 2 Sam L Ginn 6 Peter C Godsoe 6 3 Charles B Johnson 6 Andrew S B Knight 7 2 Geoffrey A Langlands 6 1 Peter Smith 4 3 Nicholas F Brady resigned on 21 September 2004.
Sir Peter Burt was appointed on 1 October 2004.
31 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued The Board established a Nomination & Remuneration Committee in February 2002, which currently comprises Sam L Ginn Chairman, Sir Ronald Hampel and Geoffrey A Langlands.
The role of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee is to review regularly the Board structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that seem appropriate, to consider the rotation and renewal of the Board, approve the candidate specification for all Board appointments, approve the process by which suitable candidates are identified and short listed, and to nominate candidates for consideration by the full board, whose responsibility it is formally to make appointments.
In addition, the Committee reviews the level of Directors fees periodically relative to other comparable companies and in the light of the Directors responsibilities.
The Companys Articles of Association require newly appointed Directors to submit themselves for election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting and Directors are then subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
All Directors serving longer than nine years as well as Directors over the age of 70 offer themselves for annual re-election.
Accountability and Audit In 1994 the Board established an Audit Committee, which currently comprises Peter Smith Chairman, Sir Peter Burt and Peter C Godsoe.
The audit committee plays an important role in the appraisal and supervision of key aspects of the Companys business including financial reporting and internal controls.
The Companys Audit Committee meets representatives of the Investment Manager and its Compliance Officer, who report as to the proper conduct of business in accordance with the regulatory environment in which both the Company and the Manager operate.
The Companys external auditors also attend the Committee at its request, at least once a year, and report on their work procedures, the quality of the Companys accounting procedures and their findings in relation to the Companys statutory accounts.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include review of the internal financial controls, accounting policies, financial statements, the management contract, the auditors appointment and remuneration.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee have been updated to reflect the recommendations of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance July 2003.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee is available to shareholders on request via Client Dealer Services at FTIML using the contact details provided on page 58.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness and independence of the Companys external auditors and the outcome of the review was satisfactory.
Remuneration Details of the remuneration policy are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Boards policy is that the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors should reflect the experience of the Board as a whole, be fair and comparable to that of other investment trusts similar in size, capital structure and investment objective.
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are currently determined within the limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association, and they are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options, long-term incentive schemes or other benefits in accordance with other long standing investment trusts.
Proxy Voting As an institutional investor, the Company recognises its responsibility that the companies in which it invests should aspire to appropriate levels of corporate governance.
As a matter of policy, the Company aims to vote its shares of the relevant underlying portfolio companies at the annual general meetings of these companies.
32 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT continued Contact with Shareholders At each Annual General Meeting of the Company, Dr Mark Mobius, the investment manager, briefs shareholders on the investment outlook of the Company.
In addition, on behalf of the Board, he has periodic meetings with the Companys major shareholders throughout the year to discuss aspects of the Companys performance.
Furthermore, the members of the Board are available during the year for any significant matters arising and are present in person at the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders may contact the members of the Board via Client Dealer Services at FTIML using the contact details provided on page 58.
Social, Ethical & Environmental Activities SEE As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or environmental responsibilities.
Its ethical policy is focused on ensuring that its funds are properly managed and invested within the guidelines approved by the Board.
The Board receives regular reports on the policies and controls in place.
The Investment Manager invests in companies that it considers to be well managed and subject to appropriate corporate governance.
A well managed company is one which complies with all the relevant legislation and which meets the social and environmental requirements of the country in which it operates.
It is important to recognise that local laws and requirements do not necessarily equate with those of developed countries.
