Corporate Governance Introduction identified, covering financial, operational, compliance and The Board of Directors the Board the directors is risk management, is embedded in the controls of the accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Company by a series of regular investment performance Companys affairs.
and attribution statements, financial and risk analyses and Fund Manager reports, and quarterly control reports.
Key This statement describes how the principles of the risks have been identified and controls put in place to Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code, mitigate them, including those not directly the issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, responsibility of the Investment Manager.
have been applied to the affairs of the Company.
In applying the principles of the Code, the directors have also The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed on a taken account of the Code of Corporate Governance continuing basis by the Compliance and Risk departments published by the Association of Investment Trust of the Investment Manager, the Administrator and the Companies the AITC Code, which established the Corporate Secretary.
Each maintain their own systems of framework of best practice specifically for the Boards of internal controls, and the Board and Audit Committee investment trust companies.
The principles laid down by receive regular reports from them.
The control systems are the two Codes are similar but there are some areas where designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance the AITC Code is more specifically applicable to against material misstatement or loss and to manage, rather investment trust companies.
than eliminate, risk of failure to achieve objectives.
The directors believe that, during the period under review, The Board has established a process for identifying, they have complied with the provisions of the Code evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the insofar as they apply to the Companys business and with Company.
The process is subject to regular review by the the provisions of the AITC Code.
Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September Application of the Codes Principles 1999 the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board attaches importance to the matters set out in both the Code and the AITC Code and observes the The Board undertakes an annual review of the Companys relevant Main and Supporting Principles.
It should be noted system of internal controls, and the business risks have that, as an investment trust, most of the Companys day to been analysed and recorded in a risk map that is day responsibilities are delegated to third parties and the reviewed regularly.
The Board receives each quarter a directors are all non-executive.
Thus, not all the provisions formal report from each of the Investment Manager, the of the Code are directly applicable to the Company.
Administrator and the Corporate Secretary detailing the steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those Internal Controls that are not directly their responsibility, and which report The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys the details of any known internal control failures.
systems of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Investment Manager is responsible for The Company does not have an internal audit function: it the day to day investment management decisions on delegates to third parties its day to day operations and behalf of the Company.
Accounting and Company does not employ any staff.
The Board will continue to Secretarial services have both been outsourced.
A monitor its system of internal controls in order to provide statement of these responsibilities is shown on page 24 in assurance that it operates as intended and the directors the Report of the Directors.
review annually whether a function equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
The internal controls aim to ensure that assets of the Company are safeguarded, proper accounting records are Board Independence and Composition maintained, and the financial information used within the The Board currently consists of five directors, all of whom business and for publication is reliable.
Control of the risks are non-executive.
26 TR Property Investment Trust Corporate Governance continued Following the introduction of the Code the directors have membership and appointments.
In order to enable them to reviewed their independence.
No director has served on discharge their responsibilities, all directors have full and the Board for more than 9 years, none have any other timely access to relevant information.
At each meeting, the links to the Investment Manager, all have other Board reviews the Companys investment performance and professional employment.
Accordingly, all directors are considers financial analyses and other reports of an regarded as being free of any conflicts of interest and no operational nature.
The Board monitors compliance with issues in respect of independence arise.
the Companys objectives and is responsible for setting asset allocation, investment and gearing limits within which The Board subscribes to the AITC Code view that length the Fund Manager has discretion to act and thus of tenure is not in itself felt to be an issue, rather the supervises the management of the investment portfolio, directors contribution.
The Board is conscious of the need which is contractually delegated to the Investment to maintain continuity on the Board, and believes that Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the approval of retaining directors with sufficient experience of both the unquoted investments and any investments in in-house Company and the markets is of great benefit to funds managed or advised by the Investment Manager.
also has adopted a procedure for directors, in the The directors biographies, on page 21, demonstrate the furtherance of their duties, to take independent breadth of investment, commercial and professional professional advice at the expense of the Company.
experience relevant to their positions as directors of the The number of meetings of the Board and the Audit Company.
Committee held during the year under review, and the Chairman attendance of individual directors, are shown below.
The Chairman is Mr Salsbury, a non-executive director.
Meetings Board Audit Since all the directors are non-executive, and day to day No.
of meetings in the year6 2 management responsibilities have been sub-contracted, Alastair Ross Goobey 2 1 the Company does not have a Chief Executive Officer.
Peter Salsbury 62 Caroline Burton 62 Senior Independent Director Jeremy Newsum 62 Richard Stone 62 A senior non-executive director has not been identified as Peter Wolton 2 the Board considers all the directors have different Mr Ross Goobey retired from the Board and as Chairman from the close of the qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead Annual General Meeting held on 26 July 2004.
He therefore attended only the first when issues arise, and to whom concerns can be 2 Board meetings and the first Audit Committee meeting during the financial year.
Mr Wolton was appointed on 31 January 2005, and therefore attended only the conveyed.
final 2 Board meetings during the financial year.
Meetings With the exception of Mr Wolton, all the directors attended the Annual General Meeting in July 2004.
Currently the Board meets at least six times per annum and is responsible for the effective stewardship of the In addition to formal Board and Committee meetings, Companys affairs.
Certain strategic issues have been directors also attend a number of informal meetings to considered at various meetings of the Board and represent the interests of the Group.
additional meetings of the Board may be arranged as required.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters Board Committees specifically reserved for its decision, which are categorised The Board has established an Audit Committee as set out under various headings including strategy, management, below.
The Board has not established a Nominations structure, capital, financial reporting, internal controls, Committee, and has disestablished the Management gearing, asset allocation, share price discount, contracts, Engagement Committee.
The functions of each are carried investment policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, out by the full Board as part of the agendas of normal performance, corporate governance and Board Board meetings.
TR Property Investment Trust 27 Corporate Governance continued The Board carries out an annual review of the Investment Directors Remuneration As the Board has no executive directors and no employees Management Agreement, the Administration Agreement and the Company Secretarial Agreement, and reviews the and is comprised solely of non-executives, it does not have a Remuneration Committee.
T he Company therefore is not services provided.
In addition, the Board annually reviews its size and structure, and is responsible for succession required to comply with the principles of the Code in respect of executive directors remuneration.
T he Board determines and planning.
The Board has an open mind regarding the use of external recruitment consultants or internal process, and approves directors fees following proper consideration, having regard to the level of fees payable to non-executive directors in has chosen to combine both routes to ensure best practice.
This was the case in the appointment of Mr Wolton.
the industry generally, the role that individual directors fulfil in respect of Board and Committee responsibilities and the time Audit Committee committed to the Companys affairs.
The Audit Committee the Committee comprises all the The Companys Articles of Association limit the aggregate members of the Board: Mr W olton was appointed a member on 31 January 2005.
The Committee Chairman is Mr Stone.
fees payable to the Board to a total of 150,000 per annum.
Detailed information on the remuneration arrangements for The Board has satisfied itself that at least one Committee member has recent and relevant financial experience.
the directors of the Company can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 22.
The Committee has written terms of reference, which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
These can be T enure Policy found on the website, are available on request, and will No director has a contract of employment with the also be available for inspection at the AG M. Company.
Directors terms and conditions for appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available The Committee meets at least twice each year to review for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company the internal financial and non-financial controls, to consider and will be available at the AG M. and recommend to the Board for approval the contents of the draft Interim and Annual Reports to shareholders, and The Articles of Association provide that up to one-third of to review the accounting policies and significant financial the directors must retire by rotation, but may then offer reporting judgements.
In addition, the Committee reviews themselves for re-election at each AG M. The terms of the the Auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, directors appointments also provide that a director shall appointment, remuneration, the quality of the services of be subject to election at the first AG M after appointment the service providers to the Company, and, together with and at least every three years thereafter.
the Investment Manager, reviews the Companys The Board believes that each of the directors exercises compliance with financial reporting and regulatory independent judgement and that length of service does requirements.
Representatives of the Investment not diminish the contribution from a director: indeed a Managers, Administrators and Corporate Secretarial directors experience and extensive knowledge of the internal audit and compliance departments may attend Company is a positive benefit to the Board.
Moreover, these meetings at the Chairmans request.
long-serving directors are less likely to take a short-term Representatives of Ernst & Y oung LLP, the Companys view.
This view is supported by the AITC Code.
auditors, attend the Committee meetings at which the Under the Companys Articles of Association all directors draft Annual Report and Accounts are reviewed, and are must retire by the next annual general meeting after they given the opportunity to speak to the Committee members attain the age of 70. without the presence of the representatives of the Investment Manager.
Directors Training When a new director is appointed he or she is offered The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at training by the Investment Manager.
Directors are also the AG M to deal with questions relating to the Accounts.
28 TR Property Investment Trust Corporate Governance continued provided on a regular basis with key information on the Investment Manager should be retained.
At its meeting in Companys activities, including regulatory and statutory May 2005, the Board confirmed that Thames River Capital requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting UK Limited should be retained asthe Investment directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they Manager for the financial year ending 31 March 2006. arise.
Directors ensure that they are updated on regulatory, In the opinion of the directors the continuing appointment statutory and industry issues.
of the Investment Manager on the terms agreed is in the Performance Evaluation interests of the Companys shareholders as a whole.
In order to review the effectiveness of the Board, the Audit The Board has delegated contractually to external third Committee and the individual directors, the Chairman has parties, including the Investment Manager, the put in place and carried out an appraisal process.
This was management of the investment portfolio, the custodial implemented by way of a questionnaire and interviews with services which include the safeguarding of the assets, the Chairman.
In respect of the Chairman, interviews were the day to day accounting, company secretarial, held between the Chairman and the Chairman of the Audit administration and registration services.
The process is considered by the Board to be contracts was entered into after full and proper constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the functioning and performance of the Board and the services offered, including the control systems in operation Committee, the contribution of individual directors, as well insofar as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
as building on and developing individual and collective strengths.
The Chairman confirms that, in light of the The Board receives and considers regular reports from the formal performance evaluation, the performance of each of Investment Manager, the Administrator and the Corporate the directors being recommended for re-election continues Secretary, and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to his or to the Board as required.
her role, including commitment of time for Board and Financial Reporting Committee meetings and any other duties.
A Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the The performance of the Company is considered in detail at Accounts is set out on page 30.
The Report of the each Board meeting.
Independent Auditors is set out on page 31, and the Statement of Going Concern on page 25.
The Board has direct access to company secretarial advice and services provided by Henderson Secretarial Services Voting Policy Limited which, through its nominated representative, is The Board has approved a corporate governance voting responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee policy which, in its opinion, accords with current best practice procedures are followed and that applicable regulations whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
During the year the Company has Socially Responsible Investment maintained insurance cover in respect of legal action Good corporate governance extends to a companys against the directors.
policies on the environment, employment, human rights Appointment of the Investment Manager and community relationships.
Corporations are playing an The Board reviews the performance of the Investment increasingly important role in global economic activity and Manager at each Board meeting, and is responsible for the the adoption of good corporate governance enhances a regular review of the terms of the management companys economic prospects by reducing the risk of agreement.
Given the recent move to a new Investment government and regulatory intervention and any ensuing Manager, this review will be conducted at least annually to damage to its business or reputation.
ensure the terms are competitive and sensible to The Companys policy remains the long term maximisation shareholders.
The Board has established a procedure of shareholders total return.
whereby it will decide each year whether or not the TR Property Investment Trust 29
