Corporate Governance Background The Board meets at least ten times a year and deals with the most The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to disclose important aspects of the Companys affairs, including the setting of how they have applied the principles and complied with the parameters for and the monitoring of investment strategy, the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance review of investment performance and the extent to which the Code.
The Chief Executive officer is responsible to the Board for the overall management of the Company.
His Throughout the year under review the Code in force was the duties include leading on investment strategy and asset allocation, Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the on the selection and monitoring of the investment managers and Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
In addition, the AITC their terms of reference, on the use of derivatives and for all other Code of Corporate Governance, issued by the Association of aspects of the Companys affairs, including shareholder relations, Investment Trust Companies in July 2003, applies to the marketing, investment trust industry matters, administration and Company the AITC Code.
The Chief Executive officer reports to each meeting of the Board.
His report includes Application of the Principles of the Code conrmation from each of the investment managers that they The Company is committed to high standards of corporate have carried out their duties in accordance with the terms of their governance and the Board attaches importance to the matters set investment mandates and conrmation that the Boards out in the Code and applies its principles.
However, as an investment limits and restrictions have been adhered to, including investment trust company, most of the Companys day to day those which govern the Companys tax status as an investment responsibilities are delegated to third parties and all but one of trust.
The investment managers take decisions as to the purchase the directors are non-executive.
and sale of individual investments and are responsible for effecting those decisions on the best available terms.
The Chairman is The Board responsible for ensuring that the directors are provided, in a timely The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
manner, with management, regulatory and financial information Its role is to provide leadership within a framework of prudent and that is clear, accurate and relevant, whether from the Chief effective controls that enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the Companys strategic aims subject to the Representatives of the investment managers attend Board Companys memorandum and articles of association, and to such meetings on a regular basis, enabling the directors to monitor the approval of the shareholders in general meeting as may be required management of the Companys assets, to seek clarification on from time to time and ensures that the necessary resources are in specic issues or to probe further on any points of concern.
place to enable the Companys objectives to be met.
Matters specically reserved for decision by the full Board have been dened and there is an agreed procedure for directors, in The Board currently consists of ten directors, the majority of the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional whom are independent of Henderson Global Investors Limited advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The directors which was the Companys Manager until 2004 and remains one have access to the advice and services of the corporate company of the Companys investment managers and all of whom are secretary, through its appointed representative, who is responsible independent of the Companys five new investment managers.
to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
With the sole exception of the Chief Executive officer, the When a director is appointed he or she is offered a tailored directors are all non-executive.
Their biographical details, set out introductory programme.
Directors are also provided, on a on page 2, demonstrate a breadth of investment, industrial, regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, commercial and professional experience with an international regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting directors responsibilities are advised to the 21 Corporate Governance continued Board as they arise.
Directors are encouraged to attend suitable issues arise.
In addition the Board has appointed separate training courses on an ongoing basis at the Companys expense.
chairmen to lead its two permanent committees.
Accordingly, any concerns can be conveyed to the director most qualied to Directors are appointed for specified terms, subject to re-election address the subject.
and to the provisions of the Companies Act.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association, new directors stand for Board Committees election at the first annual general meeting following their The Board has established Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Board has agreed that every director will stand The Remuneration Committee has responsibility for the duties for re-election at intervals of not more than three years.
The of the former Nominations Committee.
The duties of the former Boards report on the independence of the directors is set out on Management Engagement Committee are now the responsibility pages 14 and 15. of the Chief Executive officer.
The membership of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee is set out on The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the pages 2 and 15.
Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by the appointment of new directors with the skills and experience Audit Committee necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by directors The Committee comprises three non-executive directors retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their appointed by the Board: the Board also appoints the Chairman.
commitment to the Company, including in terms of time.
The The Committee held four meetings during the year, at three of Board seeks to encompass relevant past and current experience which representatives of the auditors were present.
Its of various areas, the most important skill-sets being investment programme is to meet at least three times a year: in advance of management, finance, marketing, financial services, risk the publication of both the annual and the interim results and management, custody and settlement, and investment banking.
on at least one other occasion with an agenda that is focused on its broader responsibilities.
The Boards procedure in 2005 for evaluating the performance of the Board, its Committees and the individual directors was The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the directors in by means of individual meetings of the Chairman with each applying financial reporting and internal control principles and to of the directors.
A meeting of the directors was then held, maintain an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors.
without the Chairman present, to evaluate his performance.
The evaluation process is designed to show whether individual The Committee is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the directors continue to contribute effectively to the Board and to Companys financial statements, including consideration of the clarify the strengths and weaknesses of the Boards composition Companys accounting policies and significant reporting and processes.
The Chairman has taken the lead in acting on judgements.
It reviews the Companys internal financial controls the results of the evaluation process, mindful of the and risk management systems.
It reviews the scope and requirement to refresh the composition of the Board from time effectiveness of the audit process and monitors the auditors to time without reducing the stability, sense of purpose and independence and objectivity.
It makes recommendations in effectiveness of the Board that was highlighted by the relation to the appointment of the external auditors, including their evaluation process.
remuneration and the provision by them of any non-audit services.
The Committee has established a procedure to ensure that the The Chairman of the Company is an independent director.
A engagement of the auditors to provide non-audit services cannot senior non-executive director has not been identied as the exceed a specified proportion of the annual audit fees without due Board considers that, by design, the directors have different consideration being given by the Committee to the proposed qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead when appointment.
The Committee also reviews major contracts 22 undertaken by the Company, the Boards investment restrictions officer and from the Witan Marketing Director on meetings that and the values attributed to the unquoted investments.
It reviews they have with shareholders, investors and analysts and from the Companys policy on matters of corporate social responsibility the Companys stockbrokers on contact it has with shareholders and the exercise of voting rights.
It ensures that the Company and investors.
The Chairman, and other members of the Board if maintains appropriate compliance with the requirements of requested, expect to be available to talk to major shareholders.
regulators: and it reviews the reporting of investment performance.
The Board considers that the annual general meeting should Remuneration Committee provide an effective forum for individual investors to The Committee comprises three non-executive directors communicate with the directors.
The annual general meeting is appointed by the Board: the Board also appoints the Chairman.
chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The Chairmen of the The Committee held two meetings during the year.
Its Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee also expect programme is to meet at least once a year, in advance of the year to be present and able to answer questions from shareholders as end, and on other occasions as necessary.
Details of the proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders.
The Chief The role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and Executive officer makes a presentation to the meeting.
The review the Companys remuneration policy, to establish the Company has adopted a nominee share code which is set out incentive arrangements for and to evaluate the performance of on page 52. the Chief Executive officer, to assess the effectiveness of the Board and to consider the remuneration of the non-executive Accountability and Audit directors.
It is also responsible for reviewing the composition of The directors statement of responsibilities in respect of the the Board and for proposing nominations for appointment to it.
accounts is set out on page 25.
Each director is invited to submit nominations and external advisers may be used to identify or assess potential candidates.
The report of the independent auditors is set out on page 26.
The nominations list is considered by the Board as a whole, although the Chairman would not expect to be involved in the The Board has delegated contractually to external agents, selection of his successor.
including the six investment managers, the management of the investment portfolio, global custody which includes the Two Board appointments were made during the year.
The safeguarding of the assets, the investment administration, directors reviewed the skills and experience required of potential management and financial accounting, company secretarial and new directors.
The Remuneration Committee, assisted by a certain other administration requirements and the registration specialist rm of search consultants, Trust Associates Limited, services.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and prepared a short list of candidates and made a recommendation proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of the to the Board.
The Board accepted the recommendations and its services offered, including the control systems in operation in so two invitations to join the Board were both accepted.
far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers regular reports from the investment Directors Remuneration managers and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to The directors remuneration is detailed in the Directors the Board from its other contractors as required.
Remuneration Report on pages 19 and 20.
Internal Control Relations with Shareholders The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, The Board seeks to develop an understanding of the views of the evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the major shareholders by receiving reports from the Chief Executive Company.
This process accords with the Turnbull guidance, is 23 Corporate Governance continued subject to regular review by the Audit Committee and was fully administrators is responsible for investment administration, for in place during the year under review and up to the date of this maintaining accounting records and for preparing financial annual report.
The Board remains responsible for the Companys accounts, management accounts and other management system of internal control and has conducted its annual review of information.
The investment performance of the investment the effectiveness of the system, covering all the controls, managers, both individually and collectively, is measured for including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk Witan by a company that is independent of all the investment management systems.
This review took into account points raised managers.
The corporate company secretary is a company with during the year in the regular appraisal of specic areas of risk.
long experience in servicing investment trusts.
The However, such a system is designed to manage rather than appointment of these and other professional contractors eliminate the risks of failure to achieve the Companys business provides a clear separation of duties and a structure of internal objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute controls that is balanced and robust.
The Board will continue to assurance against material misstatement or loss.
monitor its system of internal control in order to provide assurance that it operates as intended and the directors will During the year the Board undertook a full review of the review at least annually whether a function equivalent to an Companys business risks and these are analysed and recorded in internal audit is needed.
The Board receives each quarter from its main contractors formal reports which detail the steps taken to Going Concern monitor the areas of risk and which report the details of any The assets of the Company consist mainly of securities that are known internal control failures.
The Board receives each year readily realisable and, accordingly, the Company has adequate from its UK based investment managers and its investment financial resources to continue in operational existence for the administrator reports on their internal controls FRAG 21 type foreseeable future.
Therefore, the directors believe that it is reports, each of which includes a report from the relevant appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in companys auditors on the control policies and procedures in preparing the accounts.
Steps will continue to be taken to embed the system of internal control and risk management into the operations and Exercise of Voting Powers culture of the Company and of its key suppliers.
The Board has approved a corporate governance voting policy with all of its investment managers which, in the view of the Board, The Company established during the year a formal policy for balances current best practice with the underlying investment staff to raise in confidence any concerns about possible management philosophies of the investment managers.
improprieties, whether in matters of financial reporting or otherwise, for appropriate independent investigation.
Its staff Statement of Compliance comprises only five people including the Chief Executive The directors consider that the Company has complied during officer, who are well known to and have frequent and informal the year ended 31 December 2005 with all the relevant contact with the members of the Board.
provisions set out in the Code, with the exceptions that a the Board has not appointed a senior independent director Code The Company does not have an internal audit function.
3.3, b one member of the Audit Committee, delegates to third parties the management of its investments Mr Clarke, was not an independent director Code Provision and most of its other operations and employs only a very C. 3.1 and c the Company did not at the beginning of the year small staff.
The investment managers and certain other key have formal arrangements for its staff to raise in confidence contractors are subject to external regulation and most have concerns about possible improprieties in respect of financial compliance and internal audit functions of their own.
The reporting or other matters Code Provision C. 3.4.
The directors Companys investments are held on its behalf by a global consider that the Company has complied throughout the year custodian.
A specialist firm of investment accountants and ended 31 December 2005 with the AITC Code.
