Directors Report continued Employees are regularly updated on performance against were repurchased and cancelled for an aggregate Group strategy.
There are regular employee surveys, action consideration of 22.4 million.
planning forums and dialogue with representatives of local Shares repurchased under the programme may be employee consultative bodies and recognised trade unions cancelled or retained as treasury shares to accommodate to ensure a comprehensive understanding of employees views.
requirements for shares under the Groups share incentive Further details of the Groups employment policies and schemes.
employee communications can be found on page 17.
Material shareholdings Employee share schemes At 21 February 2006, the following material shareholdings The Group encourages employee share ownership by were recorded in the register maintained in accordance with operating tax authority-approved share schemes open the Companies Act 1985: to all eligible employees, including Executive Directors.
Each year, Sharesave enables eligible UK employees Legal & General Group 167,726,791 4.64% to acquire shares in the Company at the end of a threeBarclays 145,748,793 4.03% or five-year savings period.
A total of 13,138 employees Petronas 145,000,000 4.01% participate in this scheme.
The Company also operates a Share Incentive Plan SIP, Auditors which enables eligible UK employees to buy Centrica shares,  LLP have expressed their willingness subject to monthly limits, out of pre-tax pay.
In addition, the to be reappointed as auditors of the Company.
Upon the Company awards one free matching share for every two recommendation of the Audit Committee, a resolution to shares an employee buys, subject to a monthly limit of 20 reappoint them as the Companys auditors and authorise the free matching shares.
A total of 6,047 employees participate Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at in the SIP.
In North America, the Group operates an Employee Share Purchase Plan ESPP, which enables eligible Canadian and US employees to buy Centrica shares, subject to monthly limits, out of after-tax pay.
In addition, after two years, the Corporate Governance Company awards one free matching share for every two purchased shares held.
A total of 933 employees participate in the ESPP.
The Group is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance.
Throughout the year, the Company fully complied Corporate responsibility with the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Information relating to the Groups impact on society, the Governance the Code and applied its principles as set out economy and the wider environment is given on pages 16 in this report.
A separate Corporate Responsibility report will be published in April 2006 on the Companys website at The Board www.
An effective Board of Directors leads and controls the Group.
The Board, which met ten times during the year, has a Charitable and political donations schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
This schedule An outline of the Groups involvement in the community and the terms of reference for the Executive, Audit, appears on page 17.
Cash donations in the UK during the Remuneration, Nominations and Disclosure Committees are year amounted to 6.7 million 2004: 5.8 million.
In line with available on request and on our website www.
Group policy, no donations were made for political purposes.
The Group, in the normal course of its business, has paid for The Board is responsible for: its management to attend events at which politicians and other the development of strategy and major policies: opinion-formers have been present, but does not consider the review of management performance: these payments to be political donations.
the approval of the annual operating plan, the financial statements and major acquisitions and disposals: Share capital the system of internal control: and The Companys authorised and issued share capital as at corporate governance.
31 December 2005, together with details of shares issued and repurchased during the year, is set out in note 25 on One of its meetings each year is substantially devoted to pages 73 and 74. the development of strategy.
Comprehensive briefing papers, including financial information, are circulated to each Director Authority to purchase shares a week prior to Board meetings.
A procedure is in place for The Company was authorised at the 2005 AGM to purchase Directors to obtain independent professional advice in respect its own shares, within certain limits and as permitted by the of their duties.
They also have access to the advice and Articles of Association.
A renewal of this authority will be services of the General Counsel & Company Secretary.
Overall attendance at meetings during 2005 was: 94% A share repurchase programme of up to 500 million, for the Board: 81% for the Audit Committee: 90% for the announced on 1 July 2004, was completed on 21 September 2005.
A further programme of up to 500 million was Remuneration Committee: and 90% for the Nominations Committee.
The following Directors gave their apologies for announced on 24 June 2005.
A total of 164,654,278 shares, each with a nominal value of absence in respect of one or more meetings: Helen Alexander 14 two Audit : Andrew Mackenzie one Board, one Audit : 6 81 pence, were repurchased and cancelled during the year for an aggregate consideration of 385 million.
This comprised Patricia Mann one Remuneration : Paul Rayner one Board : 4.36% of the issued share capital.
Between 1 January 2006 and Paul Walsh four Board, two Audit, two Nominations, two and 21 February 2006, a further 8,950,000 ordinary shares Remuneration.
Non-attendance at meetings was due to prior 24 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Directors Report continued business or personal commitments and illness.
Directors Committees and individual Directors.
The Board evaluation unable to attend Board or Committee meetings reviewed built on the positive results and output of the previous years the relevant papers and provided comments to the Chairman evaluation and covered a number of topics including the or Committee Chairman, as appropriate.
Each of the Noneffectiveness of the Chairman and the Board as a whole, the individual contributions of the Non-Executive and Executive Executive Directors has given an assurance to the Chairman and the Board that they remain committed to their role as a Directors, the mix of skills on the Board, strategy development, risk management, Board processes and links between the Non-Executive Director of the Company and will ensure that Board and the businesses.
they devote sufficient time to it, including attendance at Board The process adopted involved the same facilitator and Committee meetings.
interviewing separately each of the Directors and the General Counsel & Company Secretary.
In addition, the senior Board membership independent Non-Executive Director chaired a meeting of the The names of the Directors and their details, including the independent Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Board Committees on which they serve, appear on page 22.
Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The output There is a clear division of responsibilities between the from those interviews was compiled into a report prepared Chairman and the Chief Executive, which has been formalised by the facilitator and this was presented to the Board at its in writing and agreed by the Board: and there is a balance of meeting in October 2005, along with a number of Executive and independent Non-Executive Directors.
recommendations to address the issues raised.
Throughout the year, the Chairman and the other The report concluded that the Board was evolving well Non-Executive Directors were independent of management.
as a team and had improved over the last year in terms of In December 2005, as part of its annual review of corporate membership, organisation and focus on strategy and key governance, the Board considered the independence of the operational issues.
The appointment of an additional NonNon-Executive Directors other than the Chairman against Executive Director with experience and skills in the Groups the criteria in the Code and determined that each was upstream business was welcomed.
The report also concluded independent.
This position was reached in respect of Patricia that risk management and control had been given the Mann notwithstanding that she had served a period exceeding appropriate level of focus at Board and Committee meetings.
The Board concluded in its deliberations that The Board will continue to review its procedures, its she continued to perform effectively and demonstrated effectiveness and development in the year ahead.
the necessary objectivity and commitment to the role of As part of the performance management system that independent Non-Executive Director.
Patricia Mann was applies to management at all levels across the Group, the re-elected at the 2005 AGM for a further period of up to one Chief Executives performance is reviewed regularly by year only and will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the Chairman and that of the Executive Directors by the the 2006 AGM.
The senior independent Non-Executive Director throughout The Directors receive ongoing training including an the year was Patricia Mann.
Responsibilities include being induction programme tailored to meet the needs of the available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact individual.
At Board meetings, the Directors also receive through the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which regular updates on changes and developments to the such contact is inappropriate.
Throughout the year, all of the business, legislative and regulatory environments.
During the independent Non-Executive Directors were members of the year, the Board was briefed on: the dynamics of the wholesale Audit and Remuneration Committees, with the exception gas market: commodity risk and pricing: the risks and of Andrew Mackenzie, who was a member of the Audit opportunities of upstream exploration activities: preparation for Committee only from the date of his appointment to the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS : the Market Board.
He was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Abuse regime including the new Listing and Disclosure Rules: Committee on 21 February 2006.
This membership structure Directors duties and responsibilities: Directors Indemnities: gives the Non-Executive Directors detailed insight into the the Company Law Reform Bill: and the new statutory nature of the matters being discussed, brings continuity to requirements for a business review.
membership and avoids undue reliance on particular individuals.
Andrew Mackenzie was kept informed of matters Board committees discussed at the Remuneration Committee meetings when the Chairman of that Committee reported on its discussions at the The Board has delegated authority to a number of committees to deal with specific aspects of the management and control of subsequent Board meeting.
Throughout the year, the Non-Executive Directors, the Group.
These committees have specific terms of reference available on www.
com and meet on a regular basis.
including the Chairman, met independently of management on a regular basis.
The minutes of the meetings of these committees are made available to all the Directors on a timely basis.
Board appointments, evaluation and training Executive Committee There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
This is described The Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors, the General Counsel & Company Secretary, the Managing in the section on the Nominations Committee below.
All Directors joining the Board are required to submit themselves Director, Centrica North America, the Group Human Resources for election at the AGM following their appointment.
Thereafter, Director, the Director of Corporate Affairs and the Managing they are subject to re-election every third year.
The NonDirector, British Gas Services.
It is chaired by Sir Roy Gardner.
Executive Directors are initially appointed for a three-year It meets weekly to oversee the management of the Group and term and, subject to review and re-election, can serve up to is the decision-making body for those matters not reserved to a maximum of three such terms.
The names of the Directors the Board and within the limits set out in the Groups delegated subject to election and re-election appear on page 23. authority and expenditure control policy.
During the year, the Board conducted, with the assistance During the year, there were four sub-committees of of an independent external facilitator, JCA Group, a formal and the Executive Committee: the Group Risk Management rigorous evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committee: the Group Financial Risk Management Committee: Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 25 Directors Report continued the Corporate Responsibility Committee: and the Health, Remuneration Committee Safety and Environment Committee.
The membership of those During 2005, the Remuneration Committee comprised Helen committees is drawn from among the Executive Directors and Alexander, Mary Francis, Patricia Mann, Paul Rayner and Paul senior management.
With effect from 1 March 2006, the Walsh, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Corporate Responsibility Committee will become a formal The Committee met six times during the year and was chaired by Patricia Mann until 30 June 2005 when Helen Alexander committee of the Board, chaired by Mary Francis.
was appointed Chairman of this Committee.
Andrew Audit Committee Mackenzie was appointed a member of the Committee on The Audit Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors, 21 February 2006.
The role of this Committee and details of all of whom are independent, and was chaired throughout the how the Company applies the principles of the Code in respect year by Paul Rayner.
Andrew Mackenzie became a member of Directors remuneration are set out on pages 28 to 36. of the Committee upon his appointment to the Board.
Paul Rayner, the finance director of a FTSE 100 company, is Nominations Committee identified as having recent and relevant financial experience, The Nominations Committee comprises Roger Carr Chairman, as required by the Code.
Helen Alexander, Sir Roy Gardner, Patricia Mann and Paul The Audit Committee, which reports its findings to the Walsh.
Throughout the year, a majority of its members were Board, is authorised to: independent Non-Executive Directors.
monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial The Committee makes recommendations to the Board statements, including a review of the significant financial for the appointment of replacement or additional Directors.
reporting judgements contained in them: The Nominations Committee is also responsible for succession review the Companys internal financial controls and internal planning and Board evaluation.
control and risk management systems: During the year, the Committee met four times and monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys considered the reappointment of Directors retiring by rotation internal audit function: at the AGM, the Board evaluation process described above, establish and oversee the Companys relationship with succession planning and the appointment of additional the external auditors, including the monitoring of their Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
independence: and The Committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge monitor matters raised pursuant to the Companys and experience on the Board against current and future whistleblowing arrangements.
requirements of the Company and, as appropriate, draws up a list of required attributes.
In view of the increasing focus In 2005, the Audit Committee met five times and discharged on the Groups upstream activities, the Committee sought to its responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference.
It further strengthen and complement the Board in that area with received comprehensive reports from the Director of Business the appointment of another Non-Executive Director.
External Assurance, other senior management and the external auditors.
consultants were engaged in the search for an appropriate The Committee commissioned further reports in response individual, leading to the appointment of Andrew Mackenzie to developing issues, as appropriate, and, in respect of all in September 2005. ongoing issues, requested clear objectives, timetables and The Committee also considered the succession to achievement milestones against which performance could Sir Roy Gardner as Chief Executive in view of his forthcoming be monitored.
External consultants were engaged in connection Significant areas of review during the year included debt with this search.
management, transition reporting under IFRS and specific issues relating to the implementation of IAS 32 and IAS 39, Disclosure Committee compliance with the undertakings for Centrica Storage The Board established a Disclosure Committee during the year and the development and implementation of the British Gas with responsibility for implementing and monitoring systems transformation programme.
At two of its meetings, the and controls in respect of the management and disclosure of Committee met with the external auditors in the absence inside information.
The Committee, which met regularly during of management.
The issues discussed by the Committee and the year, is chaired by the Chief Executive.
The other members the conclusions reached were reported by the Committee are the Group Finance Director and the General Counsel & Chairman to the following Board meeting.
Note 6 iii to the financial statements on page 57 sets out the Groups policy to seek competitive tenders for all major Relations with shareholders consultancies and advisory projects.
The Board has approved The Company has a programme of communication with policies that restrict the types of non-audit work that can be its shareholders.
As well as share price information, news undertaken by the external auditors and restrict the employment releases and annual reports, the Centrica website includes by the Group of former employees of the external audit firms.
speeches from the AGM, presentations to the investment The award of non-audit work within categories that the external community and a section for shareholder services.
auditors are permitted to carry out under the Board-approved The Board believes that the AGM presents an important policies is subject to pre-clearance by the Audit Committee if opportunity for dialogue with private shareholders, many of the fee exceeds specified thresholds.
All non-audit assignments whom are also our customers.
At the AGM, the Chairman and awarded to the external auditors are reported to the Audit the Chief Executive present a review of the businesses of the Committee on a quarterly basis, along with a full breakdown Group.
Representatives from across the Group are available of non-audit fees incurred during the year.
to answer questions both before and after the meeting.
As a matter of best practice and in accordance with All shareholders have the opportunity to cast their votes at International Standard on Auditing UK & Ireland 260 and the AGM by proxy, by post or via the internet.
Shareholders Ethical Statement 1 issued by the Accounting Practices Board, who hold their shares within CREST can cast their votes by the external auditors have held discussions with the Audit proxy using the CREST electronic proxy appointment service.
Committee on the subject of auditor independence and have Shareholders can register to receive their communications confirmed their independence in writing.
online, benefiting both themselves and the Company.
26 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Directors Report continued The Company also holds regular meetings with its major Going concern shareholders.
The Chairman attends the meetings at which After making enquiries, the Board has a reasonable the annual and interim results are presented to major investors expectation that the Company has adequate resources to and analysts.
During the year, the Chairman met with a continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
number of major institutional shareholders to gain a first-hand For this reason, we continue to adopt the going concern basis understanding of any issues or concerns they may have had.
in preparing the financial statements, which are shown on The Chairman reported his findings to the Board on an pages 40 to 118. ongoing basis.
This was in addition to the formal independent reports of investor feedback that are included with the This Directors Report has been approved by the Board and papers for each Board meeting.
Late in 2004, the Board signed on its behalf by: commissioned an independent survey of shareholder opinion.
The results from this survey were presented to the Board early in 2005 and a number of recommendations were adopted.
During January and February 2006, major shareholders were consulted on the introduction of proposed new long-term share-based incentives.
Grant Dawson General Counsel and Company Secretary Internal control 23 February 2006 The Board of Directors is responsible for the Groups system of internal control, which is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and Registered office: can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance Millstream Maidenhead Road against material misstatement or loss.
Windsor Identification, assessment and management of risks Berkshire SL4 5GD The Company places great importance on internal control Company registered in England and Wales No.
A risk-aware and control-conscious environment is promoted and encouraged throughout the Group.
The Board, either directly or through its committees, sets objectives, performance targets and policies for management of key risks facing the Group.
These include: commodity pricing: competitive position: political and regulatory issues: information systems: financial control: mergers and acquisitions: upstream assets: health and safety: and social, environmental and ethical.
At each of its five meetings in 2005, the Audit Committee received an internal control report, which allowed it to track a number of issues and monitor performance against objectives.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reported the issues discussed and conclusions reached at the following Board meeting.
Across the Group, each business has a risk management committee that seeks to identify, assess and advise on the management of operational risks.
In addition, the Group Risk Management Committee considers the risks that might affect the Company at Group level.
The processes of newly-acquired companies are integrated with those of the Group.
Centrica Storage, which is subject to undertakings given to the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry, operates separately but to the same standards of internal control and risk management as the rest of the Group.
Assurance The business assurance function undertakes internal audit reviews according to a plan approved by the Audit Committee.
The results of its work are reported to Audit Committee meetings.
The Boards review of the system of internal control The Board of Directors, with the advice of the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control operated, as described above, throughout the period from 1 January 2005 to the date of this report and is satisfied that the Group complies with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 27
