Corporate governance It is BTs policy to achieve for all our operations best Companys executive team, particularly on the Groups practice in our standards of business integrity.
The Chief Executive has final includes a commitment to maintaining the highest executive responsibility to the Board for the success of the standards of corporate governance and ethics throughout group.
The Chairmans other current significant the group.
commitments are shown in his biography on page 46.
The directors consider that BT has, throughout the During the 2005 financial year the only change has been year, complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of his appointment as Chairman of the Royal Shakespeare the 2003 Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Secretary manages the provision of timely, The Board accurate and considered information to the Board for its Composition and role meetings and, in consultation with the Chairman and The Board, which operates as a single team, is currently Chief Executive, at other appropriate times.
He made up of the part-time Chairman, the Chief Executive, recommends to the Chairman and the Chief Executive, for four other executive directors and seven non-executive Board consideration where appropriate, the companys directors.
All of the non-executive directors meet the corporate governance policies and practices and is criteria for independence set out in the Combined Code responsible for their communication and implementation.
and are therefore considered by the Board to be The appointment and removal of the Secretary is a matter independent.
It is BTs policy that the Board will comprise for the whole Board.
He advises the Board on appropriate a majority of independent non-executive directors.
The procedures for the management of its meetings and directors biographies are set out on pages 46 and 47. duties and the meetings of the companys principal The Boards principal focus is the overall strategic committees, as well as the implementation of corporate direction, development and control of the group.
In governance and compliance within the group.
support of this the Board approves the groups values, business practice policies, strategic plans, annual budget, BTs non-executive directors capital expenditure and investments budgets, larger The Nominating Committee has agreed and periodically capital expenditure proposals and the groups overall reviews the combination of experience, skills and other system of internal controls, governance and compliance attributes which the non-executive directors as a whole authorities.
It also has oversight and control of the are to bring to the Board.
This prole is used by the groups operating and financial performance.
These Committee when the appointment of a non-executive responsibilities are set out in a formal statement of the director is being considered to assess the suitability of Boards role.
The Board has agreed the groups corporate candidates who are put forward by the directors and governance framework, including empowering the outside consultants.
Short-listed candidates meet the companys key management committee, the Operating Committee, which then recommends to the Board a Committee, to make decisions on operational and other candidate for appointment.
The roles and powers of this committee are set The non-executive directors provide a strong, out later in this report under Principal Board committees.
independent element on the Board.
Between them, they Their powers and the authorities delegated to individual bring experience and independent judgement, gained at members of the Operating Committee are available to the most senior levels, of international business everyone in the group on the groups intranet site.
operations and strategy, marketing, technology, Historically the Board has met every month, except in communications and political and international affairs.
Additionally, it meets on an ad hoc basis to Sir Anthony Greener, the Deputy Chairman, is the consider matters which are time critical.
The Board met senior independent director.
He chairs the Audit and 14 times during the 2005 financial year.
In his capacity as the chairman financial year, and going forward, the standard Board of the Remuneration Committee, he meets with BTs major cycle will be nine, not 11, meetings each year.
The Deputy Chairman also The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are continues to be available to discuss matters with separate.
They are set out in written job descriptions, institutional shareholders where it would be inappropriate approved by the Nominating Committee.
In addition to for those discussions to take place with either the chairing the Board, the Chairman is responsible for Chairman or the Chief Executive.
He will also attend, at consulting the non-executive directors, particularly the his discretion and in consultation with the Chairman and Deputy Chairman, on corporate governance issues, the Chief Executive, other meetings with shareholders matters considered by the Nominating Committee, which during the year.
The other non-executive directors may the Chairman chairs, and the individual performances of attend, at their request, meetings with the companys the non-executive directors.
The Chairman and the nonmajor shareholders and others.
executive directors hold regular dinners at which they Non-executive directors are appointed initially for three discuss matters without the executive directors being years, subject to three months termination notice from present.
With the Chief Executive and the Secretary, the either BT or the director.
At the end of the first three Chairman ensures the Board is kept properly informed, is years the appointment may be continued by mutual consulted on all issues reserved to it and that its decisions agreement.
Each non-executive director is provided, upon are made in a timely and considered way that enables the appointment, with a letter setting out the terms of his or directors to full their duciary duties.
The Chairman her appointment, including membership of Board ensures that the views of the shareholders are known to committees, the fees to be paid and the time the Board and considered appropriately.
He represents commitment expected from the director.
The letter also the company in specified strategic and Government covers such matters as the condentiality of information relationships, as agreed with the Chief Executive, and and the companys share dealing code.
generally acts as the bridge between the Board and the 50 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 Election and re-election The individual performance of directors was also All directors are required by the companys articles of evaluated at one-to-one sessions with the Chairman.
As association to be elected by shareholders at the first AGM part of this process, the Deputy Chairman, Sir Anthony after their appointment, if appointed by the Board.
A Greener, met all directors individually to review the director must subsequently retire by rotation at an AGM Chairmans performance.
The results of that exercise were at intervals of not more than three years.
The director considered by the Board in July 2004 and a number of may seek re-election.
These evaluations will be carried out annually.
Service agreements The Chairman and executive directors have service Directors and ofcers liability insurance and agreements, which are approved by the Remuneration indemnity Committee.
Information about the periods of these For some years the company has purchased insurance to contracts is in the Report on directors remuneration.
cover its directors and ofcers against their costs in defending themselves in civil legal proceedings taken Independent advice against them in that capacity and in respect of damages The Board has a procedure for directors, in furtherance of resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any their duties, to take independent professional advice if proceedings.
At the date upon which this report was necessary, at the companys expense.
In addition, all approved, and throughout the 2005 financial year, the directors have access to the advice and services of the companys wholly-owned subsidiary, British Secretary.
Telecommunications plc, has provided an indemnity in respect of all the companys directors.
Neither the Training and information insurance nor the indemnity provide cover where the On appointment, the directors take part in an induction director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
programme when they receive information about BT, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its Principal Board committees decision, the terms of reference and membership of the To meet best corporate governance practice, Audit, principal Board committees, and the powers delegated to Remuneration and Nominating Committees have long those committees, the companys corporate governance been an established part of BTs system of governance.
policies and procedures, including the powers reserved to Each committee has written terms of reference, which are the groups most senior executives, and the latest available on the companys website.
The minutes of Audit financial information about the group.
This is and Nominating Committee meetings are sent, at their supplemented by visits to key BT locations and meetings request, to directors who are not a member of a with members of the Operating Committee and other key committee.
In the case of the Remuneration Committee, senior executives.
Throughout their period in ofce the minutes are circulated, on request, to other non-executive directors are continually updated on BTs business, the directors as well as to members of the committee.
competitive and regulatory environments in which it operates, technology and corporate social responsibility Audit Committee matters and other changes affecting BT and the The Audit Committee is chaired by Sir Anthony Greener, communications industry as a whole, by written briengs the Deputy Chairman and senior independent director.
and meetings with senior BT executives.
Directors are also The other members are Maarten van den Bergh, Clay advised on appointment of their legal and other duties Brendish, Lou Hughes, John Nelson and Carl Symon.
They and obligations as a director of a listed company, both in are all independent non-executive directors.
They were writing and in face-to-face meetings with the Secretary.
members of the committee throughout the 2005 financial They are reminded of these duties each year and they are year.
The Board considers that the Committees members also updated on changes to the legal, accounting and have broad commercial experience and extensive business governance requirements upon the company and leadership, having held various roles in accountancy, themselves as directors.
During the 2005 financial year, financial management and supervision, treasury and for example, they have attended a presentation on the corporate finance and that there is a broad and suitable effects of the introduction of international financial mix of business, financial and IT experience on the reporting standards on the Groups results and have Committee.
The Board has reviewed membership of the received further briengs on the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of Committee and is satisfied that several of the 2002, which affects BT because its securities are Committees members have the recent and relevant registered with the US Securities and Exchange financial experience required for the provisions of the Commission SEC, changes to UK company law and Combined Code.
various corporate governance proposals from the The Committee recommends the appointment and European Commission.
reappointment of the companys external auditors and Guidelines are in place concerning the content, considers their resignation or dismissal, recommending to presentation and delivery of papers for each Board the Board appropriate action to appoint new auditors.
It meeting, so that the directors have enough information to ensures that key partners are rotated at appropriate be properly briefed sufciently far ahead of each Board intervals.
It discusses with the auditors the scope of their meeting and at other appropriate times.
audits before they commence, reviews the results and considers the formal reports of the auditors and reports Board evaluation the results of those reviews to the Board.
It reviews the During summer 2004 the Board carried out, through a auditors performance, including the scope of the audit, questionnaire and discussion with directors, a formal and recommends to the Board appropriate remuneration.
evaluation of Board and Board committee performance.
Corporate governance BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 51 As a result of regulatory or similar requirements, it may dealing with the internal control over financial reporting.
be necessary to employ the companys external auditors It also specically evaluated its performance and for certain non-audit work.
In order to safeguard the processes and has reviewed the experience, skills and independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the succession planning within the Groups finance function.
Board has determined policies as to what non-audit The Group Finance Director, the Secretary, the groups services can be provided by the companys external chief internal auditor and the companys external auditors auditors and the approval processes related to them.
The Committee met Under those policies work of a consultancy nature will not four times during the 2005 financial year.
be offered to the external auditors unless there are clear efficiencies and value added benets to the company.
The Remuneration Committee overall policies and the processes to implement them The Remuneration Committee comprises solely independent were reviewed and appropriately modied in the light of non-executive directors and is chaired by Sir Anthony the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Greener.
It met five times during the 2005 financial year.
relating to non-audit services that external auditors may Further details about the Committee are included in the not perform.
The Audit Committee monitors the extent of Report on directors remuneration.
non-audit work being performed by the companys auditors and approves such work before it is undertaken.
Nominating Committee It also monitors the level of non-audit fees paid to the The Nominating Committee consists of the Chairman, the external auditors.
Deputy Chairman, John Nelson and Maarten van den The Audit Committee reviews the companys published Bergh.
Its members have not changed during the 2005 financial results, the Annual Report and Form 20-F and financial year.
The Secretary and, where appropriate, at other published information for statutory and regulatory the invitation of the Chairman, the Chief Executive compliance.
It reports its views to the Board to assist it in attends the Committees meetings.
It ensures an its approval of the results announcements and the Annual appropriate balance of experience and abilities on the Report and Form 20-F.
The Committee also reviews the Board, using this evaluation to review the size and disclosure made by the Chief Executive and Group composition of the Board and to recommend any Finance Director during the certication process for the proposed changes to the Board.
It keeps under review the annual report about the design or operation of internal need for appointments to the Board, prepares a controls or material weaknesses in the controls, including description of the specic experience and skills needed for any fraud involving management or other employees who an appointment, considers candidates who are put have a significant role in the companys financial controls.
forward by the directors and external consultants, and The Board, as required by UK law, takes responsibility for recommends to the Board the appointments of all all disclosures in the annual report.
directors after having met short-listed candidates.
It also The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the reviews the time required from the Deputy Chairman and standards of risk management and internal control, the other non-executive directors to carry out their duties and effectiveness of internal control, financial reporting, advises the Board on succession planning for the positions accounting policies and procedures, and the companys of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive and statements on internal controls before they are agreed by all other Board appointments.
The Committee met four the Board for each years annual report.
It also reviews times during the 2005 financial year.
It reviewed the the companys internal audit function and its relationship current structure, prole and balance of the Board, with the external auditors, including internal audits plans approved the Chairmans and Chief Executives job and performance.
It reviews the arrangements for dealing, descriptions and the Board and Board committee in confidence, with complaints from employees about evaluation questionnaire and process.
The Committee accounting or financial management impropriety, fraud, also reviewed and recommended to the Board the poor business practices and other matters.
At each of its continued appointments as non-executive directors of meetings it reviews with the group chief internal auditor Baroness Jay, John Nelson who did not take part in the and appropriate executives the implementation and review of his own reappointment and Carl Symon.
effectiveness of key operational and functional change and remedial programmes.
The Committee also sets aside time at every meeting to seek the views of the companys internal and external auditors in the absence of executives.
In addition to carrying out those regular tasks which are within the Committees terms of reference and which are described above, it has also carried out its annual consideration of the groups risk register, as submitted to it by the Operating Committee, and reviewed the companys system of internal control, its accounting systems, IT security and fraud and related matters.
It also considered the effect on the companys results of the introduction of international financial reporting standards, which have applied to the companys results from the financial year beginning on 1 April 2005.
The Committee has also reviewed at each of its meetings during the 2005 financial year the steps being taken within the group with regard to the application of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 52 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 Corporate governance Meetings attendance responsibility.
The companys workplace practices, The following table shows the attendance of directors at specic environmental, social and ethical risks and meetings of the Board and Audit, Remuneration and opportunities and details of underlying governance Nominating committees during the 2005 financial year.
processes are dealt with in Our people and Our commitment to society.
Audit Remuneration Nominating Board Committee Committee Committee BT has processes for identifying, evaluating and Attendance is shown only for a committee managing the significant risks faced by the group.
These member processes have been in place for the whole of the 2005 Number of meetings financial year and have continued up to the date on which Director 14 4 5 4 this document was approved.
The processes are in Sir Christopher Bland 14 4 accordance with the Turnbull guidance for directors Maarten van den Bergh 12 4 5 4 published in the UK in September 1999.
Clay Brendish 14 3 Risk assessment and evaluation takes place as an a Pierre Danon 11 integral part of the groups annual strategic planning Andy Green 14 cycle.
The group has a detailed risk management process, Sir Anthony Greener 13 4 5 4 b culminating in a Board review, which identies the key Lou Hughes 522 risks facing the group and each business unit.
This Margaret Jay 12 4 c information is reviewed by senior management as part of Hanif Lalani 2 the strategic review.
The groups current key risks are Ian Livingston 13 summarised in Risk factors of this document.
John Nelson 13 3 3 Paul Reynolds 13 The key features of the risk management process Carl Symon 14 4 5 comprise the following procedures: Ben Verwaayen 14 & senior executives, led by the Secretary, review the a groups key risks and have created a group risk Resigned as a director on 28 February 2005 b Granted unpaid leave of absence by the Board from 1 September 2004 to register, describing the risks, owners and mitigation 30 June 2005 to lead the civil reconstruction effort for the US Government strategies.
This is reviewed by the Operating Committee in Afghanistan c before being reviewed and approved by the Board.
Appointed a director from 7 February 2005 & the lines of business carry out risk assessments of their operations, have created registers relating to those Operating Committee risks, and ensure that the key risks are addressed.
The Chief Executive, Ben Verwaayen, chairs the Operating & senior management report regularly to the Group Committee, which meets weekly.
The other members are Finance Director on the operation of internal controls the Group Finance Director, the Chief Executives of BT in their area of responsibility.
& Retail, BT Wholesale and BT Global Services and the Chief the Chief Executive receives annual reports from senior Broadband officer.
The Secretary attends all meetings.
executives with responsibilities for major group The Group Strategy and the Group HR Directors normally operations with their opinion on the effectiveness of attend each meeting.
The Committee has collective the operation of internal controls during the financial responsibility for running the groups business end-toyear.
To do that, it develops the groups strategy and the groups internal auditors carry out continuing budget for Board approval, recommends to the Board the assessments of the quality of risk management and groups capital expenditure and investments budgets, control.
Internal Audit reports to the management and monitors the financial, operational and customer quality the Audit Committee on the status of specic areas of service performance of the whole group, reviews the identied for improvement.
Internal audit also groups risks register, allocates resources across the group promotes effective risk management in the lines of within plans agreed by the Board, plans and delivers business operations.
& major cross-business programmes and reviews the senior the Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers talent base and succession plans of the group.
Within the the effectiveness of the operation of internal control groups corporate governance framework, approved by processes and procedures in the group during the the Board, the Operating Committee is empowered to financial year, including the review of reports from the approve up to limits after which Board approval is internal auditors and from the external auditors, and required, capital expenditure, disposals of xed assets, reports its conclusions to the Board.
The Audit the making of investments by the group and divestments.
Committee has carried out these actions for the 2005 It is authorised to delegate these approvals, up to its own financial year.
New subsidiaries acquired during the year have not been included in the above risk management process.
Internal control and risk management They will be included for the 2006 financial year.
The Board is responsible for the groups systems of Material joint ventures and associates, which BT does internal control and risk management and for reviewing not control, outside the UK have not been dealt with as the effectiveness of those systems.
Such systems are part of the group for the purposes of this internal control designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of assessment.
failure to achieve business objectives: any system can The Board has approved the formal statement of provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance matters which are reserved to it for consideration, against material misstatement or loss.
It has also approved the groups The Board also takes account of significant social, corporate governance framework, which sets out the high environmental and ethical matters that relate to BTs level principles by which the group is managed and the businesses and reviews annually BTs corporate social responsibilities and powers of the Operating Committee Corporate governance BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 53 and the groups senior executives.
As part of this committee of senior, functional executives, the Disclosure framework the development and implementation of Committee, which is chaired by the Secretary.
certain powers relating to group-wide policies and practices are reserved to identied senior executives.
Statement of business practice To reinforce our commitment to achieve best practice in Relations with shareholders our standards of business integrity and ethics, BT has a Senior executives, led by the Chief Executive and the written statement of business practice The Way We Work.
Group Finance Director and including, as appropriate, the The statement covers all our operations and reects the other executive directors, hold meetings with the expectations in the area of corporate governance and companys principal institutional shareholders to discuss business practice standards.
A copy of the statement has the companys strategy, financial performance and been sent to every employee.
Copies are also sent to the specic major investment activities.
The Deputy employees of newly acquired subsidiaries.
Chairman also attends, at his discretion and in These high-level principles are supported by a consultation with the Chairman and the Chief Executive, continuing and comprehensive communications meetings with shareholders during the year.
The company programme and online training.
A condential helpline also maintains contact, when appropriate, through the and e-mail facility are also available to employees who chairman of the Remuneration Committee and other senior have questions about the application of these principles.
executives to discuss overall remuneration policies and The helpline number is published externally.
Contact with institutional shareholders and with continue to require our agents and contractors to apply financial analysts, brokers and the media is controlled by these principles when representing BT.
written guidelines to ensure the protection of share price sensitive information that has not already been made Pension funds generally available to the companys shareholders.
The BTs two main pension funds the BT Pension Scheme directors are provided with either full or summarised and the BT Retirement Plan are not controlled by the reports and other written briengs from the companys Board but by separate trustees who are company and major shareholders and analysts and are regularly union nominees, under independent chairmen.
The informed by the Secretary about the holdings of its trustees look after the assets of the funds, which are held principal shareholders.
The Secretary also surveys the separately from those of the company.
The pension funds companys retail shareholders about the quality of the assets can only be used in accordance with their companys shareholder communications and share respective rules and for no other purpose.
We are continuing our policy that shareholders vote on Financial statements the annual report at the AGM.
Shareholders will also again A statement by the directors of their responsibilities for be asked to vote on the Report on directors preparing the financial statements is included in the remuneration.
The directors It is part of our policy to involve shareholders fully in statement on going concern is on page 38 of the Financial the affairs of the company and to give them the review.
opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about the companys activities and prospects.
We also give the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 shareholders the opportunity to vote on every BT has securities registered with the US Securities and substantially different issue by proposing a separate Exchange Commission SEC.
As a result, BT is obliged to resolution for each issue.
comply with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well applicable to foreign issuers.
BT will comply with the legal as abstentions, will be counted before the AGM and the and regulatory requirements introduced pursuant to this results will be made available at the meeting after the legislation, in so far as they are applicable to the group.
shareholders have voted on each resolution on a show of Given the narrow and prescriptive denition under the hands and at the end of the meeting.
It is our policy for all relevant SEC rules, it is the opinion of the Board that the directors to attend the AGM if at all possible.
Whilst, Audit Committee does not include a member who is an because of ill health or other pressing reasons, this may audit committee financial expert.
However, the Board not always be possible, in normal circumstances this considers that the Committees members have broad means that the chairman of the Audit, Nominating and commercial experience and extensive business leadership, Remuneration committees is at the AGM and is available having held various roles in accountancy, financial to answer relevant questions.
management and supervision, treasury and corporate The Annual Review and, if requested, the Annual finance and that there is a broad and suitable mix of Report and Form 20-F, together with the Notice of the business, financial and IT experience on the Committee.
AGM, are sent to shareholders in the most cost-effective The Board and its committees are keeping the fashion, given the large number of shareholders.
We aim appointment of a financial expert, as dened by US law, to give as much notice as possible and at least 21 clear under review.
days, as required by the companys articles of association.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, after In practice, these documents are being sent to evaluating the effectiveness of BTs disclosure controls shareholders more than 20 working days before the AGM.
and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Established procedures ensure the timely release of Annual Report and Form 20-F, have concluded that, as of share price sensitive information and the publication of such date, BTs disclosure controls and procedures were the companys financial results and regulatory financial effective to ensure that material information relating to statements.
All external announcements are also reviewed BT was made known to them by others within the group.
for accuracy and compliance requirements by a The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director have also 54 BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 Corporate governance provided the certications required by the Sarbanes-Oxley exception where the company does not meet the strict Act.
requirements set out in the standards.
The standards There were no changes in BTs internal control over state that companies must have a nominating corporate financial reporting that occurred during the year ended governance committee composed entirely of independent 31 March 2005 that have materially affected, or are directors and with written terms of reference which, in reasonably likely to materially affect, BTs internal control addition to identifying individuals qualied to become over financial reporting.
board members, develops and recommends to the Board The code of ethics for the Chief Executive, Group a set of corporate governance principles applicable to the Finance Director and Director Group Financial Control and company.
It does not Treasury, adopted for the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley develop corporate governance principles for the Boards Act, is posted on the companys website at approval.
The Board approves the groups overall system www.
com Thegroup Companyprole of internal controls, governance and compliance Ourcodesofethics codeofethics.
The Board and the Nominating Committee are made up of a majority of independent, non-executive The New York Stock Exchange directors.
The company, as a foreign issuer with American The Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the SEC and NYSE rules will Depositary Shares listed on the New York Stock Exchange require the company from 31 July 2005 to comply with NYSE, is obliged to disclose any significant ways in certain provisions relating to the Audit Committee.
These which its corporate governance practices differ from the include the independence of Audit Committee members corporate governance listing standards of the NYSE.
and procedures for the treatment of complaints regarding The company has reviewed the NYSEs new listing accounting or auditing matters.
The company is already standards and believes that its corporate governance fully compliant with these requirements.
practices are consistent with them, with the following Corporate governance BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 55
