Corporate governance The Board is accountable to shareholders for good During the year and following his appointment as business governance and is committed to high Chairman, M W Welton was appointed to the advisory standards of corporate governance, recognising that board of Montrose Associates.
His other commitments Hansons good reputation is one of the Companys did not change.
All of the Non-executive Directors are, in the opinion To maintain and enhance this reputation Hanson of the Board, considered to be independent of requires its officers and employees to act in accordance management and free from any business or other with the laws and customs of each country in which we relationships which affect their ability to exercise do business: be honest and act ethically: operate with independent judgement.
J W Leng is the Senior integrity: observe and respect the culture and traditions Independent Director.
of each country in which we operate: and not to offer, pay or accept bribes or favours in any form whatsoever.
The Board considers that the current Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of business and financial Within adopted business principles, divisional codes experience required for the successful direction of of conduct and supporting policies are in place.
Hanson as an international force in the heavy building materials industry and provide a solid foundation for A code of ethics for the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley good corporate governance, ensuring that no individual Act of 2002 US SOX, which applies to Hanson as a or group dominates the Boards decision making.
company listed on the NYSE, covering Hansons Chief Through the Nominations Committee, the Board Executive, Finance Director, Legal Director, Divisional ensures that plans are in place for the succession Chief Executives and other identifiable persons in the of Executive and Non-executive Directors.
group, including those performing senior accounting and controller functions, is in place.
This code is The Chairman and the Company Secretary work closely available on request from the Company Secretary together in planning the annual programme and agendas or on Hansons website.
During the year, there were six Board and strategy meetings held.
The attendance records of The way in which Hanson applies the principles set individual Directors is set out below: out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Attendance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 M W Welton 6 6 the Code is described within this Corporate A J Murray 6 6 governance section and in the Remuneration report.
The G Dransfield 6 6 Board considers that Hanson has been in full compliance J C Nicholls 6 6 with the Code throughout the year under review.
W F Blount 5 6 C J Brady 4 4 As well as being subject to UK legislation and practice W S H Laidlaw 5 6 Hanson, as a company listed on the NYSE, is subject J W Leng 6 6 to the listing requirements of the NYSE and the rules of The Baroness Noakes 6 6 the SEC.
Compliance with the provisions of SOX, as it C D Collins retired April 20, 2005 1 1 applies to foreign issuers, is continually monitored.
Lord Baker of Dorking retired April 20, 2005 1 1 Whilst the Directors believe that the groups corporate S L Keswick retired April 20, 2005 1 governance policies are robust, changes have been and will continue to be made to ensure compliance with the There are clearly occasions when circumstances rules that are in place at any point in time.
Hanson arise which prevent Directors from attending meetings.
follows UK corporate governance practice, which does It is the usual practice in these circumstances for the not differ significantly from the NYSE corporate Director concerned to review the Board papers with the governance standards, except that the Nominations Chairman and convey any views.
Committee is required to be comprised of a majority, rather than entirely, of independent directors and there All Directors then in office attended the AGM in 2005. is no requirement in the UK for a comprehensive code of business conduct and ethics.
The Board of Directors The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, two other Executive Directors and five Non-executive Directors.
There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The division of responsibilities between Chairman and the Chief Executive is set out in writing and has been agreed by the Board.
As Chairman, M W Welton has the responsibility for the running of the Board and for ensuring that all Directors are fully informed of matters relevant to their roles.
As Chief Executive, A J Murray has responsibility for implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for managing the group.
Corporate governance 55 Corporate governance continued The Board manages overall control of the Companys In order to fulfil their duties, procedures are in place affairs with reference to the schedule of matters for Directors to seek both independent advice and the reserved for its authorisation and approval, review and advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsibility.
This schedule was reviewed and updated responsible for advising the Board, through the during the year.
Chairman, on all governance matters.
Matters reserved for authorisation and approval include During the year, an evaluation of the Boards the Companys objectives and long-term strategy, effectiveness, including the effectiveness of Committees the annual operating budget, financial statements of the Board, was undertaken by the Chairman by way of and significant changes in accounting policy, dividend a written questionnaire to, and individual meetings with, recommendations, treasury activities, major acquisitions all Directors.
A report was prepared for the Board by the and disposals, major capital projects or expenditure, Chairman.
The results of the evaluation showed a high appointment and removal of Directors and the Company level of satisfaction that the Board and its Committees Secretary, risk management policies and major changes were operating effectively.
The Boards focus was on in the groups pension arrangements.
identifying improvements in such areas as the process for developing strategy: the balance between strategic Matters for which the Board has responsibility include and operational issues at meetings: the process for compliance with the groups corporate responsibility reporting Committee work to the Board and inter-meeting policies, including environmental and health and safety information to the Non-executive Directors.
Identified and, as set out below, the groups system of internal control.
improvements will be introduced in 2006.
Matters which the Board reviews include quarterly The Board plans to conduct evaluations on an annual results and performance against budget, the groups basis and may use alternative approaches in future years.
management resource planning and development, charitable donations, the Companys corporate As part of the evaluation process, the Chairman governance arrangements and the effectiveness of the considered the performance, including time groups system of internal control, as set out below.
commitments, of each individual Non-executive Director and concluded that the performance of each continues All Directors are equally accountable for the proper to be effective.
stewardship of the Companys affairs.
Also during the year and in the absence of the The Non-executive Directors have a particular Chairman, the Non-executive Directors, led by J W Leng, responsibility for ensuring that the business strategies conducted a review of and discussed the performance proposed are fully discussed and critically reviewed.
of the Chairman taking into account the views of the This enables the Directors to act in the best long-term Executive Directors.
The conclusion reached, which interest of shareholders, whilst taking account of the was fed back to the Chairman by J W Leng, was that the interests of employees, customers, suppliers and the Chairmans performance was effective.
Similarly, during communities in which the businesses operate.
the year, the Chairman met separately with the Nonexecutive Directors to consider the performance of the The Non-executive Directors also oversee the Chief Executive in the discharge of his duties.
It was operational performance of the whole group.
To do concluded that the performance of the Chief Executive this they have full and timely access to all relevant continues to be effective.
information, with updates also provided on governance and regulatory matters affecting the Company.
In The Non-executive Directors fulfil a key role in corporate addition, senior executives below Board level are invited, accountability.
The remits and membership of the as appropriate, to Board and strategy meetings to make Remuneration, the Nominations and the Audit presentations on their areas of responsibility.
Committees of the Board are set out below.
As part of the initial induction process for those The terms of reference of the Committees are Non-executive Directors newly appointed, documents available on request from the Company Secretary, describing the Company and its activities are provided.
who acts as secretary to all of these Committees, An element of the induction focuses on relevant or on Hansons website.
corporate responsibility matters and management resource planning and development.
Site visits are Remuneration Committee arranged, with all Directors provided with the The Remuneration Committee comprises four independent opportunity and encouragement for training to ensure Non-executive Directors: W S H Laidlaw Chairman, they are kept up-to-date on relevant new legislation and W F Blount, The Baroness Noakes and C J Brady.
Its best practice and changing commercial and other risks.
role is described in the Remuneration report.
In 2005, the annual fees for chairing the Committee and for acting as a member were 12,500 and 5,500, respectively.
There has been no change to the fee arrangements for 2006.
Corporate governance 56 Nominations Committee The Committees duties include: The Nominations Committee consists of M W Welton as review of the effectiveness of systems for internal Chairman, A J Murray and the independent Non-executive financial control, financial reporting and risk Directors.
management the review and monitoring of the Companys The Committees terms of reference include the review financial statements, accounting policies, financial of the structure, size and composition of the Board, with and other reporting procedures recommendations to the Board on any changes, and the review of the Companys statement on internal planning for the orderly succession of Executive and control prior to endorsement by the Board Non-executive Directors.
review of the internal audit programme the establishment of whistleblowing procedures There were no fees payable for chairing or acting as recommendations on the appointment of, and an a member of the Committee in 2005.
There has been assessment of the independence and objectivity of, no change to the fee arrangements for 2006. the auditors pre-approval of audit, review and attest services and During the year, on behalf of the Board, the Committee permitted non-audit services: and undertook a search for the appointment of a new Nonensuring the objectivity and independence of the executive Director.
Having considered the balance of auditors is maintained.
skills and experience on the Board, a candidate profile for the search was agreed.
The Committee then The Committee meets at least four times a year.
During appointed an external search consultancy and met with the year the Committee met five times, which all of the candidates prior to making a recommendation to the then current Committee members attended, other than on Board, which resulted in the appointment of C J Brady one occasion when W S H Laidlaw was unable to attend.
as a Non-executive Director of the Company on August 1, 2005.
It is anticipated that, for the appointment of The Board considers that each of the members of the further Non-executive Directors, a similar procedure will Committee has experience of corporate financial matters.
The Baroness Noakes, who is a Chartered Accountant, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant During the year the Committee met once formally in full, financial experience and is also identified as the Audit and on a number of other occasions, principally in the Committee financial expert for the purposes of SOX.
search for a new Non-executive Director and in order to make recommendations to the Board on membership The Committee discharges its responsibilities through of the Remuneration Committee.
a series of Committee meetings throughout the year at which detailed reports are presented for review.
Following appointment by the Board, new Directors The Committee commissions reports either from the must submit themselves for election by the shareholders external auditors, the Head of Internal Audit or Company at the AGM following their appointment.
Thereafter, management, after consideration of the Companys subject to the Articles of Association in relation major risks or in response to developing issues.
The to the re-election of Directors, all Directors are subject Committee meets privately with the external auditors and to re-election every three years.
Recommendations to the Head of Internal Audit as appropriate.
It has authority shareholders on the re-appointment of the Directors is to seek any information it requires from any employee, not automatic and is subject to consideration by the authority to obtain outside legal or other independent Committee, prior to approval by the Board.
professional advice on any matter within its terms of reference and to secure the attendance of outsiders Audit Committee with relevant experience and expertise if it considers it The Audit Committee comprises three independent necessary.
There were no occasions during the year Non-executive Directors: The Baroness Noakes when it considered the attendance of such outsiders Chairman, W S H Laidlaw and J W Leng.
In 2005, the annual fees for chairing the Audit Committee and for acting as a member of the Committee were 20,000 and 5,500, respectively.
Regular attendees at Committee meetings, at the invitation of the Committee, include the Chairman, the Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Chief Accountant and representatives from the external auditors.
Corporate governance 57 Corporate governance continued During the year, the Committees meetings considered The Committee considered that the independence and or addressed, as appropriate, the following principal objectivity of the auditors was unimpaired and that Ernst matters: & Young LLP were effective in conducting the audit and the interim and full year financial results, including work on SOX compliance during the year.
monitoring their integrity, prior to consideration by the Board Internal control the annual internal audit plan and its resourcing The Board recognises that it is responsible for the the auditors interim and full year reports groups system of internal control and for reviewing its the auditors report to management effectiveness.
The Code requires the Board to review compliance with the groups code of ethics the effectiveness of the system of internal control, the monitoring of the groups International Financial including financial, operational, compliance and risk Reporting Standards conversion exercise management, at least annually.
In addition, Internal changes to the groups accounting policies Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the overseeing of the groups SOX compliance work was published in September 1999, to provide guidance the overseeing of the whistleblowing programme to Directors in respect of this requirement.
Revised minutes of the Risk Committee, which monitors and guidance for Directors, which comes into effect for reviews significant financial and non-financial risk, as financial years commencing on or after January 1, 2006, well as reviewing and reporting on the effectiveness has been issued and the Company will take this of the groups system of internal control guidance into consideration during 2006. the proposed introduction by UK government of an Operating and Financial Review, subsequently The Board confirms that procedures, which accord with withdrawn the original guidance, have been in place for the year to the scope and cost of the external audit December 31, 2005 and up to the date of approval of any non-audit work carried out by the auditors: and the Annual Report and Form 20-F by the Board.
These an evaluation of the effectiveness of the auditors, procedures ensure that the Board is aware of the key which included feedback from management on the risks facing the group and that the system of internal quality of the audit and the working relationship control is regularly reviewed for effectiveness and between management and the auditors, and adequacy.
Such a system can only provide reasonable consideration of their reappointment.
and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate The Committee also undertook a review of its terms of the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
In reference and its own work and effectiveness, and seeking to achieve these objectives, many of which are reported back to the Board.
already features of the existing processes and procedures within the Company, the Board has specifically instituted Having overseen the establishment of a groupwide the following processes, which have been in effect whistleblowing programme, MySafeWorkplace, throughout the reporting period and up to the date through which employees may in confidence raise of approval of the Annual Report and Form 20-F by concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial the Board.
reporting or other matters, the Committee received reports during the year to ensure proportionate and Policies independent investigation of such matters with A planning framework which incorporates a four year appropriate follow-up action.
plan approved by the Board, with objectives for each business unit.
Additionally, to safeguard the objectivity and A mechanism for reporting weaknesses in internal independence of the auditors and to ensure that the control systems and for monitoring corrective action.
independence of the audit work undertaken by the auditors is not compromised, the Committee considered Processes the auditors own assessment of independence and Appointment of experienced and professional staff, compliance with relevant professional and regulatory both by recruitment and promotion, of the necessary requirements.
The views of management were also calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities.
A comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board, based on an annual budget with monthly The Committee also has a policy for the provision reports against actual results, analysis of variances, of non-audit services by the auditors.
The policy defines scrutiny of key performance indicators and regular services which can be provided by the auditors and re-forecasting.
requires all non-audit services to be approved in Formal business risk reviews performed by advance by the Committee, which has delegated this management which evaluate the potential financial task to the Head of Internal Audit.
The approval process and non-financial impacts of identified risks and requires full disclosure of the objective and the scope of possible new risk areas, set control, mitigation and services to be performed in addition to the fee structure.
monitoring procedures and review actual The Committee reviews all approved services and level occurrences identifying lessons to be learnt.
of expenditure at subsequent meetings.
The auditors are Regular treasury reports to the Board which analyse permitted to perform non-audit services only if the scope the funding requirements of each class of assets, of work is within the terms of the policy and there is a track the generation and use of capital and the volume business benefit to the group in these services being of liquidity, measure the groups exposure to interest performed by them rather then an alternative supplier.
and exchange rate movements and record the level of Corporate governance 58 compliance with the groups funding objectives.
internal controls are not omitted and is relevant to an Well-defined procedures governing the appraisal evaluation of internal control over financial reporting.
and approval of investments, including detailed Management has assessed the effectiveness of our investment and divestment approval procedures internal control over financial reporting, as at incorporating appropriate levels of authority and December 31, 2005, and has concluded that such regular post investment reviews.
internal control over financial reporting is effective.
Ernst & Young LLP, which has audited the Verification consolidated financial statements of the group for An internal audit function within the business the year ended December 31, 2005, has also audited operations which undertakes periodic examination managements assessment of the effectiveness of of business units and processes and recommends internal control over financial reporting under improvements in controls to management.
2 of the Public Company The external auditors who are engaged to express Accounting Oversight Board United States.
See an opinion on the accounts.
the Auditors report on page 69.
An Audit Committee of the Board, consisting of Non-executive Directors, which considers Changes in internal control over financial reporting significant control matters and receives reports on During the period management has continued to internal controls from both the internal and external improve its control environment to respond, in particular, auditors on a regular basis.
to changes in accounting practice IFRS and to reflect A Risk Committee of the Board, consisting of the enhancements to information systems and procedures.
Chief Executive, Finance Director, Legal Director There have been no changes in the groups internal and other senior executives, which monitors and controls or in other factors during the period that have reviews significant financial and non-financial risk.
materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the groups internal control over financial reporting.
Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures The Company has a Disclosure Committee, which Internal Audit includes amongst its members, the Chief Executive, the Each major operating division has internal audit Finance Director and the Legal Director.
The Committee capability and these are co-ordinated centrally by the monitors and reviews the groups disclosure controls Head of Internal Audit under the guidance of the Audit and procedures to ensure these are satisfactory for Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews internal audit the purpose.
The review includes the evaluation of the reports and considers the overall effectiveness of the effectiveness as at December 31, 2005 of these function.
Priority in 2005 has once again been on disclosure controls and procedures to permit the financial statement risks identified through existing risk signing of the certifications required by the Chief management procedures and through the assessment Executive and the Finance Director in accordance with of internal control over financial reporting, required by the requirements of section 302 of the US SarbanesSOX.
The Board is once again pleased that this has Oxley Act of 2002.
Based on this evaluation, the Chief resulted in Hanson being able to report fully under Executive and the Finance Director concluded that the section 404 of SOX this year.
Planning for 2006 will, disclosure controls and procedures are effective in all however, continue to broaden the agenda and expand material respects to ensure that material information the scope of internal audit.
A greater emphasis on relating to the group would be made known to them by operational risks, as the SOX requirements become others within the group.
further embedded in the organisation, will help to promote the overall effectiveness of the groups risk Managements annual report on internal control over management and internal controls.
financial reporting In accordance with the requirements of section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the following report is provided by management in respect of the Companys internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15 f and 15d-15 f under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 : Hansons management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the group.
Hansons management has used the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO framework to evaluate the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting.
Management believes that the COSO framework is a suitable framework for its evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting because it is free from bias, permits reasonably consistent qualitative and quantitative measurements of our internal controls, is sufficiently complete so that those relevant factors that would alter a conclusion about the effectiveness of our Corporate governance 59 Corporate governance continued Shareholder communications The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Hanson values its dialogue with both institutional and group keeps proper accounting records which disclose private investors and, based on publicly available with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial information, constructive two-way communication with position of the group and enable them to ensure that the fund managers, institutional investors and analysts is accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
are responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud The views of major shareholders are reported to the and other irregularities.
Board, with independent surveys undertaken by the Companys brokers on specific issues of relevance A copy of the Annual Report and Form 20-F of the to the Company.
Company is placed on the Companys website www.
The Directors are responsible for Following his appointment as Chairman, M W Welton the maintenance and integrity of statutory and audited met with the Companys major shareholders.
information on the Companys website.
Information Arrangements are also in place for the Senior published on the internet is accessible in many countries Independent Director and other Non-executive Directors with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK to meet with major shareholders, if they so request.
governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other Additional forms of communication include jurisdictions.
presentations of the interim and annual results, and of the trading statements.
By order of the Board Paul Tunnacliffe The Hanson website at www.
biz provides access Company Secretary to information on the Company and its businesses.
February 23, 2006 Further details of the website can be found in the Investor information section.
It is not intended for the website address to be an active link or to otherwise incorporate the contents of the website into this document.
At the AGM see page 53 for details, the Chief Executive will present a review of the results and current business activity.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions on items of business put before the meeting and will have the opportunity to vote separately on each resolution.
The Chairman will indicate the level of proxy votes lodged in respect of each resolution following each vote on a show of hands and details of those abstaining from voting will also be disclosed.
As for the prior year, this information will also be posted on the Hanson website after the meeting.
Following the meeting, the Directors will be available to meet with shareholders.
Going concern The Directors confirm that, after meeting appropriate enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that Hanson has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Directors responsibilities for the accounts Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that year.
In preparing these accounts, the Directors consider that they have: selected suitable accounting policies, and applied them consistently: made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and followed applicable international accounting standards.
