Governance Corporate governance report The Combined Code directors together with, for more significant or complex In July 2003, the Financial Reporting Council in the UK issued transactions, one other non-executive director.
a revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance which The directors of subsidiary companies are legally responsible for superseded the Combined Code published in 1998 the Combined those business entities.
They are tasked with the delivery of the Code.
Throughout the year, the board has complied fully with targets set within the budgets approved by the group board and the revised Combined Code and this report, together with the for the implementation of group strategy and policy across their remuneration report on pages 37 to 48, give details of how these businesses.
United Utilities Water PLC, for example, is a substantial principles have been applied.
business in its own right and its board includes two independent The Board of Directors non-executive directors Phillida Entwistle and Deborah Morton.
Every company should be headed by an effective board, which The company maintains an appropriate level of directors and is collectively responsible for the success of the company.
ofcers insurance in respect of legal action against the directors.
1 Chairman and chief executive The board is scheduled to meet ten times each year with additional There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of meetings called if required.
The board has a formal schedule of the company between the running of the board and the executive matters reserved to it, which ensures that it takes all major strategy, responsibility for the running of the companys business.
No policy and investment decisions affecting the group.
In addition, it is one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
responsible for business planning and risk management and for the Combined Code principle A.
2 development of group policies including such areas as health and safety, directors and senior managers remuneration and for social, Separate individuals have been appointed to the positions of environmental and ethical issues.
Attendance by individual directors chairman and of chief executive.
The board has agreed clearly at meetings of the board and its committees during the year ended dened responsibilities for the roles and has adopted a set of 31 March 2005 is shown in table 34 and full biographical details of guiding principles to govern the relationship between them.
The the directors can be found on pages 33 and 34. chairman is primarily responsible for the working of the board.
The chief executive is responsible for running the groups business and The chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors for implementing board strategy and policy.
without the executive directors present.
Led by the senior independent director, the non-executive directors meet without Board balance and independence the chairman present at least annually to appraise the chairmans The board should include a balance of executive and non-executive performance.
Directors have a right to ensure that any concerns directors and in particular independent non-executive directors they have, which cannot be resolved about the running of the such that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate company or a proposed action, are recorded in the board minutes.
3 In addition, upon resignation a non-executive director is asked The board aims to maintain a balance of executive and nonto provide a written statement addressed to the chairman, executive directors and, at the date of adoption of this statement, for circulation to the board, if they have any such concerns.
comprises the chairman, five executive directors and seven nonThe groups governance structure ensures that all decisions executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
are made by the most appropriate people in such a way that The directors have a wide and diverse range of business and other the decision-making process itself does not unnecessarily experience and expertise.
The board has formally delegated specic The Combined Code does not regard the chairman as being responsibilities to board committees, including the audit see page independent in view of his unique role in corporate governance 52, remuneration see page 38, nomination see Appointments although, were he not chairman, Sir Richard would satisfy the to the board on page 50, approvals and treasury committees.
independence criteria laid down by the Combined Code.
Taking All board committees are provided with sufficient resources to into account the provisions of the Combined Code, the board has undertake their duties.
determined that all of the non-executive directors are independent The approvals committee considers and approves expenditure and free from any business or other relationship which could and investment proposals within limits delegated by the board.
In particular, the board Its members are the executive directors, the managing director has determined that Sir Peter Middleton remains independent, of Your Communications and the company secretary.
notwithstanding that he has served on the board for more than The treasury committee considers and approves borrowing, nine years.
Andrew Pinder remains independent, notwithstanding leasing, bonding and other banking facilities within limits set by that he receives additional remuneration as a non-executive director the board.
Its members are the chairman and the executive of Vertex.
In making these determinations, the board took into Table 34: Attendance by individual directors at meetings of the board and its committees Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual John Roberts 17 16 n a n a 3 3 n a n a Simon Batey 17 16 n a n a n a n a n a n a Charlie Cornish 17 16 n a n a n a n a n a n a Gordon Waters 17 14 n a n a n a n a n a n a Sir Richard Evans 17 17 n a n a 3 3 n a n a Norman Broadhurst 17 13 7 7 3 3 6 6 David Jones 5 4 2 2 2 2 Sir Peter Middleton 17 15 7 6 3 2 6 4 Jane Newell 17 15 7 7 3 3 6 6 Andrew Pinder 17 16 7 5 3 2 6 6 John Seed 17 16 7 7 3 3 6 6 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 49 Governance Corporate governance report continued account their breadth of experience, their financial independence Information and professional development The board should be supplied in a timely manner with information and their other business interests.
in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge Sir Peter Middleton has been appointed as senior independent its duties.
All directors should receive induction on joining the director.
The senior independent director would be available to board and should regularly update and refresh their skills and shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the knowledge.
5 normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact is The quality of the contribution that directors, particularly noninappropriate.
The full terms of reference for the senior independent executives, can make is directly dependent upon the quality director are available on the companys web site but include: the of the information they receive.
Accordingly, all directors receive authority to call a meeting of the non-executive directors if, in his comprehensive information on a regular basis.
Board papers are opinion, it is necessary: to lead a meeting of the non-executive normally distributed five days in advance of the relevant meeting directors without the chairman present at least annually to appraise to allow sufficient time for directors to be fully briefed.
The papers the chairmans performance: and to attend sufficient meetings with are sufciently detailed to enable the directors to obtain a thorough a range of major shareholders to listen to their views in order to help grasp of the management and financial performance of the company develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
Minutes of committee meetings are Appointments to the board circulated to all board members.
There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure The board has established a governance framework which for the appointment of new directors to the board.
Combined encourages all directors to bring an independent judgement to Code principle A.
4 bear on issues of strategy, performance and resources, including The board has constituted a nomination committee which meets key appointments and standards of conduct.
New directors receive at least once each year and otherwise as required.
The committee appropriate induction on joining the board.
As part of this, the considers and makes recommendations to the board on the company has offered major shareholders the opportunity to meet composition, balance and membership of the board.
The committee David Jones and Nick Salmon as new non-executive directors.
evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the All directors have access to the advice and services of the board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepares a description of company secretary, who is responsible to the board for ensuring the roles and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
Its that board procedures are complied with.
Both the appointment members are the non-executive directors, including the chairman and removal of the company secretary are a matter for the board who is chairman of the committee, although the chairman will as a whole.
not chair the committee when the committee deals with the appointment of a successor to the chairmanship, together with The board has adopted a protocol under which directors the chief executive.
As such, the majority of the members of the have access, through the company secretary, to independent committee are independent non-executive directors.
The nomination professional advice at the companys expense where they judge committees terms of reference are available to shareholders it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors.
on request and are also available on the companys web site.
Performance evaluation The committee met three times in the year to 31 March 2005.
The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual The nomination committee leads the process for board evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees appointments and makes recommendations to the board about and individual directors.
6 lling vacancies on the board, appointing additional persons to the During the year, the board conducted an evaluation of its own board and the re-election by shareholders of any director under performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
the retirement by rotation provisions in the companys articles of association.
During the year, the committee prepared a description The process involved the completion by each director of a of the roles and capabilities required for the appointment of a noncondential questionnaire.
The questionnaire was modelled on the executive director, engaged the services of Whitehead Mann and Chairmens Guide to the Board Performance Review published by made recommendations to the board as part of the final selection the Chairmens Forum and was consistent with guidance published process which led to the appointment of David Jones and Nick by the Chartered Institute of Secretaries and Administrators, and Salmon as non-executive directors.
required each director to score the boards performance on 64 issues, such as contribution to strategy, risk management, financial The letters of appointment of non-executive directors are made and operational reporting, board committees, matters reserved for available on the companys web site.
They set out the expected the board, communication, company and board advisers, relations time commitment and non-executive directors undertake that they with the groups regulators and board procedures and invited will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
executive directors other significant commitments are disclosed to the board before appointment, with the board being notied In addition, the members of the audit, group approvals, nomination, of any subsequent changes.
remuneration and treasury committees completed additional condential questionnaires about the functioning of those The company recognises that its executive directors may be committees, as did those managers and advisers who frequently invited to become non-executive directors of companies outside deal with those committees.
For example, in the case of the audit the group and exposure to such non-executive duties can broaden committee, the auditor and the group audit manager each experience and knowledge, which will be to the benefit of the completed condential questionnaires about the audit committee.
Subject to board approval which will not be given if the proposed appointment is with a competing company, would The company secretary analysed the completed board and otherwise lead to a conict of interest or could have a detrimental committee questionnaires and summarised the findings in a report effect on a directors performance, executive directors are allowed for the chairman, which highlighted and prioritised the key areas to accept one non-executive directorship and to retain the fees.
The chairman subsequently conducted one-to-one However, the boards policy is that no full-time executive director discussions with each of the board members based on the should take on more than one non-executive directorship of a summary report, after which the chairman reported back to the FTSE 100 company or the chairmanship of such a company.
John whole board on the evaluation process and its key findings.
The Roberts is a non-executive director of Volex Group plc, for which he board developed a plan to make changes in a number of areas, earned and retained a fee of 26,000 during the year to 31 March including updating skills, succession planning and creating more 2005 and Simon Batey is a non-executive director of Arriva plc, time for discussions on strategic issues, which either have already for which he earned and retained a fee of 32,458 during the been implemented or will be implemented during the course of the year to 31 March 2005. current financial year.
50 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 The responses to the questionnaires demonstrated a high degree As at 31 March 2005, an evaluation was carried out under the supervision, and with the participation of senior management, of consistency and the evaluation process afrmed the boards including the chief executive and group finance director, of the confidence in the groups system of corporate governance.
effectiveness of the design and operation of the companys Reappointment of directors disclosure controls and procedures.
There are inherent limitations All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, to the effectiveness of any system of disclosure controls and subject to continued satisfactory performance.
The board should procedures, including the possibility of human error and the ensure planned and progressive refreshing of the board.
circumvention or overriding of the controls and procedures.
7 Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control The board initially appoints all new directors, on the recommendation objectives.
Based on, and as of the date of the companys of the nomination committee and following an appropriate evaluation, the chief executive and group finance director recruitment process.
Following the appointment of a new director, concluded that the disclosure controls and procedures are effective he or she is required to retire and seek reappointment at the next to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be annual general meeting.
The companys articles of association disclosed in the reports that the company les and submits under include provisions requiring one-third of all directors to retire and seek UK and US legislation is recorded, processed, summarised reappointment at each annual general meeting, and ensuring that and reported as and when required.
no director serves for more than three years without retiring and In addition, there has been no change in the companys internal being proposed for reappointment at an annual general meeting.
controls or in other factors, during the period covered by this Biographical details of directors being submitted for reappointment annual report, that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely are set out in the notes accompanying the relevant notice of meeting.
to materially affect, the disclosure controls.
Non-executive directors are appointed for specified terms subject Statement of directors responsibilities to reappointment under the companys articles of association and In accordance with statutory requirements, the directors are subject to Companies Acts provisions relating to the removal responsible for preparing financial statements for each financial year of a director.
The board explains to shareholders in the papers which give a true and fair view of the companys and the groups accompanying a resolution to reappoint a non-executive director state of affairs as at the end of the financial year, and of the profit why they believe that a non-executive director should be appointed.
or loss and cash ows for the financial year.
The chairman will confirm to shareholders when proposing The directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements, reappointment that, following formal performance evaluation, the group has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently that individuals performance continues to be effective and to applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and demonstrate commitment to the role.
Any term beyond six years estimates.
All applicable accounting standards have been followed, for a non-executive director will be subject to particularly rigorous subject to any departure and explanation described in the notes review, and will take into account the need for progressive to the consolidated financial statements.
Any non-executive director serving longer The directors have a legal responsibility for ensuring that than nine years will be subject to annual reappointment.
the company keeps accounting records which disclose, with Financial reporting reasonable accuracy at any time, the companys and the groups The board should present a balanced and understandable financial position and which enable them to ensure the financial assessment of the companys position and prospects.
statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors Combined Code principle C. 1 also have a general legal responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the companys and In presenting the annual and interim financial statements and similar the groups assets and to prevent and detect fraud and other significant publications, the directors aim to present a balanced and irregularities.
The external auditors statement about its reporting understandable assessment of the groups position and prospects.
responsibilities is set out on page 55.
In particular, the board has recognised the fact that the UK Internal control government has introduced legislation concerning the contents The board should maintain a sound system of internal control to of a companys operating and financial review, which will take effect safeguard shareholders investment and the companys assets.
in 2006, and has endeavoured to conform with the Accounting Combined Code principle C. 2 Standards Boards statement of best practice concerning such reporting in advance of the requirements becoming mandatory.
The board is responsible for the groups system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Throughout the year under review The considerable overlap between the new operating and financial and up to the date of this report, the board has operated procedures review requirements and the format of the US annual report on meeting the requirements of the Combined Code relating to internal Form 20-F has prompted the board to produce, for the first time, a control as set out in the September 1999 guidance Internal Control single consolidated UK and US compliant annual report and 20-F Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published by the which it hopes will provide a single source of information about the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The board recognises that the majority of shareholders the board reviews all controls, including financial, operational and elect not to receive the full annual report and to receive in its place compliance controls and risk management procedures.
The internal a summary financial statement.
Accordingly, it has taken steps to control system is designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, the ensure that such shareholders also receive a stakeholder report risk of failure to achieve the companys business objectives and can which summarises the most important features of the companys only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against activity during the year.
The directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing In addition, the board is making preparations for compliance with these financial statements.
This is based upon a review of the s404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
This includes ensuring groups budget for 2005 06, the five-year business plan and that key financial controls are adequately documented and that they investment programme, together with the cash and committed have been specically tested.
borrowing facilities available to the group.
The board also took into The key features of the internal control system are: account potential contingent liabilities and other risk factors as interpreted by the Guidance on Going Concern and Financial a control environment with clearly dened organisation structures Reporting for Directors of Listed Companies registered in the operating within a framework of policies and procedures covering United Kingdom, published in November 1994. every aspect of the business: United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 51 Governance Corporate governance report continued comprehensive business planning, risk assessment and financial The committee has primary responsibility for making a recommendation on the appointment, reappointment and reporting procedures: including the annual preparation of detailed removal of the external auditor to the board, to put to operational budgets for the year ahead and projections for shareholders for their approval in general meeting.
It keeps under subsequent years: review the scope and results of the audit and its cost-effectiveness a monthly board review of financial and non-financial key and the independence and objectivity of the auditor.
The committee performance indicators to assess progress towards objectives: has established policies and procedures to pre-approve the provision of any audit or non-audit services and keeps the nature monthly meetings prior to each board meeting of the executive and extent of non-audit services under review, seeking to balance leadership team, a forum in which the executive directors, the maintenance of objectivity and value for money.
It reviews the the managing directors of the groups businesses, the group half-year and annual financial statements before submission to the functional directors and the company secretary exchange board, reviews periodically the scope, remit and effectiveness of the information and discuss strategic and operational issues internal audit function and the effectiveness of the groups internal which are of group-wide importance: control system.
It also reviews annually arrangements by which staff regular monitoring of risks and control systems throughout the of the company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible year by the operating businesses, supported by the use of risks improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The and issues databases: terms of reference of the audit committee are available to shareholders on request and are also available on the companys web site.
a self-certication process, subject to internal audit, whereby the operating businesses are required to confirm that the system of During the year, the board, on the recommendation of the audit internal control is operating effectively: committee, adopted a revised disclosure policy and have implemented a condential voice mailbox for employees who want to report any an internal audit function to provide independent scrutiny of internal concerns which they may have.
The committees objective is to control systems and risk management procedures: ensure that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and a bi-monthly risk management forum chaired by the group finance independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate director, and comprising the company secretary, the group audit follow-up action.
manager, the group health and safety manager and senior Audit and audit-related services are pre-approved annually by representatives from each of the operating businesses, to the audit committee.
Audit-related services generally are highly scrutinise key risks: correlated with the role of an independent auditor.
Such services a quarterly sustainable development panel chaired by the chief include assurance on non-statutory information, assurance work executive, and comprising the managing directors of United Utilities carried out in connection with reporting to a statutory regulator, North West and United Utilities Contract Solutions, the head of analysis and interpretation of accounting principles and their environment and the community and three external professional application, support for debt issues and similar transactions, specialists: Walter Menzies, Clive Jeanes and Dr Mark Everard.
and other services that have a bearing on the groups financial The role of the panel is to advise on environmental policy and, in statements on which the external auditor provides their opinion.
particular, to identify risks to the environment, recommend targets Non-audit services are allowed under the procurement of audit and monitor performance against those targets: and non-audit services policy and do not affect the independence an annual risk assessment exercise involving self-assessment of the external auditor, but do require the pre-approval of the audit by management of all business risks in terms of impact, likelihood committee prior to the engagement.
Specic approval may be and control strength and an objective challenge of that assessment delegated to a designated member of the audit committee, with by the internal audit team: such approvals to be reported to the next audit committee meeting.
In granting such approval, the designated member of the audit health and safety performance reviews carried out by our in-house committee is required to consider the cumulative proportion of fees safety professionals in addition to the normal health and safety risk paid for such work compared with the statutory audit fees.
In the assessment and management processes carried out within each financial year 2004 05, all services were pre-approved by the audit of the operating businesses: committee and none was undertaken without such pre-approval centralised treasury operations operating within dened limits pursuant to paragraph c 7 i C of Rule 2-01 of Regulation S-X.
and subject to regular reporting requirements and internal audit The group also maintains a list of prohibited services that cannot be reviews: and provided by the groups auditors as they are considered by statute or, in the groups opinion, to be incompatible with the role of the established procedures, set out in a group internal control manual, independent auditor.
for planning, approving and monitoring major capital expenditure, major projects and the development of new business which The fees paid or payable to the auditor in the year under review are includes short and long-term budgets, risk evaluation, detailed set out in table 35. appraisal and review procedures, dened authority levels and post-investment performance reviews.
The audit committee and the auditor The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they should apply the financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
Combined Code principle C. 3 The audit committees members are the non-executive directors who are determined in accordance with UK and US corporate governance rules to be independent.
Norman Broadhurst is its chairman and the board is satisfied that he has recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Combined Code and is an audit committee financial expert as dened by Item 16A of Form 20-F.
The committee met seven times in the year to 31 March 2005.
52 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Table 35: Fees to Deloitte & Touche LLP 24 hours a day, worldwide, at www.
Financial news releases are made available on the site contemporaneously 2005 2004 with release through other news channels and anyone with an email 000 000 address can register free of charge to receive an email alert upon Audit fees 590.0 563.1 the posting of each new release.
1 Audit related fees 825.0 882.0 DIFFERENCES IN UK NYSE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRACTICES 2 Tax fees 300.0 335.0 Under the New York Stock Exchange NYSE corporate Total 1,715.0 1,780.1 governance rules for listed companies, as a NYSE-listed foreign private issuer, United Utilities PLC must disclose any significant Notes: ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those 1 Audit-related fees are fees billed for work on regulatory returns and assurance work followed by US companies under NYSE listing standards.
United reasonably related to the statutory audit, including due diligence and assurance work, work Utilities PLC believes the following to be the significant differences associated with raising debt and equity finance and securities ling work.
between its corporate governance practices and NYSE corporate 2 Tax fees are fees incurred for tax compliance, tax advice and related tax work.
governance rules applicable to US companies.
3 In addition to the above, fees relating to joint ventures of the group were paid to Deloitte & Touche LLP in 2005 totalling 15,000 2004 66,800.
US companies listed on the NYSE are required to adopt and disclose corporate governance guidelines.
The Listing Rules of Dialogue with institutional shareholders the UK Financial Services Authority require each listed company, There should be a dialogue with institutional shareholders based incorporated in the United Kingdom, to include in its annual report on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole and accounts a narrative statement of how it has applied the has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with principles of the Combined Code and a statement as to whether shareholders takes place.
Combined Code principle D. 1 or not it has complied with the best practice provisions of the There is a programme of investor meetings and presentations Combined Code throughout the accounting period covered by the which take place throughout the year, both in the UK and overseas.
A company that has not complied with During the year, the board met or offered to meet with 116 different the Combined Code provisions, or complied with only some of the funds, representing 43 per cent of the companys issued ordinary Combined Code provisions or in the case of provisions whose share capital.
This, together with regular announcements of requirements are of a continuing nature complied for only part of an significant events affecting the group and frequent updates on accounting period covered by the report, must specify the Combined current trading, emphasises the boards commitment to keeping Code provisions with which it has not complied, and, where relevant, the companys equity and debt investors informed of developments for what part of the reporting period such non-compliance continued, affecting the group.
The board regards this programme as and give reasons for any non-compliance.
United Utilities PLC has important to improve investors awareness of the business and complied throughout its 2004 05 financial year with the best practice for the board to gain an understanding of investors priorities.
provisions of the Combined Code.
The Combined Code does not require United Utilities PLC to disclose the full range of corporate The board has taken steps to ensure that members of the governance guidelines with which it complies.
board, and in particular the non-executive directors, develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about their Under NYSE standards, companies are required to have a company through an annual survey of shareholder opinion produced nominating corporate governance committee, composed entirely of for the company by Makinson Cowell.
Non-executive directors are independent directors.
In addition to identifying individuals qualied offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders to become board members, this committee must develop and and would attend them if requested by major shareholders.
recommend to the board a set of corporate governance principles.
The United Utilities nomination committee, which follows the Constructive use of the annual general meeting requirements of the Combined Code, includes seven members who The board should use the annual general meeting to communicate are independent under Combined Code rules six being deemed with investors and to encourage their participation.
Combined independent under NYSE rules, together with the non-executive Code principle D. 2 chairman and the chief executive.
The committees terms of reference do not require the committee to develop and recommend corporate The board encourages shareholders to exercise their right to vote governance principles for United Utilities PLC.
at the annual general meeting.
The notice calling the meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days Pursuant to NYSE listing standards, non-management directors before the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each must meet on a regular basis without management present and substantially separate issue.
independent directors must meet separately at least once per year.
During the 2004 05 financial year, United Utilities non-executive At annual general meetings, voting on all resolutions takes place by directors met once as a group with the non-executive chairman, means of a poll which ensures that all shareholders votes are taken but with no executive directors present and once as a group into account, whether lodged in person at the meeting or by proxy.
without the chairman or the executive directors present.
The poll vote is scrutinised by Lloyds TSB Registrars.
In accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code, Presentations are made on the progress and performance of the United Utilities reports on how its committees and its directors are business prior to the formal business of the meeting.
evaluated and on the results of such evaluations and it provides Shareholders are encouraged to participate through a question extensive information regarding directors compensation in the and answer session in which individual directors or, where appropriate, directors remuneration report on pages 37 to 48.
The terms of the chairman of the relevant committee, respond to those questions reference of United Utilities audit, nomination and remuneration directly.
Normally, the chairmen of the audit, nomination and committees are available on the companys web site.
remuneration committees will be available at the annual general NYSE listing standards require US companies to adopt a code of meeting to answer questions relevant to the work of those business conduct and ethics for directors, ofcers and employees, committees.
All directors normally attend the annual general meeting.
and to disclose promptly any waivers of the code for directors The interim report, the annual report, the stakeholder report and or executive ofcers.
The group has adopted a set of business summary financial statement remain the primary means the board principles, which applies to the employees of all United Utilities has of communicating during the year with all of the companys companies, including the chief executive, the group finance director shareholders.
However, the board recognises the importance of and the group financial controller which comply with the NYSE the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and costrequirements.
United Utilities Business Principles are available effectively.
A library of information about the company is available on the companys web site.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 53 Governance Corporate governance report continued Under NYSE listing rules applicable to US companies, independent directors must comprise a majority of the board of directors.
The NYSE rules include detailed tests for determining director independence while the Combined Code, which is followed by United Utilities, prescribes a more general standard for determining director independence.
Currently, six of United Utilities directors satisfy the tests for independence set out in the NYSE rules.
The Combined Code requires a companys board to assess director independence by afrmatively concluding that the director is independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
Finally, a chief executive officer of a US company listed on the NYSE must annually certify that he or she is not aware of any violation by the company of NYSE corporate governance standards.
In accordance with NYSE listing rules applicable to foreign private issuers, United Utilities chief executive is not required to provide the NYSE with this annual compliance certication.
However, in accordance with rules applicable to both US companies and foreign private issuers, the chief executive will be required to notify the NYSE promptly in writing if any executive officer becomes aware of any material non-compliance with the NYSE corporate governance standards applicable to United Utilities.
54 United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005
