Corporate governance This statement outlines how the relevant provisions of the Combined Board evaluation Code on Corporate Governance have been applied by the Company.
The Chairman conducted formal evaluations of the Board as a whole and of its Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees for 2005 The Board and its committees and the results of these evaluations have been reported to the Board.
The Board Evaluation of individual Directors as members of the Board has also been The Board conducts itself in such a way as to give an appropriate lead to conducted by the Chairman in respect of 2005.
The Senior Independent the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates and their respective employees Director is responsible for the evaluation of the performance of the and is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and Chairman and meets at least annually with his fellow Non-Executive to delivery of enhanced shareholder value in a manner consistent with Directors to appraise the performance of the Chairman.
The Chairman sound business practices and proper standards of corporate and social periodically meets the Non-Executive Directors without the other responsibility.
The Boards lead focuses on integrity and personal Executive Directors present.
responsibility with the overriding corporate objective of creating shareholder value.
Corporate governance framework and Board committees The Board operates under a Management and Governance Framework, The Board currently comprises eight directors, three of whom are executive which it has approved and adopted.
Under this Framework the Board and five of whom are non-executive.
a has detailed the specific powers that the Board has retained, b sets David Gawler, who has been Chairman and Chief Executive since out the formal committees that the Board has established and the 25 April 2001, will be stepping down as Chief Executive, but has powers and terms of reference of such committees and c addresses agreed to remain as Chairman after 30 June 2006. certain fundamental policies that the Board has adopted for the good governance of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates.
Michael Foster, who was appointed as Commercial Director with effect The Framework is kept under constant review and will be modified from 1 January 2005, becomes Chief Executive on 1 July 2006. as and when new situations, requirements or practices arise.
The Board has determined that each of the Non-Executive Directors The powers retained by the Board include the approval of annual and is independent in character and judgement.
John Neill has been a Noninterim results, the membership, authority and terms of reference of Executive Director for more than nine years and, although the Board the Board committees, strategy and the adoption of the annual budget, still considers that he remains independent of thought, character and significant financing arrangements, matters relating to share capital judgement, he resigned as a member of the Audit and Remuneration including employee share schemes and share options and contracts Committees on 24 June 2005.
He will offer himself for re-election or expenditures that exceed certain monetary thresholds.
at this years annual general meeting.
The Remuneration and Audit Committees are composed of Non-Executive Three new Non-Executive Directors were appointed during 2005, being Grey Denham and Andrew Osborne on 7 February 2005 and John Biles Directors only, although Executive Directors are invited to attend parts on 1 April 2005.
A formalised induction programme for new Board of the Audit Committee meetings.
Mr Gawler chairs the Nominations members was introduced in 2005.
Committee, however the remaining members are Non-Executive Directors.
The Executive Committee is composed of the Executive One-third of the Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election Directors, together with such senior executives as may be nominated each year and at this years annual general meeting, Mr Careless and the by the Chief Executive and whose appointments are confirmed by the Hon.
James Bruce retire by rotation in accordance with the Companys Board.
The Disclosure Committee is currently composed of the three Articles of Association and will offer themselves for re-election.
will be stepping down as Chief Executive on 30 June 2006, but has agreed to remain as Chairman, and is also offering himself for re-election.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available on request from the Company Secretary All Directors of the Company have access to the advice and services at the Companys registered office and are also available on the of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice Companys web site at www.
on any matter relating to the Company at the Companys expense.
In advance of Board and committee meetings, Directors and relevant Remuneration Committee committee members receive detailed papers on the matters The Remuneration Committee is responsible for ensuring the to be considered, enabling them to request further clarification remuneration and other terms and conditions of employment of the or additional information.
Executive Directors are appropriate to attract, motivate and retain high calibre individuals.
A significant proportion of Executive Directors The table below shows details of the attendance in 2005 of Directors total remuneration is structured so as to link rewards to corporate and at both meetings of the Board and meetings of the Audit, Remuneration individual performance.
Executive Directors remuneration packages and Nominations Committees.
and terms are set and reviewed by reference to peer group companies Board Committees with broadly similar stock market capitalisations and on advice from Audit Remuneration Nominations external consultants.
The Remuneration Committee is also responsible Meetings held 11 5 6 1 for determining the remuneration of designated senior management.
The Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 45 provides detailed information concerning the remuneration of the Directors.
James Bruce is the chairman of the Remuneration Committee Michael Foster 11 n a n a n a and was a member throughout 2005.
John Neill was a member until his Robert Careless 11 n a n a n a resignation from the committee on 24 June 2005.
Grey Denham and Andrew Osborne became members of the committee with effect from The Hon.
James Bruce 10 361 1 7 February 2005 and John Biles from 1 April 2005.
John Neill 10 1 3 n a 2 Disclosure Committee Grey Denham 8460 The Disclosure Committee, which was established during the year, is 3 responsible for the creation and maintenance of appropriate procedures, Andrew Osborne 9151 3 systems and controls to ensure compliance by the Company with its John Biles 732 n a 4 obligations under the Disclosure Rules and the Listing Rules.
It has responsibility for determining, on a timely basis, the disclosure treatment 1 The Hon.
James Bruce resigned as Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 24 June 2005. of material information, and assisting in, and where appropriate, carrying 2 John Neill resigned from the Audit and Remuneration Committees with effect from 24 June 2005.
3 Grey Denham and Andrew Osborne were appointed to the Board and the Audit and Remuneration out the design, implementation and periodic evaluation of disclosure Committees with effect from 7 February 2005, and were appointed to the Nominations Committee controls and procedures that operate within the Company and its with effect from 23 May 2005.
4 John Biles was appointed to the Board and the Audit and Remuneration Committees with effect from subsidiaries and affiliates.
The committee also has responsibility for the 1 April 2005 and was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 24 June 2005. identification of inside information, for the purpose of the maintenance Eleven board meetings are scheduled for 2006. of the Companys insider lists, as required by the Disclosure Rules.
34 Charter plc Annual Report 2005 Audit Committee Executive Committee The Audit Committees terms of reference include the roles and The Board has delegated powers and authority to the Executive responsibilities set out in the Combined Code.
The committee is intended Committee for the day to day management of the affairs of the Company to provide appropriate and regular lines of communication between the and its subsidiaries and affiliates other than Anderson Group Inc, Board and the external and internal auditors.
The Chief Executive and subject to powers that the Board has either retained or explicitly Finance Director, together with representatives from the external auditors delegated to the various other board committees.
are usually present at committee meetings and the head of internal audit The members of the committee during 2005 were the three Executive also attends those parts of the meetings that the committee chairman Directors, being David Gawler who, as Chairman and Chief Executive deems appropriate.
Officer of the Company, acted as chairman of the committee, Michael The Audit Committee: Foster and Robert Careless.
Jon Templeman, Chief Executive of ESAB monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Company Global and Bob Cleland, Chief Executive of Howden Global became and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial members of the Executive Committee in March 2006. performance: Anderson Group Inc makes recommendations to the Board regarding the adoption The operations of ESAB and Howden in North America are managed of annual and interim financial reports: by Anderson Group Inc AGI, a subsidiary of Charter plc.
Del Tanner is President and Chief Executive Officer of AGI.
AGIs board is responsible reviews the Companys internal financial controls and internal control for all aspects of the management of its affairs and for the corporate and risk management systems: governance framework of the businesses that are operated by its monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Companys internal subsidiaries.
The Company exercises its rights as shareholder of AGI audit function: by appointing two nominees as non-executive directors to the board of AGI and they, on behalf of the Company, review matters of significance makes recommendations to the Board regarding the Auditors relating to its ownership interest in AGI such as board appointments, and their terms of appointment: financial results, corporate strategy, major investments and divestments reviews and monitors the external Auditors independence and corporate governance issues.
Michael Foster was one of two nonand objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: executive directors on the board of AGI and a member of its audit and remuneration committees.
is responsible for developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the external Auditors to supply non-audit services: Relations with shareholders The Company has a policy of maintaining an active dialogue with makes recommendations to the Board in relation to whistle blowing institutional shareholders through individual meetings.
with private shareholders are conducted through the annual report, The Hon.
James Bruce was the chairman of the Audit Committee until presentations at the annual general meeting and the Companys 24 June 2005 and was a member throughout 2005.
John Biles was internet site that, inter alia, gives a full description of the Companys appointed chairman of the committee on 24 June 2005.
John Neill was business operations.
a member until his resignation from the committee on 24 June 2005.
The Board receives regular updates on all meetings and communications Grey Denham and Andrew Osborne became members of the committee with major shareholders.
The major shareholders are offered the with effect from 7 February 2005 and John Biles from 1 April 2005, upon opportunity to meet with the Non-Executive Directors from time to time, their respective appointments to the Board.
The Board is satisfied that as appropriate.
James Bruce, John Biles and Andrew Osborne all have recent and relevant financial experience.
James Bruce is the Senior Independent Director and is available to shareholders if they have concerns.
The Audit Committee adopted a formal policy in relation to the external Auditors providing non-audit services during 2005.
It has also reviewed Compliance with the Combined Code the non-audit services provided by the external Auditors throughout The Board monitors its compliance with the requirements of the Combined the year and has received from them a Confirmation of Independence Code on a continuous basis.
The committee remains satisfied as to their independence.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2005, the Company has been The Audit Committee has also evaluated the effectiveness of the in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined external audit process.
Code issued in July 2003 on corporate governance, as appended to Nominations Committee the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules, except for the following Having regard to its size and structure, the Board as a whole acted principal items: as the Nominations Committee until 23 May 2005, retaining all power A.
2.1 The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive are held by David and authority in relation to the appointment and removal of Directors Gawler.
This position was originally approved by shareholders following and the Company Secretary.
The Board met twice in this capacity during Mr Gawlers appointment in 2001.
In addition, as explained in the the year, in relation to the appointments of Grey Denham and Andrew remuneration report, shareholders approved changes to Mr Gawlers Osborne in January 2005 and John Biles in March 2005. long term incentive plan at the 2004 annual general meeting.
Major To ensure further compliance with the Combined Code a separate shareholders have been consulted and continue to support this Nominations Committee was established with effect from 23 May 2005 appointment.
Mr Gawler is stepping down as Chief Executive comprising David Gawler, the committee chairman, the Hon.
James Bruce, on 30 June 2006: Grey Denham and Andrew Osborne.
4.1 Having regard to its size and structure, the entire Board acted as the Nominations Committee until May 2005, when a separate Nominations Committee, comprising a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors, was established: B.
2.2 The definition of senior management was formally determined by the Board in March 2005.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration of these individuals: Charter plc Annual Report 2005 35 Corporate governance continued C. 3.2 During 2005, the Audit Committee recommended a policy Control procedures Detailed operational procedures are developed for each key activity that on the engagement of the external Auditors to supply non-audit embody key controls.
The implications of changes in law and regulations services, which was adopted by the Board in June 2005: and are taken into account within these procedures.
Procedures are C. 3.4 The Board has delegated authority to the Audit Committee established to safeguard the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries to review arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in and to ensure that all financial transactions are properly recorded.
confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters Accounting policies and practices are widely disseminated throughout of financial reporting or other matters.
Arrangements were formalised the Companys subsidiaries.
and approved by the Audit Committee and were implemented Monitoring process in March 2006.
There are clear procedures for monitoring the system of internal controls.
Internal control The significant components of these are: The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and The managing director and finance director of each operating unit the Audit Committee has been delegated formal responsibility for reviewing are required to review internal controls and to return a self certified the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
internal control questionnaire confirming the effectiveness of internal The processes to manage the key risks to the success of the Company control systems: are reviewed and improved as necessary.
There is an organisational Each operating business maintains a log of business risks.
Progress structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation on action plans to mitigate high and medium risks is monitored in monthly of authority and there are also established procedures for monitoring management reviews that also check for newly emerging risks.
While the operational control is largely decentralised Board reviews every six months the systems for risk management and responsibility is delegated, the operations are subject to the overall and monitors progress against action plans: internal control framework.
This, by its nature, can provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
As part of its audit visits the internal audit function seeks to verify that the internal controls confirmed in the self-certified internal control A number of policies and procedures have been established by the questionnaires are being effectively applied.
The internal audit function Board with regard to internal control and they are summarised below.
conducts on-site assessments on operating units.
The Audit Committee Assessment of business risk reviews the findings of the internal audit process: A system of risk assessment and identification and evaluation of controls The Audit Committee has specific responsibility for reviewing the is embedded within the Companys management processes.
Strategic effectiveness of internal controls and monitors the process of assessing risks and opportunities arising from changes in the business environment the internal controls on behalf of the Board: and are regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee and formally discussed by the Board.
Risks relating to key activities within the operating The Audit Committee reviews the process by which risks are identified businesses and at head office are assessed on a continuous basis and assessed and the effectiveness of controls over these risks are and reported to the Executive Committee and the Board.
assessed by operating units, operational management and head office.
Control environment The Board confirms it has carried out a review of the effectiveness The Board sets overall policy and delegates the authority to implement of the system of internal controls described above for the financial year that policy to the Executive Committee which is empowered to suband up to the date of this report in accordance with the guidance set delegate authority to operating businesses and operating units.
A wellout in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code defined organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines the Turnbull guidance.
The review encompassed operational, financial of responsibility and delegated authority has been established.
There are and compliance controls as well as risk management.
The systems procedures for appraisal, review and authorisation of investments and used included the following elements: capital expenditure.
As part of their ongoing reviews of the businesses, the Executive Information and communication Directors and head office reviewed the effectiveness of strategic, The Companys operating procedures include a comprehensive system operational and compliance internal controls and risk management.
for reporting financial and non-financial information to the Board, including: As appropriate this involved considering any reports on key risk areas concentrating on significant changes in the risk profile and controls, the preparation and review of annual budgets: formulation of actions, policies and procedures to control risks and reviewing the actions being taken on problem areas identified: and a review of the businesses at each board meeting, focusing on any new risks arising for example, those relating to proposed The Board considered reports from the Audit Committee and the major investments and key changes in the markets : and Executive Directors on these areas during the year and, at the time of approving the Annual Report and Accounts, considered a summary meetings between various Executive Directors and operational of the assessments of the effectiveness of the key risks and controls management.
identified that was prepared on behalf of the Executive Directors.
36 Charter plc Annual Report 2005 Statement of Directors responsibilities The following statement sets out the responsibilities of the Directors in relation to the consolidated financial statements and those of the Company.
The reports of the external auditors, shown on pages 38 and 39, set out their responsibilities in relation to those financial statements.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for the financial year.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: 1 select appropriate accounting policies and apply them consistently: 2 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: 3 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained: and 4 prepare those financial statements on the going concern basis, unless they consider that to be inappropriate.
The applicable accounting standards referred to in 3 above are: a UK GAAP for the Company: and b IFRS as adopted by the European Union and implemented in the UK for the Group.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps sufficient accounting records to disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and its subsidiaries and, in that context, to have proper regard to the establishment of appropriate systems of internal control with a view to the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements and to provide the auditors with every opportunity to take whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections the auditors consider to be appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit report.
The Directors consider that they have pursued the actions necessary to meet their responsibilities as set out in this statement.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the web site.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and its subsidiaries have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
