Corporate Governance Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice The Audit and Remuneration Committees are entirely composed The Company has, except where otherwise explained, complied throughof independent non-executive directors.
Sir Derek Higgs is Deputy out the year with the Provisions of the Code of Best Practice and the Chairman and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Principles of Good Governance set out in section 1 of the Combined Code.
Dr Christopher Gibson-Smith is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Lord Burns is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Board effectiveness The directors listed on page 55 constituted the Board throughout the year, Nomination Committee except that Stephen Hester was appointed to the Board on 12 November The Nomination Committees responsibilities include making 2004.
The Board is responsible for the strategy and effective control and recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments and management of the Group.
There is a written division of responsibilities at succession planning.
It consists of the six non-executive directors the head of the Company between the Chairman and Chief Executive, together with John Ritblat and John Weston Smith.
Dr Christopher which has been approved by the Board.
There is a formal schedule of Gibson-Smith is Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
matters specifically reserved for Board approval, which includes approval of During the year the Nomination Committee concluded an extensive the annual and interim accounts, the approval of authority levels below the search, with the help of consultants Whitehead Mann, to select a new Board and material acquisitions, disposals and financing arrangements.
In consequence, Stephen Hester joined the Company Board delegates authority to the Approvals Committee of the Board, which as Chief Executive on 12 November 2004. consists of the executive directors of the Company, in respect of certain transactions within defined, limited parameters.
The Board has a regular Rotation of directors schedule of meetings together with further meetings as required by the Under the Articles of Association of the Company, each director retires ongoing business of the Company.
The executive directors meet weekly at the third annual general meeting after the general meeting at which as the Executive Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive, to deal with he was last elected.
the ongoing management of the Group.
The Chairman of the Board and individual directors meet regularly, Non-executive directors outside formal Board meetings, as part of each director s continuing The Board considers that Sir Derek Higgs, Michael Cassidy, Robert contribution to delivery of the Company s strategy and superior returns Swannell, Lord Burns, David Michels and Dr Christopher Gibson-Smith are for shareholders.
This process also allows for open two-way discussion independent non-executive directors.
In making this determination the about the effectiveness of the Board, its committees and individual Board has considered whether each director is independent in character directors, both executive and non-executive.
By this means the and judgement and whether there are relationships or circumstances Chairman is continuously aware of the views of individual directors which are likely to affect, or could affect, the directors judgement.
The and can act as necessary to deal with any issues relating to Board Board believes that it is evident from consideration of the non-executive effectiveness before they can become a risk to the Company.
directors biographies detailed on page 55 that they are of the integrity and There is a strong and independent non-executive element on the stature to perform their roles of independent non-executive directors.
Board as shown by the details of directors on page 55.
The Board has considered Sir Derek Higgs positions at UBS Investment Bank and Jones Lang LaSalle and noted that i these are not Committees of the Board executive positions: he is a non-executive director at British Land and The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Jones Lang LaSalle and at UBS Investment Bank is a part-time nonCommittees which operate within defined terms of reference, which are executive adviser: ii Sir Derek declares an interest and is not involved made available on the Companys website www.
com, and at either Jones Lang LaSalle or UBS Investment Bank in the decisiontheir minutes are circulated to the Board.
making process regarding Jones Lang LaSalle or UBS Investment Banks services to British Land, nor does he participate in any such discussions Attendance at Board or Committee meetings during the year to 31 March 2005 where is shown, the Director listed is not a member of the Committee at British Land: and iii the fees paid by British Land to UBS Investment Nomination Audit Remuneration Bank and Jones Lang LaSalle are immaterial in size, amounting in each Name Board Committee Committee Committee case to considerably less than 1% of British Lands turnover.
John Ritblat 6 1 The Board has also considered Dr Christopher Gibson-Smiths SirDerekHiggs 5 1 4 non-executive directorship of Lloyds TSB from which he retired in May Stephen Hester 2 2005 and noted that: i these are not executive positions: he is a nonJohn Weston Smith 6 1 Nicholas Ritblat 5 executive director at British Land and was a non-executive director at Michael Cassidy 6 1 Lloyds TSB: ii Dr Christopher Gibson-Smith declared an interest and was Robert Bowden 5 not involved at Lloyds TSB in the decision-making process regarding Robert Swannell 6 1 Lloyds TSBs relationship with British Land, nor did he participate in any Lord Burns 5 0 3 3 Graham Roberts 6 such discussions at British Land: and iii the fees paid by British Land to Dr Christopher Gibson-Smith 4 1 2 3 Lloyds TSB are immaterial in size, amounting to considerably less than David Michels 5 1 2 3 1% of British Lands turnover.
of meetings during the year 6 1 3 4 Two meetings held since appointment to Board on 12 November 2004.
64 The British Land Company PLC The British Land Company PLC Notwithstanding that Michael Cassidy has served on the Board for nine continue its operations for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
years, the Board does not consider that, given his integrity and stature, this affects his independence.
Michael Cassidy is proposed for a one year re-election by shareholders, having been re-elected previously at Statement of directors responsibilities the Annual General Meeting in 2002.
His details are set out on page 55.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements which comply The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors with the Companies Act 1985 on a going concern basis unless are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the inappropriate and which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs Annual General Meeting.
of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: BL Board performance evaluation In 2005, a formal Board Performance Appraisal process has select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: been introduced with each director giving detailed input, the results make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: of which are considered by the Chairman, Senior Independent state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, Non-Executive Director and Board as appropriate and relevant subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the consequential changes made.
financial statements: and The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director discusses the prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it performance of the Chairman with other directors annually, or more is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for ensuring that proper and adequate Remuneration policy and Committee accounting records have been maintained and that reasonable Details of the Group remuneration policy are set out in the Remuneration procedures have been followed for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for the Groups system of internal controls, which is designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the Investor Relations risks to which it is exposed.
The directors place considerable importance on maintaining open and clear communication with investors.
The Companys Investor Relations department is dedicated to facilitating communication with shareholders.
Auditors and valuers The Company has an ongoing programme of dialogue and meetings The Audit Committee meets with the auditors and valuers to discuss between the executive directors and its shareholders, where a wide with them the scope and conclusions of their work.
The Committee is range of relevant issues including strategy, performance, the market, specifically charged under its terms of reference with considering matters management and governance are discussed within the constraints of relating to the audit appointment, the independence and objectivity of the the information already known to the market.
In addition, the Company auditors, and reviewing the results and effectiveness of the audit.
undertakes regular roadshows to the US, Scotland and the Netherlands With respect to other services provided by the auditors the following and participates in sector conferences.
framework is in place: The directors consider it is important to understand the views of Audit related services the auditors are one of a number of firms shareholders, and at each scheduled Board meeting the directors providing audit-related services, which include formal reporting receive a written report of the issues which have been raised with relating to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars and various management.
Meetings are also held between shareholders and the other regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisition and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and other non-executive disposals.
Where they must carry out the work because of their directors, and the Company facilitates such meetings on request.
office or are best placed to do so, the auditors are selected.
In other During the course of a year, shareholders are kept informed of circumstances the selection depends on which firm is best suited: the progress of the Company through results statements and other Tax advisory the auditors are one of a number of firms that provide announcements that are released through the London Stock Exchange tax advisory services, including the preparation and submission and other news services.
Company announcements and presentations of tax returns.
The selection depends on who is best suited in are made available simultaneously on our website, affording all the circumstances: shareholders full access to material information.
Shareholders can also General consulting the auditors do not provide general consultancy raise questions directly with the Company at any time through a facility services except in rare circumstances, and then only after consideration on the website.
that they are best placed to provide the service and that their Additionally there is an opportunity at the Annual General Meeting independence and objectivity would not be compromised.
AGM for individual shareholders to question the Chairman and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
An analysis of fees paid to the auditors is set out on page 85.
At the meeting, the Company complies with the Combined Code as it The Board is pleased to announce the appointment of Knight Frank relates to voting, including votes withheld, the separation of resolutions, in succession to Atisreal as principal valuers to the Group.
Knight Frank the attendance of committee chairmen and voting by poll.
The Annual will report for the first time on the September 2005 valuation.
Report & Accounts and Notice of Meeting are sent to shareholders at Atisreal have been valuers to the Group for some 20 years and the least 20 working days prior to the AGM.
The voting results are announced Board is grateful for their diligent and professional approach throughout to the London Stock Exchange and are available on the website and on that period.
The Board felt a change appropriate after such a long period request.
In July 2004, all AGM resolutions were passed on a poll and were and in response to trends in good governance.
approved by substantial majorities in excess of 97% in each case.
The Board has also decided to introduce quarterly financial reporting including valuations with effect from December 2005 so as to provide shareholders with a more regular update on its portfolio performance.
Going concern The arrangements with auditors and valuers have been approved by After making enquiries and examining major areas which could give the Audit Committee and are regularly reviewed in the light of changing rise to significant financial exposure the directors are satisfied that no requirements and best practice.
material or significant exposures exist, other than as reflected in these financial statements, and that the Group has adequate resources to 65 Business Opportunity and Risk Management Business strategy Internal control British Lands strategy seeks to achieve long-term growth in The Companys management structure and internal control environment shareholder value by: are influenced by British Lands nature as an entrepreneurial property focusing on prime assets in the office and retail sectors: Company.
As such it is a capital rather than people intensive business creating exceptional long-term investments with strong covenants, with assets under management of 13.9 billion, managed by a Group long lease profiles and growth potential: executive of approximately 60 people.
Entrepreneurial success requires enhancing property returns through active management and speed of action to catch the moment in the markets to buy or sell development: and property, to raise funds on the best terms.
maximising equity returns through optimal financing and The directors are responsible for the maintenance of a sound joint ventures.
The Board continues to apply the internal control provisions of the Combined Code through a continuous process The key to high returns is flexibility, both in terms of business organisation for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group and financing to take advantage of shifts in the property market.
The process has been in place throughout the year from the start of the year to the date of approval of this report and is in accordance Risks and rewards with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code The Company generates profits for shareholders through long-term published in September 1999.
The Board is responsible for the Groups investment decisions relating to both income and capital growth.
These system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a decisions include exploiting opportunities arising out of natural market system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure volatility with respect to supply and demand imbalances in the following to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and core areas: not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
demand for space from occupiers against available supply including new developments : The Group applies two fundamental control principles: differential pricing for premium locations and buildings: a defined schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board: and alternative use for buildings particularly redevelopment : a detailed authorisation process which ensures that no commitments demand for returns from investors in property, compared to other asset are entered into without competent and proper authorisation by more classes: than one approved executive.
price differentials for capital to finance the business: legislative initiatives, including planning consents and taxation such In compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code, the Board as the Governments consultation on introducing a tax transparent continuously reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal property vehicle REIT in the UK : control.
The key risks that the Group faces and features of the internal economic cycles, including their impact on tenant covenant quality, control system that operated throughout the period covered by the interest rates and inflation: and accounts are described below: mis-pricing of property assets by the equity markets for example, share buy-backs or opportunistic investments.
Identification and evaluation of commercial risks and related control objectives These opportunities can also represent risks.
Demand for property and British Land has undertaken a comprehensive risk assessment, the ability of tenants to pay rent can be affected by general economic which has identified over 50 individual risks that affect the Group.
conditions at both a macro and local level.
Excessive levels of supply of The responsibility for management of each key risk has been clearly property can also lead to falling rental levels.
Rising interest rates may identified and delegated by the Board to specific executive directors and impact the security of the tenant base, lower development margins senior executives within the Group.
The executive directors have close significantly and reduce investment appetite.
Property values are also involvement with the day-to-day operational matters of the Group.
In affected by changes in planning, taxes, technology and lease structures.
addition to the main Board of directors, there are operational boards Interest rates, bond yields and the relative attractions of other asset which are responsible for specific areas of the Groups activities.
classes also impact property values.
These risks in the UK property sector can be amplified by development exposure and gearing.
66 The British Land Company PLC The British Land Company PLC Property development risk These include: Group management and operations: Principal risk Letting risk for speculative developments: construction cost and time management of property assets: management of development activities: and overruns: adverse changes in planning and or planning policy which may cause delay and affect profitability.
Principal control The Board and the operational boards consider the risk implications of business decisions.
These include matters such as new treasury These include limiting the amount of speculative development: assessing letting potential and prospective profitability of developments products and major transactions.
The control environment is supported by the various committees of the Board and the operational boards, prior to commencement of construction: on-going assessment of development expenditure by quantity surveyors with regular compariincluding the Audit Committee, the Corporate Responsibility Committee and the Derivatives Committee.
The way each risk is managed within the sons of costs against budget: and ensuring executives are kept up to date with planning policies.
Group is considered at least annually by the executive directors and the Audit Committee.
The Group re-assesses these risks on a regular basis to ensure that any risks arising from changes in the Groups Taxation risk operations or the external environment are identified and appropriately Principal risk managed.
The detailed individual risks have been categorised into the The Group is exposed to financial risks from increases in tax rates following areas: and changes to the basis of taxation including corporation tax, VAT property investment and management: and SDLT.
property development: taxation: Principal control management: and These include regular monitoring of legislative proposals and particifinancing.
pation in discussions with Government directly and through trade bodies to understand and, if possible, mitigate the impact of changes and the engagement of experienced executives and professional advice.
In order to provide relevant and timely information to the executives with responsibility for managing risks, the Group has the following Management risk key information systems which generate reports as follows: a management reporting system which includes regular working Principal risk The Group is reliant on its small, high calibre team of executives.
capital reports and forecasts: operational reporting on property purchases, sales and portfolio Principal control management: and regular reporting to the Board on financial and treasury matters.
These include the assurance that knowledge of all processes and projects is shared by at least two employees: that the Group recruits The nature of the specific risk areas and related controls are as follows: and develops high-calibre employees: and that the Board considers succession-planning issues.
Property investment and management risk Financing risk Principal risk Financing policy and risk management are dealt with in the Property values may decline and returns not be optimised: uneconomic next section.
investments may be made or under-performing properties retained: significant tenant defaults may reduce income and property values: and property insurance may be inadequate.
Monitoring The Audit Committee meets regularly throughout the year and has Principal control reviewed the Groups internal controls.
The Audit Committee has agreed a schedule of internal audit reviews of various of the Groups processes These include regular reviews of current and future market potential: reviews of each individual property at least twice a year including internal and controls to be undertaken, and has reviewed the results of those reviews already completed.
The Head of Internal Audit reports directly and external assessments, considering current and future values and yield prospects as the basis of sell or hold decisions: benchmarking to the Audit Committee.
portfolio performance against peer groups using IPD statistics: consideration of tenant mix covenant strength across the portfolio: and reviewing insurance cover.
67 Financing Policy and Risk Management Objectives Interest rate management The aim of British Lands financing policy is to fund the Group to service The Group borrows principally in Sterling at both fixed and floating rates its evolving corporate strategy and needs, and provide the flexibility to of interest, then uses derivatives to generate the desired interest rate take advantage of opportunities as they arise.
The principal objectives profile and to control the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
are to ensure that: The proportion of debt held at variable interest rates is varied as new significant committed undrawn facilities are available to support transactions whether corporate, direct property or financing emerge, current and future business requirements: to rebalance the overall mix.
Normally, the Group maintains around 85% the Group is financed over the long term with debt levels supported of debt subject to a 5% tolerance either side at fixed or capped rates by recurring, committed income: to provide long-term protection.
The time horizon for this policy is a the Groups cost of capital is minimised: and rolling 3 to 5 years.
The use of derivatives is managed and monitored the Group maintains a prudent financial position by active by the Board of British Land Financing Limited and its Derivative Submanagement of financial risks, including interest rate, liquidity Committee, which includes five executive directors, and also retains and counter party risks.
a specialist external firm of consultants.
The Groups credit exposure to each derivative counterparty is monitored on a regular basis, as are Financing policy external credit ratings.
Through a mix of debt and equity finance, together with a wide variety of debt sources, the Group aims to minimise its cost of capital, consistent Foreign currency management with its other strategy aims as outlined above.
Most joint ventures have To manage the impact of foreign exchange movements, when the Group their own financing see pages 92 to 95, which is entirely independent borrows in currencies other than Sterling, principally Euros, it uses crossof the Groups financing.
The Groups financing policy is to leverage currency swaps to match foreign currency assets with foreign currency equity returns through strategic gearing, and at the same time maintain liabilities.
The mortgage ratio is targeted in the range of When attractive terms are available to do so, the Group borrows 45 55% subject to the Boards view of the property market, the future in freely available currencies other than Sterling.
The Group fully hedges growth prospects of British Lands portfolio and recurring cash flows.
its foreign currency risk on such borrowings through derivatives.
The Groups policy is to have no material unhedged net assets or liabilities Liability management denominated in foreign currencies.
Liability management is not a profit centre and no speculative transactions are undertaken.
The Groups debt and derivative positions are Liquidity and cash management continuously reviewed to meet current and expected debt requirements.
The Group maintains a high level of undrawn revolving bank facilities to The Group maintains a balance between longer-term and shorterprovide financial liquidity.
The property portfolio is stringently reviewed term financings.
The latter provide flexibility of repayment at no penalty.
to identify appropriate properties for sale, with a view to converting nonAcquisitions are often funded initially by shorter-term credit facilities and cash assets into cash if required.
Deposits are placed to optimise the then refinanced with longer-term funding when market conditions are rate of return, subject to the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
Short-term financing is principally raised through bilateral and syndicated revolving bank facilities, which can be repaid at will Profit and loss account and balance sheet management without penalty and redrawn again when the need arises.
All bank The Group monitors the current and projected financial position facilities are unsecured and on standard terms to maintain operational using several key internally generated reports: cash flow, borrowing, flexibility.
Medium to longer-term financing comprises public and private debt maturity and derivatives schedules.
The Group also undertakes bond issues, including convertibles and securitisations.
British Lands sensitivity analysis to assess the impact of proposed transactions property portfolio is well placed to take advantage of new asset-specific and movement in interest rates on the key balance sheet, liquidity and cash-flow financing structures.
Financing risk is spread by using a and profitability ratios.
range of banks and a variety of types of finance.
The maturity profile of debt is managed by spreading the repayment dates and extending and expanding bank facilities.
The National Trust for Scotland is the leading conservation charity responsible for the protection and promotion of Scotlands natural and cultural heritage, for present and future generations to enjoy.
Trim, style and set Head gardener Philip Deakin meticulously clips the magnificent 17th century yew trees at Malleny Garden near Edinburgh.
Like many other historic places in Scotland, the property was bequeathed to the Trusts care by its former owner.
68 The British Land Company PLC
