Corporate governance report Pre-emption rights The Board of Directors is accountable to the Companys Shares allotted for cash must normally first be offered to shareholders for the management and control of the Companys shareholders in proportion to their existing shareholdings.
Under activities and is committed to high standards of corporate resolution 10, which is proposed as a special resolution, the directors governance.
This report and the directors remuneration report seek to renew their annual authority to allot shares for cash as if the set out on pages 32 to 35 describe how the Company complies pre-emption rights contained in Section 89 1 of the Companies Act with the provisions of the July 2003 Financial Reporting Council 1985 did not apply up to a maximum of 5% of the Companys Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
Statement of compliance Authority to purchase own shares The Company has complied throughout the year ended At the Annual General Meeting in 2005, the Company was granted 30 December 2005, except where otherwise explained, with the authority to make purchases in the market of its own shares, provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code issued by the subject to specified limits.
This authority, which has not as yet been Financial Reporting Council in July 2003. exercised, expires at the conclusion of the Companys 2006 Annual General Meeting.
Therefore by resolution 11, it is proposed as a Application of the principles special resolution that this authority in respect of the Company The Board of Directors is renewed and also that the Company may cancel any bought-in Details of the directors are set out on pages 30 and 31.
The shares immediately or hold them in treasury.
Company is controlled through the Board of Directors which comprises the Chairman, six executive and four non-executive The authority is sought until the conclusion of the 2007 Annual directors.
The Board recognises that its current balance does General Meeting, or for 15 months after the date on which the not comply with the requirements of the Code in respect of resolution is passed, whichever is the earlier.
Details of the current Section A.
3.2 which requires at least half the Board, excluding issued share capital are set out in note 29 to the accounts.
The the Chairman, to comprise independent non-executive directors.
directors will only exercise this authority if they consider that it The Board and Nomination Committee are satisfied that the current will result in an increase in asset value per share for the remaining Board composition provides an appropriate balance of power and shareholders and that it will be in the best interests of the Company authority within the Company.
The Nomination Committee will to do so.
however continue to review this position.
All the Companys nonexecutive directors act independently of management and the Board By order of the Board considers that all the non-exective directors are independent.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
F Desai Company Secretary P Stobart continued to serve as the Senior Independent Director 13 April 2006 as required by the Combined Code for the year ended 30 December 2005.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
In the Companys view, the breadth of experience and knowledge of the Chairman and the non-executive directors detachment from the day-to-day issues within the Company provide a sufficiently strong and experienced balance with the executive members of the Board.
The breadth of experience attributed to the non-executive directors, allied to the management information provided by the Company, enables them to assess and advise the full Board on the major risks faced by the Company.
In accordance with the Combined Code the Company considers all its nonexecutive directors are independent.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its decision and a schedule of matters delegated to committees, both of which are reviewed at least annually.
The Board reserves approval for all significant or strategic decisions including major acquisitions, disposals and financing transactions.
The directors are entitled to take independent professional advice as and when necessary.
The responsibilities, which the Board has delegated, are given to committees that operate within specified terms of reference and authority limits, which are reviewed annually or in response to a change in circumstances.
An Executive Directors Committee, comprising the six executives, meets on a weekly basis and deals with all major decisions of the Group not requiring full Board approval or authorisation by other Board committees.
The Executive Directors Committee is quorate with four executive directors in attendance: if decisions are not unanimous the matter is referred to the Board for approval.
Minutes from the Executive Directors Committee meetings are circulated to the Board.
The Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee, consist solely of non-executive directors and meet at least twice a year.
Capital & Regional 37 Corporate governance report continued The Board schedules quarterly meetings each year, as a minimum, Board and committee meetings and arranges further meetings as the business requires.
For each The number of meetings of the Board and of the Audit, quarterly Board meeting, each member receives up-to-date financial Remuneration and Nomination Committees, and individual and commercial information in respect of the three divisions prior attendance by directors, is set out below: to each meeting, in particular, management accounts budgets and forecasts, details of acquisitions and disposals and relevant There were nine full Board meetings during the year of which four appraisals prior Board approval being required for large were scheduled meetings and five were ad hoc meetings.
transactions and cash flow forecasts and details of funding availability.
Scheduled Ad hoc Total Board meetings attendance meetings meetings attendance All members of the Board are subject to the re-election provisions in the Articles which require them to offer themselves for re-election at T Chandos 4 5 9 M Barber 4 4 8 least once every three years and at the first Annual General Meeting D Cherry 3 4 7 AGM after appointment, if appointed after the last AGM.
X Pullen 4 4 8 Details of those directors offering themselves for re-appointment W Sunnucks 4 5 9 are set out in the directors report on page 36.
H Mautner 4 4 8 K Ford 4 4 8 A performance evaluation of the Board and the committees was PY Gerbeau 4 4 8 P Stobart 4 2 6 conducted for the year ended 30 December 2005 with each director A Lewis-Pratt 4 4 8 giving detailed input.
The Chairmans performance is evaluated by A Coppin 4 3 7 the Senior Independent Director and the Chairman evaluates the performance of the remaining directors.
The results of the appraisals are analysed and summarised by the Senior Independent Director and discussed with the Chairman.
Subsequently, the results are There were five Audit Committee meetings during the year.
discussed by the Board and relevant consequential changes are Audit Committee meetings Attendance made.
Induction training is given to all new directors appointed in D Cherry 5 the Company and consists of an introduction to the Board, onsite P Stobart 5 visits to properties managed by the Group, introduction to the A Coppin 5 divisional teams, an induction pack and access to independent advisers.
The ongoing training requirements of the directors are reviewed on a regular basis and undertaken individually, as necessary, although it is recognised that all members of the Board There were five Remuneration Committee meetings during the year.
experience continuous professional development from working Remuneration Committee meetings Attendance together.
This is achieved by virtue of the dynamic and diverse mix P Stobart 5 of the Board members, their sharing of knowledge and experiences D Cherry 5 gained from a range of commercial backgrounds, and the H Mautner 5 complement of their personal attributes to the Board.
Nomination Committee The committee comprises T Chandos Chairman, P Stobart and Nomination Committee M Barber.
The Nomination Committee did not meet during the year.
However, it has met since the year end to discuss a replacement for David The Nomination Committee meets as required to select and Cherry who will retire at the Annual General Meeting and all recommend to the Board suitable candidates for both executive and members were present.
non-executive appointments to the Board: the Committee does not have the authority to appoint and agree terms and conditions with Directors remuneration the candidates.
On an annual basis the Nomination Committee also The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the considers succession planning for the Board following the yearly Board, within existing terms of reference, on remuneration policy performance evaluation process.
The Board is given an opportunity and determines, on behalf of the Board, specific remuneration to meet the individual concerned prior to any formal decision.
The packages for each executive director.
The terms of reference of terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available for the Remuneration Committee are available for inspection at the inspection at the Companys registered office.
A proportion of all executive directors remuneration consists of cash bonuses linked to corporate and individual performance achievements, the levels of which are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
All the executive directors are eligible to participate in the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and Capital Appreciation Plan CAP which were both established on 18 December 2002.
The LTIP and CAP schemes were renewed in 2005 for a further three years following shareholder consultation and approval.
The fees of the non-executive directors are reviewed by the Board at regular intervals.
The statement of remuneration policy and details of each directors remuneration are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 32 to 35.
38 Capital & Regional Shareholder relations An Audit Committee which meets with the external auditors The Company has always encouraged regular dialogue with and deals with any significant internal control matter.
In the year its institutional shareholders and private investors at the AGM, under review the Committee met with the external auditors on and through corporate functions and property visits.
The Audit Committee received a paper, prepared following the announcement of preliminary and interim results, by management, on the internal controls of the Company.
and throughout the year, as requested, the Company holds update meetings with institutional shareholders.
All the directors are Steps are continuously being taken to embed internal control and accessible to all shareholders, and queries received verbally or in risk management further into the operations of the business and to writing are immediately addressed.
The directors are introduced to deal with areas of improvement which come to managements and shareholders at the AGM each year and the non-executive directors the Boards attention.
and committee chairmen are clearly identified.
During the year the Group has taken the first steps towards Announcements are made to the London Stock Exchange and the establishing an internal audit function.
It has employed IRS, an business media concerning business developments to provide wider experienced firm of risk surveyors, to review cash and security dissemination of information.
In particular, monthly announcements controls at selected locations.
This falls short of a full internal audit of fund unit valuations provide a regular update on the progress of function as the Company believes that a need for such a function the business.
Registered shareholders are sent copies of both the does not currently exist.
The development of this function remains annual report and accounts and the interim report.
under review by the Audit Committee.
Accountability and audit Audit Committee Financial reporting The Audit Committee consists of three non-executive directors, The Companys annual report and accounts includes detailed P Stobart Chairman, A Coppin and D Cherry, and the terms reviews of the activities of each division, together with a detailed of reference of the Audit Committee are available for inspection review of their financial results and financing position.
In this way, at the Companys registered office.
The role of the Audit Committee and as required by the Combined Code, the Board seeks to present is to maintain a relationship with the Groups external auditors and a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys to review, in depth, the Companys financial statements, internal position and prospects.
financial control and risk management systems and circulars to shareholders in order to monitor financial integrity within the Internal control Group.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for reviewing the The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal cost-effectiveness and the volume of non-audit services provided to control to safeguard shareholders investment and for reviewing the Group.
The Company does not impose an automatic ban on the its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage, but not Groups external auditors undertaking non-audit work, and details eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
There of fees paid to the Groups external auditors are detailed on page 53 are inherent limitations in any control system and, accordingly, in note 7 to the accounts.
The Groups aim is always to have any even the most effective system can provide only reasonable, and non-audit work involving audit firms carried out in a manner that not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Companys policy is that the audit firm must not be in a position of conflict in respect of the work in In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on question and must have the skill, competence and integrity to carry internal control, an ongoing process has been established for out the work in the best interests of the Group.
The Audit identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the Company.
Committee reviews and makes recommendations to the Board for This process has been in place from the start of the 2005 financial the re-appointment of the Groups external auditors.
In order to year, to the date of approval of these financial statements.
Each maintain independence the audit partner of the Groups external year the Board conducts a review of the effectiveness of the current auditors is subject to rotation at regular intervals.
The Audit system of internal control.
There is an internal control matrix in Committee meets approximately five times a year: there is one place for each division which is reviewed and updated following meeting to approve the audit plan and two for each of the interim meetings with each divisional management team.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports back to the Board on the key conclusions.
The risks for each of the divisions in the Group are classified into financial, administrative and compliance risks, property risks and Going concern operational risks.
The key features of the Companys system of In compliance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services internal control are as follows: Authority the directors can report that, based on the Groups budgets and financial projections, they have satisfied themselves Control documents for each area of risk which identify the key that the business is a going concern.
The Board has a reasonable risks, the probability of those risks occurring, their impact if they expectation that the Company and Group have adequate do occur and the actions being taken to manage those risks to resources and facilities to continue in operational existence for the desired level.
the foreseeable future and therefore the accounts are prepared Clearly defined organisational responsibilities and authority limits on a going concern basis.
The day-to-day involvement of the executive directors in the running of the business ensures that these responsibilities and limits are adhered to.
F Desai Financial reporting to the Board including regular reports from the Company Secretary Fund Manager of The Mall and The Junction Funds and for the 13 April 2006 Group as a whole, including the preparation of budgets and forecasts, cash management, variance analysis, property, taxation and treasury reports and a report on financing.
