Corporate Governance Statement by the Directors on Compliance with the Provisions of the Combined Code A summary of the system of governance adopted by the Company is set out below.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2005, the Company complied with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003, except that the formal written division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive, the publication on the Companys website of the terms of reference of Board Committees, and the expected time commitments of Anthony Graham and John Edgcumbe within their letters of appointment, were not in place until March 2005.
The Board of Directors The Board comprises the Chairman, three executive directors and five non-executive directors, although, following the appointment of Phillip Rose on 11 April 2005 and until the retirement of Anthony Graham on 8 July 2005, there will be six non-executive directors.
The Chairman is responsible for the effectiveness of the Board, and the Chief Executive for the day-to-day management of the Company: this division of responsibilities, which applied informally throughout the year, was approved by the Board in March 2005.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the management and control of the Groups activities and good corporate governance.
The Board meets at least seven times a year, objectively setting and monitoring Group strategy, reviewing performance and implementation of the strategy by the executive directors, ensuring adequate funding, examining major potential acquisitions and disposals, formulating policy on key issues and reporting to shareholders.
At least once a year it reviews the nature and magnitude of matters reserved for its decision.
After each Board meeting the non-executives meet without the executive directors, and at least twice a year the non-executives meet without the Chairman.
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the year was as follows: Board Board Nomination Remuneration Auditscheduledother Committee Committee Committee 7 meetings 4 meetings 5 meetings 7 meetings 6 meetings Chairman Richard Peskin 725 Executive directors Toby Courtauld 64 Robert Noel 74 John Whiteley 74 Non-executive directors David Godwin 1 2142 Kathleen ODonovan 2 72566 John Edgcumbe 2 7247 Anthony Graham 3 626 Charles Irby 4 6234 1 Retired on 9 July 2004.
2 Appointed to the Nomination Committee on 9 July 2004.
3 Stepped down from the Nomination Committee on 9 July 2004.
4 Appointed to the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 9 July 2004.
Two meetings were attended only by the executive directors: one formally approving the entering into a property transaction, the terms of which had previously been approved by the full Board: and one meeting formally approving the entering into a credit facility, in accordance with the Companys authorisation levels.
The biographies of all members of the Board are set out on page 30.
Richard Peskin, who was Managing Director until March 2000, is non-executive Chairman of the Board, Toby Courtauld is Chief Executive and Kathleen ODonovan is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board is of the opinion that independence is a matter of judgement and conscience and that the non-executive directors, who, excluding the Chairman, represent over half the Board, are independent.
36 GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Corporate Governance To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all directors receive appropriate and timely information, including briefing papers distributed in advance of Board meetings.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Chairman on matters of corporate governance.
The directors may, at the Companys expense, take independent professional advice and receive training as they see fit.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance which is reviewed annually.
The Board undertakes a formal annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual directors.
The performance evaluation consists of each director completing a questionnaire and then having one-to-one interviews with Kathleen ODonovan as the Senior Independent Director and Desna Martin as the Company Secretary: Kathleen ODonovan is interviewed by Charles Irby as Head of the Remuneration Committee.
The results of the evaluation are discussed by the Board.
In particular, the contribution made by each of Richard Peskin and Kathleen ODonovan both of whom retire by rotation and seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting, has been fully considered by the Board.
The Board has concluded that they make an effective contribution to the Board and the Committees on which they serve and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their respective roles.
On appointment, new non-executive directors, who are expected to provide a time commitment to the Company of 24 days a year, are provided with a detailed induction programme on the Companys operations, including social, ethical and environmental matters, and meet with senior management as part of a guided tour of the Groups main properties.
The Board has Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees which deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs, each of which has written terms of reference which are regularly reviewed and which deal with their authorities and duties.
Copies of these terms of reference are available on written request and, from March 2005, on the Companys website.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Kathleen O Donovan Chairman, John Edgcumbe and Richard Peskin.
It undertakes an annual review of succession planning for senior executives and ensures that the membership and composition of the Board, including the balance of the skills, continue to be appropriate.
In making recommendations to the Board, it specifically considers the expected time commitment of the proposed non-executive and other commitments they already have.
Agreement of the Chairman of the Company is also required before a non-executive director may accept any additional commitments which could affect the time available to devote to the Company.
Non-executive directors are not appointed for specified terms but are subject to re-election by the shareholders at least every three years.
Under the Articles of Association at least a third of the Board, not including directors appointed during the year, must retire by rotation from the Board each year.
Following a selection process involving external recruitment consultants, Blackwood Group, Phillip Rose was appointed a non-executive director on 11 April 2005.
Mr Rose, who was previously Head of Real Estate for ABN Amro, Chief Operating Officer of TrizecHahn Europe and Managing Director of Lend Lease Global Investments plc is Chief Executive of Alpha Real Capital, a non-executive director of Hermes Property Unit Trust and Co-Chairman of the INREV Performance and Benchmarking Committee.
The Nomination Committee believes that the Board will benefit greatly from the appointment of Mr Rose as a non-executive director and, a suitable replacement having been found, it is Anthony Grahams intention to retire at the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
On Mr Grahams retirement, Mr Rose will replace Mr Graham as a member of the Audit Committee.
On 28 April the Company announced that John Whiteley, who has been finance director for ten years and who has played a significant role in the restructuring of the business, would be leaving the Company on 31 July 2005.
Using external recruitment consultants Heidrick & Struggles, recruitment of a new finance director by the Nomination Committee in consultation with Toby Courtauld as Chief Executive has begun.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, currently Charles Irby Chairman, John Edgcumbe and Kathleen ODonovan, has responsibility for determining the remuneration, bonuses, contract terms and other benefits in respect of the executive directors, and the remuneration of the Chairman.
It also considers and establishes Company policy on remuneration, with access to professional advice outside the Company, as required.
Its role is described further in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 43.
GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES ANNUAL REPORT 2005 37 Corporate Governance Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises Kathleen ODonovan Chairman, Charles Irby and Anthony Graham.
Miss ODonovan is also Chairman of the Audit Committee of EMI plc and a member of the Audit Committee of Prudential plc and O2.
The Audit Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups external auditors and meetings are also attended by certain senior executives, by invitation.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing, and reporting to the Board on, a range of matters including: the interim and annual financial statements, and any other statements considered to be price-sensitive in nature: monitoring developments in accounting and reporting requirements and, in particular, the Companys implementation of changes arising from the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards for the Companys reporting period commencing 1 April 2005: the review of the Companys internal control and risk management systems: and the Companys whistleblowing policy.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of the external auditors, their remuneration for audit and non-audit work, and their cost effectiveness, independence and objectivity, and discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the external auditors.
The auditors are responsible for the annual audit and sundry services, which the Audit Committee believe they are best placed to undertake due to their position as auditors.
The only other services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP are tax services, awarded on the basis of efficiencies achieved by performing the audit: all other requirements for specialist property tax consulting are put out to tender.
Due to its size and structure, the Group does not have an internal audit function, a matter which is kept under review by the Committee.
Internal Controls The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Audit Committee carries out an annual review of significant business risks, formally considering the scope and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and reporting to the Board.
This involves the identification of risks specific to the areas of property and financial markets which impact on its objectives, together with the controls and reporting procedures designed to minimise those risks, which are reviewed, formalised and updated throughout the year, as appropriate.
These include business risks, financial controls, social, ethical and environmental issues and policy, and the regulatory environment.
Group strategy and progress on developments is updated and reviewed at each Board meeting.
As the Company has a small number of employees, there is a high level of executive involvement in the majority of transactions.
Copies of the minutes of the Executive Committee, which comprises the executive directors and, from 1 April 2005, the Companys Head of Development, are circulated to the non-executive directors.
There are ongoing processes and procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing the principal risks faced by the Group: these processes and procedures were in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report, and accord with the Turnbull guidance Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Relations with Shareholders Communications with shareholders are given a high priority and the Company undertakes a regular dialogue with shareholders and fund managers.
The executive directors are the Companys principal spokesmen with investors, analysts, fund managers, press and other interested parties and independent feedback on presentations by the executive directors to all major shareholders is provided to the non-executive directors on a regular basis.
As Chairman and Senior Independent Director, respectively, Richard Peskin and Kathleen ODonovan are each available, as appropriate, as a contact for shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an opportunity to communicate with, and answer questions from, private and institutional shareholders and the whole Board is available before the meeting, in particular, for shareholders to meet new directors.
The Chairman of each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees is available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 8 July 2005 can be found in the Notice of Meeting on pages 66 to 67.
Details of the number of proxy votes for, against and withheld for each resolution will be disclosed at the meeting.
Going Concern The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
By order of the Board Desna Martin Secretary 24 May 2005 38 GREAT PORTLAND ESTATES Annual Report 2005
