CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A summary of the system of governance adopted by the Company is set out below.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2005, except where otherwise explained, the Company has complied with the Code provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
Board of Directors The Board operates within the terms of its written authorities, which include a schedule of matters reserved for the approval of the Board.
The Board currently consists of the Chairman, five Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors who meet not less than ten times during the year.
All directors were present at all meetings of the Board held during the year, with the exception of John Barton, who was unable to attend one meeting as a result of another business commitment, and Graham Pimlott who was unable to attend one meeting due to illness and one due to his absence abroad.
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors are clearly fide ned.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for Hammersons overall strategy, acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major capital expenditure projects, risk management, internal control, treasury and the raising of finance, human resources and corporate governance.
The procedures and accountability for these matters, which are delegated to management, are set out in the Companys operations and control manuals.
A schedule of routine matters to be addressed by the Board and its Committees is agreed on an annual basis and information is supplied to the Board in a manner that enables the Board to ful l its responsibilities.
Presentations on business and operational issues are made regularly to the Board by senior management.
All directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and changing commercial risks.
The professional development requirements of Executive Directors are identi ed and progressed as part of each individuals annual appraisal.
Non-Executive Directors attend seminars and undertake external training in areas they consider to be appropriate for their own professional development and a record of this is maintained.
The Board and its Committees monitor and evaluate their own performance and the contribution made by individuals.
This process of board evaluation was enhanced during 2004 with the introduction of more structured and objective evaluation procedures and a review was undertaken by the Board during 2004, from which it was concluded that the Board and its Committees act effectively and that the individual directors who serve the Board and its Committees are performing a valuable role.
Given that it was known that there would be a change in Chairman in September 2005, it was decided that no formal review would be carried out in 2005 and that the next evaluation would be undertaken in 2006.
The Chairman meets as necessary, but at least once each year, with the Non-Executive Directors without Executive Directors present.
The Non-Executive Directors meet annually without the Chairman in order to appraise his performance.
This meeting is chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
All directors have access to independent professional advice and to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for advice on corporate governance matters and for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that the Company and the Board operate within applicable legislation, rules and regulations.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter requiring approval of the Board.
The Company maintains directors and of cers liability insurance, which is reviewed annually.
The Companys directors and of cers are adequately insured in line with the guidelines produced by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, directors are required to submit themselves for election at the first opportunity after their appointment and thereafter for re-election at least every three years.
The Board is satis ed that the Non-Executive Directors, each of whom is independent from management and has no commercial or other connection with the Company, are able to exercise independent judgement.
Their experience, gained from varied commercial backgrounds, enables them to make a valuable contribution to the Company.
John Nelson, who became Chairman on 1 October 2005, holds other positions which are set out on page 6 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statements.
The Board is satis ed that these appointments do not adversely affect his commitment as the Companys Chairman.
John Barton is the Senior Independent Director as fide ned in the Code and is available to shareholders if the normal channels of contact are inappropriate for whatever reason.
In this role he would deputise for the Chairman in his absence and is available to advise and counsel particularly non-executive, but also executive, colleagues.
He is a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The Company has developed an induction programme which is tailored to the speci c requirements of newly appointed Non-Executive Directors.
On their appointment, Non-Executive Directors meet with the Chairman and the Chief Executive and are provided with brie ngs on their responsibilities as directors and on the Companys business and procedures.
Non-Executive Directors also meet with representatives from the Companys auditors and advisers and with members of senior management who provide further information on the Companys operations including visits to the Companys properties.
4 Executive Directors are encouraged to take non-executive positions in other companies to broaden their experience.
Simon Melliss was appointed as a non-executive director of Associated British Ports Holdings PLC on 1 March 2006 and is a member of the Committee of Management of Hermes Property Unit Trust for which he receives fees of 35,000 per annum and 20,000 per annum respectively.
John Bywater is a nonexecutive director of Workspace Group plc and Land Management Limited for which he receives fees of 25,000 per annum and 10,000 per annum respectively.
Each of them retains the fees payable in respect of these positions.
Standing Committees of the Board The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, each of which has written terms of reference which are regularly reviewed and which deal clearly with their authorities and duties.
Copies of these terms of reference are available on the Companys website and in writing on request.
Each of these Committees is comprised of Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
Details of these committees are set out below: a Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises John Hirst Chairman, John Clare and David Edmonds.
John Hirst is a Chartered Accountant.
The Committee met on five occasions during 2005 and all members of the Committee attended all meetings.
The Committee reviews matters affecting Hammersons internal controls and their effectiveness and, on an annual basis, external audit arrangements including the level of fees and the independence and objectivity of the auditors, the merits of establishing a dedicated internal audit function and the provision of non-audit services to the Company by the external auditors.
It also reviews the interim and full year financial statements prior to their submission to the Board, the application of the Companys accounting policies, any changes to financial reporting requirements and such other related matters as the Board may require.
Senior representatives of the external auditors, executive directors and advisers regularly attend the meetings.
b Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises John Barton Chairman, John Clare and Tony Watson.
John Nelson resigned from the Committee on 1 October 2005 following his appointment as Chairman of the Company and Graham Pimlott resigned on 31 December 2005.
Tony Watson was appointed to the Committee on 1 February 2006.
The Committee met three times during 2005 and all members of the Committee attended all meetings which they were eligible to attend.
It reviews the terms and conditions of employment of the Executive Directors and senior management.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is given on pages 13 to 19.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive other than in respect of his own position are invited to attend the meetings.
c Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises John Nelson Chairman, John Barton and John Clare.
John Nelson was appointed a member of the Committee on 7 April 2005 and Chairman of the Committee following the retirement of Ronald Spinney on 1 October 2005.
John Clare was appointed a member of the Committee following the retirement of Graham Pimlott on 31 December 2005.
All members of the Committee were present on each of the four occasions on which the Committee met in 2005, other than two meetings which John Barton was unable to attend because of other business commitments.
The Committee undertakes an annual review of succession planning and ensures that the membership and composition of the Board, including the balance of Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors, continues to be appropriate.
This review includes consideration of the independence of Non-Executive Directors and of the balance of skills and knowledge required of both Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
During the year, on the recommendation of the Committee, the appointment of Tony Watson with effect from 1 February 2006 was approved by the Board.
In addition, the Committees recommendation that Tony Watson be appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee was approved by that Committee and the Board and the recommendation that John Barton be appointed the Senior Independent Director, following the retirement of Graham Pimlott as Deputy Chairman on 31 December 2005, was approved by the Board.
The Committee normally uses the services of external recruitment consultants.
During 2004, Ronald Spinney con rmed to the Board that it was his intention to retire as a Director and Chairman on 30 September 2005.
A special Nomination Committee was formed comprising all Non-Executive Directors, with the exception of any individual who wished to be considered for the post of Chairman, for the sole purpose of ensuring the appointment of a new Chairman.
Graham Pimlott, as Deputy Chairman, chaired the Committee.
During 2004, an external adviser was appointed to propose suitable candidates, following which, the Nomination Committee recommended to the Board that John Nelson be appointed Chairman with effect from 1 October 2005 for a period of three years ending on 30 September 2008.
5 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED External Auditors The Companys external auditors are Deloitte & Touche LLP.
The audit partner responsible for the Companys audit matters is changed every five years in accordance with the Ethical Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
In forming their opinion on the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the Audit Committee takes into account the safeguards operating within Deloitte & Touche LLP.
Regard is had to the nature of and remuneration received for other services provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP to the Company and, inter alia, con rmation is sought from them that the fee payable for the annual audit is adequate to enable them to perform their obligations in accordance with the scope of the audit.
In respect of the year ended 31 December 2005, the Auditors remuneration comprised 575,000 for audit work and 150,000 for other work.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the brie ng paper on effective communication between audit committees and external auditors issued in September 2002 by the Auditing Practices Board and, having considered the recommendations of the brie ng paper with the external auditors, has concluded that the relationship between the Audit Committee and Deloitte & Touche LLP is in accordance with the objectives contained therein.
Trustees of the Pension Scheme The Companys principal pension scheme, The Hammerson Group Management Limited Pension & Life Assurance Scheme, is administered by two corporate trustees.
One is an independent trustee.
The other is a subsidiary of the Company which has five directors.
The Chairman of this subsidiary is David Edmonds, one of the Companys Non-Executive Directors.
Graham Pimlott, who retired as a Non-Executive Director on 31 December 2005, is also a director of this subsidiary and the remaining directors are employees, but not directors, of the Company.
The Schemes funds are invested and managed independently of the Company.
This Scheme is closed to new entrants and a Group Personal Pension Plan has been established for new employees.
Shareholders The Board aims to achieve clear reporting of financial performance to shareholders.
The Company has an investor relations programme whereby the Chief Executive and Finance Director, together with other Executive Directors and other senior executives, meet institutional investors and analysts during the year.
Presentations to investors and the accompanying script are simultaneously posted on the Companys website.
To ensure that the Board is informed of any views expressed at such meetings and presentations, the Companys brokers prepare a report on feedback which, together with information provided by the Director of Corporate Affairs, is reported to the Board.
Private shareholders are invited to ask questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting and meet the Directors informally after the meeting.
The number of proxy votes cast in resolutions is announced at the Annual General Meeting.
Internal Control The Board has ultimate responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This system is designed to safeguard assets against unauthorised use or disposition, ensure the maintenance of proper accounting records, provide reliable financial information and ensure compliance with relevant legislation and regulations.
There is a regular review process throughout the year of the effectiveness of the groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management, although any such system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This system is designed to manage the achievement of business objectives.
The group has established, and the Board regularly reviews, risk management procedures and procedures necessary to enable the Directors to report on internal controls in compliance with the Code.
The risk management procedures involve the analysis, evaluation and management of the key risks to the group, including those relating to joint venture arrangements and has plans for the continuance of the Companys business in the event of unforeseen interruption.
The Board has allocated responsibility for the management of each key risk to Executive Directors and senior executives within the group who report on these risks to the Board.
Any recommendations arising from such reports and reviews are implemented under the supervision of the Board.
The Company conducts internal audit activities through a programme of internal controls reviews which are undertaken by a combination of Company employees and external advisers as appropriate.
The reviews are overseen and co-ordinated by an Internal Controls and Risk Management Committee.
The Committee comprises executives from the finance and operational parts of the business, is chaired by the Group Finance Director, and is intended to ensure that internal control is integrated into Hammersons daily operations.
The Audit Committee has reviewed these arrangements and is satis ed that they provide an appropriate overview of the Companys internal control procedures and continue to be an effective alternative to a dedicated internal audit function.
6 The other key elements of the groups system of internal control are as follows: Regular meetings of the Board and the Audit Committee whose overall responsibilities are set out above.
A management structure that is designed to enable effective decision making with clearly fide ned responsibilities and limits of authority.
An important part of this structure is a monthly meeting of the Executive Directors and monthly meetings of management boards in the UK and France.
The maintenance of operational control manuals setting out a control framework for management to operate within and containing guidance and procedures for the groups operations.
The measurement of the groups financial performance on a regular basis against budgets and long term financial plans.
The Company has whistleblowing procedures under which staff may report any suspicion of fraud, financial irregularity or other malpractice.
The Company subscribes to the independent charity, Public Concern at Work, so that staff may have free access to their helpline.
The system of internal control and the effectiveness thereof have been reviewed by the Board for the year under review and during the period up to the date of this report and the process accords with the Turnbull guidance.
By Order of the Board Stuart Haydon Secretary 10 March 2006 7
