Corporate Governance conflicts arise, in the directors view, from the fact that the chairman held, This part of the Annual Report, together with the Directors Remuneration until 2001, the position of chief executive.
The senior independent directors Report set out on pages 29 to 34, describes how the company has both responsibilities include the provision of an additional channel of applied the principles contained in the revised Combined Code on Corporate communication between the chairman and the non-executive directors and Governance published in July 2003 the Code and complied with the another point of contact for shareholders if they have reasons for concern provisions contained in section 1 of the Code.
which communications through the normal channels of chairman, chief executive or group financial director have failed to resolve, or where these Board composition The Board comprises a non-executive chairman Gordon Page, a chief contacts are inappropriate.
executive Allan Cook, three other executive directors and four other nonexecutive directors of whom Marcus Beresford is the senior independent The directors have the benefit of a directors and officers liability insurance director.
Mike Smith, a former senior independent director and remuneration policy.
They can take independent legal advice at the companys expense committee chairman, and Geoff Cooper, a former executive director, were within set limits in furtherance of their duties.
members of the board until 8 and 20 June 2005 respectively.
The Board and its proceedings All non-executive directors, with the exception of the chairman, are considered Board meetings scheduled in accordance with the annual timetable take to be independent.
Biographies of the directors, giving details of their place eight times a year and otherwise as required.
There is regular contact experience and other main commitments, are set out on pages 22 and 23 between meetings to progress the Groups business.
Meetings were held and, in relation to those directors offering themselves for re-appointment during the year for the most part at Wimborne, however they take place at at the AGM, in the accompanying shareholder circular.
The wide ranging other operational locations from time to time.
In addition, meetings take experience and backgrounds of the non-executive directors enable them to place between the non-executives in the absence of the chairman and or the debate and constructively challenge management in relation to both the executive directors.
development of strategy and the performance of the Group.
Attendance at Board and committee meetings is set out in the following table.
The Boards role is to lead the Group with a view to the creation of a strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
In doing so, it reviews and agrees Group strategy, ensures that the necessary Board Audit Remuneration Nomination resources are in place, monitors management performance, and supervises Number held 11 5 5 3 the conduct of the Groups activities within a framework of prudent and effective internal controls.
Number attended G F Page 10 3 The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its specific A E Cook 11 3 approval.
The schedule provides the framework for those decisions which A J Hannam 10 can be made by the Board and those which can be delegated either to W G Tucker 11 committees or otherwise.
Among the key matters on which the Board alone A J Stevens 11 may make decisions are the Groups business strategy, its five year plan, its J W Edington 11 4 4 3 consolidated budget, Group policies, dividends, acquisitions and disposals, P Hooley 8541 and all appointments to, and removals from, the Board.
Authority is delegated M Beresford 10 4 5 3 1 to management on a structured basis in accordance with the provisions of J S Patterson 111 the Corporate Framework ensuring that proper management oversight exists 1 John Patterson joined the Board with effect from 1 November 2005 and attended all subsequent meetings.
Matters delegated in this way include, within All directors attended the AGM in June 2005 with the exception of Gordon Page who could not attend defined parameters, the approval of bids and contracts, capital expenditures the meeting because of a family bereavement.
On those occasions when a director was unable to attend and financing arrangements.
a Board or committee meeting, his comments on the papers to be considered at that meeting were passed to the relevant chairman.
The Board has adopted procedures relating to conduct of its business, Non-executive directors are appointed for specified terms of three years including the timely provision of information, and the company secretary is which can be extended by agreement provided that the individuals responsible for ensuring that these are observed and for advising the Board performance continues to be effective.
All non-executives have confirmed on corporate governance matters.
The company secretary is appointed, and they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them and copies can only be removed, by the Board.
of their appointment letters are available on request to the company secretary.
Under the companys articles of association, directors are subject Board committees to re-appointment by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment by the Board: if they have held office for three years or more since their The Board is supported in its work by a number of committees.
Information previous appointment by shareholders: and, in the case of non-executive relating to the nomination and audit committees appears below and the directors, if they have held office for nine years or more since first being activities of the remuneration committee are described in the Directors appointed by shareholders.
The nomination committee report on page 27 Remuneration Report on page 29.
John Pope, company secretary, acts as explains the process for selection of directors and succession planning.
secretary to all Board committees.
Committee chairmen provide oral reports on the work undertaken by their committees at the following Board meeting The chairman is, among other things, responsible for chairing board meetings and minutes are made available to all directors.
The chief executives responsibilities include operational performance and the development of strategy.
The Boards policy Other Board committees include the executive committee, the general is that the roles of chairman and chief executive should be performed by purposes committee and the price sensitive information PSI committee.
The division of responsibilities between the chairmans role The terms of reference of the executive committee were reviewed during the and that of the chief executive is documented and clearly understood and no year and its purpose is to assist the chief executive in the performance of his 26 Cobham plc Performance evaluation duties.
These include developing the Groups strategy for Board consideration During the year, the Board undertook a formal and rigorous evaluation and approval, making recommendations as to acquisitions and disposals, of its own performance and that of individual directors and of the audit, reviewing operational activities and managing the significant risks faced by remuneration and nomination committees using specialist evaluation the Group.
This committee meets on eight occasions during the year and its software.
The directors completed detailed appraisals on matters relevant membership comprises the executive directors under the chairmanship of to the Board, committee and director performance.
The chairman discussed the chief executive.
the results with individual directors, and the senior independent director discussed the performance evaluation of the chairman with him.
In addition, The duties of the general purposes committee are varied and include the a report of the overall results was presented to, and discussed by, the Board.
discharge of obligations arising under the companys share plans, the determination of the remuneration of the non-executive directors, and the As a result various action plans are being developed.
The PSI committees main function is to establish and implement internal policies, systems and controls to ensure Financial reporting that potential inside information is communicated to it, considered, verified In the directors view, the Annual Report and Accounts for 2005, together and released to the market where required.
These committees, both of which with the Interim and other reports made during the year, present a balanced were formed during the year, meet as and when required.
and understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects.
Nomination committee report The directors have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the Gordon Page is the chairman of this committee.
The other members are Annual Report and Accounts as stated in the Financial Review on page 13.
Jeff Edington, Allan Cook, Peter Hooley, Marcus Beresford and John Patterson appointed 1 November 2005.
Mike Smith was a member until 8 June 2005.
Internal control and risk management The majority of the members of the committee are independent.
Details of The Group operates under a system of internal controls which has been their qualifications and experience are set out on pages 22 and 23.
During developed and refined over time to meet its needs and the risks and the year the committee met formally on three occasions.
opportunities to which it is exposed.
These controls are contained in the Corporate Framework and the Group Finance Manual.
They include a The committees terms of reference, which have recently been reviewed, comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget which is approved are available on the companys website or on application to the company by the Board and monitored monthly, the regular revision of forecasts for the secretary.
The committees main duties are to review the structure, size and year, a strategic planning process involving the preparation of a five year plan composition of the Board, to consider succession planning for directors and and the appropriate delegation of authorities to operational management.
other senior executives and to identify and nominate for Board approval candidates to fill Board vacancies.
The committee dealt with all of these Risk management is an integral part of the system of internal control and matters during the year or since the year end and, in addition, made is considered to be key to the Groups success.
Divisional managing directors recommendations regarding the re-appointment of certain directors at the are required to ensure that appropriate processes exist to identify and 2005 AGM, the appointment of a new senior independent director, and was manage risks and, as part of the five year planning exercise, to regularly engaged in identifying potential, new, independent non-executive directors carry out formal risk assessments.
The executive committee undertakes with the assistance of external recruitment consultants.
a top-level review of significant risks and reports regularly to the Board on their mitigation.
In addition, the audit committee monitors the adequacy John Patterson was appointed a director during the year after a search of internal financial controls and compliance with Group standards through carried out by external recruitment consultants followed by meetings with a self-assessment process involving all subsidiaries, supplemented by regular committee members and, subsequently, other Board members.
risk assurance reviews and visits.
Directors professional development The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control the aim of On appointment, directors undertake a structured induction programme in which is to manage risks that are significant to the fulfilment of the Groups the course of which they receive information about the operations and business objectives and to contribute to the safeguarding of shareholders activities of the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its investment and the companys assets.
It is also responsible for reviewing the decision, the companys corporate governance practices and procedures and effectiveness of the system.
However, such a system is designed to manage their duties, responsibilities and obligations as directors of a listed public rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and limited company.
This is supplemented by visits to key locations and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material meetings with senior executives.
Training for directors is available as required through attendance at externally The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, provided courses or in-house presentations.
During the year presentations for evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
This directors were provided on price sensitive inside information and the new process, which has been in place for the year under review and up to the disclosure rules and also the then proposed operating and financial review.
date of approval of the Annual Report and financial statements, is regularly In addition, directors knowledge of the legal and regulatory environment reviewed and accords with the guidance for directors on internal control is updated through the provision of information by the Groups advisers and issued by the Turnbull committee.
by means of regular briefings from the company secretary.
The Board receives reports on a regular basis from the executive and audit committees in relation to the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and has, accordingly, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in respect of 2005.
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 27 Corporate Governance continued Shareholder relations Audit committee report During the year the chief executive and group financial director held regular The chairman of the committee is Peter Hooley.
He is an independent meetings with institutional investors, fund managers and investors to discuss director and the Board is satisfied, since he is also a finance director of information made public by the Group.
In June they, along with divisional a FTSE 100 company and a chartered accountant, that he has relevant managing directors, held an investor day at which presentations were given and recent financial experience as required by the Code.
on, among other things, air refuelling, the REMEC Defense & Space Inc. acquisition, the provision of air warfare training, and financial performance.
The other members of the committee, all of whom are independent directors, are Jeff Edington, Marcus Beresford and John Patterson appointed In October a briefing was given to investors in relation to the new divisional 1 November 2005.
Details structure in general and the Cobham Life Support Division in particular.
of their qualifications and experience are set out on pages 22 and 23.
During Presentations were also given during the year on the announcement of the the year the committee met on five occasions.
Copies of presentation materials can be accessed via the companys website at www.
The committees terms of reference, which were reviewed during the year, are available on the companys website or on application to the company The chairman wrote to a number of major shareholders during the year secretary.
The committees main duties are to monitor the integrity of the reminding them of his availability, and that of Marcus Beresford, the senior companys financial statements and any formal announcements relating independent director, should there be issues which they might wish to raise.
to its financial performance, to consider the effectiveness of the Groups The chairman attended various meetings with shareholders to discuss internal financial control systems, to monitor and review the effectiveness of governance and strategy but, in the absence of any request, no meetings the Groups internal audit activities, to make recommendations as to the have taken place with Marcus Beresford.
Shareholders were also offered the appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement of the external opportunity to meet John Patterson, the non-executive director appointed auditors and to monitor and review the external auditors independence during the year.
and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Board is kept informed of investors views through the distribution of Meetings of the committee are normally attended by the company analysts circulars, the receipt of regular reports from the companys brokers chairman, the group financial director, senior employees with responsibilities and updates from the chief executive and group financial director.
in relation to finance and internal control, and the external auditors.
Correspondence with shareholders is also made available and a survey In addition, the committee holds sessions with the external auditors in of shareholder opinion was commissioned.
the absence of executive management.
Attendance of non-members is at the discretion, and by invitation, of the committee.
Communication with shareholders takes place via RNS announcements, the companys website, the annual and interim reports and the AGM.
The AGM At the majority of its meetings the committee considered reports from is attended by all directors and shareholders have the opportunity to hear the external auditors and also on internal controls and risk assurance.
a statement as to progress made during the year, to question the Board on Management generated reports were also considered on a number of its stewardship of the company and to meet directors informally.
The results matters including the application of, and transition to, International Financial of the votes on the resolutions proposed at the AGM are published on the Reporting Standards, revenue recognition, the pension fund deficit and companys website.
Responsibility statements The committee believes that the current arrangements comprising a Statements relating to the responsibilities of the directors are on page 35 programme of internal financial control review visits to subsidiaries by head and those relating to the auditors are on pages 36 and 81. office personnel, business reviews carried out by the chief executive and group financial director and a process of self-assessment of internal financial Compliance statement controls by all subsidiaries provides appropriate internal audit coverage of Independent non-executives, excluding the chairman, made up less than half the Groups activities.
of the Board from the retirement of Mike Smith on 8 June 2005 until the appointment of John Patterson on 1 November 2005.
Accordingly, the Board The committee and the external auditors have safeguards to avoid the did not during that period fully comply with the provisions of the Code in possible compromise of the auditors objectivity and independence.
The Board is currently seeking to appoint an additional independent These include the adoption by the committee of a policy regarding the non-executive director.
supply of audit and non-audit services and of a policy on the employment of external audit staff.
Non-audit services involving the review of interim financial information, tax services and accounting advice, and acquisition-related due diligence can be supplied subject to pre-approval by the committee where the cost of any individual engagement exceeds a pre-defined limit.
The committee has also received reports from the external auditors confirming their independence and objectivity.
Fees paid to the external auditors during the year ended 31 December 2005 are set out in note 2 of the Notes to the Group Financial Statements.
