3.2 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance The Combined Code principles of good Groups strategic objectives.
Nine principal Board management reports of actual and forecast governance and code of best practice meetings were held in 2004 05.
In addition the Board formally operates in accordance with a formal schedule of reviewed strategy at an off-site meeting Statement of compliance matters reserved to the Board for decision, which arranged for this purpose, resulting in a five year Land Securities complied fully with the Combined is renewed annually.
It seeks to ensure that the Business Plan.
Each business unit is reviewed at Code on Corporate Governance the Code as it needs and aspirations of all stakeholders are regular intervals against the targets set each year applied to the Company during the year, except satisfied through the development of a balanced in the Business Plan.
in relation to Board composition proportion of strategy which serves the interests of independent non-executive directors and stakeholders.
In addition, the Investment Committee, membership of the Nominations Committee.
comprising the Group Chief Executive, Finance In accordance with the concept of comply or These matters include authorisation of significant Director and Chief Operating Officer, appraises explain, explanations for non-compliance in transactions in excess of 50m, dividend policy, and, where appropriate, approves funding these areas are detailed below.
internal controls via the Audit Committee, proposals involving expenditure up to 50m remuneration policy via the Remuneration taking into account key financial drivers, The Board applies the principles of the Code by Committee, shareholder circulars and listing sensitivities, and project risk assessment.
monitoring corporate governance best practice particulars, matters relating to share capital and adopts appropriate recommendations of and treasury policy.
They also include the Board balance and independence bodies such as the ABI and RREV organisations appointment or removal of directors and the The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive which represent the views of institutional Company Secretary and the introduction of are split, with clear written guidelines to support shareholders and the Institute of Chartered any significant changes to employee share or the division of responsibility.
There exists Secretaries and Administrators.
a strong non-executive element on the Board information, including the terms of reference which currently consists of the Chairman, six of Board Committees, the schedule of matters The Board was supplied with comprehensive executive and five non-executive directors.
reserved for Board approval, the procedure for management information on a regular and David Rough is the senior independent director.
directors to take independent legal advice and timely basis, principally by means of monthly The Board considers that all the non-executive the letter of appointment for non-executive directors, together with the Memorandum and Attendance at Board and Committee meetings Articles of Association of the Company, is available The number of principal Board and Committee meetings attended by each director during the financial year on the Groups website at www.
com was as follows: or copies may be obtained on request from the Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Company Secretary.
9 meetings 5 meetings 1 meeting 3 meetings Peter Birch Chairman 9 1 All directors have access to the Company Francis Salway Group Chief Executive 8 1 Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Andrew Macfarlane 9 Board procedures are complied with and who Mark Collins 9 advises the Board on corporate governance and Ian Ellis 8 Mike Hussey appointed 30 09 04 5 5 compliance matters.
The Board has resolved that David Rough Senior Independent Director 9513 directors may seek independent professional Sir Winfried Bischoff 8 4 3 advice at the Groups expense in the furtherance Stuart Rose 8 5 2 of their duties as directors.
No director made use Bo Lerenius appointed 01 06 04 6 7 2 3 2 2 of this facility during the year.
Alison Carnwath appointed 01 09 04 6 6 3 3 1 1 Ian Henderson retired 14 07 04 3 3 Role of the Board Peter Freeman retired 14 07 04 2 3 1 1 The principal task of the Board is to formulate Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a director could attend as a member.
strategy and to monitor and control operating and financial performance in pursuit of the 66 Land Securities Annual Report 2005 3.2 Corporate Governance continued Director induction and training Nominations Committee directors are independent.
Under some definitions Directors were provided with training on a The principal role of the Nominations Committee Sir Winfried Bischoff may not be regarded as number of subjects, including, in particular, the is to review the balance and effectiveness of the independent since he is a member of the impact of international financial reporting Board and identify the skills required and the management committee of the holding standards on the Groups accounts.
In the case individuals who can best provide these skills.
In company of one of the Groups principal of newly appointed directors, an induction reviewing potential candidates for appointment relationship banks.
However, the unanimous programme, which includes training on the to the Board, the Committee considers the view of his colleagues on the Board is that, responsibilities of a director occurs prior to, or capabilities required such as independence of by virtue of his experience, he is robustly immediately following, their appointment to the mind and, where a non-executive appointment independent.
At the date of this report less Board, if that appointment is the first occasion is under consideration, the time available to fulfil than half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, that they have been appointed to the Board of a that role.
Independent external search consultants comprised independent non-executive directors.
A tailored induction programme are always used to identify appropriate candidates However, the Board considers that the was provided for non-executive directors, which for appointment as non-executive directors and experience and independent judgement of its included meetings with senior managers within candidates from a wide range of backgrounds non-executive directors are more important each of the Groups business units.
It is therefore satisfied was coordinated by the Company Secretary in that no individual or group has unfettered accordance with guidelines issued by the The members of the Nominations Committee powers of discretion and that an appropriate and Institute of Chartered Secretaries and are the Chairman, who is Chairman of the effective balance exists between the executive Administrators.
The training needs of directors Committee, the Senior Independent Director and non-executive members of the Board.
were reviewed periodically to ensure that they and the Group Chief Executive.
Because this is were kept up to date on relevant new legislation not in accordance with the provisions of the In accordance with the Companies Acts and the and changing commercial risks.
Code, all key decisions relating to appointments Articles of Association of the Company, all and to membership of Board committees were directors are required to submit themselves to Board appraisal considered by the full Board, which includes shareholders for re-election to the Board at the A formal appraisal of the performance of the a strong representation of experienced first Annual General Meeting following their Board, its committees and individual directors is independent non-executive directors.
For all appointment and at regular intervals thereafter.
This process is led by the Board appointments the Committee consulted Every director is required to stand for re-election Chairman with the assistance of the Company with the other members of the Board and every three years.
The directors to retire by Secretary.
The wide-ranging appraisal put forward formal recommendations for rotation at the 2005 Annual General Meeting will questionnaire is based on the process and consideration by the Board.
be Stuart Rose, Francis Salway and Mark Collins.
questions outlined in the Higgs suggestions for good practice and the results were reviewed The Committee reviewed the time required Non-executive directors by the Board in March 2005.
Following both from a non-executive director and the annual Remuneration for the Chairman and self-assessment and evaluation by their fellow performance evaluation was used to assess non-executive directors is determined by the Board members, individual directors were whether the non-executive director was spending Board within the levels set in the Articles of evaluated in their role as members of the Board enough time to fulfil his or her duties.
They do not participate in any of by the Chairman.
The senior independent the Companys share incentive, bonus or pension director was responsible for the evaluation of The Committee made recommendations to the schemes.
The Chairman and non-executive the Chairman and met annually with the other Board on succession for executive directors and directors are appointed for an initial period non-executive directors to consider the on the reappointment of any non-executive of three years subject to renewal for further Chairmans performance.
The 2004 05 Board director at the conclusion of their specified term periods and to the rotation provisions under appraisal has led the directors to conclude that of office.
The Committee also kept under review the Articles of Association.
They do not have the range of skills and experience of the directors the leadership needs of the Group, both service agreements with the Company.
As resulted in an effective and unified Board.
executive and non-executive, with a view to recommended by the Code, the non-executive Attention will be given to any matters arising ensuring the continued ability of the Group to directors meet at least annually, both with and from the appraisal process.
compete effectively in the marketplace.
Land Securities Annual Report 2005 67 3.2 Corporate Governance continued Remuneration Committee relevant financial experience in line with the Turnbull Review being undertaken by the The Committees activity is described in the Code.
Further details of each of the independent Flint Committee Remuneration Committee report on pages 72 directors are set out on page 58. reviewed reports on the Groups risk to 78. management measures and actions The Audit Committees written terms of discussed the accounting and internal control Investor relations reference are available on the Groups website impact of implementing the debt restructuring Land Securities is committed to maintaining the and its principal oversight responsibilities cover: reviewed progress on the project to replace highest standards in its investor relations IR internal control and risk management key finance IT systems programme and we report on our IR activity in internal audit received a report from the valuer on the the Corporate Responsibility Section.
The IR external audit including auditor independence 31 March 2005 valuation function reports directly to the Group Chief financial reporting.
in conjunction with the Board appraisal Executive and Group Finance Director and its detailed on page 67, the Committee activities are reported to and reviewed by the The Committee met five times during the year.
reviewed its own effectiveness and Board annually.
Every two years an independent The Audit Committee Chairman invited all other concluded that it had continued to operate audit of IR is carried out, the results of which are Group Board directors to attend every meeting as an effective Audit Committee.
also communicated to the Board.
The Senior and from time to time other senior management.
Independent Director attends the preliminary In addition, the Director of Risk Management External auditors and interim results meetings to which investors and Internal Audit and representatives from The Audit Committee appraised the effectiveness are invited and his attendance is notified to the external auditors,  of the external auditors and the external audit investors in advance.
In addition, each year, the LLP, were also present at each meeting.
The evaluation process included feedback Chairman writes to principal shareholders Committee also met separately with the from relevant members of management and the offering a clear line of contact with either him or external and internal auditors and the valuers.
results were reported to the Board and the Senior Independent Director as recommended Audit Committee.
by the Higgs Proposals on Corporate Governance.
The Committee undertook the following activities at these meetings: The Company has a policy and procedures in Annual General Meeting reviewed and approved the Companys place to monitor and maintain the objectivity The Board welcomes the move towards a more approach to implementing International and independence of the external auditors, constructive use of Annual General Meetings Financial Reporting Standards IFRS  LLP PwC.
The and regards the Annual General Meeting as the reviewed the interim and annual results procedures include guidance on the non-audit principal opportunity to meet private shareholders.
and considered any matters raised by services that PwC can provide after proper At its Annual General Meeting, the Company management and the external auditors approval.
On a six-monthly basis, the Audit complies with the provisions of the Combined reviewed and approved the audit plans for Committee reviewed a summary of all non-audit Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the external and internal auditors work.
In addition to the audit related services, PwC the separation of resolutions and the attendance monitored the scope, effectiveness, provided the following services during the year: of Committee Chairmen.
The Company arranges independence and objectivity of the accounting advice relating to the debt for the Report and Financial Statements and external audit restructuring related papers to be posted to shareholders so as discussed the results of internal audit taxation advice, including planning and to allow at least 20 working days for consideration reviews, significant findings, managements compliance prior to the Annual General Meeting.
action plans and the timeliness of resolution advice on IFRS accounting: and review the scope, independence and pension fund audit.
Audit Committee objectivity of the external valuation The Audit Committee consists of all the by Knight Frank LLP Details of the amounts paid to PwC are set out independent non-executive directors and is chaired reviewed the Groups Turnbull Report to in Note 3 to the accounts.
Bo Lerenius and Alison support the Boards sign-off on the system Carnwarth joined the Board and Audit Committee of internal control see below for more details The external auditors reported to the during the year, with Alison having recent and discussed the Groups response to the Committee that they remained independent 68 Land Securities Annual Report 2005 3.2 Corporate Governance continued and had maintained internal safeguards to The key features of our system of internal The Director of Internal Audit and Risk ensure their objectivity.
control include: Management reports to the Group Chief a Strategic and business planning: the Group Executive and has direct access to the Audit Valuers and each business unit produce and agree a Committee Chairman.
The internal audit The Group gives the valuers and auditors access business plan each year, against which the function operates a risk-based audit approach to each other.
These advisers have a dialogue performance of the business is regularly and provides a summary report on the operation and exchange of information which is entirely monitored.
Balanced scorecards are prepared of the system of risk management and internal independent of the Group.
The Audit Committee that set out targets for a wide variety of key control to support the Boards annual statement.
Chairman attends key valuation meetings as do performance indicators, including risk the auditors to be assured of the independence management The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the process.
b Investment appraisal: capital projects, major of internal audit activities including the scope contracts and business and property of work, authority and resources of the internal In line with the Carsberg Committee report we acquisitions are reviewed in detail and audit function.
have a fixed fee arrangement with our Valuers, approved by the Investment Committee Knight Frank LLP.
The proportion of total fees and or the Board, in accordance with The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board paid by the Company to the total fee income delegated authority limits has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of Knight Frank was less than 5%.
c Financial monitoring: profitability, cash flow of internal control and risk management.
and capital expenditure are closely monitored The review covered all material areas of the Financial reporting and key financial information is reported business including financial, operational and The Board seeks to present a balanced and to the Board on a monthly basis, including compliance controls and risk management.
understandable assessment of the Groups explanations of variances between actual position and prospects, and details are given in and budgeted performance In performing its review of effectiveness, the the Chairmans Statement and the Operating d Systems of control procedures and delegated Audit Committee took into account the and Financial Review OFR.
authorities: there are clearly defined following reports and activities: guidelines and approval limits for capital and Internal audit reports on reviews of business Going concern operating expenditure and other key business processes and activities, including action After making enquiries, the directors have a transactions and decisions.
Operational and plans to address any identified control reasonable expectation that the Company has financial procedures and controls are weaknesses.
The status of these action plans adequate resources to continue in operational maintained on the Groups intranet was also monitored by internal audit and existence for the foreseeable future.
For this e Risk management: we have an ongoing overdue actions reported to Audit Committee reason, they continue to adopt the going process to identify, evaluate and manage the Managements own assessments of the concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Further details of strengths and weaknesses of the overall our risk management process and our control environment in their area, with Internal control principal business risks are set out in the action plans to address the weaknesses The Board is responsible for the Groups separate section below External auditor reports on any issues system of internal control and for reviewing f Six-monthly assessments: a compliance identified in the course of their work, its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to questionnaire is completed twice a year including internal control reports on control manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure before external reports are issued, which weaknesses, which were provided to the to meet business objectives and can provide only is signed off by senior managers, providing Audit Committee as well as executive reasonable and not absolute assurance against assurances that controls are both embedded management material misstatement or loss.
The Board and effective within the business, and Risk management reporting, including the confirms that this system is designed to be in g Internal audit: responsible for reviewing key status of actions to mitigate major risks and accordance with the Turnbull guidance and has business processes and controls, including the quantification of selected risks.
been in place for the year under review and up following up the implementation of to the date of approval of the Report and management actions.
