Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance and Explanation Directors Responsibility Statement The UK Listing Authority Listing Rules require the Company to report on its Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each compliance with the principles and provisions of the Combined Code and to financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the provide an explanation where it departs from the Combined Code.
For the Company and Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing year ended 31st March 2005, the Board confirms that the Company has those financial statements, the directors are required to: complied with the Principles and Provisions of the Combined Code with the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: exceptions explained in detail in this report.
This report should be read in conjunction with the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 34 to 38 and make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: the biographies of the directors on page 22. state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to The Board any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: Responsibilities The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is Company.
The Boards main aim is to produce high long-term rates of return inappropriate to presume that the Company and Group will continue in to shareholders.
The Board is responsible for setting strategic aims, ensuring business.
necessary resources are in place to meet its objectives, reviewing management The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which performance, ensuring the integrity of financial information and financial disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the controls, and the systems for managing risk.
The Board is also responsible for Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply ensuring that all information, including all price sensitive information with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking reported by the Company, is presented as a balanced and understandable such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
As such, the Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
has a written policy on the disclosure of price sensitive information.
Structure The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision which includes major investment expenditure, financing and dividend policy.
The Board has nine directors, three executive and six non-executive, their This schedule is reviewed annually.
The Board has delegated authority to details, experience and committee membership are given on page 22. management to approve capital expenditure below defined thresholds.
The make up of the Board is specifically designed to provide a balance of skills The levels of delegated authority are regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Board has Nomination, Remuneration and Audit powers are delegated by the Board to its committees and full details of the Committees, and details of the committees of the Board, their responsibilities, committees terms of reference can be obtained from the Companys web site membership and activities during the year are provided separately in this www.
Directors concerns which cannot be resolved are recorded in the Board minutes.
There is appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action Internal control The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of against the directors.
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Groups system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Chairman and Chief Executive business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute The roles of the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive are clearly assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the established in writing and have been approved by the Board.
The Chairmans system and reports to the Board.
Management continually monitors risk key responsibilities are: management processes and reports at each Board meeting on the chief risks affecting the Group.
the effective running of the Board: The Board confirms that throughout the year under review and up to the date ensuring that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in the of the approval of this annual report and accounts there has been a process in development and determination of the Groups strategy and overall place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by commercial objectives: and the Group.
Further detail on the risk management and internal control as the guardian of the Boards decision-making processes.
procedures are described separately under the section on the Audit Committee on page 33.
The Chief Executives principal responsibilities are: Financial statements running the Groups business and acting as chief spokesman for the Company: The Board is satisfied that in the financial statements and reports to proposing and developing the Groups strategy and overall commercial shareholders it has presented a balanced and understandable assessment of objectives, which he does in close consultation with the Chairman and the the Companys position and prospects.
A statement of the directors Board: and responsibilities for the financial statements follows.
implementing the decisions of the Board and its Committees, with the executive team.
London Merchant Securities plc 29 Non-executive directors Appointments There is a transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors and the prime responsibility for the appointment of directors rests The non-executive directors provide support to management in developing with the Board.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying proposals on strategy and scrutinise the performance of management.
At the and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board to fill Board Board and Audit Committee meetings the non-executive directors satisfy vacancies as and when they arise as well as put in place plans for succession of themselves as to the integrity of financial information and financial controls, the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
and systems of risk management.
Through the Remuneration Committee non-executive directors are responsible for determining appropriate levels of Further details of the role of the Nomination Committee are provided remuneration of executive directors.
As members of the Nomination separately in this report.
Committee, non-executive directors have a key role in appointing and, where None of the executive directors has a non-executive directorship in a FTSE necessary, removing executive directors, and in succession planning.
Full account of the Boards view would be taken if the issue Independence The Board has carefully considered directors independence arose and would be considered on a case by case basis.
Mr Rayne has a nonand has determined that all the non-executive directors discharge their duties executive directorship in a NYSE listed company and the fees in respect of this in an independent manner, and constructively and appropriately challenge directorship are paid to the Company.
Mr Pexton and Mr Rayne are nonmanagement and the Board.
Their experience provides valuable benefit to the executive directors of Inflexion plc and the fees in respect of their Board.
Mr Grant, Dr Duroc-Danner, Mrs fide Moller, Mr Newell and directorships are paid to the Company.
Mr Wilson are deemed independent.
An explanation for the independence The terms of appointment of non-executive directors are available for of directors who are deemed independent by the Company, notwithstanding inspection, and they set out expected time commitments.
The external the conditions of independence set out in A.
3.1 of the Combined Code is commitments of the non-executive directors were disclosed to the Board given below: before their appointment.
The commitments of the non-executive directors Mr Grant has been a director since 1984 and it is the Boards view that his are reviewed as part of the performance evaluation explained in this report experience and long-term perspective continues to provide a valuable and the Board is satisfied that non-executive directors commit sufficient time contribution to the Board and that he has demonstrated he is independent to the fulfilment of their duties as directors of the Company.
The Combined Code assumes a director who Attendance The directors present at the Board and Committee meetings are has served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first set out in the table below: election is not independent.
Mr Grant is the Deputy Chairman and, as the Board Audit Remuneration Nomination senior independent director he is the point of contact to shareholders as an Number of meetings held 7542 alternative to the normal channels of communication through the Chief G C Greene 7542 Executive or Chairman.
No shareholders took advantage of his availability P J Grant 7542 1 during the year.
Mr Grant also conducts the performance evaluation of B J Duroc-Danner 2 N A N A 2 the Chairman.
N R Friedlos 75 N A 2 J F fide Moller 7542 Mr Wilson is a founding partner of Boston Ventures, a leading US media D Newell 7542 2 and communications private equity firm.
The Company co-invests with M A Pexton 7 N A42 2 Boston Ventures and participates in its funds.
Mr Wilsons wealth of R A Rayne 7442 3 J M Wilson 7 N A N A 2 experience in the private equity market has proved a great benefit and the Board is satisfied that no conflict of interest has arisen.
All Board and committee papers are circulated in advance of the meetings to Dr Duroc-Danner is Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of allow all directors time to make comments, if necessary, in advance of the Weatherford International and he has a depth of knowledge and experience meeting through the Chairman.
in acquisitions and multinational business and, in particular in the energy 1 No Nomination Committee and four Board meetings have been held during the year since his sector in which the Company has significant investments is of considerable appointment on 1st September 2004.
2 Executive directors are not members of the Audit or Remuneration Committees but attend when invited.
The Board is satisfied that the independence of Dr 3 Includes part attendance of two meetings.
Duroc-Danner is not compromised and that he has demonstrated he is independent in character and judgement, notwithstanding that Mr Rayne is a non-executive director of Weatherford International.
30 London Merchant Securities plc Corporate Governance Information and Development Going concern The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the Board and its committees After making enquiries, the directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate are provided with full and timely information to enable them to discharge resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Board ensures that all new directors are sufficiently For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing apprised of the Companys business and their duties as directors on the financial statements.
appointment and on an ongoing basis.
New directors are provided with Shareholders induction information and have access to management to allow them to familiarise themselves with the Company.
New non-executives are available to Led by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, the Company conducts meet major shareholders if requested.
The Board and its committees are a continual programme of meeting equity and debt investors as well as provided with internal and external briefings where appropriate to ensure analysts and a rating agency.
During the year management met with their knowledge is continually updated.
Briefings and presentations include 78 institutions.
Meetings are conducted within the guidance provided by the tours of the Companys property portfolio and meetings with management UKLA Listing Rules on the dissemination of price sensitive information.
of companies in which the Group invests.
All directors have access to the Presentations are made to investors and analysts after the interim and advice of the Company Secretary and independent professional advice is year end results as well as during the year to improve understanding of available to directors in appropriate circumstances at the Companys expense.
particular areas of the business or to update them on current activities.
These presentations, as well as a regular flow of news releases made through Performance evaluation a Regulatory Information Service, are posted on the Companys web site The Board has undertaken a comprehensive evaluation of its performance www.
including its committees and individual directors.
The evaluation of the The Chairman, the senior independent director and non-executive directors Board and its committees was carried out through a questionnaire, facilitated are available to attend meetings requested by major shareholders.
The Board by the Company Secretary.
The evaluation covered structure, objectives, is regularly apprised of the views of investors, analysts and the media.
decision making, meeting processes, induction & training and relations with Reports are made available to the Board on feedback received on an management.
The conclusion of the evaluation demonstrated that the Board unattributable basis from analyst briefings and investor road shows carried and its committees continued to operate effectively.
The evaluation of individual directors was carried out by interview.
The The Annual General Meeting Chairman undertook interviews separately of each non-executive director and the Chief Executive.
The Board believes that the Annual General Meeting is a good opportunity to communicate with all investors and the Company provides time for Evaluation of the other executive directors was undertaken by the Chief shareholders attending to meet and discuss matters with members of the Executive.
The conclusions of the evaluations were that the directors Board outside the formal meeting.
demonstrated commitment and continue to contribute effectively to their role.
At each Annual General Meeting all proxy votes are counted and, after each The senior independent director carried out an appraisal of the Chairmans resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands, the level of proxies lodged performance with the other non-executives.
The evaluation concluded that and the number of votes is indicated.
The number of proxy votes lodged, how the Chairman continued to demonstrate commitment and effective they were voted and the result of the resolution voted at the Annual General leadership of the Board.
Meeting, will be available on the Companys web site after the Annual General Re-election Meeting.
Members of CREST are given the opportunity to vote electronically to maximise the number of votes cast.
The terms of appointment of non-executive directors are subject to the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association relating to retirement by All substantially separate issues are proposed as separate resolutions at the rotation.
All directors are subject to retirement by rotation at least every three Annual General Meeting.
All directors attend the Companys Annual General years.
The Nomination Committee considered the effectiveness of the Meeting, where shareholders have the opportunity to put questions to the contribution of the directors retiring by rotation and concluded that each chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
makes a valuable and effective contribution to the Company and Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least recommends to shareholders that their periods of appointment should 20 working days before the meeting and this year the notice has been sent continue for a further three years.
The biographies of Dr Duroc-Danner, 26 days in advance to allow more time for proxy votes to be returned by Mrs fide Moller and Mr Pexton, who are seeking re-election are on page 22. institutional shareholders.
Non-executive directors are not appointed for specified terms as required by A.
It is the Boards view that whilst limits on length of appointment help to ensure that fresh ideas and views are available to the Board, they have the significant disadvantage of losing the contribution of directors who have a wealth of understanding of the Groups business.
Since 2002 two executive directors and two non-executive directors have been appointed.
London Merchant Securities plc Corporate Governance 31 Nomination Committee Audit Committee The Board has a Nomination Committee of which a majority are Membership The Board has an Audit Committee of non-executive independent non-executive directors.
The members, appointed by the directors.
The members are appointed by the Board and chaired by Board and chaired by Mr Greene, also comprise Dr Duroc-Danner, Mr Newell.
It also includes Mr Grant, Mr Greene and Mrs fide Moller.
Mr Friedlos, Mr Grant, Mrs Moller, Mr Newell, Mr Pexton, Mr Rayne Their experience is given on page 22.
The Board believe that the interests and Mr Wilson.
Their experience is given on page 22. of the Company are better served with Mr Greene as a member of the Audit Committee and that his membership does not compromise the The main role and responsibilities of the Nomination Committee is set in Committees ability to discharge its duties properly.
The Board consider written terms of reference in accordance with best practice and are that collectively the Audit Committee has significant financial experience reviewed annually.
The remit of the Nomination Committee is available and ability to discharge its duties properly, gained from managing business on the Companys web site www.
The Nomination of similar or greater size and complexity and through extensive service on Committee carried out its responsibilities in accordance with its terms the Boards and Audit Committees of listed companies.
The Company of reference, including reviewing its own performance and its terms does not comply with C. 3.1 of the Combined Code that states that all of reference.
The Committee considers the skills and experience of the members of the Audit Committee must be independent and that at Board and during the year recommended to the Board the appointment least one member of the Audit Committee should have recent relevant of Dr B J Duroc-Danner as a director of the Company, given his depth of financial experience.
knowledge and experience in acquisitions and multinational business and, in particular in the energy sector in which the Company has significant Responsibilities The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are investments.
No external search consultancy or open advertising was set in written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually as part of the considered necessary.
In addition the Nomination Committee considered Committees evaluation process.
The terms of reference are available on the effectiveness of the contribution of the directors retiring by rotation the Companys web site www.
The main responsibilities are: and concluded that each makes a valuable and effective contribution to the the appointment of the Auditors, to assess the independence of the Company and recommended that their periods of appointment should Auditors and to recommend the audit fee to the Board and pre-approve continue for a further three years.
any fees in respect of non-audit services that do not impair the Auditors independence or objectivity: Remuneration Committee to agree the nature and scope of the audit and to review the Auditors quality control procedures: The Board has a Remuneration Committee appointed by the Board and chaired by the senior independent director, Mr Grant.
It also includes to review annually the requirements for an internal audit function and, Mr Greene, Mrs fide Moller and Mr Newell.
Their experience is given on if required, review the internal audit programme: page 22.
The Board believe that the interests of the Company are better to review managements and any internal audit reports on the served with Mr Greene as a member of the Remuneration Committee notwithstanding the requirement of the Combined Code that all members effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management: and of the Remuneration Committee should be independent.
Mr Greene is not involved in determining his own remuneration.
to review and challenge, where necessary, the actions and judgements of management in relation to the interim and annual financial statements The main role and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee is set before submission to the Board.
in written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually.
The remit of the Remuneration Committee is available on the Companys web site www.
During the year the Remuneration Committee carried out its responsibilities in accordance with its terms of reference and its activities are described in the directors remuneration report on pages 34 to 38.
No director was involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
No new long-term incentive schemes have been introduced nor have any significant changes requiring shareholder approval to existing schemes been made during the year.
32 London Merchant Securities plc Corporate Governance Audit Committee continued Internal audit The Audit Committee carried out its annual review of the requirement for an internal audit function.
The Committee concluded Financial reporting The Audit Committee has reviewed the significant that such a function was not required due to the size of the Group and financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the number of employees.
preparation of the Groups financial statements including significant accounting policies, any changes to them and any significant estimates and The Board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, has adopted judgements.
The Audit Committee has also reviewed the clarity and a policy whereby staff of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns completeness of disclosures in the financial statements and considered about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
whether the disclosures made were set properly in context.
The review of The Audit Committee is responsible for implementing and reviewing the financial statements also included a review of the financial review, the policy.
operating review and corporate governance statements relating to audit Auditors In accordance with the Committees terms of reference, the and risk management.
Audit Committee carries out an annual review of the independence of In addition, the Audit Committee has considered the impact of the Groups Auditors, KPMG Audit Plc.
Senior members of the audit International Accounting Standards, as far as they are known, on the team are rotated on a regular basis.
The Company has a policy on the financial statements of the Group and have put in place a process to provision of non-audit services by the Auditors.
The implementation of monitor the effectiveness of the systems to be implemented to meet the the policy is continually monitored by the Audit Committee.
policy excludes the Auditors from providing services in relation to the outsourcing of internal audit and any other consultancy work that Internal Control and Risk Management The Audit Committee has a the Audit Committee considers is contrary to the ethical principles responsibility to review the Groups internal control system and risk laid down by the Audit Committee.
The Committees considerations management system and make appropriate recommendations to the included the provision of non-audit services carried out by the Auditors Board.
Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation described on page 46 and was satisfied that they were objective and of significant risks in the business together with the design and operation independent of the Group.
The Committee reviewed the policy on of a suitable system of control to manage those risks.
Management is the provision of non-audit services by the Auditors and the also responsible for ensuring that the risk profile of the business is kept Board considers that the policy provides adequate protection of the under continuous review and that significant changes in the business Auditors independence.
or the external environment which affect the risk profile are identified and acted upon.
To enable it to do this, the Audit Committee reviews the risks identified and the system of control in place to manage those risks.
It gives consideration in particular to the following: a review of the inherent risks in the business which have been identified by management: The appropriateness of the authority, resources and co-ordination of those involved in the identification, assessment and management of significant risks faced by the Group: the effectiveness of managements response to the significant risks which have been identified: a review of risk monitoring and reporting procedures in place: and the Group policies and employee procedures for the reporting and resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
As part of its reporting, management provides the Audit Committee with risk indicators and recommendations for improvement in the system of risk management.
London Merchant Securities plc Corporate Governance 33
