Aegis R&A 2005 Board & reports 30-48 12 4 06 7:06 am Page 7 Our business and strategy Our board and reports Our accounts Corporate governance The Board supports the highest standards of corporate governance and the directors consider that throughout the period under review the Company has complied with the applicable principles and provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code of Corporate Governance issued in July 2003 the Code as incorporated into the UK Listing Authority Rules, save that: The US based executive director, David Verklin, has a rolling service contract with a contractual termination payment provision in excess of one year and, prior to his resignation, Doug Flynn had a contractual notice period of 24 months.
Details of David Verklins contractual entitlement on termination are set out on page 43.
The Board believes that his contract is appropriate given the need to retain a key senior operational executive in the context of highly competitive market conditions in the USA B.
Between 7 February 2005 and 20 July 2005 the Board did not have a named senior independent director.
This has now been remedied with the appointment of Bernard Fournier as senior independent director A.
Between 7 February 2005 and 8 August 2005 the audit committee was chaired by Lord Sharman, being then the only nonexecutive director with significant financial expertise.
This has now been remedied with the appointment of Brendan ONeill as chairman of the Audit Committee C. 3.1 of the Code.
At the date of this report the Board comprises 11 directors, with four executive directors and seven non-executive directors.
As announced on 21 October 2005, Mainardo fide Nardis will join the Board as Global Chief Executive Officer of Aegis Media once he is contractually free to do so.
The biographies of the current directors illustrate their range of experience, which ensures that the Company has an effective Board to lead and control the Group.
Each of the non-executive directors has confirmed that they have been throughout the year, and continue to be, independent of the management of the Group and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Robert Lerwill was the nominated senior independent director up until his appointment as Chief Executive Officer on the 7 February 2005.
Bernard Fournier was appointed senior independent director on 20 July 2005.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly established, being set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman was independent at the time of his appointment and has remained so since.
The Board has a formal induction plan for non-executive directors to ensure that a comprehensive familiarisation programme is in place.
Ongoing training needs for all directors are met as required.
As part of the business of each meeting of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer provides the Board with an update on current business matters and the Chief Financial Officer reports on the financial position of the Group.
At each Board meeting one or two presentations are arranged from different business units or head office functions in order that the non-executives in particular continue their process of familiarisation with the business of the Group and meet other senior non-board executives.
When considered appropriate, external advisors will also be invited to attend that part of the meeting which is relevant.
The Board meets at least seven times a year and more frequently when business needs require.
One Board meeting per year is held at the offices of one of the main business units and is typically followed by a second day devoted entirely to the development of the Groups strategy.
The following table identifies the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the past year and the attendance record, by presence or by telephone, of individual directors.
Committee meetings Board meetings Audit Remuneration Nomination Number of meetings in year 8 4 2 6 Lord Sharman 8 2 5 Adrian Chedore 8 Daniel Farrar 7 1 5 Bernard Fournier 8 4 6 Jeremy Hicks 8 Robert Lerwill 8 4 Brendan ONeill appointed 8 08 05 3 2 1 Charles Strauss 7 2 4 Lorraine Trainer appointed 2 08 05 4 1 2 David Verklin 8 Leslie Van fide Walle 7 3 6 From time to time the non-executive directors, including the Chairman, meet in the absence of the executive directors to consider matters of relevance to the running of the Board and the operation of the Company.
In 2005, the non-executives, led by the senior non-executive director, continued the process of meeting annually without the Chairman being present to appraise the Chairmans 35 Aegis R&A 2005 Board & reports 30-48 12 4 06 7:06 am Page 8 Aegis Annual Report 2005 Corporate governance performance.
As a result of this the senior independent director met with the Chairman to discuss particular issues where it was felt that improvements could be made.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda and the Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision, including approval of interim and annual results, dividend policy, approval of all circulars and listing particulars, matters relating to share capital, approval of the annual budget and approval of major capital projects, investments and commitments.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, if required, external professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Board considers that the Company has in place an appropriate level of Directors and Officers insurance cover in respect of legal action against the directors.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, one third of the Board is required to retire by rotation each year so that over a three year period all directors will have retired from the Board and faced re-election.
During 2005 the Board continued the process of formal performance evaluation of the Board as a whole and of all of the individual directors.
It also commenced the process of a formal evaluation of its main committees.
This work was undertaken by one of the Groups specialist research companies with each director completing a detailed questionnaire which sought an assessment of the effectiveness of the Board and its committees and the contribution of individual directors.
The responses were aggregated and feedback has been provided on individual assessment and overall Board and committees performance and any actions necessary to assist improvements agreed.
Board committees The Board sets the terms of reference for all Board committees which are formally documented and regularly updated.
The main roles and responsibilities of the committees, including the authority delegated to them by the Board, as set out in the terms of reference, are displayed on the Companys website at www.
Audit Committee Following his appointment to the Board, Brendan ONeill was also appointed as chairman of the Audit Committee.
Brendan ONeill is a Chartered Management Accountant and has significant recent and relevant financial experience.
Prior to this appointment Robert Lerwill had chaired the Committee up until 7 February 2005 and between that date and Brendan ONeills appointment Lord Sharman had chaired the Committee.
The other two continuing members of the Committee are Bernard Fournier and Leslie Van fide Walle.
The Chief Financial Officer and the external auditors attend all meetings.
Although not a member of the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings.
The Committee chairman has, and also uses, together with the other members of the Committee, the opportunity to meet with the auditors without management being present.
The Board considers that, through the Audit Committee, it has an objective and professional relationship with the external auditors.
The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditors, the audit fee and any questions of resignation or dismissal.
In addition the Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness and also developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the supply of non-audit services.
The Committee normally meets three times a year: to review the half-year interim results and the findings of the auditors review and to discuss the scope of the current years full audit: to review internal risk management and controls and to consider progress reports from the Group Risk Committee, the Group Risk Manager and the Group Internal Audit Manager: before the release of the preliminary announcement of the annual results, to review the years results and audit findings.
In reviewing the half year and annual financial statements the Committee focuses in particular on: changes in accounting policies and practices: major judgemental areas: significant adjustments resulting from the audit: the going concern assumption: compliance with accounting standards and the Combined Code: compliance with stock exchange and legal requirements.
During the year the Committee involved itself in a number of specific matters including: consideration of the impact of IFRS reporting: the introduction of the internal audit function, further details of which are given on page 39.
36 Aegis R&A 2005 Board & reports 30-48 12 4 06 7:06 am Page 9 Our business and strategy Our board and reports Our accounts Corporate governance The Committee has considered information pertaining to the balance between fees for audit and non-audit work for the Group in the year and concluded that the nature and extent of the non-audit fees do not present a threat to the external auditors' independence.
In addition the Committee has approved the external auditors' terms of engagement, the scope of work and process for the 2005 interim review and full audit and the applicable levels of materiality.
Based on written reports submitted to the Audit Committee meetings, the Committee has reviewed with the external auditors, the findings of their work and confirmed that all significant matters have been satisfactorily resolved.
Details of amounts paid to the external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit services are given in note 6 to the financial statements.
The Committee has confirmed that the policy applied by the external auditors concerning rotation of audit partner complies with current guidance issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Committee's assessment of the external auditors' performance and independence underpins its recommendation to the Board to propose to shareholders the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors until the conclusion of the AGM in 2007.
Remuneration Committee During the year the Remuneration Committee comprised Charles Strauss chairman, Daniel Farrar and Robert Lerwill.
On 7 February 2005, Robert Lerwill stepped down from the Committee.
Following her appointment to the Board on 2 August 2005, Lorraine Trainer was also appointed to the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee meets periodically as required but not less than twice a year.
It is responsible for overseeing the policy regarding executive remuneration and for approving the remuneration packages for the Groups executive directors.
It is also responsible for reviewing incentive schemes for the Group as a whole and is empowered to approve awards under the 2003 Executive Share Option Scheme and the 2003 Performance Share Plan.
Although not a member of the Committee, the Chief Executive Officer may attend meetings and the Committee consults him on proposals relating to the remuneration of the other executive directors and other appropriate senior executives.
He does not attend when the Committee discusses matters relating to him.
Similarly, the Chairman of the Board is not a member of the Committee but may attend meetings and is consulted by the Committee on proposals relating to the remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises all of the non-executive directors together with the Chief Executive Officer and is chaired by Lord Sharman.
The Committee has responsibility for reviewing the Board structure, size and composition, and for identifying and nominating to the Board candidates for appointment as directors.
The Committee meets at least once a year, with one meeting being dedicated to reviewing the Groups ongoing succession planning.
This is key to ensuring that the Group maintains an appropriate balance of skills and experience across the Group and on the Board.
The Committee has used the services of an external search consultancy to source the two non-executive appointments and also for the new position of Global Chief Executive Officer of Aegis Media Mainardo fide Nardis.
Mainardo will be appointed to the Board as soon as he is contractually free to do so.
Internal control and risk management The Group operates a system of internal control, which is maintained and reviewed in accordance with the 1998 Code and the guidance contained in the Turnbull Report.
The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal controls and reviewing its effectiveness whilst the role of management is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure of the achievement of business objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only give reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk management process and any significant risk issues are referred to the Board for consideration.
Managing business risk is an on going and important part of senior managements responsibilities.
As such, risk management is closely integrated into the long term and day to day operations across our businesses.
In addition an executive committee the Group Risk Committee has been in place since early 2003 to manage and monitor the Groups risks and control processes and procedures.
The Group Risk Committee regularly reviews the most significant potential risks facing the Groups businesses.
At the present time these include the following areas: finance, accounting and credit: retention of key staff: data security and privacy: economic, legal and political change in our markets: 37 business continuity and disaster recovery planning.
Aegis R&A 2005 Board & reports 30-48 12 4 06 7:06 am Page 10 Aegis Annual Report 2005 Corporate governance Membership of the committee comprises: Group Risk Manager Group HR Director Group Chief Financial Officer Group Company Secretary Group Legal Counsel Group Chief Information Officer Senior representatives from the various operating Group businesses The committee meets four times a year.
The role of the Group Risk Manager is to develop policies and procedures, to supervise the recently introduced internal audit function and to manage the risk self-assessment programme and the internal control peer reviews together with other activities as directed by the Group Risk Committee.
The chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of the Audit Committee meetings and of the Group Risk Committee meetings to the Board and the Board also receives the minutes of the meetings of both committees.
The key procedures which have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts are as follows: a.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The full Board meets regularly and has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for consideration, thus ensuring that it maintains full and effective supervision over appropriate controls.
The Groups strategic direction is reviewed annually by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer together with the executive directors consider the strategy for the individual businesses.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Annual plans and performance targets for each business are set by the executive directors and reviewed by the Board in the light of the Groups overall objectives.
The division of responsibility at Board level is achieved by the appointment of a non-executive Chairman and a Chief Executive Officer.
Management of the Groups day-to-day activities is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer and the executive directors and they review on a regular basis any significant risks which the business faces.
c. Each operations chief executive officer is responsible for: the conduct and performance of their business: ensuring an effective system of internal controls is in place and reporting on this bi-annually: meeting defined reporting timetables and ensuring compliance with the Groups policies and controls: signing-off their accounts on a monthly basis subject to the limitations set by the annual business strategy and the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board.
d. The Board receives, on a monthly basis, financial results from each business and the Group reports bi-annually to shareholders based on a standardised reporting process.
e. The Audit Committee, comprised exclusively of non-executive directors, reviews the effectiveness of the internal control environment of the Group and receives reports from the Group Risk Committee, the Group Risk Manager, the Internal Audit Manager, the Chief Financial Officer and the external auditors on a regular basis.
f. The internal financial control system is reviewed by Group Finance which reports to management and the Audit Committee.
Group Finance, the Group Risk Manager, the Internal Audit Manager and the external auditors co-ordinate their work to the extent necessary for the external auditors to express their audit opinion on the Groups report and accounts.
g. There is a clearly defined framework for approving all acquisitions, new and renewing leases, major capital projects and expenditure within the Group.
h. A detailed manual of Group Principles and Policies is held by all Group senior management.
The manual formally collates, in a single document, policies that apply throughout the Group and which address legal, financial, IT, personnel and other areas of risk.
An employee version of the manual is also available, via the Companys intranet site, to other employees around the Group.
A formal risk self-assessment programme using an on line questionnaire is used twice each year.
It requires every business unit CEO to report, for each of the Groups key risks, the status of internal control and risk management within their operation.
The results, including managements planned actions, are analysed by the Group Risk Committee.
Implementation of action plans is monitored by regional management and the Group Risk Manager and any best practices identified are shared.
A peer review programme takes place at selected locations within the Group and each review assesses the controls over the Groups key risks.
The reviews are carried out by experienced finance directors from other Group operating companies.
The reviews are structured to ensure that each of the Groups key risks is rigorously evaluated using a consistent approach and a common work- 38 Aegis R&A 2005 Board & reports 30-48 12 4 06 7:06 am Page 11 Our business and strategy Our board and reports Our accounts Corporate governance programme.
The results are reported to country, regional and Group management and to the Risk and Audit Committees.
Action plans to address any areas of concern are agreed with management and implementation is monitored.
The results are reported to the Group Risk Committee.
k. Arrangements are in place that allow employees, in confidence, to raise any concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
During 2005 the Group Risk Manager and Group Risk Committee have continued to build on the above core procedures and processes.
In particular the following matters were implemented to further strengthen the internal control infrastructure and environment: The most important development during the year has been the introduction of an internal audit function and the appointment of an internal audit manager in September 2005.
Her primary responsibility is to manage the internal audit program, including the peer review programme, and to carry out any ad hoc reviews and activities as directed by the Audit Committee or the Chief Executive Officer.
A structured risk-based analysis of the business led to the development of the internal audit plan for 2006.
The internal audit plan has several components and also provides time for a number of special projects that may be identified for review.
Locations for routine internal audits have been initially focused on some of the larger businesses, recent acquisitions and any perceived higher risk businesses.
The internal audit manager will manage the peer review programme which is to be continued as it provides a good level of assurance and will be focused on smaller and medium size businesses.
Internal audit is supported by staff from an international firm of accountants from which locally-based, experienced accountants are used to carry out specific parts of the audit work.
Peer reviews were conducted at 34 businesses within both Aegis Media and Synovate across all geographic regions.
In order to ensure that attention was focused upon the most critical areas of the business, the Groups key risks were reviewed by executive management and the Risk Committee again during the year and revised accordingly.
The revised risks will be used to adjust the focus of the internal control peer review programme, the risk self-assessment survey and the 2006 internal audit plan.
During 2005 the peer review programme was extended by the inclusion of detailed testing of key financial controls to confirm they were operating in compliance with Group policies.
The results were broadly positive and no major control failures were identified.
In every case, appropriate corrective action has been taken or is planned by management.
During the year focus remained on continuity planning especially in respect of maintenance and updating of the business continuity plans and testing the plans to both verify that they work and to help train the recovery teams in each business.
In addition, a programme of testing the disaster recovery plans for the Groups major data centres was formally implemented.
The fraud management workshop has continued to be delivered to businesses around the Group and is used to train finance, IT, HR and client service management.
The workshop has been run on 23 occasions with 387 attendees from 43 countries.
The management team at each workshop have identified actions that need to be taken to further improve controls.
Common issues have been discussed at the Risk Committee and with the finance directors of all businesses in the Group.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls and that there are ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Going concern Based on normal business planning and control procedures, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Relations with shareholders Good relations with all shareholders are of prime importance to the Company.
Formal presentations are made to investors and equity analysts after the release of the Groups interim and final results.
Individual meetings are held during the year to ensure that the strategies and objectives of the Company are well understood and larger investors are offered the opportunity to meet with newly appointed non-executive directors.
The Board receives regular briefings from the Companys advisors giving views on shareholder perceptions and is considering what further steps it might take to improve its understanding of shareholder issues.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to address questions to the Chairman or the Board directly including the chairmen of the Board Committees.
Shareholders may also discuss any issues on an informal basis following the conclusion of the Meeting.
Published information, including Regulatory News Service releases, is available on the Aegis website www.
John Ross Company Secretary 7 April 2006 39
