COMPASS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compass Group is committed to the highest standards of have been delegated to the General Business Committee which corporate governance and subject to the exception below comprises all the executive directors and meets as required to has complied throughout the year with the provisions of conduct the Companys business within the clearly defined limits Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance set by the Board and subject to those matters reserved for the the Code.
This statement describes how the principles of Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for operating the corporate governance set out in the Code have been applied business and implementing the Boards strategies and policies within the Company during the year.
and is supported in these matters by an Executive Committee which comprises the executive directors and key senior Board membership managers, details of whom are given on pages 16 and 17.
The Board currently comprises a Chairman, 6 independent The Committee normally meets monthly and is responsible for non-executive directors and 2 executive directors.
Biographical implementing Group policy, day-to-day management, monitoring details of the directors are given on page 16 and all directors will business performance and reporting on these areas to the Board.
offer themselves for re-election at least every 3 years.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined Board procedures and the division of responsibilities between them has been set To enable the Board to perform its duties effectively all directors out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Sir Roy Gardner is Senior have full access to all relevant information.
The Board met Independent Director and he will succeed Sir Francis Mackay formally on 9 occasions during the year and also held a 2-day as Chairman.
Having been appointed to the Board on 1 October strategy review.
Individual attendance at those meetings is set out 2005 Sir Roy Gardner will stand for election at the 2006 in the table below.
Where n a appears in the table the relevant Annual General Meeting.
All of the non-executive directors are director is not a committee member.
considered by the Board to be independent in character and Strategy Audit Nomination Remuneration judgement.
Peter Cawdron is Deputy Chairman and was formerly Name Board Review Committee Committee Committee Senior Independent Director.
He has served on the Board for Sir Francis Mackay 9 1 n a 5 n a more than 9 years and can only be considered as independent Michael Bailey 9 1 n a n a n a under the Code if he is deemed to be so by the Board and the Peter Blackburn 8 1 2 4 4 Board has no hesitation in reaching this conclusion.
Peter Cawdron has developed a reputation for robust independence Peter Cawdron 9 1 1 5 5 at Compass Group and at a number of other listed companies Alain Dupuis 7 1 n a n a n a where he is also a non-executive director.
He has a deep Val Gooding 9 1 1 5 5 understanding of the Companys business and he brings to Sven Kado 8 1 3 5 5 the Board a substantial wealth of knowledge and experience Steve Lucas 7 1 2 n a n a gained throughout his career.
This has enabled him to make Andrew Martin 9 1 n a n a n a considerable constructive and critical contributions to the Board Number of meetings 9 1 3 5 5 and its committees over the years and demonstrates amply his during the year independence of character and judgment.
In accordance with the Code, Peter Cawdron is required to seek re-election annually In addition the non-executive directors, without their executive and the Board is pleased that he has indicated his willingness to colleagues present, met with the Chairman to consider strategic stand for re-election at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
During the year, the Board conducted a formal evaluation of its own performance by Role of the Board means of an internally produced written questionnaire and the The Chairman is primarily responsible for the effective functioning Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators undertook of the Board and the role of the Board is to promote the success a formal evaluation of the collective effectiveness of each of the of the Company and provide leadership within a framework of Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The results prudent and effective controls that enable risk to be assessed of these evaluations were presented to the Board and actions to and managed.
The Board sets strategic aims and ensures that improve the effectiveness of the Board and the committees were adequate financial and human resources are made available agreed and have been implemented accordingly.
A performance to enable these objectives to be met and undertakes reviews evaluation of each of the directors was conducted by the of management performance.
In addition, the Board sets Chairman in one-to-one meetings.
In May 2005 it was announced the Companys values and standards and ensures that it that Sir Francis Mackay intended to step down as Chairman and acts ethically and that its obligations to its shareholders and it was announced subsequently that he would be succeeded other stakeholders are understood and met.
The Board has by Sir Roy Gardner.
Because of these changes the annual a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, including performance evaluation of the Chairman was not undertaken.
the approval of overall strategy and objectives, acquisition and divestment plans, treasury policy, major capital expenditure, dividend strategy, financial statements and senior executive succession planning.
Certain routine administrative matters ANNUAL REPORT 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED There is an agreed procedure whereby directors wishing to take approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the independent advice in the furtherance of their duties may do so external auditors.
To satisfy itself that there are no relationships at the Companys expense and relevant insurance cover has between the auditors and the Company other than in the been arranged in relation to legal action against the directors.
To agree a policy on the Appropriate training is available to all directors on appointment employment of former employees of the auditors and monitor and on an ongoing basis as required.
The directors the implementation of such policy.
To monitor the external understanding of the business is developed further by a auditors compliance with relevant ethical and professional combination of visits to sites in the UK and in overseas countries, guidance on rotation of audit partners and matters relating to presentations from local managements and the opportunity to fee income and regulatory requirements generally.
To review meet with the Companys principal stakeholders and advisors.
annually and monitor the external auditors objectivity and independence, expertise and resources and the effectiveness Company Secretary of the audit process.
To review the managements response The Company Secretary, Tim Mason, is responsible for advising to the findings and recommendations of the external auditors.
the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
To develop and implement a policy on the engagement of The directors have access to the advice and services of the the external auditors to supply non-audit services.
The appointment and removal of the Employee concerns the Committee reviews the Companys Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
arrangements under which employees may in confidence raise any concerns regarding possible wrongdoing in financial Board Committees reporting or other matters.
The Committee ensures that these The Board has delegated certain of its governance responsibilities arrangements allow proportionate and independent to the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Disclosure Committees.
investigation and appropriate follow-up action.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the Board Committees and minutes of meetings are circulated to all Policy on non-audit services Board members.
The terms of reference of these committees Deloitte & Touche LLP, in its capacity as the Companys are available for viewing on the Companys website and are external auditors, undertakes work that it is obliged or, in the described below.
view of the Committee, is best placed to perform.
Such work includes tax-related services, formalities relating to financing Audit Committee facilities, shareholder circulars, regulatory matters and work in During the year, the Audit Committee comprised the following respect of acquisitions and mergers.
Nevertheless, to provide members: Peter Cawdron Chairman until 14 February 2005, safeguards against the objectivity and independence of the Peter Blackburn, Denis Cassidy until 14 February 2005, external auditors being compromised, the Committee has Val Gooding, Sven Kado and Steve Lucas Chairman from agreed that, unless there is no other competent and available 14 February 2005 and who is considered by the Board to provider, the external auditors should be excluded from providing have significant recent and relevant financial experience.
the Company with general consultancy and all other non-audit and non-tax-related services.
With effect from October 2005, the Audit Committee comprised the following members: External auditors Following the annual review referred to above, the Committee Steve Lucas Chairman confirms that it is entirely satisfied with the level of fees, Peter Blackburn objectivity and independence, expertise and resources Sven Kado and the effectiveness generally of Deloitte & Touche LLP.
Accordingly a resolution Resolution 8 set out in the Notice for Summary terms of reference the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the Financial reporting provide support to the Board by Company will be proposed at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
monitoring the integrity of and ensuring that the published financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance comply fully with relevant statutes and accounting standards.
Internal controls and risk management review the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls and risk management systems.
Internal audit monitor and review the annual internal audit programme ensuring that the internal audit function is adequately resourced and free from management restrictions, review and monitor responses to the findings and recommendations of the internal auditors.
External audit to recommend to the Board for approval by shareholders in general meeting the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors.
To meet regularly with the external auditors, to review the scope and results of the annual audit and its cost effectiveness and to COMPASS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 22 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee During the year, the Nomination Committee comprised the The Remuneration Committees Report is set out on following members: Sir Francis Mackay Chairman, pages 24 to 35.
Peter Blackburn, Denis Cassidy until 14 February 2005, Peter Cawdron, Val Gooding and Sven Kado.
Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee comprises the Finance Director, With effect from October 2005, the Nomination Committee the Company Secretary and certain senior managers.
The comprised the following members: Committee meets as required to deal with all matters concerning public announcements of the Company and the Companys Sir Roy Gardner Chairman obligations under the Listing Rules and Disclosure Rules of the Sir Francis Mackay UK Listing Authority.
Peter Blackburn Peter Cawdron Relations with shareholders Val Gooding Compass Group reports formally to shareholders twice a year, with the interim results announced normally in May Summary terms of reference and the preliminary final results announced normally in late To carry out a formal selection process of candidates and November early December.
The Chief Executive and the Finance make recommendations to the Board on the appointment Director give presentations of these results to the Companys and reappointment of executive and non-executive directors institutional investors, analysts and the media in London and for the purpose of ensuring a balanced Board in respect of other locations.
These presentations may also be accessed skills, knowledge and experience.
The Chief Executive, the Finance To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the Director and the Senior Independent Director maintain a suitability of candidates for the role of Senior Independent close dialogue with institutional investors on the Companys Director and membership of the Audit and Remuneration performance, governance, plans and objectives through a Committees.
The appointment and removal of directors programme of regular meetings.
These meetings also serve to and the recommendation of the positions of Chairman and develop an ongoing understanding of the views and any concerns Chief Executive are matters reserved for the full Board.
of the Companys major shareholders and are reported regularly To remain fully informed about strategic issues and commercial to the Board.
The Board also receives the views of its major matters affecting the Company and to keep under review the shareholders through the publication of periodic reports and leadership needs of the organisation to enable it to compete surveys by sector analysts and brokers.
The Chairman, the effectively in the marketplace.
Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive directors are available to meet with major shareholders on request The Committee meets as required and met during the year and the Chairman will at such meetings engage in discussions to consider the appointment of a new Chairman to replace relating to matters of governance and strategy as appropriate.
Sir Francis Mackay whose intention to step down as Chairman had been announced in May 2005.
Sir Francis Mackay did not The Annual General Meeting is considered by the Board to chair any of the Committees meetings held to consider the be a primary opportunity to communicate directly with the appointment of his successor as Chairman of the Company.
The meeting is held Ian Jones & Partners were appointed to provide assistance normally in February in London and is attended, other than in in the search and selection procedure of a suitable candidate.
exceptional circumstances, by all members of the Board.
In Following a rigorous selection process the Committee addition to the formal business of the meeting, there is normally recommended to the Board the appointment of Sir Roy Gardner.
a trading update and shareholders are invited to ask questions The Board accepted the Committees recommendation and at the meeting itself and are given the opportunity to meet the Sir Roy Gardner was duly appointed as Senior Independent directors informally afterwards.
Notice of the Annual General Director on 1 October 2005 and will become Chairman by Meeting, together with any related documents, are mailed to summer 2006 upon the retirement of Sir Francis Mackay.
shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting and Following his appointment Sir Roy Gardner will undergo a separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially separate customised induction process and, in accordance with the issue.
The level of proxy votes cast and the balance for and Companys Articles of Association, he will seek election at against each resolution, together with the level of abstentions, the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
if any, are announced to the meeting following voting by a show of hands and are made available on the Companys website.
The Company has a dedicated Investor Relations Department and this is a primary point for contact with investors throughout the year.
ANNUAL REPORT 2005 COMPASS GROUP PLC 23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Internal control The directors have specifically considered the internal control The Company, as required by the UK Financial Services Authority, implications of the issues associated with the investigation has complied with the Combined Code provisions set out in Note 23 to the into United Nations contracting referred to in Section 1 of the Code on internal control having established the financial statements.
They have taken action to improve the procedures necessary to implement the guidance on internal internal controls of the Middle East & Africa division which control issued by the Turnbull Committee and by reporting in includes the ESS UN contracts business, including accordance with that guidance.
the following: the leadership and management of the division have been In applying the principle that the Board should maintain a sound strengthened: system of control to safeguard shareholders investment and additional central monitoring and control of the divisions day the Companys assets, the Board recognises that it has overall to day operations have been established pending the completion responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains a system of the Groups investigation and any remediation work: and of internal control to provide reasonable assurance regarding a review of the divisions contract bid procedures is ongoing.
effective and efficient operations, internal control and compliance with laws and regulations.
It recognises that such a system can The directors confirm that they have conducted a specific provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system material misstatement or loss.
of internal control and risk management in operation during the period up to the date of this annual report.
Formal risk management procedures have been in place throughout the year and those procedures involve ongoing analysis, evaluation and management of the key risks to the Group.
The Groups system of internal control, including the mechanism by which the directors routinely review the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management, includes the following: regular meetings of the Board, Executive and Audit Committees, the responsibilities of which are set out above: semi-annual reviews by the Executive Committee of detailed risk management reports prepared by the operating divisions.
Such reports cover key risks and include updates of agreed actions arising from previously reviewed semi-annual reports.
The Executive Committee presents its own detailed risk management report to the Board twice a year: a process beginning in January each year with the Board and the Executive Committee meeting to approve short-term and medium-term strategies followed by regular reviews throughout the year: approval and regular reviews of annual budgets: monthly reviews by the Executive Committee of key financial and non-financial business performance indicators of the Groups operating divisions: strict internal financial controls covering capital expenditure together with post-investment performance reviews and treasury operations: clearly defined organisation structures and appropriate delegated authorities for executives throughout the Group: Group-wide policies, standards and procedures relating to key business activities: regular consideration of corporate social responsibility matters: and periodic reports and recommendations of the internal audit function.
