Compliance Statement detailed in a written procedure.
In brief, the Chairman is The Board continues to recognise the importance of corporate responsible for the effective operation of the Board and the Chief governance in relation to the achievement of the Groups Executive is responsible for the management of the Groups dayobjectives.
It has devised policies that seek to apply established to-day activities.
There is no individual who has unfettered powers best practice in order to achieve and maintain compliance with the of decision and no one individual or group of individuals who Combined Code on Corporate Governance, as published in July dominates the Boards decision making processes.
The Board 2003 and reviewed in November 2005 the Code.
The Board believes that it oversees the Group effectively and is proactive acknowledges its responsibilities under the Code, the principles in its approach.
The Board is led by the Chairman, who is and provisions of which it supports.
This report details how the responsible for setting the agenda and ensuring its efficiency.
Company has applied those principles and provisions.
The Board confirms that, save as detailed below, the Company has complied The Chairman facilitates the contribution of all Directors and is with the provisions of the Code throughout the financial year.
responsible for ensuring constructive relations exist between them.
The Board sets the strategic aims for the Company and ensures 2.
Board of Directors that the necessary financial and human resources are in place to Structure achieve these objectives.
It is also responsible for reviewing the The Board currently consists of three Executive Directors: Ron performance of management in order to ensure that they are Sandler, Mike Norris and Tony Conophy, and four Non-Executive meeting pre-agreed objectives.
Directors: Nick Cosh, Philip Hulme, Peter Ogden and Cliff Preddy.
Details of the Directors, including their membership of Committees There is a documented schedule of matters that are reserved for are set out below and their biographies appear on page 25. the Board and these matters include the approval of major capital Nick Cosh and Cliff Preddy are considered by the Board to be expenditure and the agreement of strategies and budgets.
All of independent in line with the provisions of the Code and Nick Cosh the Directors have access to the Company Secretary, Stephen is the Senior Independent Director.
Until 13 September 2005, Benade, who is responsible for ensuring that all Board procedures Ghislain Lescuyer served on the Board as an independent are followed, applicable rules and regulations are complied with Non-Executive Director but resigned when, having relocated to the and that the Board is updated on all governance matters.
The USA, he was no longer able to discharge his duties as a Director.
Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed on issues considered at Board meetings to enable them to discharge The Directors are aware that during the year under review, the effectively their duties.
All Directors receive accurate and clear structure of the Board did not comply with provision A.
3.2 of the information in a timely manner.
This includes detailed briefings on Code, which requires at least half the Board, excluding the all matters where the Board is required to make a decision or to Chairman, to consist of independent Non-Executive Directors.
give its approval and regular reports on issues such as the trading The Board as a whole has considered its current structure over performance and outlook.
In addition, senior members of the the period and, recognising the desirability of achieving management team are routinely invited to attend Board meetings, compliance with this provision of the Code, intends to recruit thereby ensuring Directors continually update their knowledge of, additional independent Non-Executive Directors.
However, the and familiarity with, the business of the Group.
All of the Directors Board also recognises that the timing of such recruitment must are entitled to obtain independent professional advice, at the have regard for the effective functioning of the Board at a time Companys expense, where they believe it is important to the when the Company is undergoing considerable strategic change.
The Company arranges insurance This issue will be kept under review during 2006. cover in respect of legal action against the Directors.
Decision Making The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are split and there is a clear division of responsibilities between the two, which is also The names of the Directors together with details of their memberships of the various Board Committees are set out in the table below.
Remuneration Nominations Name PLC Board Independent Audit Committee Committee Committee Ron Sandler Executive Chairman No No No Chairman Mike Norris Executive No No No No Tony Conophy Executive No No No No Nick Cosh Senior Independent Director Yes Chairman Yes Yes Phil Hulme Non-Executive No No No No 1 Ghislain Lescuyer Non-Executive until 13.09.05 Yes Yes Yes Yes Peter Ogden Non-Executive No No No No Cliff Preddy Non-Executive Yes Yes Chairman Yes 2 Stephen Benade Secretary Not Applicable Secretary Secretary Secretary 1 Ghislain Lescuyer resigned from the Company on 13 September 2005.
2 Stephen Benade was appointed as Company Secretary on 4 October 2005.
26 COMPUTACENTER PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 The Directors set appropriate values and standards, ensuring that ensure that the latter are robust.
In addition, the Committee obligations to shareholders and others are understood and met reviews practices for answering staff concerns over improprieties, and that a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders is maintained.
and should these arise, ensures that procedures are in place for A framework of prudent and effective controls exist, to enable appropriate investigation and follow-up.
risks to be identified, assessed and managed.
Nominations Committee All Directors are required to retire by rotation every three years and Members: Ron Sandler Chairman, Nick Cosh and Cliff Preddy those Non-Executive Directors who have served for more than The Committee Chairman is Ron Sandler, the Executive Chairman nine years are obliged to offer themselves for re-election annually.
of the Board, and the other members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Ghislain Lescuyer resigned from the The Board has established a formal process, which is led by Committee on 13 September 2005.
In accordance with the the Chairman, for the evaluation of the performance of the Board, provisions of the Code the majority of the Committee is made its Committees and individual Directors.
Under the process each up of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committees member of the Board is required to complete a confidential responsibilities include leading the process for Board questionnaire, which provides the framework for the evaluation appointments, reviewing the Board composition, skills, knowledge process.
The questionnaire is designed to examine the and experience, and nominating candidates for both Executive effectiveness of the Board and Committee structures, and Non-Executive Directorships on the basis of merit and objectives and processes, and the goals of individual Directors.
It also ensures that the procedures for the The questionnaires are then followed by individual discussions appointment of new Directors are formal, rigorous and transparent with the Chairman to explore further the issues raised.
Once these and that there is an orderly succession for appointments to the processes have been completed the results are presented to the Board and senior management.
Board as a whole for assessment and review.
If any areas are identified as requiring improvement, the Board as a whole decides When making a recommendation for the appointment of a the necessary actions to be taken.
The review of the performance Director, the Committee will evaluate the existing balance of of the Chairman is undertaken annually by the Remuneration skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and produce Committee.
a description of the role and capabilities required for such an appointment.
The Committee typically uses the services of Principal Board Committees external advisers to help identify candidates from a wide range The Board has delegated certain duties to three Committees, of backgrounds who will then be considered on merit against the main responsibilities and composition of which are as follows: objective criteria.
Audit Committee The Committee did not meet in 2005 since the Board met Members: Nick Cosh Chairman and Cliff Preddy as a whole to consider its structure and composition on various All of the members of this committee are independent Nonoccasions in the course of the year.
Executive Directors in line with the Code.
During the last quarter of 2005 the Company was not compliant with provision C. 3.1, which Remuneration Committee states that there should be at least three members of the Members: Cliff Preddy Chairman and Nick Cosh Committee.
This non-compliance was due to the resignation of All of the members of this Committee are independent NonGhislain Lescuyer and the Board will review this issue during Executive Directors.
Ghislain Lescuyer resigned from the 2006.
During 2005 the Committee met four times and attendance Committee on 13 September 2005, which meant that compliance at those meetings is set out on page 28.
The Chairman, Group with provision B.
2.1 of the Code was not achieved in the last Finance Director, Group Internal Auditor, Group Risk Manager and quarter of the year.
Philip Hulme and Peter Ogden attend the the external auditor are invited to and attend the majority of Committee meetings as requested.
Ron Sandler attends meetings meetings.
The Committee assists the Board in fulfiling its duties by but absents himself when his own remuneration is considered.
reviewing a wide range of matters including the Groups annual The Committee determines the Companys general policy on and interim financial statements and accompanying reports to executive remuneration, the specific packages for the Executive shareholders, the preliminary announcement of results and all Directors and the level and structure of remuneration for senior other announcements regarding financial performance.
In addition, employees in line with best practice.
The Committee also monitors it reviews and advises the Board on the scope, cost effectiveness and reviews the terms and conditions of the Executive Directors and result of the audit and the external auditors independence service agreements, determines the grant of shares or options to and objectivity.
The volume of non-audit services provided by the them and to senior employees, and appoints any consultants external auditor is also reviewed in advance by the Committee to used in assessing their remuneration.
The Committees terms of ensure objectivity, independence and cost effectiveness.
The reference are regularly reviewed by the Board to ensure that its Committee monitors the integrity of internal financial controls and activities comply with the provisions of the Code and in particular risk management systems.
It also reviews reports presented by that there is a formal and transparent procedure for developing the Internal Audit Department and the Risk and Insurance policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the remuneration Department, regarding significant operational risks and controls to packages of individual Directors.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 COMPUTACENTER PLC 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT CONTINUED Throughout 2005 the terms of reference for all Committees were available from the Company Secretary on request and were posted on the Companys website.
The attendance of the Directors at scheduled Board and Committee meetings held during 2005 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nominations Director Board Committee Committee Committee Number of scheduled meetings held 8 4 1 Executive: Ron Sandler, Chairman 8 n a n a Mike Norris, Chief Executive 8 n a n a n a Tony Conophy, Finance Director 7 n a n a n a Non-Executive: Nick Cosh, Senior Independent Director 8 4 1 Phil Hulme 7 n a n a n a 1 Ghislain Lescuyer 42 1 Peter Ogden 6 n a n a n a Cliff Preddy 8 4 1 1 Ghislain Lescuyer resigned from the Company on 13 September 2005.
From time to time, additional meetings are required which may not the attendance of individual shareholders at general meetings and necessarily demand attendance by all Directors, depending on the the opportunity to communicate with investors and address their nature of the business to be discussed.
During the year, four such questions.
Resolutions at the Companys general meetings have meetings were required to conclude matters previously considered been passed on a show of hands and proxies for and against by the Board.
Ron Sandler, Mike Norris, Tony Conophy, Peter each resolution together with any abstentions are announced at Ogden and Cliff Preddy attended all meetings.
Nick Cosh and such meetings and noted in the minutes.
Phil Hulme attended three and Ghislain Lescuyer was present at one.
Accountability and audit The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining and reviewing It is inevitable that there will be occasions when circumstances the Groups systems of internal control, ensuring these are arise to prevent Directors from attending meetings.
In such prudent and robust, and enable risks to be properly assessed and circumstances, the usual practice is for the absent Director to managed.
Systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate review the Board papers and to raise any considerations on the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide specific issues with the Chairman.
only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In addition to the formal Board and Committee meetings, the Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors, without the All systems of internal control are designed to continuously other Executive Directors being present, at least once a year.
identify, evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the Group, The Non-Executives also meet without the Chairman, to appraise key elements of which are as follows: his performance.
Directors remuneration The Board has overall responsibility for making significant strategic The principles and details of Directors remuneration are contained decisions.
The Executive Directors, together with a number of in the Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 33. senior managers, constitute the Group Executive Committee, which meets on a regular basis to discuss day-to-day operational 4.
Separate Executive Committees have been established The Executive Directors have regular contact with institutional for each of the Groups operations in the UK, France and shareholders except during close periods and dialogue with Germany.
A flat reporting structure is maintained across the shareholders generally is accorded a high priority.
The Company Group with clearly defined responsibilities for operational and has a programme of meetings with its major institutional financial management.
shareholders and presents to analysts at least twice a year, following the announcement of its interim and final results.
The Control environment Chairman arranges for the Directors to receive regular reports on The Group operates authorisation and approval processes that shareholders views to ensure the Board develops an are an integral part of its operations.
Access controls exist where understanding of matters of concern to the major shareholders.
processes have been automated to ensure the security of data.
Nick Cosh, as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, is Management information systems have been developed to identify available to answer any shareholder concerns that are unable to risks and to enable assessment of the effectiveness of the system be resolved through regular channels.
In addition to mandatory of internal control.
Accountability is reinforced, and the further information, a full and balanced explanation of the business of all scrutiny of costs and revenues encouraged, by the linking of staff general meetings is sent to shareholders.
The Board welcomes incentives to customer satisfaction and profitability.
28 COMPUTACENTER PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Budgetary process 6.
Board Review of Internal Control A comprehensive budgetary process is completed annually and is The Directors confirm that a sound system of internal control is subject to the approval of the Board.
Performance is monitored maintained and that procedures are in place to identify, evaluate through a rigorous and detailed reporting system by which and manage significant risks faced by the Group throughout the monthly results are compared to budgets.
The results and year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual explanations for variances are regularly and routinely reported to Report and Accounts.
Appropriate action is taken where variances arise.
consideration of regular reports presented by the Internal Risk management Audit Department, external audit and operational management: Specialist departments monitor developments and ensure regular review of financial and management reports compliance with legislative and regulatory requirements including and information: the Turnbull guidelines.
A comprehensive risk management consideration of actions taken by management to address any programme is monitored and developed by the Risk Committee, issues identified: and the members of which include key operational managers.
Through consideration of the results of reviews of Group risk a programme of assessment, appropriate measures and systems and controls.
Detailed contingency plans are in place or being developed for all key sites.
The Board, acting through the Audit Committee, has directed the work of Internal Audit towards those areas of the business that are Capital expenditure and investments considered to be of the highest risk.
The Committee approves a Procedures exist and authority levels are documented to ensure rolling audit programme ensuring that all significant areas of the that capital expenditure is properly appraised and authorised.
business are independently reviewed within a three-year period.
Cases for all investment projects are reviewed and approved at The programme and the findings of the reviews are continually divisional level.
Major investment projects are subject to approval assessed to ensure they take account of the latest information by the Board.
and, in particular, the results of the annual review of internal control.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit Department and the Centralised treasury function Companys risk management programme is reviewed annually by All cash payments and receipts are managed by centralised the Audit Committee.
accounting functions within each of the operating companies.
Weekly reporting of cash balances to the Group Finance The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of the Department ensures the position of the Group as a whole system of internal control including financial, operational and is properly controlled.
compliance controls and risk management systems.
In addition, all major risks are reviewed by the Risk Committee and by Quality and integrity of staff key managers across the Group, and are recorded in a risk The suitability of staff is determined through rigorous recruitment register which is updated regularly.
Overall, the Board is satisfied procedures.
Management continuously monitors training that the risks are identified by the system of internal control and requirements and annual appraisal procedures are in place managed appropriately.
to ensure that required standards are maintained.
Resource requirements are identified by managers and reviewed by the relevant national Executive Committee.
RA Sandler Chairman ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 COMPUTACENTER PLC 29
