Shaftesbury BACK 05. qxd 7 12 05 14:51 Page 4 Corporate governance The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are split.
management strategies and all significant aspects The Board of Directors is responsible to The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the of finance.
The schedule of matters reserved for shareholders for the management and control of Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its the Board is available on the Groups website.
the Groups activities and is committed to high agenda.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for the standards of Corporate Governance.
The Board The role of Company Secretary is carried out by the management of the Groups day-to-day operations.
confirms that the Company has complied Finance Director.
Whilst the Board considers that A formal statement of the division of responsibilities throughout the year with the recommendations combining these roles does not compromise the between the Chairman and Chief Executive has been of the revised Combined Code on Corporate proper execution of the Company Secretarys adopted by the Board.
Governance issued in July 2003 the Combined responsibilities for governance or other matters, Code in all respects other than the the Board expects to create a separate post of recommendation that the Board should comprise Board changes Company Secretary during 2006. equal numbers of executive and independent On 1st October 2004, P J Manser was appointed All Directors have access to the Company Secretary, non-executive Directors.
The application of the Chairman replacing P L Levy and J R K Emly who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedure, principles contained in the Combined Code is became Senior Independent Director replacing corporate governance, statutory and compliance described below.
Directors may seek independent W G McQueen was appointed to the Board on professional advice at the Groups expense in Composition of the Board 25th April 2005 and subsequently assumed furtherance of their duties as Directors.
The Board comprised the non-executive Chairman, chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
He also four executive Directors and two non-executive The Group maintains Directors and Officers serves on the Remuneration and Nomination Directors for the period up to the appointment of W G Liability insurance of 5 million.
McQueen on 25th April 2005, when the number of The Board has established three committees to non-executive Directors increased to three for the Functioning of the Board deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
Each of the non-executive The Board met five times during the year ended The terms of reference of these committees are Directors is considered to be independent of the 30th September 2005.
Its function is to formulate available on the Groups website.
executive management of the Group and free from any strategy and monitor and control operating and business or other relationship which could materially financial performance.
This is achieved through the Audit Committee interfere with the exercise of their independent regular review of operations and detailed reports The Audit Committee comprises W G McQueen judgement.
P J Manser was considered independent on activity within the Groups property portfolio, as Chairman, J R K Emly and A W MacDonald.
at the time he was appointed Chairman.
quarterly financial reporting and forecast up-dates, P J Manser was Chairman of the Audit Committee The Board is satisfied with the balance between and regular reviews of risk and internal controls.
until 19th May 2005, having chaired two meetings executive and non-executive Directors which allows it of the Committee during the year at which point he In addition to Board meetings, there is regular to exercise objectivity in decision-making and proper stood down from the Committee.
W G McQueen communication between executive and noncontrol of the Companys business.
The Board was appointed to the Committee on 25th April 2005 executive Directors to ensure the non-executive considers its composition is appropriate in view of the and assumed its chairmanship following P J Mansers Directors are fully aware of all aspects of the size and requirements of the Groups business and the resignation.
W G McQueen chaired one meeting of Groups operations.
Non-executive Directors meet need to maintain a practical balance between the Committee during the year.
periodically during the year without executive executives and non-executives.
Directors or the Company Secretary present.
The Committee met three times during the year Each of the executive Directors is a member of a ended 30th September 2005.
The Groups auditors During the year, the Board conducted its annual recognised professional body and is expected to act in and executives have attended by invitation.
review of performance and effectiveness as part of accordance with the ethical principles of the relevant The principal responsibilities of the Committee are its appraisal process.
Each of the Directors was body.
The non-executive Directors are of high calibre to monitor the framework of financial controls, assessed by his peers and there was an appraisal by and contribute wide-ranging business and financial review published financial information and monitor the Senior Independent Director of the performance experience to the Boards decision making process.
In addition, it of the Chairman.
The Board is satisfied with the Biographies of each member of the Board are set out advises the Board on the appointment of external outcome of the review which raised no issues to be on page 37. auditors and their remuneration for both audit and addressed during the forthcoming year.
All Directors are required to submit themselves for non-audit work.
election at the Annual General Meeting following their There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to A report by the Audit Committee is set out on page appointment and thereafter for re-election at three the Board for decision which includes, inter alia, 47. yearly intervals.
approval of all investment property acquisitions and disposals, refurbishment and property 40 Shaftesbury BACK 05. qxd 7 12 05 14:51 Page 5 Attendance at Meetings Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings convened in the year ended 30th September 2005 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in year 534 3 Attended Attended Attended Attended Remuneration Committee Executive Directors The Remuneration Committee currently comprises J S Lane 5 - - - J R K Emly as Chairman, A W MacDonald and W G B Bickell 5 - - - McQueen.
P J Manser stood down as a member of S J Quayle 5 - - - the Remuneration Committee upon the T J C Welton 5 - - - appointment of W G McQueen on 25th April 2005.
Non-Executive Directors P J Manser 5 2 2 2 2 3 The Committee met four times during the year J R K Emly 5 3 4 3 ended 30th September 2005.
The principal A W MacDonald 5 3 4 3 responsibilities of the Committee are to consider W G McQueen 3 3 2 2 2 2 0 0 the employment terms and remuneration of executive Directors.
Proposals in respect of matters The number in brackets indicates the maximum number of meetings which P J Manser or W G McQueen could have attended during the period.
relating to Directors remuneration are submitted to the Board for approval before implementation.
A report on Directors Remuneration is set out on c A comprehensive system of financial reporting Internal Control pages 42 to 46. and forecasting.
Financial accounts are prepared The Directors are responsible for the Groups quarterly and submitted to the Board.
Profit and systems of internal controls and for reviewing their Nomination Committee cash flow forecasts are prepared at least quarterly, effectiveness.
Such systems are designed to manage, The Nomination Committee comprises P J Manser approved by the Board and used to monitor rather than eliminate, the risks faced by the business as Chairman, J R K Emly, A W MacDonald and actual performance.
and can provide only reasonable and not absolute W G McQueen.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
d Regular meetings of the Board and Audit The Committee met three times during the year Executive Directors and staff meet regularly to review Committee at which financial information is ended 30th September 2005.
The Committee is both the risks facing the business and the controls reviewed and business risks are identified and responsible for the selection and nomination of established to minimise those risks and their monitored.
candidates for directorship and in addition advises effectiveness in operation.
The aim of these reviews In view of the Groups controls structure summarised the Board on the orderly succession for appointment is to provide reasonable assurance that material above, and on advice from the Audit Committee, the of Directors.
risks and problems are identified and appropriate Board has resolved that at the present time there is action taken at an early stage.
Reports on this A report by the Nomination Committee is set out on no need to establish an internal audit function.
review process are submitted to the Audit Committee page 47. and the Board during the year to enable them to Going Concern assess the effectiveness of the process and ensure Relations with Shareholders Comprehensive financial forecasts are prepared at that the Group complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Group encourages dialogue with all shareholders least quarterly and submitted to the Audit Committee at the Annual General Meeting and during the year.
The Board confirms that procedures to identify, for review.
Based on the information contained in The Chairman and Committee Chairmen are present evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by these forecasts, the Directors have a reasonable at the Annual General Meeting to deal with any the Group have been in place throughout the year expectation that the Group and the Company have matters raised by shareholders.
under review and up to the date of approval of this adequate resources to continue in operational Annual Report.
existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, The Chief Executive and Finance Director meet they continue to adopt the going concern basis in investor representatives at least annually to discuss The key elements of the Groups procedures and preparing the financial statements.
strategic and other issues within the constraints internal financial control framework are: imposed to ensure the protection of price sensitive a The close involvement of the executive Directors By Order of the Board information which has not already been made in all aspects of day-to-day operations, including Brian Bickell available to all shareholders.
The Board receives regular meetings with senior staff to review all Company Secretary regular reports prepared by the Groups brokers on operational aspects of the business.
b Clearly defined responsibilities and limits of The Senior Independent Director is available to authority.
The Board has responsibility for strategy shareholders as an alternative channel of and has adopted a schedule of matters which are communication with the Board.
required to be brought to it for decision.
