Shaftesbury BACK 05. qxd 7 12 05 14:51 Page 11 Audit committee report Membership Main activities of the Committee the adoption of International Financial Reporting The Committee is comprised solely of independent In the year under review the Committee has undertaken: Standards for the Groups reporting period non-executive Directors and is chaired by W G McQueen.
commencing 1st October 2005: and - Detailed reviews of published annual and interim P J Manser chaired the Committee until 19th May, financial information including consideration of - A review of the Committees effectiveness.
having chaired two meetings of the Committee the appropriateness of accounting policies and during the year, at which time he stood down from material assumptions and estimates adopted by Award of Non-audit Assignments to the External the Committee.
W G McQueen was appointed to management: Audit Firm the Committee on 25th April 2005 and assumed its - Reviews of managements reports to the Board chairmanship following P J Mansers resignation.
During the year,  LLP on risk management and internal controls and W G McQueen chaired one meeting of the Committee undertook non-audit work for the Group.
The fees the Groups public statements on these matters: during the year.
Other members of the Committee for these services which related principally to - Monitoring the risk and control strategies of the who served throughout the year were J R K Emly taxation compliance and advisory work totalled Groups principal managing agents and and A W MacDonald.
Audit fees for the year totalled 73,000. instructing a programme of periodic external as Secretary to the Committee.
reviews where appropriate: The Committee monitors the award of non-audit W G McQueen is a Member of the Institute of Chartered assignments to the external audit firm.
In accordance - A review of the performance and independence of the Accountants of Scotland and a Fellow of the Chartered with the Committees policy, such assignments will external auditors concluding in a recommendation Institute of Bankers of Scotland.
P J Manser is a only be awarded to the audit firm if there is no risk of to the Board on the reappointment of the auditors Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in conflict arising with their audit independence and by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
J R K Emly is a Fellow of the objectivity.
The Committee is satisfied that no The auditors provide annually a letter to the Group Institute of Chartered Secretaries.
assignments awarded this year gave rise to such a confirming their independence: risk and that the overall level of non-audit fees in - Monitoring non-audit assignments awarded to the current year did not compromise the auditors Meetings the external auditors: independence or performance of their statutory The Committee met three times during the year - A review of the need to establish an internal audit audit responsibilities.
The Finance Director and representatives of the external auditors have - A review of the Groups whistleblowing policy: On behalf of the Board been invited to attend each meeting.
The Committee - Monitoring developments in accounting and W Gordon McQueen considers some items of business without one or reporting requirements and in particular the Audit Committee Chairman both of these invited parties present as appropriate.
Groups implementation of changes arising from 7th December 2005 Nomination committee report Membership Main activities of the Committee J R K Emly and W G McQueen are both members of the board of JP Morgan Mid-Cap Investment Trust The Committee is comprised solely of independent During the year, the main activity of the Committee plc.
J R K Emly did not participate in W G McQueens non-executive Directors and has been chaired following the Boards decision to appoint an additional interview or in the Committees decision to recommend throughout the year by P J Manser.
Other members non-executive Director was the identification and his appointment to the Board.
The Board considers of the Committee are J R K Emly, A W MacDonald recommendation to the Board of a suitable candidate.
that this common directorship will not compromise and, following his appointment during the year, the independent judgement of either Director.
The Committee retained the services of an W G McQueen.
executive search company to identify suitable The Committee continued to monitor and advise potential candidates.
The search company met the the Board with regard to succession planning for Meetings Board of Shaftesbury to establish parameters for executive and non-executive Directors.
their search and subsequently produced an initial The Committee met three times during the year list of nine potential candidates from a wide range ended 30th September 2005. of business backgrounds.
After discussion with the On behalf of the Board Committee, five candidates were selected for P John Manser interview.
Following these interviews, the Committee Nomination Committee Chairman resolved to recommend W G McQueen to the Board.
