Corporate governance guidelines The Company is required to comply with property issues.
The Board considers that he The Combined Code on Corporate has brought an independence of judgement Governance the Code which came into and considerable benefit to the Boards effect for reporting years beginning on or after deliberations.
The Board believe that he 1 November 2003. should remain as Chairman until a successor is appointed.
A Group Selection Committee For the Company, this was effective from has also been formed as a sub-committee of 1 January 2004. the Nomination Committee in order to appoint a new Chairman.
Lord Blackwell is its Statement of compliance Chairman.
Outside consultants are advising The Company believes that, as demonstrated this Committee.
by the information set out in this section and in the Remuneration Report, it has applied the A.
The Code provides that at least half of principles and, save as indicated below, the Board, excluding the Chairman, should complied with the provisions of the Code comprise non-executive directors determined throughout the year ended 31 December 2005. by the Board to be independent.
The current composition of the Board is set out on pages The Company did not comply with the following 54 and 55.
During last year, Mr D Kramer who three Code provisions for all or part of the year was not deemed independent retired on ended 31 December 2005.
17 May 2005 at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr T H W Wernink who is deemed A.
The Code provides that the Chairman independent was appointed to the Board on should on appointment meet the independence 23 May 2005.
Lord MacGregor who is not criteria.
Mr P D Orchard-Lisle has served on deemed independent, due to his length of the Board for more than ten years and his service will be retiring at this years Annual length of service exceeds the guidelines General Meeting.
Mr P D Orchard-Lisle was and he is therefore not deemed independent.
non-executive Deputy Chairman until his He was appointed Chairman on 19 August appointment as Chairman on 19 August 2005.
2005 as a result of Sir Nigel Mobbs Mr P D Orchard-Lisle who joined the Board in unexpected ill-health and subsequent death 1980 is by definition not deemed independent.
He continues to provide Steps are being taken this year to meet excellent and penetrating advice on a range of this criterion.
Table of attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee 11 meetings 3 meetings 3 meetings 1 meeting Lord Blackwell 9 3 2 1 I D Coull 11 1 J A N Heawood 11 S L Howard 10 3 3 1 R D Kingston 11 5 D Kramer 1 3 M D Lees 4 Rt Hon Lord MacGregor 10 3 1 Sir Nigel Mobbs 7 P D Orchard-Lisle 10 1 A W Palmer 11 3 1 C A Peacock 10 2 1 4 D J R Sleath 2 T H W Wernink 51 1 Sir Nigel Mobbs died on 21 October 2005 2 Mr T H W Wernink was appointed to the Group Board on 23 May 2005 and appointed to the Audit Committee on 20 July 2005 3 Mr M D Lees is resident in the US and therefore does not travel over for every Group Board meeting 4 Mr D J R Sleath was appointed to the Group Board on 1 January 2006 5 Mr D Kramer retired from the Group Board on 17 May 2005 Terms of Reference for each of the Board Committees are available on the Companys website www.
com or on written request to the Company Secretary as are the terms of appointment for the non-executive directors, Chairman and Chief Executive.
50 Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 C. 3.1.
The Code provides that the Audit The Board delegates authority to the Executive non-executive directors.
The committee has Committee should comprise of all Committee in respect of certain transactions responsibility for making recommendations independent non-executive directors.
Lord within defined, limited parameters.
for new appointments to the Board.
Outside MacGregor joined the Board in 1995 and is consultants give advice to the committee therefore not deemed independent.
He is Managing corporate responsibility opportunities regarding searches for potential new noncurrently Chairman of the Audit Committee.
and risks are fully considered by the Board and executive directors.
The Board believe that it was important to overseen by a separate Executive Committee.
ensure continuity of direction of this The committee evaluates the balance of skills, Committee particularly with the adoption of There are the following Board Committees: knowledge and experience on the Board and International Financial Reporting Standards prepares a description of the role and which has now been completed.
The Board Audit capabilities required for a particular appointment.
is entirely satisfied that Lord MacGregor is Remuneration independent in character and judgement, Nomination Information and professional and that there are no relationships or developments circumstances that are likely to affect, or could Membership of these committees is set out Board meetings are held on a regular basis appear to affect, his judgement.
Further, Lord on pages 54 and 55. with some eleven meetings being MacGregor has wide experience and makes programmed each year, with additional important contributions to strategic issues and Overleaf is a table of the attendance: ad-hoc ones being arranged if necessary.
Lord MacGregor will be retiring at this years forthcoming Annual Chairman and Chief Executive The Board receives timely advice on all General Meeting.
Sir Nigel Mobbs was taken ill in July 2005 material information about the Company, its and died in October 2005. subsidiaries, its activities, performance and its The Board projects, particularly including any significant The Board of Directors represents the Mr P D Orchard-Lisle took over the role variances from a planned course of progress.
shareholders interests in maintaining and of Chairman on 19 August 2005. growing a successful business including Directors are encouraged to continually update optimising consistent long-term financial Mr I D Coull is Chief Executive.
their professional skills and capabilities, together returns.
The Board is accountable for with knowledge of the Companys business.
determining that the Company and its The Board has approved written roles for subsidiaries are managed in such a way the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
On appointment, new directors are given to achieve this objective.
The Board has a a comprehensive introduction to the general responsibility to ensure that in good In addition to the non-executive Chairman, Groups business including visits to the times as well as times of adversity the there are four Executive Directors, a Senior Groups activities and meetings with Executive is fulfilling its responsibilities.
The Independent non-executive Lord Blackwell senior management.
Boards responsibility is to monitor regularly and five other non-executives.
the effectiveness of the Executives policies All directors have access to the advice and and decisions, including the implementation The Board considers that the following nonservices of the Company Secretary, who is and execution of its strategies.
executives are independent in both character responsible to the Board for ensuring that and judgement and there are no relationships Board procedures are complied with.
Directors In addition to meeting its obligations for or circumstances which are likely to affect or have the right to consult with the Companys improving shareholder value, the Board has appear to affect the individuals judgement.
professional advisers and to seek independent a responsibility to the Groups customers, professional advice at the Companys employees and suppliers, and to the Lord Blackwell reasonable expense.
communities where it develops and invests.
Mr S L Howard Mr A W Palmer Performance Evaluation All these principles and responsibilities are Mr C A Peacock The Board undertakes a formal annual founded upon the basis of maintaining the Mr T H W Wernink evaluation of its own performance and that successful continuity of the business.
of its committees and individual directors.
Sir Nigel Mobbs former Chairman and The Chairman leads this process.
The The Board has a schedule of matters reserved Mr P D Orchard-Lisle Chairman both held performance evaluation consists of each to it and discusses and makes decisions meetings during the year with the nondirector completing a questionnaire and then relating to, but not limited to, strategy and executive directors without the Executive having one-to-one reviews with the Chairman.
management, structure and capital, financial Directors being present.
The Chairmans performance is evaluated by reporting controls, internal controls, contracts, the non-executive directors led by the Senior communication, Board membership and other Appointments to the Board Independent Director.
The Chairman has appointments, remuneration, delegation of The Nomination Committee comprises, confirmed that the non-executive directors authority, corporate governance matters and Mr P D Orchard-Lisle, who chairs this standing for re-election at this years Annual policies, significant acquisitions and disposals committee, Mr I D Coull, Lord Blackwell, General Meeting continue to perform of assets and development approvals.
Mr S L Howard, A W Palmer and Mr C A effectively and demonstrate commitment Peacock, a majority of whom are independent to their roles.
Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 51 Corporate governance guidelines continued The results of the evaluation are discussed c recommendation of the audit fee to the l reviewing, and challenging where by the Board and while no major issues were Board and pre-approve any fees in respect necessary, the actions and judgements of identified in the 2005 review, some minor of non-audit services provided by the management, in relation to the interim and adjustments have been made to the operation external auditor in excess of a fee of annual financial statements before of the Board.
25,000 per assignment and to ensure submission to the Board, paying particular that the provision of non-audit services attention to: Re-election does not impair the external auditors All directors are subject to periodic reindependence or objectives.
For the 1. critical accounting policies and appointment by the shareholders at three avoidance of doubt, the provision of practices, and any changes in them yearly intervals.
normal taxation advice is to be regarded as being included within normal audit 2. decisions requiring a major element After two terms of three years, each nonservices: of judgement executive director is subject to rigorous assessment prior to their being proposed for d discussing with the external auditor, before 3. the extent to which the financial re-election for any further period thereafter.
the audit commences, the nature and statements are affected by any unusual scope of the audit and reviewing the transactions in the year and how they The level and make-up of Remuneration auditors quality control procedures and are disclosed The pay and benefits for executive directors the steps taken by the auditor to respond and the Chairman are determined by the to changes in regulatory and other 4. the clarity of disclosures Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration requirements: Committee comprises, Mr S L Howard 5. significant adjustments resulting from Chairman, Lord Blackwell and Mr C A e overseeing the process for selecting the the audit Peacock.
Advice has been sought during external auditor and making appropriate the year from Ernst & Young LLP on various recommendations through the Board to 6. the going concern assumption aspects of remuneration.
the shareholders to consider at the Annual General Meeting: 7. compliance with accounting standards For non-executive directors, their fees and remuneration is determined by the Board on f reviewing the external auditors 8. compliance with stock exchange and the advice of the Chairman.
The remuneration management letter and managements other legal requirements of Executive Directors and non-executive response: directors will be the subject of continual 9. reviewing the Companys statement monitoring of comparable companies and the g reviewing annually the need for an internal on internal control systems prior to assistance of independent external advisers audit function as compared with the endorsement by the Board and to will be sought from time to time.
current arrangement of self-certification review the policies and process for and review: identifying and assessing business risks The Remuneration Report is on pages 60 and the management of those risks by to 67. h considering managements response to the Company: any major external audit or internal review Accountability and Audit recommendations: m reviewing significant litigation and legal risk There is an Audit Committee comprising if not in the ordinary course of business : Lord MacGregor Chairman, Lord Blackwell, i reviewing from time to time the Companys Mr S L Howard, Mr A W Palmer and Mr T H W procedures for handling allegations from n reviewing the internal audit programme Wernink.
Lord MacGregor, who is not deemed whistleblowers: if an internal audit function is appointed: independent, has been on the Board since 1995 but as previously stated is not standing j reviewing the assessment and o ensuring that such internal audit function is for re-election at this years Annual General management of risk, including financial, adequately resourced and has appropriate Meeting.
market, operational, legal, regulatory standing with the Company: and reputational risks, and reviewing The Terms of Reference of the Audit management, internal auditors reports p approving the appointment or dismissal of Committee are: if appointed and the comments of the the head of internal audit if such a function external auditors: exists : and a considering the appointment of the external auditor and ensuring that key k reviewing managements and the internal q considering such other topics, as defined partners are rotated at appropriate auditors reports if appointed on the by the Board.
intervals: effectiveness of systems for internal financial control and reporting: b assessing the independence of the external auditor: 52 Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 Accountability and audit The key features of the system of internal Relations with shareholders Financial reporting control include: The Chairman, Chief Executive and The Board believes that it presents a balanced designated directors will be the Companys and understandable assessment of the the establishment of an organisational principal spokesmen with investors, fund companys position and prospects.
structure with clearly defined levels of authority managers, the press and other interested and division of responsibilities: parties.
The senior independent non-executive Going concern director will also make himself available to After making enquiries, the directors have a a comprehensive system of reporting, investors.
The Board will be fully informed as reasonable expectation that the Group has budgeting and planning against which to the information imparted to shareholders adequate resources to continue its operational performance is monitored: and their reactions.
existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going the formulation of policies and of approval There are regular meetings with institutional concern basis in preparing the accounts.
procedures in a number of key areas such as shareholders held by the Chief Executive and treasury operations, capital expenditures and Finance Director which are reported on to the Internal control environmental matters.
The Chairman and the senior The Board has overall responsibility for the from time to time by the Board to confirm independent non-executive director have Groups system of internal control and for their adequacy and effective operation: separate meetings with institutional shareholders reviewing its effectiveness.
It must be and these are also reported on to the Board.
recognised that such a system is designed to the provision of a code of conduct for manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure employees and the monitoring of the quality Constructive use of the Annual to achieve business objectives, and can only of personnel through an annual performance General Meeting provide reasonable and not absolute assurance appraisal process: At the Annual General Meeting investors are against material misstatement or loss.
given the opportunity to question the Board a formal bi-annual risk and control and to meet with them afterwards.
They are The Board has applied principle C. 2 of the assessment undertaken at both Group and encouraged to participate in the Meeting.
Combined Code by establishing a continuous subsidiary levels which includes the process for identifying, evaluating and identification and evaluation of the likelihood Photographic displays and literature are managing the significant risks faced by the of key risks materialising and assessment available to illustrate the Companys Group.
The Board regularly reviews the of the control processes in place to manage developments.
process, which has been in place throughout such risks.
the year ending 31 December 2005 and up to the date of approval of this report and which is The internal control system is monitored in accordance with the guidance on internal through a process of self-certification whereby control published in September 1999 the senior management report on the operation Turnbull Guidance.
of those elements of the system for which they are responsible.
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness The Boards monitoring covers all controls, of the Groups systems of internal financial including financial, operational and compliance control during the financial year and up to controls and risk management.
It is based the date of approval of this report.
principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant The Group does not have an internal audit risks are identified, evaluated, managed function because the Board has not and controlled and whether any significant considered it necessary given the nature of the weaknesses are promptly remedied and Groups business and the central control and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
approval structure in place across the Group The Board has also performed a specific and the relatively high concentration of assets assessment for the purposes of this annual within the UK.
This assessment covers all significant of a regional management structure in the UK, aspects of internal control arising during the the increased activity in Continental Europe period covered by the report.
The Audit and the active leasing and development Committee assists the Board in discharging programme in the US, the Board has decided its review responsibilities.
to introduce an internal audit function in the current year.
Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 53
