Shareholder reporting Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Workspace Group PLC 49 Shareholder reporting We believe transparent communication will help build stronger relationships with our shareholders.
Additional information In this section Acquisitions and disposals 2004 05 Corporate governance Investment properties owned by the Group Board and committee reports Ten years of growth 1996-2005 Directors remuneration report Directors, officers and advisers Notice of Annual General Meeting Publication index Corporate governance Workspace Group has always aimed to operate with high Overall compliance with the Combined Code standards of corporate governance and wherever possible Except in one respect, the directors believe that the Company comply with the Combined Code.
It also believes that good has fully complied with the Combined Code during and after governance is assisted by transparent detailed reporting.
The single exception concerns the composition of the Board.
The Group has four executive The Group believes that strong and sustainable long term directors, three independent non-executive directors, and economic performance is aided by compliance with corporate a non-executive chairman.
The Chairman is not regarded as social responsibility CSR best practice and open reporting of independent under the Combined Code even though, prior to its activities.
In this, the Group publishes a range of material his appointment in November 2002, he had no relationship with both on its website and in hard copy for details see the inside the Group.
During the year the Group entered the FTSE 250. back cover : The Code advises that for FTSE 250 companies the number of independent non-executives should at least equal the number 1.
A self-assessment checklist identifying compliance with of executive directors.
For such compliance by Workspace, this each of the detailed requirements of the Combined Code: would mean either reducing the number of executive directors or 2.
Quarterly Reports: appointing another independent non-executive director.
A detailed examination of risks: selection process for non-executive directors described below 4.
An annual CSR review and that the Board itself regards the Chairman as independent, the Board feels the balance of skills and experience of the four The above material is complementary to this statement of non-executive directors as shown below is right for the Company.
compliance with the Combined Code which the Company is Further, the Board operates on a consensus basis with key required to publish.
decisions requiring the support of the full Board, ensuring that all viewpoints are properly addressed.
At this stage, therefore, the Board does not intend to appoint a further non-executive director.
Board and committee reports These may be found in the section on page 53.
50 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Shareholder reporting Performance evaluation volumes of activity.
These demand responsive systems and The Board reviews its performance and modus operandi and procedures.
Through regular routine reporting of key that of each of its committees annually each committee having performance indicators the Group is able to monitor developing in turn reviewed itself.
Included in this review is consideration patterns in its estates and respond swiftly.
of individual directors performance which in the case of the executive directors is undertaken as part of the wider The commercial risks of the business are not the traditionally performance appraisal process applied to staff across the entire perceived property risks but more akin to those taken by a Group and a review of the performance of the Board as a whole business-to-business service provider delivering services to including its delegations, risk assessment and management the SME sector.
Unlike most service providers, however, processes, reporting procedures and effectiveness in monitoring Workspace Group receives payment for these services in performance and developing strategy.
The Boards reviews of advance.
By contracting with its customers for fixed regular itself, its committees and its members conducted in the last payments, made in advance and often further secured by a year, identified no significant weaknesses or deficiencies.
deposit, the Groups financial risk is greatly reduced.
Further, it is the policy of the Board to consider the continuing suitability of all directors who are offered for re-election and All customers are subject to post entry and exit interviews.
review whether their continued contribution would be of benefit Consultation meetings are held on major issues, together to the Company.
Such a review has been undertaken this year with occasional focus groups.
Annual customer surveys are over the proposed re-appointment of Mr Platt, Mr Marples and undertaken and customer comments cards provided at all Dr Pieroni.
Workspace Group commissions ongoing research into the SME market to Risk management identify emerging needs.
The Board regularly reviews the Groups activities with a view to confirming that all sources of risk are identified.
For all risks The level of occupancy at which the Group breaks even has been recognised, not addressed by the financial controls described in the range 55-60% throughout the last five years.
With current in the Report of the Audit Committee see page 56, it has occupancy of 88.3% and a lowest level of 75% during 1991, the established a programme of management, monitoring and last significant economic downturn, the Group has substantial reporting.
An analysis of the risks identified by the Board resilience to changing economic circumstances.
and a summary in the form of responses to frequently asked questions may be found in the Investor Relations section With the focus of its activities in London and the South East, the of the Groups website see the inside back cover or from Groups exposure to the fortunes of this region is significant.
the Company Secretary at the Groups registered office.
The Board considers that the long term prospects of the South East, particularly for SMEs, remain better than those for the The following commentary addresses some of the principal remainder of the UK, and so believes that this risk is greatly operational risks affecting the Groups business.
outweighed by the opportunities it creates.
Its customer base within this region remains broadly distributed with no reliance Through its focus on cash flow, the Groups day-to-day on any single trading sector.
procedures in the letting and management of its properties control much of the operational risk associated with its The key financial risk carried by the Group is its exposure to business.
The commercial risk that the Group carries derives interest rate variations.
These are managed in two ways.
principally from its customer profile.
Firstly, through its investment in high yielding properties and its focus on management of the returns from these The Group invests in accommodation let generally to smaller properties, the Group maintains high levels of interest cover.
businesses, which have a weaker covenant.
This has Notwithstanding a gearing level of 88% at 31 March 2005, the traditionally been perceived as a high-risk activity.
However, interest on these borrowings was covered 1.77 times.
The the Group has nearly 4,000 customers and receives in excess Group further safeguards its position by use of instruments of 7,750 enquiries for space per annum.
Its exposure, therefore, to manage interest rate exposure.
At 31 March 2005, 62% of to any single customer or business sector is low.
the Groups debt was subject to hedging either through fixed rate borrowings or through the use of interest rate collars.
The letting risk is better assessed against the dynamics of the SME sector in the areas in which the Group operates, Workspace recognises the significance of its suppliers in rather than in relation to the fortunes of any one or group of providing a quality service to its customers.
The Group aims to customers.
The SME sector is resilient, growing and recognised settle all accounts within credit terms and, wherever possible, as important by all political parties.
The properties held by the use suppliers from within its customer base.
All suppliers are Group are generally ideal for long term use by SMEs whose subject to an approvals process which extends to identification space requirements are generally simple.
Our buildings are of their environmental and safety policies.
The Company also less prone than many to obsolescence, to change in continuously seeks to find ways of improving the efficiency technical and technological requirements and fashion.
and performance of its supply chain.
Day-to-day management of the Groups operations, including letting and property and financial management, follow simple but carefully constructed processes.
The high numbers of customers coupled with a high churn rate generate high Shareholder reporting Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Workspace Group PLC 51 Social, environmental and ethical SEE issues In recognition of the importance of its customers in the arts and Workspace Group has long since taken its responsibilities to media sectors, the Group has introduced a Creative and Cultural the environment and wider society seriously.
Such aspects Policy, details of which can be found on our website.
Local are considered to be part of the Companys core operating community involvement and investment is encouraged at all philosophy and are integrated within its standard operational managed sites in the belief that this continues to reinforce the procedures.
Indeed core social, environmental and ethical Workspace Group brand and maintains competitiveness through issues are addressed quite simply by the nature of the Groups securing market share.
Employees are encouraged to take activities recycling old redundant buildings to provide appointments to agency boards and the Company supports attractive accommodation packages for small businesses, charitable initiatives where these assist its customers e. g. whilst providing a service support infrastructure for these cycling campaigns and art theatrical productions.
It aspires to small business customers.
As with all other risks, the Board membership of the PerCent club, although it prefers to assist has nominated a Director the Chief Executive with specific through gifts in kind rather than cash since it considers that responsibility for management of the Groups exposure to these can often be of greater direct assistance.
Where it environmental and broader CSR risks, and the risks are undertakes development activities, Workspace Group engages monitored regularly at Board level.
with customers and the local community over its plans.
There are two elements to the Groups approach.
Given its focus on the smaller business community and thereby the community at large, the Group is keenly interested in Firstly, careful identification of significant environmental and managing its public profile to avoid brand damage.
These frequently relate to the activities of the not just to community relations but to the operation of codes Groups customers rather than those within its own direct and standards of conduct by its staff that would not risk damage control.
Examples include: to its reputation.
The Groups code of conduct for employees prohibits the receipt or payment of any bribes or facilitation Land or water contamination on site: payments, and requires all employees to operate within the law.
A whistleblowing policy and helpline exists to enable Health & Safety or crime incidents: staff to report perceived breaches of the code of conduct.
The Company has never suffered any fine or penalty of any Transport related impacts and congestion charging: kind and it makes no donations to political parties.
Environmental taxation such as the rising landfill tax or The Board has identified and assessed the significant risks to the climate change levy.
the Companys short and long term value arising from SEE matters, as well as the opportunities to enhance value that may Proposed acquisitions and existing property holdings are arise from an appropriate response.
It has received adequate investigated carefully, including identifying the potential information to make this assessment and account is taken of extent of contamination from existing or previously SEE matters in the training of directors.
The Board has ensured undertaken activities onsite.
These studies have identified that the Company has in place effective systems for managing that almost all the Groups properties are unlikely to suffer significant risks, which, where relevant, incorporate from contamination and that, at those properties where the performance management systems and appropriate risk was higher, this was unlikely to give rise to damage remuneration incentives.
These reports have been made available to CB Richard Ellis for the purposes of the valuation.
The Group considers that CSR and environmental polices Potential contamination by customers is avoided by should be founded not just on avoiding recognised unacceptable management of their activities or where the risk is not practice but on active implementation of policies and practices manageable, exclusion from occupation.
This year, the Group will be publishing its sixth consecutive CSR report.
This is underpinned Secondly, the Groups intensive style of management and by an annual target-setting and review procedure with the risk management programme undertaken jointly with responsibilities allocated across the senior management team.
the Groups insurers, Norwich Union, helps current tenants CSR Reports and annual reviews of progress against targets to recognise and seeks to prevent health & safety, pollution, can be obtained from the Company Secretary at the Groups fire, and other risks.
In addition, the Group makes significant registered offices or from the Groups website see the inside efforts to work with its customers in order to raise their own back cover.
awareness and find ways of mitigating their impacts through partnership agreements.
Examples of these include: the introduction of centralised waste recycling contracts and distribution of educational materials on waste management: the promotion of cycling initiatives for properties located within the congestion charging zones: the purchase of electric Th!nk cars for use by both staff and customers.
52 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Shareholder reporting Shareholder contact Meetings are held with principal shareholders following the announcement of both the Groups preliminary and its interim results.
It is the practice of the Company that, ordinarily, meetings with shareholders will be attended either by executive directors alone or accompanied by representatives of the Companys stockbroker.
However, it is the practice also, following the preliminary results, that such contact meetings shall be followed up by a telephone conversation between the Chairman and the shareholder.
The Company also requires its stockbrokers to discuss the outcome of meetings with shareholders and report its findings to the Board.
The Board believes that this provides a better form of governance than attendance at meetings by non-executive directors.
Other ad-hoc meetings and presentations and site visits are arranged for shareholders throughout the year.
In addition, each year a dinner is held with principal shareholders which the full Board attend.
This has been found by both the Board and shareholders to be an effective means by which the entire Board may be accessed by major shareholders.
Dialogue with the wider investment community is supported by the Company.
During the year Board members presented at investor conferences and participated with CIRIA in the development of a guide to non financial reporting, Tomorrows Company.
It also contributed to the development by Investment Property Databank IPD of a research tool for property equities.
If shareholders have any views on how the Groups practices may be improved further in the areas identified in this Report, then we will be pleased to receive them.
Please address any such comments to the Company Secretary or, if appropriate, the Chairman or senior independent non-executive director.
R Mark Taylor Company Secretary 10 June 2005
