Corporate governance All members of the Board are equally accountable under the law for the Compliance proper stewardship of the Company's affairs.
The Non-Executive Directors The Company recognises the importance of and is committed to attaining the are, however, independent of management and free from any material highest standards of corporate governance.
It is a requirement of the Listing business or other relationship with the Company, enabling them to bring an Rules of the UK Listing Authority that listed companies disclose in their independent judgement to bear on issues brought before the Board.
There is annual report and accounts how they have applied the principles set out in a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman, Mr J W Matthews, Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July and the full time Chief Executive, Mr S Stone, to whom the Board has 2003 the Combined Code and whether or not they have complied with its delegated responsibility for running the Company.
The Deputy Chairman, detailed provisions throughout the financial year.
Mr J Callcutt, reports to the Chairman and his responsibilities cover the During the financial year ending 31st October 2005 the Company complied promotion of the Company's sustainable redevelopment strategy.
He is fully with the principles and provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined committed to devote on average three days a week in undertaking his duties.
Code except as follows:- The Deputy Chairman is also available to assist the Chief Executive if requested and has been appointed in a non-executive capacity.
The Company does not comply with provision A.
3.2 of the Combined Code in that less than half the Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent The Board meets regularly on a formal basis and has an agreed schedule of Non-Executive Directors.
The current division of responsibilities and matters reserved to it for collective decision.
These include strategic policies, structure of the business requires a Chairman, Deputy Chairman and an corporate performance reviews and overall financial and organisational executive team of three Executive Directors.
It is the view of the Board control.
In addition, the Board meets outside of its agreed schedule as and that the range and blend of skills of the Board match the needs of the when required.
It is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form business and it is unnecessary to appoint another independent Nonand of a quality that is appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Executive Director at the present time.
The Board evaluated its performance in 2005 by the completion of an Section 1 of the Combined Code contains fourteen main principles of good evaluation questionnaire.
The Chairman formally appraised the Chief governance which are divided into four main categories.
These categories Executive in the year.
and the means by which the Company has complied with them are explained The Non-Executive Directors meet separately with the Chairman during the below.
The Non-Executive Directors also meet without the Chairman at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance.
Directors The Board of Directors is the body responsible for corporate governance and A formal procedure exists to allow Directors to take independent professional for establishing the policies and strategies of the Company.
The Board advice and the Company will meet such reasonable expenses that arise in currently consists of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, three Executive taking such advice.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary for his Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
Biographies of the Directors advice and services, and training is available for new and existing Directors, as are set out on pages 22 and 23. and when required.
Each member of the Board also has the benefit of appropriate insurance cover and the indemnity in Article 34 of the Company's It is the opinion of the Board that all of the three Non-Executive Directors are Articles of Association in respect of legal actions brought against him.
considered to be independent of management and have no business or other relationship which could interfere materially with the exercise of their Board Committees judgement.
The Board has established the following Committees, the members of which Each of the Executive Directors service contracts contains a notice period of are set out below.
Details of all the Directors experience and qualifications a maximum of one year.
The maximum notice period under each Nonare set out on pages 22 and 23 and their remuneration on pages 51 to 56.
Executive Directors letter of appointment is six months.
Audit Committee The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors each have Mr R T Scholes Chairman a letter of appointment expiring as follows: Mr R S Lidgate Mr L J Wigglesworth Mr J W Matthews Chairman On 6 months notice Mr J Callcutt Deputy Chairman On 3 months notice The Audit Committee meets four times each year and provides a link between the Board and the Companys internal and external auditors on Mr R S Lidgate 28th April 2006 matters coming within the scope of the Group audit.
The main duties of the Mr R T Scholes 30th June 2006 Audit Committee are as follows: To review all Preliminary and Interim statements before they are Mr L J Wigglesworth 31st October 2006 presented to the Board Senior Independent Director It is a requirement of the Companys Articles of Association that each To review internal control procedures and risk management systems Director should offer himself for re-election every three years.
The Articles To review the internal audit function similarly stipulate that any Director appointed by the Board is also required to offer himself for re-election by the shareholders at the first Annual To oversee the Company's relations with the external auditor and to General Meeting after such appointment.
approve the terms of engagement and the remuneration to be paid to the external auditor in respect of audit services provided To recommend to the Board a policy in respect of the provision of non-audit services provided by the external auditors to ensure their independence and objectivity is not impaired 48 Crest Nicholson Annual Report 2005 Corporate governance During the year the Committee carried out its duties as noted above.
The Committee meets regularly throughout the year and acts in an advisory Particular attention was paid to the accounting standards and policies in the capacity in the creation and implementation of policy, trading strategies and review of the financial statements.
Under internal control procedures and the taking of major decisions.
risk management systems both financial and non-financial controls were Committee for Social Responsibility assessed, improvements were identified and are being implemented.
Mr J Callcutt Chairman The internal auditor's reports and the internal audit programme were Mr R S Lidgate reviewed together with management's response to the internal auditor's Mr S Stone Appointed 23rd January 2006 findings and recommendations.
The Committee recommended a policy to the Mr L J Wigglesworth Resigned 23rd January 2006 Board regarding the provision of non-audit services.
The Board adopted the Mr N I Hughes Company Secretary recommendation, which is not to use the external auditors for non-audit Mr P Donnelly Environmental Manager services with the exception of tax advice and matters where the fee will not The Committee for Social Responsibility is charged with managing the exceed 50,000 in aggregate per annum unless specifically approved by the Company's ethical, social and environmental policies so as to achieve Committee.
a balance between its commercial objectives and its obligations to society Details of the fees paid to the external auditors for audit and non-audit at large.
services are set out in Note 4 on page 36.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings The Committee does not become involved in the day to day running of the The following table shows the number of meetings of the Board and each of business, which remains the responsibility of the Executive Directors.
the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees held during the year ended 31st October 2005 and the attendance record of individual Directors.
The terms of reference of the Committee are published on the Company's web site www.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Remuneration Committee Number of meetings 7 4 7 2 Mr R S Lidgate Chairman Mr R T Scholes Mr J W Matthews 7 N A N A 1 Mr L J Wigglesworth Mr J Callcutt 6 N A N A 1 The Remuneration Committee meets at least three times each year, to Mr P Callcutt 7 N A N A N A establish and review, in consultation with the Chief Executive, the remuneration and terms of employment of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Mr D P Darby 7 N A N A N A Executive Directors and certain senior executives.
The fees for the NonMr S Stone 7 N A N A N A Executive Directors are decided by a Committee of the Board comprising the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director.
Mr R S Lidgate 7 4 7 2 The terms of reference of the Committee are published on the Companys Mr R T Scholes 7 4 7 2 web site www.
Mr L J Wigglesworth 7 4 7 2 Nomination Committee Mr J W Matthews Chairman Chairman Mr J Callcutt Resigned 31st October 2005 The Chairman has significant commitments other than as Chairman of the Mr S Stone Appointed 1st November 2005 Company and these are disclosed in his biography on page 22.
The Board is Mr R S Lidgate confident that these commitments do not hinder the ability of the Chairman Mr R T Scholes to discharge his duties to the Company effectively.
Mr L J Wigglesworth Directors remuneration The Nomination Committee meets at least every six months and as Please refer to the Remuneration Report on pages 51 to 56 for details of the necessary to assess the suitability of persons for appointment as Directors Directors remuneration.
and, when appropriate, nominates new candidates for the approval of the Board.
Prior to their appointment, all Non-Executive Directors are advised of Accountability and audit the time commitment considered necessary to enable them to fulfil their A review of the Group's performance and financial position is included in the responsibilities.
The Board uses this and the Directors' Report to present a The terms of reference of the Committee are published on the Companys balanced and understandable assessment of the Company's position and web site www.
The statement of Directors' responsibilities is shown on page 27 and the going concern statement is shown on page 24.
Executive Committee As indicated above, the Company has an established Audit Committee to Mr J Callcutt Chairman Resigned 31st October 2005 whom the external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and the Groups Internal Mr S Stone Chairman from 1st November 2005 Auditor, report.
The external auditors operate procedures to safeguard Mr P Callcutt against the possibility that the auditors objectivity and independence could Mr D P Darby be compromised.
This includes the use of independent reviewing partners Mr N I Hughes Company Secretary and annual independence confirmations by all staff.
The auditors report to Mr S Usher Appointed 1st November 2005 the Audit Committee on matters including independence and non-audit fees on an annual basis.
In addition, the role of audit partner is rotated on a periodic basis.
Crest Nicholson Annual Report 2005 49 Corporate governance As regards internal control, the Directors acknowledge responsibility for the Internal Audit systems set up within the Group for this purpose and for reviewing their The Company maintains an internal audit unit which reports to the Audit effectiveness.
They are designed to provide reasonable but not absolute Committee.
It is charged with carrying out examinations and investigations assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Company complies which assist in providing the Audit Committee with reasonable assurance of: with the Combined Codes principles on internal control reporting and compliance with established policies and procedures throughout the year has operated the procedures necessary to implement the guidance on internal control contained in the Turnbull Report published the reliability and integrity of information in September 1999. the safeguarding of assets and the economical and efficient The Group has the following established framework of internal controls: use of resources Financial Reporting Relations with shareholders and the market There is a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget and The Company encourages active dialogue with its private and institutional associated three year plan approved by the Directors.
Actual results or shareholders, both current and prospective.
The Chief Executive and Finance performance are reported against budget and revised forecasts of profit, Director make presentations to analysts following the Preliminary and cash flow and balance sheets are prepared each month.
Meetings are also held with major institutional reports to shareholders on a half yearly basis.
A wide range of relevant issues are discussed at investor and analyst meetings including strategy, performance, management and Operating Unit Controls corporate governance.
Shareholders are also kept up to date with Company Controls and procedures, including information systems controls, are affairs through the Annual and Interim Reports and the Company's website.
detailed in policy and procedure manuals which are subject to regular review.
Save in exceptional circumstances, all members of the Board attend the An Authority Manual details the general principles of and specifies the limits Annual General Meeting which is used to communicate with private arising from the delegation of authority within the Group.
Day to day control investors.
Their participation is welcomed and encouraged through a is exercised by the members of the Executive Committee see above.
question and answer session during the Meeting.
Risk Identification Both the Chairman and the Senior Non-Executive Director are available to The Group has established a Risk Review Committee a sub-committee of meet shareholders if requested.
Non-Executive Directors are kept informed the Executive Committee which meets from time to time to assess and of the views of shareholders and reports are provided to them on investor review the risks facing the business on an on-going basis and to ensure that and analyst meetings.
The Companys financial public relations consultants reasonable levels of control are implemented to address those risks.
provide briefings to the Board on analyst opinion and compile independent feedback from analyst meetings.
The Companys brokers provide briefings to the Board on institutional shareholder opinion and compile independent Investment Appraisal feedback from meetings with institutional shareholders.
The Group has clearly defined systems for the authorisation and control of projects, which are set out in a Land Manual.
The key element is the Project Committee a sub-committee of the Executive Committee which is Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf responsible for the authorisation of all major projects.
Centralised Functions N I Hughes A number of the Groups key functions are controlled centrally.
These include Company Secretary finance, treasury, banking, litigation, taxation, pensions, insurance, 25th January 2006 information technology, human resources, health & safety, public relations and company secretarial.
Internal Control Systems and Procedures Review The Company has developed a review process which enables key elements of internal control systems and procedures to be monitored, with the aim of identifying areas of weakness and ensuring that the appropriate corrective action is taken.
The process includes a review by the Board on an annual basis and by the Risk Review Committee at each of its meetings.
The review focuses on five principal areas of interest: Control environment Identification and evaluation of risks and controls objectives Information and communication Control procedures Monitoring and corrective actions A Group executive has been tasked to update the Risk Review documentation in 2006.
