Corporate Governance Statement of compliance The Board considers that the time which The Company supports the principles of corporate Mr Whybrow provides to the Company and his governance contained in the Combined Code on availability to directors and senior management is Corporate Governance which is appended to the more than adequate.
Mr Whybrow provides strong Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
leadership and contributes valuable experience and The Board is accountable to the Companys knowledge to the business of the Company and the shareholders for good governance.
The Company conduct of the Board and its committees.
has throughout the year complied with the majority In accordance with the provisions of the Combined of the provisions of the Combined Code Principles Code, consideration has been given to the independence of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice.
of all the non-executive directors.
The Board considers The statements below describe how the Company all the non-executive directors to be independent has applied the principles identified in the Combined of management and free from any business or other Code and areas where the Company is presently relationship that could materially interfere with the working towards compliance.
The Board meets regularly during the year The Board as well as on an ad-hoc basis as required by time As at 30 December 2005, the Board comprised nine critical business needs.
The Board is responsible members being the Chairman, Mr John Whybrow, to shareholders for the effective and proper who served throughout the year, five executive management and control of the Company and has a directors and three non-executive directors.
The four formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions.
executive directors who served throughout the year Its primary roles are to determine and review Company were Mr John Hodgson, Chief Executive Officer: strategy and policy, consider acquisitions and disposals, Mr Paul Goodridge, Finance Director: Mr James assess requests for major capital expenditure and Collier, Chief Technical Officer and Mr Glenn Collinson, give consideration to all other significant financial Sales Director.
Effective 1 December 2005, Mr John matters.
This process is undertaken following Scarisbrick, formerly a non-executive director of the discussions in conjunction with senior executive Company, was appointed Chief Executive Officer management who in turn are responsible for day Designate.
Mr Hodgson retired on 28 February 2006 to day conduct of the Groups operations and for and, effective 1 March 2006, Mr Scarisbrick was reporting to the Board on the progress being made appointed Chief Executive Officer.
The Board met eight times The non-executive directors, who served during the year and the attendance of each of the throughout the year were Mr David Tucker and directors is shown on page 35.
Mr Scarisbrick Mr Ron Mackintosh.
Mr Anthony Carlisle was attended all meetings but did not participate in appointed a non-executive director on 1 July 2005. discussions concerning the Boards consideration Mr John Scarisbrick stood down as a non-executive of the acquisition of the software business of director on 1 November 2005.
Mr Mike Shone stood UbiNetics Holdings Limited, of which he was a down as a non-executive director on 31 March 2005. shareholder and non-executive director, or on Until 1 November 2005, when Mr Scarisbrick matters associated with the appointment of a stood down as a non-executive director, the number new Chief Executive Officer where the potential of non-executive directors represented half the Board.
for conflict of interest had been identified.
As a consequence of the change, the proportion During the year, the Board undertook a formal of non-executive directors does not represent half process of performance evaluation.
Each director the Board and does not comply with the Code.
completed an internally produced questionnaire It is the intention of the Board to appoint an additional covering a wide range of matters associated with non-executive director during 2006. the activities and conduct of the Board and its Mr David Tucker is the Senior Independent committees.
The process was conducted without Director.
Mr Goodridge has throughout the year reference to external agencies.
The responses to been the director responsible for health and safety the questionnaire were discussed as an agenda within the Company.
The directors possess diverse item at the Boards full meeting in November 2005. business experience in spheres complementary The overall conclusion was that the Board and to CSRs activities, as well as other sectors.
its Committees were performing appropriately.
Biographies of the directors are shown on pages The Chairman holds regular meetings with 36 and 37.
Mr Brett Gladden served as Company all the directors individually.
In addition, prior to Secretary throughout the year.
the year end, the Chairman held a meeting of the non-executive directors to discuss the performance The Chairman, Mr John Whybrow is also chairman of Wolseley plc and a non-executive director of DSG of the executive directors.
international plc, positions which he held at the time In accordance with the Companys Articles of his appointment as Chairman to the Company.
of Association, all directors are required to retire and submit themselves for re-election at least once 32 Changing the way the world connects every three years.
It is the policy of the Board that other listed companies and the contribution which non-executive directors are appointed for an initial he makes to matters which the Committee considers.
term of three years, following which it will be reviewed The report to shareholders on how directors are and as appropriate, extended for a further three year remunerated, together with details of individual period.
Non-executive directors should not generally directors remuneration are shown on pages 40 to 47. serve for more than nine years.
On appointment, all directors are advised that Nomination Committee they have access to the advice and services of the Mr John Whybrow is the Chairman of the Nomination Company Secretary and, in addition, that they are Committee.
The other members of the Committee at 30 December 2005 were Messrs Carlisle, Mackintosh entitled to seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at the and Tucker.
Mr Scarisbrick served as a member of the Companys expense.
Committee during 2005 until, following discussions In accordance with the Companys Articles of with the Chairman, he declared an interest in the Association, directors are granted an indemnity from appointment as Chief Executive Officer to the the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect Company.
Thereafter he took no part in the business of liabilities incurred as a result of the performance of the Committee where it concerned the of their duties in their capacity as directors to the appointment of the new Chief Executive Officer.
The indemnity would not provide any The Committee meets as appropriate to consider coverage to the extent that a director is proved to appointments to the Board.
The Committee reviews have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company the composition of the Board, particularly in relation has also arranged insurance coverage in respect of to the diversity of skills, experience, age and term legal action against the directors and officers.
of office and seeks to ensure that both executive and non-executive directors have the necessary Communications with shareholders skills and attributes for the future success of the Group.
Principally via the executive directors, the Company The Committee retains external search consultants as seeks to build on a mutual understanding of objectives appropriate and during 2005 engaged Egon Zehnder with its major shareholders through regular meetings International to assist in the appointment of an and presentations following announcements of each additional non-executive director which was quarters results.
The Senior Independent Director, completed with the appointment in July 2005 of Mr David Tucker, is available to meet institutional Mr Carlisle.
Capital Christian Timbers were also shareholders should there be unresolved matters engaged during 2005 to assist in the appointment they wish to bring to his attention.
Although the of a Chief Executive Officer.
non-executive directors are not asked at present The appointment of the new Chief Executive to meet with the Companys shareholders, their Officer was completed in November 2005 following a attendance at the Annual General Meeting is required.
Capital Christian Timbers assisted Corporate information is also available on the in the development of a candidate profile following Companys website, www.
meetings with the members of the Committee and the executive directors.
They also undertook initial Committees of the Board search and analysis of all candidates, reporting the The Board has three committees, Remuneration, results to the Committee and thereafter to the Board, Nomination and Audit, whose members comprise the and assisted in the conduct of meetings between Chairman and non-executive directors.
In accordance candidates and members of the Board.
with the Combined Code, the duties of the committees During 2005, the Committee met a total of eight are set out in formal terms of reference.
These are times, seven of which were as part of the formal available from the Company Secretary and can be business of the Board, to discuss the appointments found on the Companys website, www.
of a non-executive director and of a new Chief Membership of the committees is shown on pages Executive Officer.
This ensured that the views of the 36 and 37.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary executive directors were taken into consideration.
to each of the committees.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Mr David Tucker is the Chairman of the Audit Mr Ron Mackintosh is the Chairman of the Committee.
The other members of the Committee at Remuneration Committee.
The other members 30 December 2005 were Messrs Carlisle, Mackintosh of the Committee at 30 December 2005 were and Whybrow.
The Board is satisfied that Mr Tucker, Messrs Carlisle, Tucker and Whybrow.
The principal a chartered accountant with extensive experience function of the Committee is to establish and review through his past and present involvement as chairman the terms and conditions for the executive directors, of the audit committees of various listed companies, and the overall policy framework for the remuneration brings recent and relevant experience to the of other senior executives and the Group as a whole.
Mr Whybrow, Chairman of the Company The Committee met three times during the year also serves on the Committee.
The Board considers and the attendance of its members is shown in the this to be appropriate, given his experience in other table on page 35. listed companies as well as the contribution to and During 2005, in order to comply with the Code, the benefit derived from participating in matters which Mr Whybrow stood down as Chairman of the the Committee considers.
The experience and expertise Remuneration Committee, although he remains a of the members of the Committee are summarised member of the Committee.
The Board considers this on pages 36 and 37.
The attendance of its members to be appropriate given his experience in this role in is shown in the table on page 35.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 33 Corporate Governance The Committee met four times during the the impact of their adoption on the Company and continued year and reported its conclusions to the full Board.
has monitored progress in meeting the new reporting The Committee invites the Chief Executive Officer, requirements.
The Committee also monitors and the Finance Director, the Internal Auditor and senior reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal representatives of the external auditors to attend control systems, accounting policies and practices, meetings as appropriate to the business being risk management procedures and compliance considered.
In addition, the Committee has the right controls as well as the statement on internal controls to invite any other employees to attend meetings before they are agreed by the Board for each years where this is considered appropriate.
The Chairman of the Committee attends the The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Companys Annual General Meeting to respond Companys policy on external audit and for overseeing to any shareholder questions that might be raised the objectivity and effectiveness of the auditors.
The Committee recommends the appointment and re-appointment of the Companys external Internal control auditors and considers the scope of their audit work, Philosophy and policy the terms of their appointment, their fees and the cost The objective of the directors and senior effectiveness of their work.
During 2005, as part of its management is to safeguard and increase the value formal business, the Committee met on three of the business and assets of the Company.
Part of occasions with the external auditors.
On two occasions this objective requires the development of relevant the Committee also held separate meetings with the policies and appropriate internal controls to ensure external auditors at which no executive director or proper management of the Companys resources employee of the Company was present.
and the identification of risks which might serve to The Committee is aware of the audit and undermine them.
non-audit services which have been provided by the The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP Companys system of internal control and for during 2005.
Those non-audit services concerned reviewing its effectiveness.
The systems and advice on tax matters which was considered to be processes established by the Board are designed appropriate, given their in-depth knowledge of the to manage, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to affairs and financial practices in the Group.
The achieve business objectives and provide reasonable, Committee is satisfied that, notwithstanding this not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
work, Deloitte & Touche LLP have retained objectivity The Board has delegated responsibility for and independence during the year.
the review of practices and procedures to the Deloitte & Touche LLP have been the Companys Audit Committee.
The Companys senior auditors since July 2002 and the cost, scope and management, in conjunction with external advisers effectiveness of the audit are reviewed regularly.
are responsible for undertaking periodic reviews In 2005 the Board requested that a formal review of the suitability of current systems on which they of the audit be undertaken with due regard for good report to the Committee.
governance and to ensure shareholders are receiving The Committee reviews the findings to ensure the best available service.
the effectiveness and efficiency of the processes This review commenced in December 2005 implemented by senior management.
This includes and will be completed to allow a recommendation discussions with senior management of the to be put to shareholders for their consideration at the Company and consideration of reports that have been Annual General Meeting to be held on 2 May 2006. submitted.
These findings are in turn discussed by More particulars on the matter are contained in the the full Board.
The Board is satisfied that this process Notice of the Annual General Meeting and the accords with the internal control guidance for Chairmans letter accompanying the Annual Report.
directors set out in the Turnbull Report Internal In relation to the appointment of external auditors Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined and in order to safeguard auditor independence and Code and that through its interface with objectivity, the Committee has a policy of permitted management, the Board is aware of the major risks services which details the services that can be facing the Company and the steps taken by the provided by the Companys auditors and those Company where possible to mitigate such risks.
services which require specific approval by the The risk evaluation process described in this report Committee.
The policy also details services that the has been in place for 2005 and up to the date of Companys auditors are not permitted to provide.
approval of the annual report and financial statements.
The policy has been complied with throughout the year.
The Committee reviews, where practicable, Managing risks all proposed announcements to be made by the A summary of the structures and processes Company to the extent they contain financial in place to identify and manage risks across information.
During the year, the Committee has the Group are set out on page 35. received regular updates on the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards and 34 Changing the way the world connects Risk profiling A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the There is an ongoing process to identify and evaluate Companys business is given on pages 29 and 30. risks faced by the Company, through the conduct These processes are supported by discreet of regular meetings by the Companys senior reviews conducted by external advisers, management.
Findings are reported to the Committee as determined by the Committee, in addition together with recommended actions and a timetable to the routine audits.
A list of prioritised risks is In October 2005, the Company appointed refreshed on a regular basis to reflect changes to the an Internal Auditor.
The Committee will review business and any observations or proposals arising the effectiveness of the internal audit function including the development of the function in from events since the last review.
The schedule, along with other management information, is used the coming year against objectives which will to develop an overall assurance plan for the Company.
be agreed with the Committee.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed Controlling risk the effectiveness of the system of internal controls The Company has policies which address a number for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005. of key business risks, including financial, treasury and health and safety.
The policies are made available Attendance at meetings to relevant employees through policy manuals, The table below shows the attendance of each of the an intranet site and also via employee briefings on directors at meetings of the Board and its committees specific topics as appropriate.
The Company also held during the year.
A comprehensive file of briefing has a formal whistle blowing policy which has been papers and a meeting agenda is provided for each communicated to all employees and which provides director in advance of each meeting.
Decisions are information on the process to follow in the event any taken by the Board, in conjunction, where employee feels it appropriate to make a disclosure.
appropriate, with the recommendations of its The Audit Committee satisfies itself periodically that committees and advice from external consultants the policy provides an adequate basis for employees and executive management.
In addition, during those to make representations in confidence to the months when a Board meeting is not scheduled, Company and for appropriate and proportionate a pack of management reports, including financial investigation.
The Group carries out a programme analysis is sent to each of the directors.
of management self-assessments over the status Board Audit Remuneration Nomination of key business risks through formal reviews which No.
of meetings 8 4 3 8 consider the risks faced by the business, how these J S Hodgson 8 might be mitigated and who within the Company J D Y Collier 8 is responsible for implementing agreed actions.
G Collinson 8 Where appropriate, external advisers are appointed in order to support this process.
P G G Goodridge 8 2 A Carlisle 31 2 2 Monitoring and managing the status R Mackintosh 8 4 3 8 of residual risk J Scarisbrick 8 1 4 The actions arising from these assessments D Tucker 8 4 3 8 are consolidated and during 2005 the results J W Whybrow 8 3 3 8 were reported to the Audit Committee.
1 M L Shone 11 1 1 The Committee assesses the findings and proposed actions for addressing residual risks 1 Stepped down from the Board 31 March 2005 2 and also advises on areas for further attention.
Appointed to the Board 1 July 2005 Internal financial controls Annual General Meeting resolutions The Company has a comprehensive system The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 2 May 2006, together with for regular monitoring and reporting of financial explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice performance and assessing the adequacy of the Annual General Meeting, which has been sent of the Groups systems of internal controls.
Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the annual planning cycle.
This includes assessment By Order of the Board of the Companys strategic direction, objectives Brett Gladden and financial returns and the risks in achieving them.
Secretary As part of the planning cycle, a detailed budget is 28 February 2006 prepared by management and thereafter is reviewed and formally adopted by the Board.
The budget and other targets are regularly updated via a rolling forecasting process and regular business review meetings are also held involving senior management worldwide, at which the Companys overall performance is assessed.
The results of these reviews are in turn reported to and discussed by the Audit Committee and the Board at each meeting.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 35
