0197 DC AR 2005 p22 39 2 6 05 10:18 am Page 22 22 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 Corporate governance The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of financial, operational and compliance matters.
This report sets out how the Company given Board papers in advance of each meeting.
Where complies with the principles contained in Section 1 of the directors have concerns about the running of the Company, Combined Code on corporate governance published by the or a proposed action that cannot be resolved, their concerns Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 and now set out in the are recorded in the Board minutes.
Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
In early 2004 a Corporate Governance Working Group was established, Below the Board level there are limits of authority allowing the comprising the Chairman, Chief Executive and the Company executive committee comprising the four executive directors Secretary and the Board has progressively adopted and and senior management to make financial commitments.
In implemented the recommendations of this group.
The Board addition there are clear policies and procedures over the key considers that, throughout the financial year under review, risk areas where management has been given delegated the Company has complied with the provisions set out in responsibility, including financial reporting, treasury, purchasing, Section 1 of the Combined Code with two exceptions.
Firstly the milk procurement, food safety and environmental matters.
non-executive directors did not meet during the year without the Chairman present.
However such a meeting was held on All directors have access to advice from the Company Secretary 19 May 2005 during the course of which the senior non-executive or independent professional advice at the expense of the director reported on the Chairmans performance appraisal.
During the year training sessions, led by Clifford Such meetings will now be held annually.
Secondly no meetings Chance and by a consultant from the Institute of Directors, were were held between shareholders and the Chairman and the provided on directors legal responsibilities and on Board senior independent non-executive director during the year.
effectiveness to ensure that directors are regularly updated The Board considers that arrangements are in place to ensure and refresh their knowledge and awareness of corporate a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major responsibilities.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance shareholders.
These arrangements include regular feedback cover for the directors and officers.
The Companys insurance from the Chief Executive and the Finance Director on their cover also includes insurance of employers liability and public meetings with major shareholders, together with periodic reports and product liability risks.
to the Board on the views of major shareholders from the Companys broker.
The Board has three Board Committees and details of directors attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings are set We describe below the way in which the Company complies out below: with the detailed provisions of the Combined Code.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee The Board No.
of meetings in year 9 3 2 1 Currently the Board consists of the non-executive Chairman, Mr S M D Oliver 9 2 1 four executive directors and five non-executive directors.
Mr J W D Hall 9 The table opposite identifies the number of Board and Mr M Allen 9 Mr D J Dugdale 9 3 1 Committee meetings held during the past year and the Mr G E Grimstone 9 3 2 attendance of each director.
Mr H Mann 8 2 Mr A S N Murray 9 Mr P S Lewis 8 3 2 1 The Board has responsibility for the overall management and Mr D H Richardson 2 performance of the Group with the key objective of delivering Mr P Thornton 9 shareholder value.
The Board reserves a formal schedule of matters for its approval which includes strategy and All directors have attended all meetings of the Board and of management, financial structure and capital, reporting and Committees of the Board of which they were members at the controls, Board appointments and committees, executive relevant time unless prevented from doing so by prior remuneration, dividend policy and corporate governance commitments.
All directors attended the annual general meeting compliance.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board, in July 2004. the Board objectives, the terms of reference of the Board Committees, a summary of the service contracts of the The Audit Committee: Until 17 March 2005 the Committee executive directors and of the terms of appointment of the noncomprised three non-executive directors, Mr D J Dugdale, executive directors together with the respective responsibilities Mr G E Grimstone and Mr P S Lewis Chairman.
Mr D H of the Chairman and Chief Executive are available on the Richardson joined the Committee on 17 March 2005 and Companys website, www.
The biographies Mr H Mann on 19 May 2005.
The Chairman, the Chief of the directors are set out on page 21.
Executive, the Finance Director, the head of internal audit, senior finance management and representatives of the external Senior executives below Board level attend certain Board auditors are in attendance at meetings of the Committee.
The meetings and make presentations to the Board on strategic, Committee holds private meetings without management present with both the external and internal auditors.
0197 DC AR 2005 p22 39 31 5 05 9:33 am Page 23 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 23 The Committee is responsible for exercising the full powers and The Committee also discussed Board succession arrangements authority of the Board in reviewing a wide range of accounting in December 2004 and has subsequently recommended to and financial reporting matters.
Since the last Annual Report the the Board that Mr G E Grimstone should be proposed for Committee has met to consider amongst other matters: re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Mr G E Grimstone has completed two terms of three years but The Companys interim and annual financial statements and his business background and his governance knowledge gained formal announcements on financial performance before from other board appointments are considered to be of submission to the Board for approval: considerable on-going benefit to the Company.
The Committee The Groups risk register and the adequacy of the Groups approves any non-executive directorships taken by executive accounting systems and internal controls: directors.
The Board believes that directors can gain valuable Review of the Group internal audit process and the 2005 06 experience and knowledge from becoming a non-executive internal audit plan: director of another listed company that will ultimately benefit The provision of audit and non-audit services provided by the Company.
MrJWD Hall, the Groups Chief Executive, was the external auditors, their audit fees for 2004 05 and a appointed as a non-executive director of Mitchells & Butlers plc report from the external auditors confirming their in July 2004.
His fees for this position have been passed to independence and objectivity: the Company.
No other executive director holds a nonAn evaluation of the effectiveness of the external auditors: executive directorship.
Recommendation of re-appointment of the external auditors: Developments in accounting standards in particular the The Remuneration Committee: The membership of the Groups preparation for the adoption of International Committee during the year is set out on page 26.
The Financial Reporting Standards: Committee is responsible for determining, within remuneration The adoption of the Groups whistle blowing procedures and principles agreed with the Board, the salaries, bonuses and application of these procedures: and pension rights of the executive directors.
Remuneration is The Groups compliance with the Combined Code.
designed to be set at a level appropriate to the Companys circumstances having regard to market information provided by Where the external auditors have provided non-audit services external consultants.
The Board itself determines the the Finance Director has obtained prior authorisation from the remuneration of non-executive directors also having regard to chairman of the Committee to instruct Ernst & Young to carry market information provided by external consultants.
An explanation of how the Company has applied the principles of the Combined Code with respect to remuneration is outlined The Committee members bring considerable financial and in the Report of the Board on directors remuneration on accounting experience to the achievement of the Committees pages 26 to 32. objectives.
Collectively members have significant past business experience in industry and finance.
Mr D H Richardson, who Chairman and Chief Executive was Finance Director of Whitbread PLC until April 2005, will There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman, assume the Chairmanship of the Committee following the Mr S M D Oliver, and the Chief Executive, Mr J W D Hall.
The retirement of Mr P S Lewis in July 2005. respective responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive have been agreed by the Board and, as previously advised, are available on the Companys website.
The Nomination Committee: During the year the Committee comprised two non-executive directors Mr D J Dugdale Board balance and independence Chairman and Mr P S Lewis and the non-executive Chairman.
The Board considers all of the non-executive directors including Other directors and advisors attend meetings by invitation only.
the Chairman to be independent under the guidelines set out in Mr G E Grimstone, Mr H Mann and Mr D H Richardson joined the Combined Code.
The non-executive directors and the the Committee on 19 May 2005.
The Committee is responsible Chairman are free from any material business relationship with for succession planning at Board level, overseeing the selection the Company and have not held executive positions within the of directors and making recommendations to the Board on Group.
None of the non-executive directors nor the Chairman subsequent appointments.
The appointment of Mr D H have served as a director of the Company for more than nine Richardson was initiated by the non-executive Chairman and years.
Mr P S Lewis joined the Board in 1996, having previously the Chief Executive who briefed executive search consultants to served for three years as a director of Dairy Crest Limited, and locate a non-executive director with a strong financial is therefore in his ninth year of service with the Company.
The Company interviewed a number of candidates Mr P S Lewis will retire by rotation at the AGM and is not identified by the consultants and from other sources.
Currently there are five non-executive Committee met in December 2004 to receive a report on the directors and the non-executive Chairman, out of a total progress of the recruitment exercise and subsequently Board of ten.
The directors are of the opinion that an recommended the appointment of Mr D H Richardson.
appropriate balance between executive and independent 0197 DC AR 2005 p22 39 2 6 05 10:28 am Page 24 24 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 Corporate governance continued non-executive directors exists.
Mr P S Lewis will be succeeded Accountability and audit by Mr G E Grimstone as the senior non-executive director.
Any The directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Group has shareholder who has a concern about the affairs of the adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Company should contact, in the first instance, the Chairman, foreseeable future.
It is therefore appropriate to continue to the Chief Executive or the senior non-executive director.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Performance evaluation The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of The Board conducts an annual evaluation of individual directors, internal control to safeguard the shareholders investment and its own performance and that of its Committees.
The evaluation the Companys assets.
As required by the Combined Code, the process is designed to improve the effectiveness of the Board.
Board has established an ongoing process, in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull committee on internal control, to Individual director performance is reviewed as follows: identify, evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the Group.
This process, which includes the consideration of a The Chairman is appraised by the senior non-executive schedule identifying and evaluating the Groups significant risks director with input from other directors.
The procedures for and related financial, operational and compliance controls has determining the Chairmans remuneration are outlined in the been in place for the year under review and up to the date of Report of the Board on directors remuneration on page 27. approval of the Annual Report.
The Board has reviewed the The Chief Executive appraises the performance of the other effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control including executive directors and monitors and reviews the that of its joint venture Yoplait Dairy Crest Limited which is remuneration structure for senior managers.
designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to The performance of the Chief Executive and of directors, achieve the Groups strategic objectives and to provide in relation to their Board responsibilities, is appraised by reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material the Chairman.
Appraisals were performed for all the directors during the year The main elements of the process applied in reviewing the for their performance in 2004 05 and the Chairman reported to effectiveness of the systems of internal control include: the Board on the outcome of the appraisals in relation to the Boards overall effectiveness at its meeting on 19 May 2005.
Board the Board exercises its responsibilities through Following receipt of this report, the Board has assessed its organisational structure with clearly defined levels of overall performance and that of its Committees and has responsibility and rules relating to delegated authorities.
The determined training requirements for the current year.
Board meets regularly throughout the year and receives oral and written presentations to maintain control over strategic, Re-election financial, operational and compliance matters.
The executive The Companys articles require that one third of Board members committee is responsible for embedding risk management retire by rotation at each AGM.
In addition, directors appointed and controls in the Group.
The executive director of each to the Board after the previous AGM have to seek election at division, in conjunction with senior management, operates the next AGM.
At the AGM to be held on 14 July 2005 Mr G E and maintains controls appropriate to its own activities and Grimstone, Mr J W D Hall and Mr P S Lewis will retire by conforms to Group policies and procedures.
The Nomination Committee has recommended that Financial reporting there is an annual budget presented Mr G E Grimstone is proposed for re-election as a nonand approved by the Board which includes consideration executive director.
The Board supports this recommendation of the major business risks, an assessment of the likelihood and is satisfied that Mr G E Grimstones performance continues of crystalisation and actions in place to mitigate these risks.
to be effective and that he demonstrates appropriate Each business is required to report monthly to the Board commitment to the role, including time for Board and on financial performance.
The monthly financial information Committee meetings and any other duties.
includes trading results, balance sheet and cash flow information by business unit with comparison against prior The Board also supports the proposed re-election to the Board year and budget.
Each business periodically reassesses its of Mr J W D Hall, the Companys Chief Executive.
As previously forecast for the financial year.
Annually a strategic plan is stated, Mr P S Lewis is not seeking re-election.
also presented to the Board, which reviews financial projections for the following three years and includes Mr D H Richardson joined the Board on 9 December 2004 and, consideration of current and likely future strategic, having been appointed during the year, will retire at the AGM operational and market environment matters.
and offers himself for election.
0197 DC AR 2005 p22 39 2 6 05 10:28 am Page 25 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 25 Business unit reviews on a quarterly basis, each business Directors indemnities unit is required to complete a self-assessment controls An amendment to the Companies Act 1985 the Act came questionnaire that requires the approval of business unit into force on 6 April 2005 under which companies may management.
In addition, the Audit Committee and the indemnify their directors and officers against liabilities including executive committee receive copies of all Group internal against legal costs to a greater extent than was previously audit reports which detail audit issues noted and corrective possible.
This amendment has been introduced by the action plans.
They also receive reports from the external Government following its consultation process in respect of auditors on the conclusions of their interim review and director and auditor liability.
The amendment addresses final audit.
concerns raised in that process that exposure to liabilities arising from legal action brought against directors by third Relationships with shareholders parties and the cost of lengthy court proceedings were The Company places considerable importance on its affecting the recruitment and behaviour of directors.
The Board communication and relationship with its institutional and private wishes to continue to attract good quality directors and shareholders.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Director hold therefore believes it is in the interests of the Company to take meetings with key institutional shareholders to discuss strategy, advantage of this amendment.
Accordingly resolution 10 at the financial performance and investment activities immediately after AGM proposes the adoption of a new article 147 of the the full year and interim results announcement.
Slide Companys articles of association to give the directors and the presentations made to institutional shareholders are also officers the benefit of the new indemnity provisions to the extent available on the Companys website.
Feedback from meetings permitted by the Act.
with shareholders was provided to the Board to ensure that the non-executive directors have a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
In addition the Board received periodic reports from the Companys broker on investor relations and the views of shareholders.
The principal method of communication with private shareholders is through the Annual and Interim reports, the AGM and through the Companys website.
A business review is presented by the Chairman at the AGM to facilitate shareholder understanding of the Groups activities.
All executive directors, the Chairman and the chairmen of Board Committees attend the AGM and are available to answer shareholders questions.
The Notice of the AGM is posted to shareholders with the annual accounts at least 20 working days before the date of the AGM.
Resolutions are proposed for each substantial separate issue and details of the proxy votes for each resolution passed are announced after the result of each show of hands is known and are then posted on the Companys website following the conclusion of the meeting.
