CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to high standards of corporate The Board believes that four non-executive Directors may be governance.
The paragraphs below and in the Remuneration Report considered to be independent under the Code, namely Messrs on pages 29 to 40 describe how the Board has applied the principles Lowy, Dunstone, Balsemo and Verey.
This represents less than the set out in the Combined Code the Code issued by the Financial half of the Board recommended by the Code.
Although Mr Lowy has Services Authority in July 2003.
The Code is part of the listing rules been a non-executive Director for longer than nine years, he has and applied to the Company for the first time throughout the year.
continued to demonstrate his independence in terms of character and judgement.
Being based in Sydney, Australia, Mr Lowy finds it The Company has substantially complied with the provisions of difficult to attend Board meetings.
However, he provides his views the Code, except where the Board has determined that they are on Board papers for each meeting and meets with executive inappropriate to the particular circumstances of the Company, Directors when he is in London or when they are in Sydney.
as explained below and in the Remuneration Report.
Messrs Hemingway, Gray and Gillespie are not regarded by the The Board Board as independent under the Code because they have advised The Company is headed by a Board which comprises a good the Company over many years: nor is Mr Park due to his having balance of seven executive Directors, including the Chairman and been chairman of Northcliffe Newspapers within the last five years.
Chief Executive, and eight non-executive Directors.
Biographical Nevertheless the Board believes that these non-executive Directors details of each of the Directors are set out on page 24.
The Board make an important contribution to its deliberations and have has been progressively refreshed in recent years with several invaluable experience of the Company, its business and its staff.
appointments, including three new independent Directors.
Information and professional development The Board meets regularly four times a year and at such other Procedures have been established to ensure that the Board times as are necessary.
It approves the Groups strategy which receives timely and appropriate information both for its meetings is proposed and executed by the executive Directors.
Its specific and regularly between meetings.
All Directors are offered such responsibilities are set out in a schedule of matters reserved training as is considered necessary, both on appointment and at to the Board which is published on the Companys website at any subsequent time.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors www.
to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense, if necessary.
The Board met four times during the 2004 05 financial year.
Individual attendance by Directors is set out below: Election and re-election The Companys Articles of Association require that a Director Number of Number of appointed by the Board must stand for election at the next Annual meetings held meetings attended General Meeting.
Thereafter all Directors are subject to re-election every three years.
Under the Companies Act, a Director is also The Viscount Rothermere 4 4 required to stand for re-election when he first reaches the age of C J F Sinclair 4 4 70.
In 2000, the Remuneration Committee agreed the objective J P Williams 4 4 that Directors over the age of 75 years should not seek re-election.
The Board has chosen not to adopt the additional provision in D M M Dutton 4 4 the Code that non-executive Directors, who have served for more P M Dacre 4 4 than nine years, should be subject to annual re-election since the existing practice, which complies with Company law and with P M Fallon 4 4 the Articles, works well.
K J Beatty 2 2 J G Hemingway 4 4 The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive Directors are available for inspection at the Registered Office of S M Gray 4 4 the Company during usual business hours.
I G Park 4 4 Board evaluation F P Lowy 4 1 The Board has undertaken a formal and rigorous evaluation of its C W Dunstone 4 4 own performance and that of its individual Directors.
It reviewed its F P Balsemo 4 3 performance by reference to the schedule of matters reserved for it.
The evaluation process took the form of a questionnaire from T S Gillespie 4 4 the Chairman to each Director, seeking their views on such matters D J Verey 4 4 as involvement in strategy, the structure of the Board meetings and communications, and the effectiveness of the Companys K Schwab 1 1 Committee structure.
Where feasible, individual meetings were held with Directors.
The Chairman reported the consensus view on Appointed on 1st December, 2004 performance to the Board at its meeting in October 2005, enabling Resigned on 1st December, 2004 it to conclude that it had been effective in the year under review.
The Board has not, as required by the Code, identified a senior The non-executive Directors did not meet as a group without independent non-executive Director since it believes that to the Chairman since his performance was assessed by the identify such an individual is potentially divisive to a unitary body, Remuneration Committee without the Chairman being present.
as the Board is, and disruptive to the role of the Chairman.
Board Committees The division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman The Board has established Nominations, Remuneration, Audit and and the Chief Executive is understood and works well, given the Risk Committees with mandates to deal with specific aspects of individuals long-standing appointments, as set out on page 24. its business.
The remits of these committees are published on the Hence it has not needed to be set out in writing, nor agreed by Companys website.
Details of the membership of these the Board.
26 Daily Mail and General Trust plc CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Continued committees are given on page 24.
Each committee reports to management responsible to the Board.
Certain functions are the Board at every regular meeting.
In October 2005, the Board undertaken centrally, notably newsprint buying, insurance, carried out a review of the performance of its committees and treasury, tax, pensions and internal audit.
concluded that they had been effective in the year.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Company Secretary internal control.
This system is designed to provide reasonable The Company Secretary, Mr Jennings, is responsible for advising assurance of the safeguarding of assets and shareholders the Board through the Chairman on all governance issues.
All investment and the reliability of financial information.
Any such Directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary.
system can, however, provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance of these matters.
The Directors confirm that they have Nominations Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control The Nominations Committee, which was established as a for the period up to the date of the approval of the Accounts.
separate committee in 2003, met three times during the year and all meetings were attended by all serving Directors.
The The Board has delegated responsibility for the evaluation of the members of the Committee are the Viscount Rothermere, its benefits and risks of investment opportunities and financing chairman, Mr Hemingway and Mr Balsemo.
Only Mr Balsemo proposals to an executive committee, the Finance Committee.
is an independent non-executive Director, whereas the Code Above certain defined levels, however, the Board must approve recommends that a majority of members of the Committee programmes relating to acquisition and divestment proposals and should be independent.
Nevertheless the Board believes that capital expenditure.
The process for the management of significant the Committee operates well.
The Deputy Finance Director, risks is undertaken by the Risk Committee, which was established Mr Perry, is secretary to the Committee.
in 2000, and it accords with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, appended to the Code.
The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board with regard Risk Committee to any changes.
During the year it nominated Mr Beatty as an Whilst the ultimate responsibility for the system of internal control executive Director.
This Director and others were identified as and the review of its effectiveness resides with the Board, the suitable candidates, and neither external advice nor advertising Risk Committee assists the Board by giving assurance on risk was required in these instances.
The Risk Committee is chaired by Mr Sinclair, the Chief Executive.
Its other members are the The Committee continued to review succession planning for both Viscount Rothermere, Messrs Williams, Gray and Dutton and the executive and non-executive Directors.
It has also assessed the legal director of the Groups largest subsidiary.
Mr Gray provides most appropriate method of evaluating Directors performance.
a non-executive perspective to the review of risk management processes within the Group, as well as providing a direct link to the Relations with shareholders Audit Committee.
The Committee met three times during the year.
The Company maintains a regular programme of contact with its Since the year end, the Internal Audit Manager, Mr Page, has taken institutional shareholders.
In the past year, this has included meetings on the role of Secretary to the Committee in order better to align in London, Scotland, Ireland, Continental Europe and the U. S. its activity with that of the Audit Committee by ensuring a closer link between risk identification and the audit review of the controls Non-executive Directors are kept informed of the views of that mitigate these risks.
institutional shareholders by the regular distribution of analysts reports and feedback is available from institutional meetings.
The Risk Committee considers reports prepared by central management, by each of the divisions of the Group and by central All shareholders are welcome to attend the Annual General functions, on an annual basis.
These reports identify business Meeting, of which twenty working days notice is given, where risks for the Group as a whole and within the divisions and assess they have the opportunity to speak to Directors.
the controls in place to manage those risks.
The Committee operates a rotational programme of presentations by the divisions Partly to assist private shareholders, the Company posts all on specific risk management issues, as well as identifying topics announcements and general presentations given to analysts and for consideration across the Group.
This year a significant focus of institutions on its corporate website.
Shareholders and others the Committee has been business continuity and disaster recovery interested in the Group are encouraged to use the site and to email planning.
The Committee also monitors developments in relevant questions which they might have to investor.
legislation and regulations to consider the impact these might @ Questions to particular Directors should be addressed through have on the Group and on its system of internal control.
Members of the Risk Committee also maintain direct links with Internal controls and management of risk each of the main divisions through attendance at divisional board The Group adopts a prudent risk strategy, weighing opportunities meetings as directors of these boards.
The Committee reports to for potential gain against threats to overall business objectives and the Board at each of its meetings on the results of these processes profitability.
Senior management addresses the opportunities and to enable the Board to determine the overall effectiveness of the uncertainties relating to the business activities of the Group.
The system of internal control and risk management more widely.
risk management process consists of the identification, evaluation and control of risks, which could threaten the achievement of the Audit Committee Groups strategic, operational and financial objectives, as well as The Audit Committee, which has been in existence since 1989, the active management of opportunities.
comprises four non-executive directors: Messrs Gray its chairman, Hemingway, Park and Verey.
The Code recommends The Group operates on a divisional basis with each of the divisions that an audit committee should comprise at least three members, described at the front of the Annual Report having considerable all of whom should be independent non-executive Directors.
autonomy as regards its operation and establishment of control Only Mr Verey is considered to be independent under the Code.
Overseeing the divisional structure is a central Nevertheless the Board believes that the Committee operates 27 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
