Corporate governance Combined Code The Financial Services Authority FSA requires listed companies to disclose, in relation to the Combined Code as revised in 2003 the Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the accounting year.
The Board of Kesa Electricals supports the principles of corporate governance advocated by the Code and the Board believes that it complies in full with the terms of the Code with the exception of A.
David Newlands is not considered to be independent for the purposes of determining that a majority of the members of the Nomination Committee are independent.
It was agreed that Bernard Dufau should join the Nomination Committee with effect from 18 March 2005 and from this date the Company is in compliance with Principle A.
Directors The Board consists of a Chairman, a Chief Executive plus one further Executive Director and four Non-Executive Directors.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The four Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, a Directors judgement.
Peter Wilson is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms and the details of their respective appointments are set out in the report on Directors remuneration and related matters on page 38.
Copies of their respective letters of appointment or contracts are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and will also be available for inspection at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and thereafter in accordance with the Articles 107 and 108 of the Companys Articles of Association.
This ensures compliance with the Code by providing that all Directors are required to submit themselves for re-appointment at least once every three years.
The Board has eight scheduled meetings each year and meets more frequently as required.
In all, the Board met on ten occasions between 31 January 2004 and 31 January 2005.
All members attended all meetings with the exception of Andrew Robb who was not present at the meeting on 29 March 2004 and Bernard Dufau and Peter Wilson who could not attend the meeting held on 22 November 2004.
In those few instances where a Director could not attend either a Board meeting or a committee meeting, that Director relayed his comments on the papers to be considered at that meeting in advance to the relevant Chairman.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet as a group without the Executive Directors present.
The Non-Executive Directors meet in the absence of the Chairman if there are any concerns which the Chairman has failed to resolve, or if there were to be any issues concerning his performance or terms of appointment.
The role of the Chairman is to ensure that the Board has full and timely access to all relevant information.
The Chairman leads the Board and represents the Board to the Chief Executive as necessary between Board meetings.
The duties of the Board and its committees are set out clearly in formal terms of reference, which are reviewed regularly, stating the items specifically reserved for decisions by the Board.
The Board establishes overall Group strategy, including new activities and withdrawal from existing activities.
It approves the Groups commercial strategy and the operating budget and monitors divisional performance through the receipt of monthly reports and management accounts.
The process for the approval of acquisitions divestments for the most part is a matter reserved for the Board save that it delegates to the Chief Executive the responsibility for such activities up to a specified level of authority.
Similarly there are authority levels covering capital expenditure, which can be exercised by the Chief Executive.
Beyond these levels of authority, projects are referred to the Board for approval.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05 27 Corporate governance Other matters reserved to the Board include: Overview of control, audit and risk management.
Remuneration: The Groups framework of executive remuneration and its cost in the light of recommendations made by the Remuneration Committee.
The remuneration of the Directors.
Senior management succession plans and the overall direction of management development.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
This includes monthly management accounts irrespective of whether or not a Board meeting is scheduled.
There is also a procedure under which Directors, in furtherance of their duties, are able to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and all Directors have access to his advice and services.
The Directors receive training as part of their induction from the Companys legal advisers on the duties and responsibilities of being Directors of a publicly-limited company.
The training needs of the Directors are periodically discussed at Board meetings and briefings are given by the Company Secretary on various elements of corporate governance, regulatory compliance and best practice.
During 2004, the Board, and each of the audit and remuneration committees undertook performance evaluations.
Using the Higgs Suggestions for Good Practice as guidance, the individual committee members initially completed separate questionnaires.
The results were compiled and analysed by the Company Secretary, who prepared reports to the Board and each of the committees.
The areas covered included the role of the Executive and NonExecutive Directors and the Board Board committees, preparation for and the performance at meetings, the effectiveness of the Board Board committees, leadership and culture and corporate governance.
The results were then considered by the Board and each of these committees in meetings as specific items of business.
The Board and Board committees consider that they are operating effectively.
These exercises will be repeated annually.
The Senior Independent Director, Peter Wilson, also met with the Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman, to assess the Chairmans effectiveness.
Details of the Chairmans professional commitments are included in his biography on page 23.
The Board has established a number of committees, including Audit, Remuneration and Nomination: a Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of four Non-Executive Directors, considered by the Board to be independent.
They are Andrew Robb Chairman, Peter Wilson, Michel Brossard and Bernard Dufau.
The Committee has at least one member, Andrew Robb who possesses recent and relevant financial experience.
It will be seen from the Directors biographical details, appearing on pages 22 and 23, that the members of the Committee bring to it a wide range of experience from positions at the highest level both in the UK and France.
The Committee normally meets at least four times a year and met on five occasions between 31 January 2004 and 31 January 2005.
All members of the Committee attended all meetings.
Both the external auditors and the Director of Audit and Risk Management are normally present at the meetings and, in addition, it is common practice for the Committee to meet the external auditors without management present.
The Director of Audit and Risk Management has the right to request a meeting without other management present, and he regularly meets the Chairman of the Audit Committee without management being present.
The Group Chief Executive and the Finance Director attend meetings as appropriate.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of meetings to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all Audit Committee meetings.
28 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05 The main role and responsibilities are set out in written terms of reference which encompass those recommended by the Combined Code, i. e: To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained therein.
To review financial reports for publication and to ensure compliance with all accounting policies and standards.
To review the Companys compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
To review the Companys financial control and risk management systems and to review risk exposures and steps taken to monitor and control them.
To monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function.
To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor.
To monitor and review the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account UK professional and regulatory requirements.
To monitor the operation of formal complaints procedures, including whistle-blowing.
To satisfy itself the Companys code of conduct is being enforced.
These responsibilities are discharged in the following manner: At its meetings in September and March, the focus falls on a review of the preliminary announcement Annual report and financial statements, and the Interim announcement respectively.
On both occasions, the Committee receives reports from the external auditors identifying any accounting or judgemental issues requiring its attention.
A quarterly report from the Director of Audit and Risk Management is presented at each of the four meetings, which highlights any significant risk and control issues.
In addition, at the March meeting, the Director of Audit and Risk Management submits the internal audit plans for the coming year.
The external auditors also present their audit plans at the September meeting and at the March meeting, there is a detailed review of the management letter covering the auditors findings in respect of the prior financial year.
Group companies are, from time to time, required to make presentations to the Committee on the subject of risk, its identification, management and control.
As a matter of routine, the Committee is presented with information on material litigation involving Group companies.
The Committee reviews all financial statements prior to their publication.
As noted above, one of the duties of the Audit Committee is to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditors.
The Committee, in assessing whether to recommend the auditors for re-appointment, takes a number of factors into account.
These include: The quality of reports provided to the Audit Committee and the Board and the quality of advice given.
The level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups business and industry.
The objectivity of the auditors views on the controls around the Group and their ability to co-ordinate a global audit working to tight deadlines.
The Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the independence of the audit is not compromised and the auditors are substantially restricted in their ability to perform any non-audit activities.
Arrangements are in place for the auditors to report to the Committee on actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence from the Company.
b Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of Non-Executive Directors considered by the Board to be independent: Peter Wilson Chairman, Michel Brossard, Bernard Dufau and Andrew Robb.
Its responsibilities include setting remuneration policy, ensuring that the remuneration and terms of service of the Executive Directors are appropriate and that Directors are fairly rewarded for their individual contribution to the Companys overall performance.
It also ensures that the allocation of shares under the Groups share schemes are on a fair and equitable basis and in accordance with agreed performance criteria.
The Committee has met on four occasions between 31 January 2004 and 31 January 2005 and all members of the Committee attended the meetings except Andrew Robb who could not attend the meeting held on 29 March 2004.
The application of corporate governance principles in relation to Directors remuneration is described in the report on Directors remuneration and related matters on pages 32 and 33.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05 29 Corporate governance c Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination Committee are David Newlands Chairman, Jean-Nol Labroue, Peter Wilson and Andrew Robb.
Bernard Dufau joined the Committee on 18 March 2005.
The Committee would be chaired by the Senior Independent Director on any matter concerning the Chairmanship of the Company.
The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference covering the authority delegated to it by the Board.
These include the following duties: To review regularly the Board performance, including structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
Board appointments and removals are matters reserved for the Board.
It is the responsibility of the Nomination Committee to identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board, to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise and to review succession plans for both Board and senior executive positions.
Setting policy for granting of service agreements including mitigation policy.
The Committee met once in the year and all members attended.
Relations with shareholders The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders and does this through its Annual and Interim reports and at the Annual General Meeting.
Although it does not have precise rules covering meetings with institutional shareholders, it is always ready to enter a dialogue with investors, and meetings take place frequently.
The Board believes that good communication with shareholders is important.
There are programmes for the Chief Executive and Finance Director to meet with the Companys institutional investors in the UK, Europe and US and presentations are made on the operating and financial performance of the Group and its longer-term strategy.
Road shows are held in the UK and Europe immediately after the presentation of the full-year and interim results.
If it is not possible to arrange face-to-face meetings, meetings are held by telephone conference.
The slide presentations made to representatives of the investment community following the announcement of the full-year and interim results are available on-line at www.
com as is a web cast of the results presentations.
The Non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the views of institutional shareholders and the Senior Independent Director, Peter Wilson, is available to meet with institutional shareholders should there be unresolved matters that such shareholders believe should be brought to his attention.
The principal communication with private investors is through the Annual report, the Interim report and the Annual General Meeting.
A presentation is made at the Annual General Meeting to facilitate greater awareness of the Groups activities.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions of the Board and the Chairman of each Board committee at the meeting and meet the Directors informally after the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each item of business and the for, against and abstention proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution proposed at the meeting are counted and announced after the shareholders present have voted on each resolution.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is posted to shareholders with the Annual report at least 20 working days before the date of the Annual General Meeting.
Financial and other information including the terms of reference for the Board committees is available from the Companys registered office and is also available on the Companys website, www.
Accountability and audit It is a requirement of the Combined Code that the Board should present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
In this context, reference should be made to the statement of Directors responsibilities on page 40, which includes a statement in compliance with the Code regarding the Groups status as a going concern, and to the report of the auditors on page 41, which includes a statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment extends to Interim and other price sensitive public reports and reports to regulators as well as information required to be presented by law.
30 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05 Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness and confirms that such a review has taken place during the year.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures, which have been established to provide internal control.
Following publication of guidance for directors on internal control in the Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
These include those relating to social, environmental and ethical matters.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee, which reports its findings for consideration by the Board, and is in accordance with the Combined Code and the Turnbull Committee guidance.
The key procedures, which operated throughout the year, are as follows: Risk assessment: The Group clearly sets out its objectives as part of its medium-term planning process.
These objectives are then incorporated as part of the budgeting and planning cycle and are supported by the use of both financial and non-financial key performance indicators.
The operating companies make presentations on risk to their audit committees whose reports in turn are reviewed by the Group Audit Committee, which reports to the Group Board on the risks facing the businesses.
The detailed assessment of strategic risks is delegated to the Group Chief Executive.
This review is carried out as part of the annual budgeting and the monthly reporting and re-forecasting cycles.
The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for considering operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular basis and receives reports on the controls over these risks biannually.
This includes risks arising from social, environmental and ethical matters.
Control environment and control activities: The Group consists of a number of major operating companies each with its own management and control structures.
The Group has established procedures for delegated authority, which ensure that decisions that are significant, either because of the value or the impact on other parts of the Group, are taken at an appropriate level.
The Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with each significant risk that has been identified.
These strategies include not only internal controls but also other approaches such as insurance, joint ventures and specialised treasury instruments, although the risk assessment process does not cover franchisees.
The operating companies work within a framework of policies and procedures laid down in organisation and authority manuals, and personnel are required to comply with these procedures.
Policies and procedures cover key issues such as authorisation levels, segregation of duties, compliance with legislation and physical and data security.
The Group has also established a whistle-blowing policy.
Information and communication: The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control including monthly performance reviews for each major business and division.
These reviews are at a detailed level within the operating companies and at a high level for the Group Board.
On a monthly basis, the achievement of business objectives, both financial and non-financial, is assessed using a range of key performance indicators.
These indicators are reviewed to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable.
There are clear procedures in the major trading divisions for employees to report suspected improprieties.
Monitoring: A range of procedures are used to monitor the effective application of internal control within the Group including control self-assessment, management confirmation of compliance with standards and internal audit reviews.
The Committee also reviews the minutes of each operating companies own audit committee meetings, which meetings are attended by both the external and internal auditors.
The internal audit departments responsibilities include: Reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems focusing on those areas of greatest financial risk to the Group.
Routine and cyclical reviews of business areas.
Follow-up procedures to ensure there is an appropriate response to changes in risks and controls and timely implementation of audit recommendations.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05 31
