Corporate governance The Board is collectively accountable to its shareholders for so when Philip Nolan also attended the meeting.
He was appointed good corporate governance and all directors are responsible formally to the Committee thereafter.
The work carried out by the for complying with their legal and fiduciary obligations.
Nomination Committee during 2004 05 is described on page 23.
The Board is committed to complying with the highest standards 2006 2007 is the first financial year for which fide La Rue must of corporate governance, which is the system of internal principles, produce an Operating and Financial Review in accordance with controls and processes it approves and by which the fide La Rue The Companies Act 1985 Operating and Financial Review and Group is run in order to achieve its objectives whilst complying with Directors Report etc Regulations 2005. the required standards of accountability and probity.
Board of Directors The Companys corporate governance arrangements are described Composition of the Board in the following sections: During April and May 2004 and between the 2004 AGM and Corporate governance report: pages 21 to 25 1 March 2005 there were an equal number of independent nonDirectors Profiles: page 18 executive directors compared to the non-executive Chairman Remuneration Report: pages 26 to 32 and executive directors.
As at the date of this report there are four Directors Report: pages 19 to 20 independent non-executive directors, two executive directors and Corporate Responsibility: pages 14 to 17 the non-executive Chairman.
The Board has concluded that its Directors Responsibility Statement: page 19 composition throughout the year was and remains appropriately Shareholders Information: page 64 balanced.
There is a clear division between the management of the Notice of Annual General Meeting: pages 19 to 20 Board and the executive Directors responsibility for managing the Companys business but no individual or small group can dominate Corporate Governance Framework decision taking.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are The Companys corporate governance procedures, which are separated and clearly defined.
The Chairman is primarily responsible approved by the Board, define the matters reserved to the Board, for the working of the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the terms of reference of various Committees of the Board and the running the business and implementing Board strategy and policy.
functions delegated to these Committees as well as defining the jobs of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and nonThe Directors biographies appear on page 18.
The Boards policy is executive Directors.
The Company reviews and amends its corporate that the Chairman and executive Directors should accept appointments governance policies to reflect changes to the Combined Code, to the boards of other companies only with the prior approval of the legislation or good practice.
Revisions were last made in March 2005.
Board and that non-executive Directors must seek the agreement of the Chairman and confirmation by the Board before accepting The Board also approves the Companys Business Code of Conduct additional commitments that may affect the time they devote to their Code of Conduct which defines the Companys business principles role.
Philip Nolan was appointed a non-executive Director of Providence and which was updated in February 2004.
This is discussed further Resources plc on 5 May 2004.
Stephen King was appointed as a in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 14 to 15.
These non-executive Director of Weir Group plc on 3 February 2005.
The documents are set out on the Companys website www.
Chairman was appointed a director of Axel Johnson Inc on 16 March 2005 and Michael Jeffries was appointed chairman of VT Group plc In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, the on 16 May 2005.
The Board was satisfied that these commitments Board confirms that there is an established process for identifying, do not conflict with their ability to carry out effectively their duties as evaluating and managing the key risks including financial, operational directors of the Company.
and compliance controls and risk management systems.
This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date Objectives of the Board of approval by the Board of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The The Boards objectives are: Boards governance policies include a process for the Board to review regularly the effectiveness of the system of internal control and delivering value to shareholders and other stakeholders: risk management systems, and the Board has conducted such a maintaining the Companys reputation for integrity as the foundation review during the year.
Details are set out on page 24.
This does not of its relationship with stakeholders: and extend to associated companies or joint ventures such as Camelot building long-term success through innovation, quality and sound Group plc where we do not have management control.
Compliance with Section 1 of the Combined Code on Role and Operation of the Board Corporate Governance The Boards core procedures are: In the year to 26 March 2005 the Company has complied with the provisions and applied the principles of the Combined Code issued set out in the terms of reference for the Board, its Committees by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code except and Directors: as described below.
the control of risk through agreed evaluation and control procedures reviewed and revised annually: and A4.1 The Nomination Committee comprised a majority of monitoring the composition of the Board through the Nomination independent non-executive directors, as required by the Code except Committee.
for a period between July 2004 and January 2005 when there were only two who were members at the same time as both the Chairman The Board has also reserved certain matters to itself to reinforce its and the Chief Executive were also members.
The Board considered control of the Group.
These include: it appropriate for the Chief Executive to be a member of the Committee.
However the Committee met only once when this was fide La Rue Annual Report Corporate governance 21 Corporate governance continued establishing Committees of the board and their terms of reference: issues identified during the previous review.
The Chairman and each determining the responsibilities of directors and in particular as Committee Chairman had discussions with each director or Committee between the Chairman and Chief Executive: member based on the responses and each directors own views approving internal control processes: regarding effectiveness of the Board or Committee as a whole and the in conjunction with the Audit Committee approving the individual directors performance.
The senior independent non-executive announcement of interim and final results: Director was responsible for appraising the Chairmans performance approving any interim dividend and recommending the final in meetings or discussions with the non-executive Directors in the dividend to shareholders: absence of the Chairman.
The Chairman and the non-executive approving the Annual Report, Remuneration Report and Financial Directors also met in the absence of the executive Directors.
The Statements: results were discussed by the Board or individual Committees which approving the Groups strategy: then produced an implementation plan to address any issues raised.
approving the Groups annual budget: approving significant matters relating to capital expenditure, The chairman of the Audit Committee was also responsible for acquisitions and disposals or joint ventures by any Group company: ensuring that the effectiveness of the external audit process and approving changes to the capital structure of the Company or internal audit function was reviewed following a similar procedure.
other matters relevant to its status as a listed company: being informed about and taking any necessary decision on any Details of attendance at Board and Committee meetings matter which would have a material effect on the Companys The number of full scheduled Board meetings and Committee financial position, liabilities, future strategy or reputation.
meetings attended by each Director during the year was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination The Board delegates authority to run the business to the Chief Board Committee Committee Committee Executive, except where certain matters are reserved to it or to Number of the Committees of the Board.
The Chief Executive in turn delegates Meetings held 14 494 responsibility to senior executives and in particular divisional Sir Brandon Gough 5 managing directors.
Operational control is exercised by the Operating retired 22.07.04 Board which functions as a board of directors.
The Finance Directors Nicholas Brookes 13 2 3 role and responsibilities are also clearly defined.
A matrix of delegated Leo Quinn 14 2 authorities is reviewed and approved by the Board annually.
Sir Jeremy Greenstock 1 appointed 01.03.05 The Board provides leadership of the Company within a framework of Keith Hodgkinson 14 4 9 3 prudent and effective internal controls, including financial, operational Stephen King 14 and compliance controls and risk management systems.
These are Ian Much 3 required to identify and manage the risks and their potential effect retired 30.05.04 whilst ensuring that material changes are reported to the Board in a Michael Jeffries 14 4 9 4 timely fashion.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of those controls Philip Nolan 12 3 7 1 and systems and is assisted by the Audit and Risk Committees.
Details of the process are set out below.
Nicholas Brookes resigned from the Remuneration Committee upon his appointment as Chairman.
The Board reviews matters reserved to itself and the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives at its meetings.
Role of Non-Executive Directors The Board timetable ensures that the Board receives regular reports The non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered by the or presentations from the executive Directors, operational managing Board to be independent, have an appropriate range of business, directors and key functions.
Details are set out above.
financial and global experience which is relevant to the Companys activities.
None of the non-executive Directors holds a material Directors receive agendas and Board papers generally five days shareholding in the Company.
Nicholas Brookes ceased to be before each Board meeting: minutes are circulated as soon as independent after his appointment on 22 July 2004 as Chairman possible thereafter.
The Board reviews progress on implementing under the Code but the Board considers that his contribution and actions arising from the Board and its Committee meetings each objectivity in Board and Committee discussions were fully consistent month.
There is also a defined procedure for dealing with urgent with those of an independent Director.
Michael Jeffries succeeded matters between Board meetings.
Nicholas Brookes as the Companys senior independent nonexecutive Director and shareholders may contact him if they feel All Directors can request additional information from management at their concerns are not being addressed through normal channels.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services He is also responsible for reviewing the performance of the Chairman.
of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The Board decides the appointment and Non-executive Directors confirm on appointment, and annually, and have removal of the Company Secretary.
done so this year, that they are able to allocate sufficient time to enable them properly to discharge their duties.
In the very few instances when a Board Evaluation and Effectiveness Review director has not been able to attend Board or Committee meetings, he The Board and each of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit has made known his views on pertinent matters to the Board.
Committees carried out an evaluation of their performance during the year.
The Risk Committee was evaluated by the Board.
The process Induction and Training involved completion of questionnaires which focused on process, All new directors receive an induction on joining the Company, for structure, behaviours and key issues such as strategy and succession, which the Chairman is responsible.
This covers such matters as the against delivery of the Boards objectives and implementation of any strategy, operation and activities of the Group including key financial 22 fide La Rue Annual Report Corporate governance data, business, social and environmental risks to the Groups to any vacancies for executive or non-executive Directors or changes activities, corporate governance matters such as the role of the that are considered necessary.
The Committee also reviews the time Board and individual Committees, and the Companys corporate required of non-executive Directors at least once a year.
The Board, governance procedures as outlined in this report.
They are advised as a whole, approves the appointment and removal of Directors.
The on the duties and obligations of directors of a listed company.
Site Committee has the power to employ the services of such advisers as visits and meetings with senior management are also arranged.
Any it deems necessary in order to carry out its responsibilities and will newly appointed Director, such as Leo Quinn, who has not previously invariably retain appropriate executive search consultants, having been a director of a listed company is required to attend an external prepared a job specification of the role.
course covering such duties and responsibilities.
Nicholas Brookes, following his appointment as Chairman, has undertaken visits to The principal activity of the Committee during 2004 5 was to ensure major operations of the Company and met key managers throughout that a suitable chairman was appointed to succeed Sir Brandon the Group, especially in Cash Systems Division.
Gough after the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
Sir Brandon resigned from the Nomination Committee in March 2004 and did not participate Directors are briefed, where appropriate by the Companys external in the appointment of his successor.
Nicholas Brookes, as a potential advisers, on changes to legislation or regulation or market practice as candidate and member of the Nomination Committee, did not well as receiving briefings from individual businesses throughout the participate in any proceedings.
The Committee co-opted Philip year.
Directors have the opportunity of attending appropriate training Nolan.
The Committee considered the job specification, specific sessions especially for Committee chairmen.
qualities, amount of time required of a non-executive chairman and needs of the Company at the current time.
It decided that it was in At least once a year the Board generally visits one site outside head the best interests of the Company to appoint a new chairman from office and Directors are encouraged to visit other sites and staff.
The existing non-executive Directors, provided the internal candidate met Company Secretary through the Chairman ensures that there is proper the job specifications, in order to maintain continuity with a recently communication between the Board and its Committees and senior appointed Chief Executive and Finance Director in post for just over a management and that non-executive Directors receive appropriate year.
The Committee concluded that Nicholas Brookes would be the information.
The Chairman reviews and the Company Secretary most suitable candidate as new chairman and this recommendation facilitates induction and other professional development as required.
was endorsed by the Board.
In these circumstances the Committee Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys concluded it was not necessary to use external consultants for expense, although no such advice was sought during the year.
Appointments The Committee also produced a draft specification for a new All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least non-executive Director to enhance the composition of the Board, every three years.
Additionally, new Directors are subject to election having carried out a review.
After the Board had accepted the by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment, as recommendations and the proposed process, the Committee, are directors whose role has changed since their previous election, now chaired by Nicholas Brookes, appointed search consultants to such as Nicholas Brookes.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for assist in the recruitment which led to the appointment of Sir Jeremy an initial period of three years with the expectation of a further three Greenstock in March 2005. years subject to satisfactory performance.
The Board may invite a non-executive Director to serve a third three year term after a detailed The Committee consists of a majority of independent non-executive review at the end of the second term.
Non-executive Directors Directors except for a limited period during the year until the letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys appointment of Philip Nolan in January 2005 as stated on page 21. registered office and at the Annual General Meeting together with executive Directors service contracts.
Remuneration Committee Nicholas Brookes resigned as Chairman of the Committee on The Board, following the effectiveness and evaluation process carried 21 July 2004 before becoming Chairman.
Michael Jeffries was out, considers the performance of each of the directors standing appointed Chairman of the Committee in his place.
Details of the for election and re-election at this years Annual General Meeting Committee and of the remuneration policy can be found in the to be fully satisfactory and that they have demonstrated continued Remuneration Report on pages 26 to 32. commitment to the role.
The Board strongly supports their election and re-election and recommends that shareholders vote in favour General Business Committee of the resolutions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Committee meets when necessary to deal with routine matters arising between scheduled Board meetings.
Only independent nonCommittees of the Board executive Directors may decide matters relating to the administration The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, or the implementation of the Companys share schemes other than General Business and Risk Committees with appointed Chairmen for the purpose of allotting shares on exercise.
and fixed terms of reference which are reviewed annually.
The terms of reference and duties of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Risk Committee and Risk Committees appear on the Companys website and are The Committee chaired by the Company Secretary, meets and available on request.
Membership of these Committees is given in reports to the Board at least four times a year.
Other members the Directors biographies on page 18.
Further details of Committees include the heads of key functions and representatives from each are given below.
Any Director is entitled to attend any meeting.
Nomination Committee The core responsibilities are to: The Committee meets at least once a year and otherwise as identify and evaluate key risks excluding matters relating to financial necessary and makes recommendations to the Board with regard reporting and systems which are the remit of the Audit Committee : fide La Rue Annual Report Corporate governance 23 Corporate governance continued assist the Board by providing a framework for managing risk reviewing reports on other such matters as security, health and throughout the Company: safety, environmental issues and fire risks: and provide an appropriate level of reporting on the status of risk discussions with management on risk areas identified by management management to the Board including insurance, health and safety, and or the audit process and any changes from the previous review.
fire, environment, business continuity, security and legal: ensure any corrective actions are taken: The financial control framework includes the following key features: promote awareness of risk management: review the management processes and systems to monitor and an annual strategic planning process: manage key risks: an annual budget: investigate and manage such matters as the Audit Committee may a system of monthly reporting by each operating subsidiary which from time to time request.
involves comparison of actual results with the original budget: monthly reporting of performance to the Board.
The Committee is assisted by other Group-wide committees which deal with managing specific areas of risk such as: The main control procedures which address the financial implications of the major business risks are centred on strict approval procedures, Environmental, Health and Safety Steering Group: which were revised following a review during the year and which Group Security Committee: apply to all subsidiaries.
executive Directors approval of all major non-routine revenue Risk Management expenditure: fide La Rues reputation is based on security, integrity and trust.
Board approval of all major capital expenditure: Business risks are categorised as external or strategic risks compared Board approval of all acquisitions and disposals: to risks which are more internal and operational in nature.
Strategic a system of authorisation limits which cascades throughout risks are managed by the Board: operational risks are monitored by the Group: the Board with the assistance of the Committees of the Board, the Board consideration of any matter having a material effect main ones being the Audit and Risk Committees.
The main general on the Group.
risks identified as key by the Board are outlined below: The operation of the Group Treasury department is discussed in Damage to Reputation which might arise from a failure of controls the Financial Review on page 13. in areas such as financial controls or reporting, breach of legislation or security failures or a failure in strategy or implementation of strategy: Audit Committee of the Board Environment, Health and Safety discussed in more detail on All members of the Audit Committee are independent non-executive pages 15 to 17.
The Board considers that at least one member of the Audit Security loss of high value items such as banknotes and travellers Committee, namely the Committee Chairman, has sufficient recent cheques during shipment or some other security breach: and relevant financial experience for it to discharge its function Managing market expectations and ensuring that there are robust effectively.
The external auditor, Chairman, Chief Executive and Group financial reporting systems.
Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and Head of Internal Audit attend each meeting at the invitation of the Committee Internal Control and Internal Financial Control chairman.
The internal auditors and  LLP The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal each meet the Committee without executive directors or employees control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Management is responsible of the Company being present.
for implementing the controls which are designed to meet the particular needs of the Group, and the risks to which it is exposed, with The Committee receives comprehensive reports from senior procedures intended to provide effective internal control.
Divisional management and the internal and external auditors.
Its key managing directors, to whom general managers of each business responsibilities are to: report, are responsible for establishing and maintaining these procedures.
approve and review the appointment of the external auditor: A summary of the key policies and procedures is provided to senior monitor the effectiveness of and receive regular reports from the managers.
internal audit function: ensure the adequacy of the systems and standards of internal The controls by their nature are designed to manage, rather than financial control within the Group: eliminate, risk and can only provide reasonable but not absolute review reports on actions taken to address financial risk identified assurance against material misstatement or loss.
by management and or the internal audit process.
The processes used by the Board and, on its behalf, by the Risk and During the year principal activities of the Committee included: Audit Committees, details of which are set out in this report, have been in place throughout the year, and include: reviewing the interim and full year financial results: reviewing and approving the audit plans for the following year reviewing monthly finance, operational and development reports: for the external and internal auditors: reviewing internal and external audit plans: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence reviewing significant issues identified by internal and external audits: and objectivity: reviewing significant Group risks reported by the Risk Committee: reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process: reviewing annual compliance statements in the form of self-audit reviewing and approving the external auditors audit fees and questionnaires: letter of engagement: 24 fide La Rue Annual Report Corporate governance reviewing reports on the effectiveness of the Groups Whistleblowing their knowledge of the business concerned: Policy, details of which are set out on page 14. corporation tax compliance work assessed on a case by case basis, depending on who is best suited to perform the work.
Internal Audit Incumbent auditors may not, without the prior approval of the The Board through the Audit Committee monitors the internal financial Chairman of the Audit Committee, provide some non-audit related control systems through reports received from the Group internal audit services such as acquisition work where the selection criteria include function during the year.
The internal audit function reviews internal detailed proposals, timescales, local resource and cost.
The external financial controls in all key activities of the Group, typically over a three auditors are not always used for this work.
It acts as a service to businesses by assisting with the amount of consulting related non-audit fees paid to continuous improvement of controls and procedures.
There is a  LLP was 36 per cent of the audit fee and system of internal control reviews which includes a self-assessment principally related to taxation services and work on IFRS.
programme covering both financial and IT controls.
Actions are agreed in response to its recommendations and these are followed up to The external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid their objectivity ensure that satisfactory control is maintained.
The internal audit and independence being compromised.
They report to the Audit programme is centrally co-ordinated.
This is set and reviewed by the Committee on how they comply with the professional and regulatory Audit Committee, together with reports from the external auditors on requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence.
internal control matters noted as part of their audit work.
Thus key members of the  LLP audit team rotate and the firm ensures, where appropriate, that confidentiality is Independence of Auditors maintained between different parts of the firm who may be providing The Committee has a detailed policy specifying which services the services to fide La Rue.
external auditor is either allowed to or prohibited from performing on behalf of the Group and the relevant procedures to be followed by Relationship with Shareholders the Group.
The procedures relate to: The Company places a high priority on communications with and accountability to shareholders.
A general interim statement and a selecting the statutory auditors and approving the audit fee: fully audited annual report and accounts are sent to shareholders being satisfied that there are no relationships between the auditor and posted on the Companys website as are presentations to and the Company other than in the ordinary course of business : institutional investors.
agreeing a policy on the employment of former employees of the auditor, then monitoring the implementation of this policy: The Chairman and Senior Independent non-executive Director are commissioning non-audit work: available to meet key shareholders to discuss strategy, governance circumstances in which it is appropriate or inappropriate for and other matters.
Nicholas Brookes and Michael Jeffries met key incumbent auditors to be allowed to, or prohibited from, providing shareholders during the year and communicated their views to the non-audit work.
Key institutional shareholders have been consulted about the introduction and design of the proposed Deferred Bonus and fide La Rues procedures for procuring audit and consulting services Matching Share Plan.
from external sources are: All shareholders are entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting Audit-related services: this covers regulatory and statutory and receive a Notice of Meeting which is posted at least 20 working reporting and formalities relating to shareholder and other circulars.
days before the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders can also In addition to the annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders, vote electronically.
the Audit Committee reviews the auditors performance, the extent to which the auditors keep the Audit Committee and management of the At the Annual General Meeting the Chairman announces details Company informed about material issues affecting the Company and of proxy voting after each item of business.
Proxy votes are also any significant developments in accounting policies and standards available to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and through which may have a material effect on the Companys financial position.
The Chairman also provides a trading update.
The Chairmen of the Board Committees are also present.
Non-audit related services: the Audit Committee regularly reviews Shareholders may question the Board on these and other matters the nature and extent of non-audit services seeking to balance the relating to the Groups business.
Directors also have an opportunity maintenance of objectivity and value for money.
Incumbent auditors to meet shareholders informally after the meeting.
are prohibited from performing certain non-audit related services including remuneration consultancy and advice, the design, The share register is actively monitored.
During the year meetings development or implementation of financial information or internal take place with individual institutional shareholders and analysts and control systems.
Certain non-audit services interrelate closely with the presentations are made at the time of major events.
The views of auditing work because of the significant knowledge the incumbent shareholders and analysts and brokers reports are reported to the auditors may possess of the particular area of the business or issue.
Board and from time to time a survey of institutional shareholders Therefore a total ban might lead to loss of business knowledge that views is carried out by an external consultant.
could adversely affect audit quality.
Whilst it may be cost effective for incumbent auditors to provide services, as a general principle By order of the Board all must be subject to competitive tender.
The Finance Director determines how this applies.
Non-audit related services may include: assistance to the internal audit team in auditing the Companys group-wide information systems to ensure compliance with best Louise Fluker practice and application of a consistent approach across the Group: Company Secretary work related to disposals by the external auditors because of 24 May 2005 fide La Rue Annual Report Corporate governance 25
