CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board is committed to achieving high The roles of the Chairman and Chief The Board considered that the evaluation standards of corporate governance in the Executive are separate.
The Non-executive process was satisfactory and that external management and operation of the business.
Chairman is responsible for the effective facilitation was not necessary.
In July 2003, a revised Combined Code operation of the Board.
The Chief Executive on Corporate Governance the Code has overall responsibility for managing The Company Secretary is responsible was adopted by the Financial Reporting the Company, which includes strategy for ensuring that Board processes and Council.
The Board reviewed its corporate and operations.
The Board has formally procedures are appropriately followed governance practices during the year to documented the division of the roles and support effective decision making.
The Company has between the Chairman and the Chief All Directors have access to the Company complied with the provisions set out in Executive.
Secretarys advice and services and there Section 1 of the Code and has done so is also a formal procedure for Directors to throughout the year in relation to the Code The Board has a formal schedule of matters obtain independent professional advice in provisions which are of a continuing nature.
Matters reserved to the course of their duties, if necessary, at the the Board for decision include: Companys expense.
Board structure and processes Prior to the recent appointment of David strategy and objectives: The Non-executive Chairman and Steve Richardson and Matthew Fearn, the Board annual budgets: Morgan both have interests in substantial consisted of a Non-executive Chairman, dividends: share holdings in the Company 4.84% and Chief Executive, Finance Director and acquisition and disposals of businesses: 13.38% respectively as at 25 September four Non-executive Directors, with Alan expenditure over certain defined limits: 2005.
Jackson as the senior Non-executive approval of financial results: Director.
Matthew Fearn replaces Roger appointments or removal of directors: With the exception of Lord Daresbury and Stubbs who will retire in January 2006 and corporate governance: and Alan Jackson, all of the Non-executive David Richardson has been appointed as risk management.
Directors have been appointed since March an additional Non-executive Director.
Lord Daresbury has been a Director of Board regards four of the Non-executive The Board is collectively responsible for the Company since 1984 and Alan Jackson Directors as independent Alan Jackson, the success of the Company and normally since 1993.
The Non-executive Directors Debbie Hewitt, Nigel Walmsley and David meets at least every two months with further come from diverse business backgrounds Richardson.
Although Alan Jackson has meetings arranged as necessary.
and each has unique expertise covering been a Director for more than 9 years the property, communications, human resources, robust contribution he makes to the Board During the year there were thirteen Board finance and the leisure industry.
Their mix is such that the Board continues to regard meetings.
Steve Morgan was unable to of skills and business experience contributes him as being independent.
This view was attend two meetings and Roger Stubbs significantly to the proper functioning of endorsed by shareholders who re-elected was unable to attend one meeting.
The the Board and its committees ensuring that him at last years AGM.
Biographies of Non-executive Directors meet independently matters are fully discussed and no individual all the Directors, together with details of without the Chairman present and also or group dominates the Boards decision their committee memberships, are set out meet with the Chairman independently of making processes.
All members of the management.
Board submit themselves for re-election The Board requires that all Non-executive at least every three years.
Carl Leaver and In advance of each meeting all Directors Directors be free from any relationship with Debbie Hewitt retire by rotation and submit are provided with and have full and timely the executive management that could be themselves for re-election this year.
Alan access to information in relation to the considered to hinder their independent Jackson has served for more than 9 years as matters to be discussed.
In the Boards view all Nona Non-executive Director and in accordance therefore able to make informed decisions executive Directors meet this requirement.
with best practice he submits himself for reon corporate and business issues under election annually.
Save as previously mentioned, the Nonexecutive Directors have no material or New directors are appointed by the Board During the year the Board undertook an business relationships with the Company and and, in accordance with the Companys evaluation of its performance including each of the other Non-executive Directors are Articles of Association, they must be rethat of its committees.
An internally regarded as independent.
appointed at the next AGM to continue produced questionnaire was used for the in office.
New directors undertake a performance evaluation process.
The Board The Board has directed that the Groups formal induction programme to familiarise was of the view that appropriate actions code of conduct should be made available themselves with the Company, its business had been taken to address areas that could to all employees on joining the Company.
and policies to enable them to contribute be improved and that overall, the Board The code of conduct includes details of the effectively.
At board meetings, the Directors and its committees operated effectively.
Groups whistle blowing procedure and this receive presentations from senior executives The performance of each of the Directors has been reviewed in the light of the Code.
on the implementation of the Companys was evaluated by the Chairman and the strategies and the Board receives regular senior Non-executive Director evaluated the updates on changes to the business, Chairmans performance.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE I ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 I 21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Audit Committee adequacy assessment in respect of the Newly appointed Directors are subject to The Company has an Audit Committee special dividend paid following The fide Vere election by shareholders at the Annual consisting of Non-executive Directors.
The Committee General Meeting following appointment.
Throughout the year the Audit Committee believes this work is consistent with its Under the Companys Articles of Association was chaired by Nigel Walmsley.
David stated policies regarding allocation of nonall Directors must submit themselves for reaudit work.
The Company Secretary acts as election at least every three years.
Richardson will be appointed Chairman in the forthcoming year.
The members of the secretary to the Audit Committee.
Relations with shareholders Audit Committee are disclosed on pages 16 and 17.
The Committee met 4 times during Remuneration Committee Communications with shareholders are given The Company has a Remuneration Committee high priority.
The Chairmans Statement, Chief the year and all of the members of the Committee attended each of its meetings.
under the chairmanship of Debbie Hewitt.
Executives Strategy Review and the Operating The role of the Committee and details of and Financial Reviews on pages 4 to 14 Last year the Committee reviewed its terms of reference to ensure they follow those how it applies the principles of the Code include a detailed review of the business are set out on page 24.
The Remuneration and future developments of the Group.
Its decisions and proceedings are reported to the Board.
Committee met 6 times during the year There is regular dialogue with institutional and each meeting was attended by all the shareholders, including presentations after During the year the Committee undertook an evaluation of its performance including the members of the Committee.
The Chairman, the Companys announcement of the halfthe Chief Executive and Steve Morgan year and year-end results, and following operation and content of its meetings and concluded that it was operating effectively.
may, by invitation, attend Remuneration any strategic activity.
Through this process Committee meetings except when their major shareholders are invited to raise any The external Auditors are invited to attend all own remuneration is being discussed.
The matters of company business of interest to Committee reviewed its own effectiveness them.
Following such meetings, minutes are the Audit Committee meetings together with other Board members.
Part of each meeting through a self-assessment in September 2005. prepared and circulated to the whole Board so that they are aware of shareholders views.
of the Audit Committee is held between the Non-executive Directors and the external Nomination Committee During the year the Company undertook an The Company has a Nomination Committee independent survey of shareholder opinion to Auditors in private.
under the chairmanship of Alan Jackson.
obtain an understanding of shareholder views.
The members of the Nomination Committee The Audit Committee reviews the annual financial statements of the Company are disclosed on pages 16 and 17.
This The Board uses the AGM as an important Committee recommends to the Board means of communication with private together with its accounting systems and internal controls including the effectiveness the appointment of all Executive and and institutional investors and encourages Non-executive Directors.
The Chairman aims to of its internal audit function.
The individuals responsible for the Companys internal audit determines the terms of reference for new ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit, appointments and uses external advisers Remuneration and Nomination Committees function have direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Committee also to identify suitable candidates for any are available at AGMs to answer questions.
vacant directorships: each candidate is Details of resolutions to be proposed at the receives presentations from management on key risk and control issues which relate then interviewed by all members of the AGM on 10 February 2006 together with an Committee.
A shortlist is then prepared explanatory note can be found in the Notice to the business.
The Committee also reviews the appointment and terms of reference and further interviews then take place as of Meeting and accompanying circular.
The terms of reference for of the external Auditors and monitors the level of non-audit services provided by the the Nomination Committee have been To further improve communications with reviewed in the light of the Revised Code shareholders, the Group has a website Auditors.
The policy of the Committee is that non-audit work should not be awarded and are available on the Companys www.
co. uk dedicated to website.
During the year the principal the communication of corporate information to the Auditors unless the Committee is satisfied that the Auditors work would activities of the Committee were the such as: current and historical financial consideration of potential new directors and reports, presentations and press releases not be compromised or that significant costs would otherwise be incurred.
As part the appointments of David Richardson as together with a link to the current share Non-executive Director and Matthew Fearn price.
Shareholders are also offered the of the review it considers factors which could impact upon their independence and as Finance Director.
In each case, David option of receiving electronic versions of Richardson and Matthew Fearn were initially shareholder communications, including the objectivity and has sought to minimise the amount of non-audit work undertaken by identified by search consultants together annual and interim reports and the terms with a number of other potential candidates.
of reference for the Audit, Remuneration the Auditors.
A breakdown of non-audit fees is provided in Note 2.
The scope of nonBoth David Richardson and Matthew Fearn and Nomination Committees.
Information audit work undertaken by the Companys were interviewed by all of the members regarding this service can be downloaded Auditors covered preparation of the Interim of the Nomination Committee and the directly from the corporate website.
Statement, a review of the Executive Chairman also consulted with the Chief Directors and senior managers expenses Executive and Companys external advisors before the appointments were made.
and assistance with the working capital 22 I fide VERE GROUP PLC I CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Internal control A formal appraisal and approval process is The Board is responsible for the Groups operated for all items of capital expenditure.
system of internal control and for reviewing Projects are required to demonstrate its effectiveness.
The system of internal achievement of appropriate operational control is designed to safeguard shareholders and financial criteria.
Projects in excess of investment and the Companys assets by 1,000,000 are referred to the Board for managing the risks of not meeting business approval.
objectives and is intended to provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Key systems and controls are documented against material misstatement or loss.
and, on a monthly basis, self-certification reports are signed off by the heads of The principal elements of the Groups system finance functions across the Group.
of internal control and risk management, that comply with the internal control guidance on Internal audits are conducted in accordance the Code and which were in place throughout with a rolling programme which schedules the year under review and up to the date of each hotel or business unit to be audited approval of the Accounts, are as follows: at least once each year, with further audits being conducted in accordance A strategic plan is prepared annually and with perceived risk.
The Audit Committee approved by the Board: the plan covers the regularly reviews the major findings from period until 2010. both internal and external audits.
Following the approval of the strategic The Group has a clearly defined plan, a detailed budget is prepared for the organisational structure which allows following financial year and is approved by appropriate segregation of duty.
Actual results are reported monthly and The Group has a risk management steering compared to both budget, prior year group comprising senior executives and forecast results.
The operational which meets at least quarterly to review performance of the hotels is reviewed operational risk.
The effectiveness of internal control systems All major risks identified and recorded in are considered and monitored regularly a risk management report are assessed and at least once a year by the Board of and allocated to specific individuals as Directors and the Audit Committee.
This report summarises all Directors confirm that they have reviewed the foreseen strategic, operational, financial, effectiveness of the internal control system in technical, social, ethical and environmental accordance with the above procedures.
risks that could prevent the achievement of business objectives.
Action plans to mitigate Going concern the identified risks are in place.
The report The Directors consider, after making is reviewed at each meeting of the Board of enquiries, that the Company has adequate Directors.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the Accounts.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE I ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 I 23
