Corporate governance report UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance Diageos board and executive committee are committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance, corporate responsibility and risk management in directing and controlling the business.
In July 2003, a revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code was adopted by the Financial Reporting Council.
The board reviewed its corporate governance practices during the 2004 financial year in light of the new Code and US regulatory changes, and implemented a number of changes.
The company has complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code and has done so throughout the year regarding the Code provisions whose requirements are of a continuing nature, except that not all the directors were able to attend the 2004 Annual General Meeting a requirement under Code provision D. 2.3.
The way in which the principles of good governance are applied is described below.
Board of directors Diageos board consists of its chairman, chief executive, chief financial officer and seven non-executive directors.
The non-executive directors, all of whom the board has determined are independent, are experienced and influential individuals from a range of industries and countries.
Their mix of skills and business experience is a major contribution to the proper functioning of the board and its committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated and that no individual or group dominates the boards decision-making processes.
The board considers that ensuring individual directors participate fully and independently in decision-making is more important for the achievement of a balance of power than the precise split of executive and non-executive directors.
To increase the executive presence at board meetings, members of the executive committee are invited to attend on a rotational or issue basis.
The senior non-executive director is Lord Hollick, Managing Director of Kohlberg, Kravis Roberts & Company Limited and former chief executive of United Business Media plc.
Lord Hollick succeeded RF Chase as senior non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee on 2 September 2004.
The chief executive, PS Walsh, holds both a UK and a US non-executive directorship in Centrica plc and FedEx Corporation, respectively.
The board considers that, given the importance of the United States to the companys business, the FedEx directorship is of benefit to Mr Walsh in terms of market awareness, US business practices and networking and that the time commitment is not too great, as the meetings can be combined with other business trips to the United States.
The biographical details of the directors, together with their committee memberships, are given in Directors and senior management above.
A summary of the terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors is available on www.
com or on request from the company secretary.
Any new directors are appointed by the board and, in accordance with the companys articles of association, they must be elected at the next Annual General Meeting AGM to continue in office and must retire, and may stand for re-election by the shareholders, at least every three years.
There is a formal induction programme for new directors: they meet with the executive committee members individually and receive orientation training, from the relevant senior executive, in relation to the group and its business, for example in relation to its assurance processes, environmental policies and social responsibility policies and practices.
At board meetings, the directors receive presentations on areas of the business from the regional presidents and function heads and regular updates on changes and developments in the business, legislative and regulatory environments.
In addition, the non-executive directors are invited to attend the executive committee members senior leadership meetings to gain further insight into different aspects of the business.
The board meets regularly during the year and, in addition, an annual strategy conference is held off-site with the full executive committee for two days, at which the groups strategy is reviewed in depth.
The board receives detailed financial information and regular presentations from executives on the business performance, in addition to items for decision and minutes of board committees in advance of each board meeting.
This enables the directors to make informed decisions on corporate and business issues under consideration.
When directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are advised of the matters to be discussed and given an opportunity to make their views known to the chairman prior to the meeting.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the board for decision to ensure that key policy and strategic decisions are made by the full board.
This is reviewed annually and was revised in September 2004.
Otherwise, the board has delegated authority for day-to-day management of the groups affairs to the chief executive, PS Walsh, who is supported by the executive committee.
The biographical details of the executive committees members are given in Directors and senior management above.
The board makes decisions and reviews and approves key policies and decisions of the company, in particular in relation to: group strategy and operating plans: corporate governance: compliance with laws, regulations and the companys code of business conduct: business development, including major investments and disposals: financing and treasury: appointment or removal of directors: succession planning for senior management positions: risk management: financial reporting and audit: corporate citizenship, ethics and the environment: and pensions.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 74 Corporate governance report The board undertakes formal evaluation of its own performance and the board committees assess their respective roles, performance and terms of reference and report accordingly to the board.
The board assesses the reviews of each committee.
An internally produced questionnaire was used for the performance evaluation process, and the board members concluded that appropriate actions had been identified to address areas that could be improved and that overall, the board and its committees continued to operate effectively.
Each directors performance is evaluated by the chairman based on input from all other directors.
The chairmans performance is evaluated by the non-executive directors, led by the senior non-executive director, taking account of the views of the executive directors.
Following the performance evaluation of individual directors, the chairman has confirmed that the non-executive directors standing for re-election at this years AGM continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
It is the boards intention to continue to review annually its performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
The nomination committee reviewed the performance evaluation process in June 2005 and concluded that it was effective and that external facilitation was not necessary.
During the year, six scheduled board meetings were held, five in the United Kingdom and one in the United States.
The meetings were fully attended, except that M Lilja, WS Shanahan and PA Walker were each unable to attend one meeting and JR Symonds was unable to attend three meetings.
Prior to their respective retirements, JK Oates attended both board meetings but RF Chase was unable to attend either.
Dr FB Humer attended the two board meetings held following his appointment on 1 April 2005.
Attendance at committee meetings below relates to the period when each director held office.
The non-executive directors meet independently without the chairman present, and also meet with the chairman independently of management, on a regular basis.
The chairman, Lord Blyth, is principally responsible for the effective operation and chairing of the board and for ensuring the information that it receives is sufficient to make informed judgements.
He also provides support to the chief executive, particularly in relation to external affairs.
He spends between two and three days each week on the companys affairs and, because of the closer relationship he has with the company as chairman, he is not considered to be an independent director.
Lord Blyths principal commitments outside Diageo are as a non-executive director of Anixter Inc and a vice chairman of Greenhill & Co, Inc.
There have been no changes to these commitments during the year.
The company secretary is responsible for ensuring that board processes and procedures are appropriately followed and support effective decision-making and governance.
She is appointed by, and can only be removed by, the board.
She is also responsible for ensuring that new directors receive appropriate training and induction into Diageo.
All directors have access to the company secretarys advice and services and there is also a formal procedure for directors to obtain independent professional advice in the course of their duties, if necessary, at the companys expense.
Board committees The board has established several committees, each with clearly defined terms of reference, procedures, responsibilities and powers.
The terms of reference of the committees are available on www.
They are also available on request from the company secretary.
Audit committee The audit committee is chaired by JR Symonds, who succeeded JK Oates on 20 October 2004.
The committee consists of all the independent non-executive directors.
The chief financial officer, financial controller, director global business risk, compliance director the latter two roles were combined on 1 May 2005, director of accounting and external auditor are normally invited to attend the meeting.
The audit committee is responsible for: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, including a review of the significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: reviewing the effectiveness of the groups internal control and risk management systems and of control over financial reporting: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the business risk function and reviewing the business risk programme: monitoring and reviewing the groups policies and practices concerning business conduct and ethics, including whistleblowing: and overseeing the companys relationship with the external auditor, including monitoring their independence.
For the purposes of the Code and section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the board has determined that JR Symonds may be regarded as an audit committee financial expert.
Audit committee report The committee met six times during the year and reported its conclusions to the full board.
The meetings were fully attended, except that WS Shanahan, JR Symonds and PA Walker were each unable to attend one meeting and RF Chase was unable to attend two meetings.
At the end of five meetings, the committee met with the external auditor with no executive or staff member present except on one occasion when the director, global business risk was present.
The committee also met on one occasion with the director, global business risk with no executive or staff member present.
During the year, the committee formally reviewed draft interim and annual reports and associated preliminary and interim announcements, focusing on key areas of judgement, critical accounting policies and any changes required to those: and it reviewed the groups preparation for the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
The committee also reviewed the work of the filings assurance committee described below and external audit findings.
A full review of the companys filings and disclosure processes was carried out by the legal function and their findings presented to the committee, which approved enhancements to the processes.
The committee received presentations from senior executives on the management of key risk and control issues in their respective business areas and reviewed the effectiveness and findings from the risk management and internal control processes described below, including review of risk mitigation plans for critical risks.
It also reviewed the work of the audit and risk committee described below.
To support it in this activity, it had available to it the resources of the business risk group which supports the processes for identifying and assessing the management of significant business risks and conducts internal audits across the whole of the groups business.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 75 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued The committee reviewed at each meeting a report in respect of the compliance programme described below.
The committee received regular updates on the implementation, and compliance with, all applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The committee carried out an annual self-assessment in December 2004 to review its effectiveness and at the same time reviewed and confirmed to the board that no revisions to its terms of reference were required.
Monitoring of external auditor During the year, the audit committee reviewed the external audit strategy and the findings of the external auditor from its review of the interim announcement and its audit of the annual financial statements.
As noted above, the committee also met four times with the external auditor alone.
On the basis of meetings and other information available to the directors, the audit committee is able to assess the ongoing effectiveness of the external audit.
In reviewing the independence of the external auditor, the audit committee considered a number of factors.
These include: the standing, experience and tenure of the external audit director: the nature and level of services provided by the external auditor: and confirmation from the external auditor that it has complied with relevant UK and US independence standards.
The group has a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit services, which is reviewed annually.
Under this policy the provision of any service must be approved by the audit committee, unless the proposed service is both expected to cost less than 250,000 and also falls within one of a number of service categories which the audit committee has pre-approved.
These pre-approved service categories may be summarised as follows: accounting advice, employee benefit plan audits, and audit or other attest services required by statute or requested by management and not otherwise prohibited: due diligence and other support relating to acquisitions and disposals: accounting and fraud investigations: and certain tax services, including tax compliance: tax planning and related implementation advice in relation to acquisitions, disposals and other reorganisations.
Nomination committee Chaired by Lord Blyth, this committee comprises all the independent non-executive directors.
The committee is responsible for keeping under review the composition of the board and succession to it.
It makes recommendations to the board concerning appointments to the board, whether of executive or non-executive directors, having regard to the balance and structure of the board and the required blend of skills and experience.
The committee also makes recommendations to the board concerning the re-appointment of any non-executive director at the conclusion of his or her specified term and the re-election of any director by shareholders under the retirement provisions of the companys articles of association.
The committee met six times during the year.
All the meetings were fully attended, except that M Lilja, WS Shanahan and PA Walker were each unable to attend one meeting, and RF Chase and JR Symonds were each unable to attend two meetings.
The committee reviewed its own effectiveness through a self-assessment in December 2004 and at the same time reviewed and confirmed to the board that no revisions to its terms of reference were required.
The principal activities of the committee during the year were the consideration of potential non-executive directors.
The committee recommended the appointment to the board of one additional non-executive director Dr FB Humer: external search consultants assisted with this work and the chairman consulted with the executive directors before the recommendation was made.
Remuneration committee This committee is chaired by Lord Hollick, who succeeded RF Chase on 2 September 2004.
The role of the committee and details of how the company applies the principles of the Code in respect of directors remuneration are set out above in the directors remuneration report in relation to directors remuneration policy and practice.
The chairman and the chief executive may, by invitation, attend remuneration committee meetings, except when their own remuneration is discussed.
No director is involved in determining his or her own remuneration.
The committee held five scheduled meetings during the year.
The meetings were fully attended, except that RF Chase and PA Walker were each unable to attend one meeting.
The committee reviewed its terms of reference and recommended revisions to the board in September 2004 and reviewed its own effectiveness through a self-assessment in December 2004.
Executive direction and control The executive committee, appointed and chaired by the chief executive, consists of the individuals responsible for the key components of the business: North America, International and the European markets, global supply and the global functions.
It met eight times during the year, generally for two days, including the joint annual strategy conference with the board, and spent most of its time discussing strategy, people and performance including brands.
In addition, interim update meetings were held by teleconference throughout the year.
Responsibility and authority within the financial limits set by the board are delegated by the chief executive to individual members of the executive committee who are accountable to him for the performance of their business units.
Executive direction and control procedures include approval of annual three year rolling strategic plans submitted by each unit executive and periodic business reviews.
These reviews are generally attended by the regional president responsible for the market and in certain cases additional members of the executive committee and are held in the relevant market.
The reviews focus on business performance management and specific issues around brands, people, key business decisions and risk management.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 76 Corporate governance report The chief executive has created several executive working groups to which are delegated particular tasks, generally with specific time spans and success criteria.
He has also created committees, intended to have an ongoing remit, including the following: Audit and risk committee Chaired by the chief executive and responsible for overseeing the approach to securing effective risk management and control in the business, reviewing and challenging the sources of assurance as to their adequacy, reviewing the effectiveness of the compliance programme and reporting periodically on the above to the audit committee or to the board.
Corporate citizenship committee Chaired by the chief executive and responsible for making decisions or, where appropriate, recommendations to the board or executive committee, concerning corporate citizenship strategy, policies and issues.
This includes such matters as: corporate citizenship performance, measurement and reporting: community affairs: environmental matters: and other emerging corporate citizenship issues.
The committee seeks to identify social, community and environmental areas where the group could be at risk or where there is scope for positive impact on the communities where we operate.
Policies and processes have been developed and implemented to manage each of these.
Progress against these is reported periodically to the board and publicly through a separate corporate citizenship report, which is subject to external assurance.
That report and the groups social, ethical and environmental policies are published on the Diageo website.
A copy of the corporate citizenship report is available on request.
The company has communicated its policies widely and in key areas has established management systems to manage, monitor and enhance impacts.
Wherever possible, these management systems are incorporated into existing practices such as the quality management programme or the procurement and vendor selection procedures.
During the year, to assist the committee with its work on specific issues linked to Diageos commitment to responsible drinking, an alcohol and responsibility executive working group was established.
It brings together the key executives from the business and functional representatives involved in detailing and realising Diageos commitment to responsible drinking.
Finance committee Chaired by the chief financial officer and including the chief executive, this committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board on funding strategy, capital structure and management of financial risks and the policies and control procedures including financial issues relating to treasury and taxation required to implement the companys financial strategy and financial risk management policies.
In certain specific circumstances, the board has delegated authority to the finance committee to make decisions in these areas.
Treasury activity is managed centrally within tightly defined dealing authorities and procedures recommended by the finance committee and approved by the board.
Filings assurance committee Chaired by the chief financial officer and including the chief executive, this committee is responsible for implementing and monitoring the processes which ensure that the company complies with all relevant UK, US or other regulatory filing provisions, including those imposed by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act or deriving from it.
During the year, the companys filing and disclosure processes were reviewed by the legal function and their recommended enhancements to the processes were endorsed by the audit committee and the executive committee.
These enhancements were primarily to increase involvement at the local business level: to facilitate a more tailored challenge to the businesses by the committee and to integrate further the reporting processes of the group.
As at the end of the period covered by this report, the committee carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of Diageos disclosure controls and procedures.
These are defined as those controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within specified time periods.
As of the date of the evaluation, the chief executive and the chief financial officer concluded that the design and operation of these disclosure controls and procedures were effective.
Risk management and internal control The groups aim is to manage risk and to control its business and financial activities cost-effectively and in a manner that enables it to: exploit profitable business opportunity in a disciplined way: avoid or reduce risks that can cause loss, reputational damage or business failure: support operational effectiveness: and enhance resilience to external events.
To achieve this, an ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the group.
This process, which complies with the requirements of the Code, has been in place for the full financial year and up to the date the financial statements were approved and accords with the guidance issued by the Turnbull Committee.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 77 Corporate governance report Corporate governance report continued All significant business units, groups of business units and the Diageo executive committee perform a risk assessment at least annually as an integral part of their strategic planning.
Business unit risk assessments and the activities planned to manage those risks are reviewed by relevant executives, for example at quarterly business reviews.
The executive risk assessment and selected other risk assessments are reviewed by the audit and risk committee and by the audit committee of the board.
Those committees gain assurance in relation to the effectiveness of risk management and control from: summary information in relation to the management of identified risks: detailed review of the effectiveness of management of selected key risks: and the independent work of global business risk, which supports and challenges risk assessments, supports and challenges management to improve the effectiveness of management of identified key risks and conducts internal audits.
In addition, a control and risk self-assessment is completed annually by each business unit or function, against objectives, risks and criteria defined within the relevant business and financial processes.
The results of this annual assessment are reported to those committees who, in addition, consider findings arising from external audit work.
The risk assessment and management processes described above are also applied to major business decisions or initiatives, such as systems implementations.
Additional risk management activity is focused directly towards operational risks within the business including health and safety, product quality and environmental risk management.
The above risk management processes and systems of internal control are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the groups strategic objectives.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Summary information and findings are regularly reported to the audit committee.
The directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the groups systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
They confirm that they have reviewed their effectiveness, based on the procedures described above, during the period.
Diageo is continuing the work necessary to enable it to comply in due course with the SEC rules which implement section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Diageos first report under section 404 will be in respect of year ending 30 June 2007, when management will be required to state their responsibility for establishing and maintaining an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting and to annually assess the effectiveness of that structure and those procedures.
The external auditor will be required to attest to and report on managements assessment.
Compliance programme Diageo is committed to conducting its business responsibly and in accordance with all laws and regulations to which its business activities are subject.
The board has a well established compliance programme to support achievement of this commitment.
The code of business conduct sets out expectations of Diageo businesses and employees in relation to issues such as conflicts of interest, entertainment and gifts, confidentiality and improper payments, as well as providing the standards against which these expectations are to be met.
The Diageo marketing code establishes the principles that Diageo follows in relation to advertising and promotion of its products.
The full texts of the code of conduct, marketing code and compliance programme are available on the companys web site at www.
Compliance programme guidelines specify the manner in which any potential violations of these expectations should be dealt with, including line manager reporting and an independent SpeakUp Helpline.
The latter has been re-communicated to employees, is operated independently and reports to the secretary to the audit committee, head of group security and the director, global business risk for escalation to the audit committee as required.
There is an annual certification requirement for all senior employees to confirm compliance with the code of conduct or to identify areas of possible non-compliance to the director, global business risk.
Training and education including e-learning activities are also undertaken.
Both the audit and risk committee and the audit committee review the operation of the programme.
Relations with shareholders The company values its dialogue with both institutional and private investors.
The boards primary contact with shareholders is through the chief executive and chief financial officer.
They are supported by the investor relations department, who are in regular contact with institutional shareholders and sell side analysts.
Coverage of the company by analysts is circulated to the board.
The non-executive directors are invited to attend the meetings with analysts and investors following publication of the interim and final results.
The board also ensures that all directors develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders through an independent survey of shareholder opinion which is conducted and reviewed annually.
In addition, major shareholders are invited to raise any company matters of interest to them at a meeting with the chairman and senior non-executive director.
The chief executive and chief financial officer are also available to take questions and the chairman reports on the meeting to the board.
Diageo produces a short-form annual review, which is sent to all shareholders, and a full annual report is available by election or on request.
As an alternative to receiving shareholder documents through the post, shareholders may elect to receive e-mail notification that the documents are available to be accessed on the companys web site.
Shareholders can also choose to receive e-mail notification when new company information is published on www.
The web site also provides shareholders with the facility to check their shareholdings on-line and to send any questions they may have to the company.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 78 Corporate governance report Shareholders are invited to write to the chairman or any other director and express their views on any issues of concern at any time and the AGM provides an opportunity for shareholders to put their questions in person.
The chairmen of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees are normally available at AGMs to take any relevant questions and all other directors attend, unless illness or another pressing commitment precludes them from doing so.
In 2004, RF Chase, WS Shanahan and JR Symonds were unable to attend the AGM.
At general meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast is made available to all shareholders and is published on www.
The company proposes a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue and does not bundle resolutions together inappropriately.
Resolutions on the receipt of the reports and accounts and the approval of the directors remuneration report are put to the shareholders.
Charitable and political donations During the year, total charitable donations made by the group were 22.6 million.
UK group companies made donations of 14.4 million 2004 7.3 million to charitable organisations including 1.4 million 2004 1.6 million to the Diageo Foundation and 7.2 million 2004 2.7 million to the Thalidomide Trust.
Further information in respect of donations to the Thalidomide Trust is given in the operating and financial review.
In the rest of the world, group companies made charitable donations of 8.2 million 2004 10.2 million.
The group has not given any money for political purposes in the United Kingdom.
The group made no donations to EU political organisations and incurred no EU political expenditure during the year.
The group made contributions to non-EU political parties totalling 0.5 million during the year 2004 0.3 million.
Supplier payment policies and performance Given the international nature of the groups operations, there is no group standard in respect of payments to suppliers.
Operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions for their business transactions when orders for goods and services are placed, ensuring that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and including the relevant terms in contracts where appropriate.
These arrangements are adhered to when making payments, subject to the terms and conditions being met by the supplier.
Creditor days have not been calculated, as Diageo plc had no trade creditors at 30 June 2005.
The companys invoices for goods and services are settled by subsidiaries acting as agents for the company.
Statement of directors responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the independent auditors report set out before the financial statements, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditor in relation to the financial statements.
The directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for the financial year.
The directors, in preparing these financial statements, consider that the company has used appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, and that all applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The directors have responsibility for ensuring that the company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
The directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and that therefore it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Diageo has American Depositary Shares listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE and is subject to the reporting and other requirements of the SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
The company is subject to those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign private issuers.
New York Stock Exchange corporate governance rules In November 2003, the SEC approved the NYSEs new corporate governance rules for listed companies.
Under these new rules, Diageo must disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US companies under NYSE listing standards.
Diageos board and executive committee are committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
Diageo believes the following to be the significant differences between its corporate governance practices and NYSE corporate governance rules applicable to US companies.
Diageo Annual Report 2005 79 Corporate governance report
