ANNUAL REPORT 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT This report contains a summary of how the Board has complied with the principles set out in the Combined Code.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2005 the Company has The non-executive directors have met independently without been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 executives present three times during the year, and in addition of the 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance with communicate telephonically and electronically on a regular basis.
the exception that: Board training and evaluation Dillie Malherbe was appointed as a member of the Remuneration During the period under review, the individual performance of the Committee on 15 September 2004 and is not considered to be executive directors has been evaluated by using the performance independent, solely due to his executive role at VenFin Ltd. As management and performance review system that has been at 30 September 2005 VenFin Ltd held 6.99% of the Companys implemented throughout the Group.
It is intended that further share capital and a subsidiary of VenFin Ltd currently holds the evaluations on Board performance as a whole shall be conducted Convertible Bonds as detailed in Note 22 to the financial statements on an annual basis.
Dillie has extensive experience in the field of executive remuneration.
The Board considered all the implications of his role Board operation at VenFin Ltd and concluded that this would not compromise the The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the conduct of the independence of his input to the Remuneration Committee.
The business of the Group, and decides upon Group strategy.
It also Board also considers that the valuable input to the Remuneration reviews operational performance, approves the Groups business Committee that Dillie provides justifies his appointment.
plans, approves the interim and annual financial statements, determines the Groups authority levels, treasury policies and risk The Chief Executive Officers Operating Review and the Chief management policies, ensures adequate funding, and approves Financial Officers Financial Review contain detailed reviews major investments and the remuneration of the non-executive of the Groups performance and financial position.
A defined schedule of matters reserved for decision by considers these reports, along with the Chairmans Statement and the Board and those delegated to management is maintained.
the Directors Report, to reflect, with reasonable accuracy, the Groups position and prospects.
The Directors responsibility for Financial reporting is routinely performed according to a strict the financial statements is described on page 49. schedule.
The non-executive directors are provided with sufficient information to enable them to reach independent conclusions Board of Directors on the matters brought to their attention at board meetings.
In A table setting out members of the Board during the period can be addition to the board meetings, detailed briefings are given to the found on page 32. non-executive directors by board and non-board members, giving non-executives an opportunity to question operational executives Biographical details for the current directors can be found on directly.
The Board ensures that each director is provided with appropriate The Board currently comprises the Chairman, four executive and timely information in order to exercise his judgement.
All the directors, and seven non-executive directors.
The Board considers directors have the facility to take independent professional advice all its present non-executive directors, with the exception of Dillie at the Companys expense, following a formal procedure that Malherbe, to be independent.
Gordon Waddell holds the position has been approved by the Board.
They also have access to the of senior independent non-executive director.
services and advice of the Company Secretaries in the UK and South Africa.
The Board has met five times during the past year.
A table indicating attendance by directors at Board and Committee meetings is given at the end of this report.
029 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 The Board has appointed four committees to which it has Remuneration Committee delegated responsibilities to allow it to control the activities of Rory Scott Chairman the Group effectively.
Each of these committees operates within Dillie Malherbe defined terms of reference.
Copies of the terms of reference for the Gordon Waddell Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available on the Companys website www.
com The Remuneration Committee is comprised of two independent non-executive directors and one non-executive director.
Dillie Executive Committee Malherbe was appointed to the Committee on 15 September The Executive Committee has responsibility for the day-to-day 2004, as explained on page 29.
The Remuneration Committee met running of the business and the execution of the Groups strategy.
three times in the past year.
It operates within defined terms of The Executive Committee is chaired by Brett Dawson, and the reference, and recommends to the Board the remuneration policies other executive directors are also members.
Additional members for the Groups directors and senior executives, having considered of the Executive Committee are detailed on page 48.
There is a relevant market norms and independent advice where appropriate.
clear division of responsibilities between the Executive Committee No director is involved in determining his own remuneration.
The Executive Committee meets fortnightly.
During the year, the Committee made grants under the Long Term Incentive Plan and the Share Appreciation Rights Scheme.
Audit Committee Rory Scott Chairman The report of the Remuneration Committee is contained on pages Rupert Barclay 38 to 45.
Gordon Waddell Derek Irish Nomination Committee Jeremy Ord Chairman The Audit Committee is comprised of three independent nonGordon Waddell executive directors and Derek Irish, a chartered accountant and Dorian Wharton-Hood a senior partner in an independent accounting practice.
The Committee met four times during the year.
The Groups external The Committee meets as necessary, and has met once during the and internal auditors attend the meetings and have direct access year under review.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for to the Committee to report the results of work directed by the reviewing the composition of the Board and identifies and makes Committee as well as any matters of concern.
The Chief Financial recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment of new Officer attends the meetings at the request of the Committee.
It also satisfies itself that appropriate succession plans are in place for the Board and senior management of the Group, The report of the Audit Committee is contained on page 33. and reviews the performance of non-executive directors to ensure that they have devoted sufficient time to their duties.
As noted previously, the Nomination Committee continued to carry out a search for further independent non-executive directors.
The Nomination Committee recommended the appointment of Wendy Lucas-Bull as an independent non-executive director, a respected member of the South African business community with substantial experience in the financial and consulting industries.
030 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Communication with shareholders The internal audit function is a structured Internal Control review The Group is committed to honest, open and regular communication process based on risk assessment.
The system of Internal Control to all stakeholders on both financial and non-financial matters.
is designed to manage rather than eliminate risks to which the Group is exposed, and provides reasonable rather than absolute The Group reports formally to shareholders when half and full year assurance against material misstatement or loss.
results are announced and issued to the relevant stock exchanges, shareholders and media.
Executive and senior management also The Audit Committee regularly reviews the work plan and key give presentations to institutional investors, analysts and the media findings of the internal and external audit process and monitors over the results period.
developments to ensure that areas of weakness are addressed.
Responsibility for implementing controls and improvements lies Regular stakeholder meetings are held to update the market on with management on a business unit or regional level throughout the Groups strategies, operations and performance.
The Audit Committee has delegated the responsibility and senior management attend these meetings on a regular basis.
for review of the Group Risk Register and Internal Audit findings All briefings and meetings are conducted in line with the Groups to the Group Risk Committee.
This committee provides an written guidelines to ensure control over price-sensitive information advisory function to the Board and Audit Committee on all matters and equality of disclosure.
In addition, directors are kept informed concerning risk and internal control.
of the views of all stakeholders through briefings from the investor relations team and the Chief Executive Officer.
The processes above have been in place for the year under review up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The Shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting and Audit Committee and the Board are satisfied that the system of to pose questions to the Board.
All executive and non-executive Internal Control is in line and has been in accord with the guidance directors are expected to attend this meeting.
Financial and other information about the Group is contained on its Financial reporting website, www.
A copy of the Groups annual A comprehensive budgeting process takes place annually report is sent to stakeholders and is posted on the website.
throughout the Group, culminating in regional budgets that are reviewed and approved by the Board.
The Chief Financial Officer Risk Management and Internal Control is responsible for determining financial policy within the Group Ultimate responsibility for the Risk Management within the Group and the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for executing these lies with the Board.
This responsibility includes regular review of the financial policies and ensuring compliance with Group strategy.
effectiveness of the Risk Management and Internal Control systems The Chief Executive Officer is also responsible for establishing and functions.
The Risk Management function, run by the Group the integrity of forecast data upon which executive decisions are Risk Manager, includes an Enterprise wide Risk Management ERM based.
programme and the internal audit function.
The ERM provides assurance to the Board on all matters concerning Enterprise Risk, Each Group operation reports its activity, turnover, actual including strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks.
results, cash position and forecasts monthly to the Board.
The The programme is structured in a way that focuses on the risks Executive Committee considers these against agreed quarterly relevant to Dimension Datas business objectives.
and annual forecasts and the annual budget, and reports to the Board quarterly.
In addition, the Chief Financial Officer distributes monthly management accounts to non-executive directors serving on the Board.
031 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Key controls over business unit risks include reviews against Controls over central functions performance indicators and exception reporting.
Business units Treasury and Corporate Finance are controlled centrally.
Treasury senior management are responsible for identifying, evaluating and policies are recorded in writing and reviewed regularly.
There are channels of communication available to report significant risks to the Board if necessary.
Authority and review The Group has clearly defined levels of authority for the subsidiary Quality and integrity of personnel boards and their directors in making financial and operational The Group is committed to aligning its employees with its interests decisions including major investments, capital expenditure and and values.
It has a published ethical code to which employees are contractual engagements with customers and suppliers.
The expected to adhere, and transgressions are strictly dealt with.
The Groups internal audit function monitors compliance with these Directors Report, the Report on Employees and the Corporate authority levels.
Social Responsibility Report contain information regarding the Groups commitment to employees and ethical practices.
IT systems Consolidating of the Groups IT systems continues with a focus on globalisation of common systems.
This benefits our customers through improved consistency of service, and our internal processes by enhanced knowledge sharing.
The security of data held on IT systems is reviewed regularly and remains a priority, as does the continuous improvement of disaster recovery systems.
Attendance at meetings during the period under review Name Board 5 Audit 4 Remuneration 3 Nomination 1 JJ Ord 5 n a n a 1 BW Dawson 5 n a n a n a SM Joubert 4 n a n a n a PK Quarmby 5 n a n a n a DB Sherriffs 5 n a n a n a RGML Barclay 5 4 n a n a W Lucas-Bull1 0 n a n a n a J Malherbe 5 n a 3 n a MM Ngoasheng 3 n a n a n a RM Scott 5 4 3 n a GH Waddell 5431 PD Wharton-Hood 4n a n a1 D Irish n a 3 n a n a 1 Appointed to the Board 1 July 2005.
