ANNUAL REPORT 2005 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT The Audit Committee presents a report on its activities during the period.
The Audit Committee External audit The members of the Audit Committee for the period under review The Committee reviews performance of the external auditors and were as follows: the level of audit service provided and has recommended the continued apointment of the auditors for the financial year.
In the Rory Scott Chairman period under review the Committee has reviewed the scope of the Rupert Barclay interim review and year end audit including the Group materiality Gordon Waddell level.
Auditor independence is discussed and confirmed at each Derek Irish meeting.
Approval must be obtained from the Committee at the end of the financial year for audit, tax services and procedures The Audit Committee is comprised of independent non-executives agreed upon in respect of audit certificates.
Within the terms of and Derek Irish who is a senior partner in an independent reference the Committee has agreed that non-audit services during accounting practice.
The Committee met four times during the the financial year exceeding US$50,000 on an individual basis or period under review, once without management and auditors US$250,000 in total must be approved by the Committee.
A table showing attendance at committee meetings is available on page 32.
Of the current committee members, three Details of the split between audit and non-audit work can be are qualified chartered accountants.
Biographical details for all found in Note 5 of the annual financial statements.
The Committee directors can be found on pages 46 and 47. considers that the approvals required for audit and non-audit services, together with the other controls in place within the Group, The Board of Directors has approved written terms of reference for are sufficient to ensure the objectivity and independence of the the Audit Committee.
These terms of reference are available on the external auditors.
Non-audit work during the period has comprised Companys website www.
com taxation and various audit certificates.
The main duties and activities of the Committee in the period under The Committee has met with the external auditors three times review can be summarised as follows: during the period under review.
Internal control Financial statements The Committee, together with the Group Risk Committee, has The Committee has reviewed the financial statements for the reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, which period, and has considered matters such as the consistency include financial, operational and compliance controls, and of accounting policies, decisions requiring a major element of procedures for identification, assessment and reporting of risks, judgement, compliance with accounting standards, the going and has reported to the Board on the outcome of this review.
The concern assumption and the statement on internal control terms of reference for the Group Risk Committee, which reports systems.
to the Audit Committee, are available on the Companys website www.
com Other matters A revised ethical code and whistleblowing policy has been Internal audit implemented.
This policy is intended to assist individuals who During the period under review  has believe they have discovered serious malpractice or impropriety continued to act as internal auditors for the Group.
The Committee to take the appropriate action.
A copy of the ethical code and confirms their programme of work and reviews their reports.
The whistleblowing policy is available on the Companys website.
head of the internal audit function has direct access to both the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee has met with the internal auditors twice during the period under review and the Chairman of the Committee has met privately with them on two further occasions.
