NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT The members of the Nominations Committee are Sir John Collins Chairman, John Whybrow, Rita Clifton, Count Emmanuel dAndr and Andrew Lynch independent non-executive directors, and John Clare Chief Executive.
The Committee met three times during the year and all its members attended the meetings.
The Company Secretary is secretary of the Committee.
No member of the Committee participates in discussions or decisions concerning their own appointment to the Board.
The principal roles and responsibilities of the Committee are to: keep under review the structure, size and composition of the Board and its principal committees and to recommend changes deemed necessary: identify and nominate to the Board candidates for appointment to the Board: be responsible for succession planning for Board members, in particular the Chairman and Chief Executive: and make recommendations to the Board for the continuation or otherwise of a director upon the expiry of any specified term of ofce: The Committees full terms of reference may be found on the corporate website at www.
Key activities of the Committee during the period were: the nomination of Andrew Lynch to be designated as the Senior Independent Director with effect from 2 May 2004, subsequently approved by the Board: the nomination of Kevin OByrne to be appointed Group Finance Director upon the resignation of Jeremy Darroch.
Kevin OByrne was selected following a review of a number of internal and potential external candidates having regard to his particular qualications, skills and prior experience both outside and inside the Group.
The Committees recommendation was approved by the Board and he was appointed a director on 19 July 2004: the recommendation, approved by the Board, that the appointment of Count Emmanuel dAndr, an independent non-executive director, be renewed for a three year term with effect from 1 September 2005.
His contribution to the Board and commitment of time and energy, coupled with his wide experience of European retailing and other business sectors, merit an extension of his period in ofce: and discussions on succession planning in relation to the Board and senior executives within the Group.
The Committee is satisfied that the directors retiring by rotation at the forthcoming annual general meeting Andrew Lynch and David Longbottom are qualied for re-appointment by virtue of skills, experience and contribution to the Board.
The Committee has confirmed that the size, composition and balance of skills of the Board and its committees remains appropriate to the business of the Group.
Approved by the Nominations Committee and signed on its behalf on 22 June 2005 by Sir John Collins Chairman of the Nominations Committee Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 45
