CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company maintains high standards of corporate governance for which the directors are collectively accountable to shareholders.
Sound governance is central to achieving the directors prime objective of maximising shareholder value and comprises, principally, the processes by which the Group is directed and managed, risks are identied and controlled and effective accountability is assured.
Combined Code The following statement, together with the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 54, the Audit Committee Report on page 44 and the Nominations Committee Report on page 45 sets out the manner in which the Group has, throughout the period, applied the principles contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Combined Code.
Board of directors The Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, four non-executive directors considered by the Board to be independent, and three executive directors.
Changes to the Board during the period are set out in the Directors Report on page 38.
Detailed biographies of the Board members are shown on pages 34 and 35.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board includes: approval of the interim and final statements including the review of critical accounting policies and accounting judgements and the monitoring of the Groups system of internal control and risk management : approval of the interim and final dividends: the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors: approval of all circulars, prospectuses and major public announcements: changes relating to the Companys capital structure and the Memorandum and Articles of Association: the appointment and removal of directors and the Company Secretary: the terms of references of Board committees, the Chairman and the executive directors: approval of the Groups strategy and annual budget: approval of major capital expenditure or disposals: approval of material contracts, political contributions and annual charitable donations: approval of material acquisitions and divestments: and approval of significant changes to retirement benefit schemes, employee share plans and long-term incentive programmes.
The full schedule of matters reserved for the Board appears on the corporate website www.
An annual meeting of the Board focuses on the longer term strategic direction of the Group and the markets in which it operates.
An evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its principal committees and of their processes was undertaken in July 2004 and included an assessment of the individual members of the Board facilitated by a senior member of the Human Resources team with relevant management consultancy experience.
This process will be repeated in 2005.
The assessment concluded that the structure of the Board and of its committees was robust and that the contributions and the time commitments of their constituent members satisfied the present and foreseeable needs of the business.
The non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, have reviewed the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
As a result, the Board has offered a three year extension of his existing term of ofce until September 2008, which he has accepted.
The ofces of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held separately and written statements of their responsibilities have been approved by the Board.
40 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 The Chairman ensures that the Board has full and timely access to all relevant information and holds occasional meetings with the non-executive directors to discuss corporate strategy and performance.
There is frequent contact between directors outside formal meetings to progress the Groups business and to promote open communication and teamworking.
Andrew Lynch fullled the role of Senior Independent Director throughout the year.
A corporate governance framework has been approved by the Board dening the role and responsibilities of the constituent elements of the Groups management structure.
This enables the Board to plan, execute, control and monitor the Groups activities so as to achieve its strategic objectives.
All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
On appointment, each director receives a tailored induction programme into the Group together with guidance and training appropriate to their level of previous experience.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to meet members of senior management regularly and to undertake visits to all parts of the Group, particularly newly acquired and developing businesses.
All directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and changes in commercial and financial risks.
The Articles of Association require one third of the Board not otherwise subject to re-appointment by shareholders to retire by rotation each year and ensure that over a three year period each director is subject to re-appointment by shareholders in general meeting.
Details of the directors retiring by rotation at the annual general meeting on 7 September 2005 are set out in the Directors Report on page 39.
The Board met nine times during the period excluding ad hoc meetings convened to deal with procedural matters.
All directors attended all meetings apart from Andrew Lynch who was unable to be present on 22 July 2004.
There were meetings of the non-executive directors during the period without the executive directors present and a meeting between the Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive directors without the Chairman present.
Board committees The Board has established a number of committees to which it has delegated specic responsibilities.
Trading divisions are managed by separate executive committees.
Separate reports from the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, including details of membership and terms of reference, are set out on pages 44 to 54.
Membership of the other principal committees and a summary of their terms of reference are shown below: Meetings attended Meetings held Members during the period during period Summary terms of reference Chairmans Committee Sir John Collins Chairman 10 10 A forum for the Chairman to monitor and review John Clare 10 the development and implementation of strategy Jeremy Darroch until 19 July 2004 1 and to report appropriately to the Board.
David Longbottom 10 Kevin OByrne since 19 July 2004 8 Group Executive Committee John Clare Chairman 9 9 Responsible for the implementation of strategy Per Bjrgs 9 and the day to day management of the Groups Jeremy Darroch until 19 July 2004 1 business.
David Longbottom 9 Kevin OByrne since 19 July 2004 7 Simon Turner 8 Nick Wilkinson 7 Nick Wood 9 The Company Secretary is secretary of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Chairmans Committees.
These committees operate within written terms of reference approved by the Board, which are available on request from the Company Secretary and may be viewed on the corporate website.
The Board receives and reviews minutes of their meetings.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Relations with shareholders The Board attaches considerable importance to the maintenance of constructive relationships with shareholders.
Effective two way communication with institutional investors and analysts is established through regular presentations and meetings in the UK and overseas, usually by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The Chairman holds occasional meetings with major shareholders to discuss matters of mutual interest including corporate strategy and governance issues.
Matters arising from these presentations and meetings are communicated to the Board.
Presentations are conducted in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys guidance on the dissemination of price sensitive information to ensure the protection of such information which has not already been made available generally to the Companys shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director is available to discuss with shareholders any major issues that cannot be resolved through normal channels.
Non-executive directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
The annual general meeting is regarded as an opportunity to communicate directly with private shareholders.
The chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees are available at the meeting to answer questions from shareholders.
Notice of the annual general meeting and related documents are mailed to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially different issue.
The notice is contained in the accompanying letter to shareholders.
In addition to the interim and annual reports, shareholders can obtain information about the Group posted on the corporate website.
Pension schemes The Group operates a number of dened contribution and dened benefit pension schemes.
The principal scheme, which operates in the UK, comprises a funded dened benefit section and a dened contribution section.
Trustees hold the assets of the scheme separately from those of the Group.
There are six trustees: three members of senior management and three external trustees.
The power of appointment of new trustees is vested in the trustees.
Asset management is delegated to four independent companies whose performance is monitored by a specialist performance measurement service.
The schemes accounts are audited annually by Nexia Audit Limited, who are not auditors to any Group companies.
Members of the scheme receive an annual statement of their accrued benets and a copy of the trustees annual report.
The dened benefit section has been closed to new members since 1 September 2002.
Membership of the dened contribution section is available to all UK employees of the Group with six months service or more.
Further information about pensions is given in note 27 to the financial statements.
Internal control In accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull working party set out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Group has established and maintained throughout the period a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
This process was in place throughout the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2005 and to the date of approval of the financial statements.
Responsibility and accountability The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control, for reviewing its effectiveness and the Groups approach to risk management.
The Board delegates to executive management the day to day responsibility for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks facing the Groups operations, and for implementing and maintaining internal control systems that manage those risks in an efficient and effective manner, appropriate to their nature and scale.
Senior management is responsible and accountable for internal control and risk management and for ensuring compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
Inherent limitations and continuous improvement In determining its policies on internal control, the Board has regard to the materiality of the relevant risks, the likelihood of losses occurring and the costs of control.
The directors are aware that the inherent limitations in any system of control mean that risk cannot be totally eliminated.
It follows that the Groups system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate, rather than remove, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
42 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 The Groups approach to managing and monitoring internal control and risk assessment is regularly reviewed to identify ways in which it can be improved and further embedded throughout the Groups operations.
Control environment and control activities In addition to the corporate governance structure described above, the Groups system of internal control and processes for managing risk comprise the following main elements: the Board and management committees meet regularly to monitor progress against the targets set out in the Groups budget and strategic three year plan and to consider the quarterly reforecasts of the Groups expected financial period end position.
Financial and non-financial performance reports are produced daily, weekly and four-weekly to facilitate this review process: the dened lines of authority established by the Board ensure that significant decisions are taken at an appropriate level.
These include requirements for the approval and control of both capital and operating expenditure, treasury operations and cash management: each business function has established procedures and controls to minimise the risk of fraud and to safeguard the Groups assets: appropriate controls and procedures have been established over the security of data held on, and functionality provided by, the Groups business systems.
These include disaster recovery arrangements.
The computer systems are periodically tested and reviewed by both internal and external audit functions: the Group appoints individuals who are of a calibre to enable them to discharge the duties and responsibilities of the roles assigned to them.
Established performance review and development mechanisms exist to identify key objectives and areas for improvement for each member of staff.
Succession planning forms an integral part of Human Resources management: Group Treasury operates within established and documented policies and procedures.
The policies are described in the Operating and Financial Review on pages 25 and 26 and are reviewed and approved annually by the Group Executive Committee: the Groups programme of insurance covers the material risks to the Groups assets and business and is reviewed annually by the Group Executive Committee and the Audit Committee: following major acquisitions, post-completion assessments are carried out: and all entities within the Group are required to adhere to common standards of internal control and corporate governance, which are specified in documented guidance.
Assurance and monitoring The Board conducts an annual evaluation of the management of risk and the processes of internal control.
The Audit Committee seeks ongoing assurance that the control environment and activities described above are operating effectively and reports at each Board meeting.
Corporate responsibility The Group operates a Corporate Responsibility CR Committee, chaired by the Company Secretary, which meets at least four times annually.
The Group Director of Human Resources is a member of the CR Committee and is the Board member with specic responsibility for social, environmental, ethical and other CR related matters.
The CR Committee makes recommendations on measurement tools and audit procedures and reports on the effectiveness of systems for managing CR related matters.
All Board members receive regular updates on CR issues, risks and opportunities and the Board regularly reviews CR issues.
Further information on Corporate Responsibility is given on pages 28 to 33 and on the corporate website.
Compliance The directors consider that the Company has throughout the period complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 43
