FOODSERVICE GROUP Corporate governance Statement of compliance with the to concentrate on her role as chief executive of Aga Combined Code Home and to lead the Groups retail initiatives in North Throughout the year the Company has applied all of America.
Also on 14th December, Paul Jackson was the principles set out in section 1 of the July 2003 appointed as an independent non-executive director.
edition of the Combined Code on Corporate Following the resignation of John Lovering, Paul Governance the Code relating to the structure and Dermody became chairman of the audit & risk composition of the board, the remuneration of the committee and Peter Tom was appointed as the senior directors, relations with shareholders and procedures non-executive director.
for financial reporting, internal control and audit.
The Group was in compliance with the provisions of the The directors biographies are shown on pages 14 to Code at the year end.
During the period July - 15 and in accordance with the Companys Articles of December 2005, as detailed in the Board balance and Association, all directors are submitted for re-election independence section below, the number of executive at least every three years, subject to their continued directors exceeded the number of independent nonsatisfactory performance and taking into account the executive directors not including the chairman.
need for the progressive refreshing of the board.
As noted below, the board also undertook a formal Directors performance evaluation during the year.
The board Attendance at board and board committee meetings is The board is collectively responsible to the Companys set out in the table opposite.
shareholders for the success of the Company, the Groups system of corporate governance, its strategic During the year, the non-executive directors, including objectives and the stewardship of the Companys the chairman, met without the executive directors resources.
The board is satisfied that it meets the being present and led by the senior independent Codes requirements for effective operation.
The board director, the non-executive directors met without the takes full responsibility for social, environmental and chairman present to appraise his performance.
ethical matters which are also included in the risk management process.
The board has considered and The Company indemnifies directors for claims made implemented, where appropriate, the guidelines on against them in relation to their duties, with the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR issued by the exception of losses incurred as a result of their wilful Association of British Insurers.
The Company maintains appropriate directors and officers liability insurance.
The board promotes the success of the Group and provides leadership within a framework of prudent and Board balance and independence effective controls that enable risk to be assessed and The board currently comprises a non-executive managed.
The board ensures that adequate financial chairman, three executive directors and a further four and human resources are made available to ensure independent non-executive directors and thus these objectives are met.
The board delegates specific complies with the Code requirement that there should responsibilities to board committees as described be a balance of executive and non-executive directors.
As noted above, during the period following the resignation of John Lovering as a non-executive The board held nine meetings during the year to director in July 2005, and prior to the appointment of discharge its duties, including a review of the key Paul Jackson and the resignation of Judy George in activities of the business and it received papers and December 2005, the number of executive directors presentations from management and external advisers.
exceeded the number of independent non-executive The board has a formal schedule of matters reserved directors, excluding the chairman.
for its decision, which was reviewed during the year.
Chairman and chief executive During the year, a number of changes were made to The roles of the chairman and chief executive are the board.
On 21st July, John Lovering resigned as a separate and the division of responsibilities between non-executive director.
On 14th December, Judy them is set out in writing and regularly reviewed by the George resigned as an executive director to enable her board.
The chairman is primarily responsible for the ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 18 19 Corporate governance leadership and effective functioning of the board, are suitably qualified, trained and experienced so as to including the provision of accurate, timely and be able to participate fully in the work of the board.
adequate information: for ensuring that there is appropriate communication with shareholders and To assist with the independent conduct of their ensuring both executive and non-executive directors function, the non-executive directors are able to obtain contribute effectively.
The chief executive maintains professional advice at the Companys expense, if day-to-day management responsibility for the required in connection with their duties, and a process Companys operations, implementing Group strategy is in place to facilitate this.
In addition, all directors and policies agreed by the board.
have access to the services of the company secretary.
Appointments to the board Board performance evaluation As is further detailed in the nomination committee During the year, the board undertook a formal report, below, there is a formal, rigorous and evaluation of its performance and the performance of transparent procedure for board appointments.
The its committees and the individual directors.
A board is satisfied that there are succession plans in questionnaire, prepared by the chairman with the place for appointments to the board and for senior assistance of the company secretary, was completed management.
A summary of the responses was prepared by the company secretary and discussed at Board information and professional development a meeting of the non-executive directors and With the assistance of the company secretary, the subsequently with the board as a whole.
In addition, chairman is responsible for ensuring the information the chairman communicates frequently with the nondistributed to the board is accurate, timely and clear, executive and executive directors.
Directors are also and is appropriate to enable the board to discharge its encouraged to discuss any issues or concerns with the duties.
chairman at any time throughout the year.
Directors are encouraged to ensure that any unresolved issues are The nomination committee ensures that all directors formally minuted.
receive a full induction on joining the board.
Directors receive regular updates appropriate to the business throughout the year and the Company provides Internal control and risk management resources for directors to develop and refresh their The board confirms that it has established procedures knowledge and capabilities as required.
The necessary to comply with the Code to implement the non-executive directors are encouraged to undertake guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull site visits, and in addition at least one board meeting is Committee and is reporting in accordance with that held at an operating site during the year.
Audit & risk Nomination Remuneration Board committee committee committee Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended W B McGrath 9 9 --- -- - S Rennie 9 9 --- -- - S M Smith 9 9 --- -- - J A George 9 8 --- -- - V Cocker 99 - - 2 2 - - H M Mahy 9 9 332 24 4 P W G Tom 9 8 332 24 4 P B Dermody 9 9 332 24 4 P E Jackson 0 0 000 00 0 J D Lovering 5 3 110 02 2 resigned 14th December 2005: appointed 14th December 2005: resigned 21st July 2005 FOODSERVICE GROUP Corporate governance The board is responsible for ensuring that the Group specific annual review of the effectiveness of the maintains systems of internal controls, including Groups systems of internal control and risk internal financial control, operational and compliance management in respect of the financial period and up controls and risk management systems and for to the date of this report.
Systems of internal control monitoring the effectiveness of these controls.
are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance, to safeguard shareholders investments, the Meetings of the board and the audit & risk committee Groups assets and ensure that financial information ensure that risk management and internal control are and accounting records are reliable.
Grange is not considered on a regular basis throughout the year, and currently dealt with as part of these internal control are subject to continuous review and development.
This procedures - but following the Groups increased includes consideration of corporate social responsibility shareholding, will be in 2006. matters as outlined in the report on pages 29 to 32.
At business unit level, there are regular management and Risk factors board meetings to review all aspects of the Groups The system for monitoring risks is continuous and an business, including those where there are potential risks ongoing process throughout the year.
Risk is a formal to the Group.
All operating businesses have quarterly agenda item at the October meeting of the audit & risk reviews with the executive directors to discuss strategy, committee.
Key risks include brand reputation, business performance and significant operational and changes to the market, new technology, pension financial risks.
Key procedures include planning, funding, human resources management, health, safety budgeting and investment appraisal.
Feedback is and environmental issues, the availability and pricing of provided to the board.
key raw materials and utilities, and investor relations including shareholder expectations.
The board has reserved, for its own approval, those major decisions significant to the strategy and This process has identified a number of risks where operation of the Group as a whole.
These include the action plans have been developed to eliminate, short and medium-term strategy, major capital minimise or mitigate these risks including insurance, investments and restructuring costs, acquisitions and where appropriate but the board considers that there divestments, post-investment performance review and are no specific risks which might have a material treasury policy.
The internal and external auditors report regularly to Performance monitoring management, the audit & risk committee and the board Business performance is a standing agenda item at on their activities, findings and recommendations.
A comparison of forecast and actual results is considered, with comparisons against A control structure is in place with defined delegated budgets and the prior year.
The executive directors authorities for management throughout the Group and also undertake frequent visits to business units to include clear approval requirements for decisions which monitor business performance, day-to-day have a major financial implication for the business units management and operational issues and report concerned.
Continual monitoring of systems of internal regularly to the board.
financial control is the responsibility of all management teams.
Committees of the board The terms of reference of the committees were There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating reviewed by the board during the year and are available and managing significant risks across the Group.
Risk on the Groups website www.
reviews are carried out at each business unit, taking Certain matters have been delegated to the chief into account the likelihood of occurrence and the executives committee which comprises the executive degree of impact.
Risks considered include operational directors and meets as required to conduct business and financial contingencies, legal and regulatory within defined limits out-with the schedule of matters compliance and social, environmental and ethical issues.
The process identifies both short and long-term risks.
Audit & risk committee The directors confirm that they have conducted a The audit & risk committee assists the board in the ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 20 21 Corporate governance effective discharge of its responsibilities for financial best placed to do so.
The committee has developed a reporting, internal control and risk management formal policy to help ensure the independence and processes.
It also reviews the whistle-blowing objectivity of the external auditors is not compromised.
processes, as further described on page 30.
The policy states that non-audit fees paid to the principal auditors should not exceed 250% of the audit The current members of the committee are Helen fee, except in the case of a significant event.
The Mahy, Peter Tom, Paul Jackson and it was chaired by chairman of the audit & risk committee is required to John Lovering until July 2005 and since then it has authorise non-audit work above a pre-agreed been chaired by Paul Dermody.
Note 3 to the Group accounts provides a Paul Dermody to have significant, recent and relevant breakdown of 2005 audit and non-audit fees and prior financial experience.
The chairman, executive directors year data.
and the external and internal auditors attend meetings by invitation.
The audit & risk committee keeps the potential retendering of the external audit function under review, The committee provides support to the board by and the committee confirms that it is satisfied with the monitoring the integrity of the interim and annual level of fees, independence, objectivity and financial statements, including the review of significant effectiveness of the external auditors.
financial reporting judgements contained in them.
The committee ensures financial statements and Nomination committee announcements comply fully with the relevant statutes The nomination committee is responsible for advising and accounting standards and present a balanced and the board and making recommendations on the understandable assessment of the Companys position appointments of new directors.
currently comprises Helen Mahy, Peter Tom, Paul Dermody and Paul Jackson and is chaired by The committee reviews the effectiveness of internal Vic Cocker.
financial controls and risk management systems.
The head of internal audit reports to the finance director The committee is responsible for ensuring there is a and has direct access to the chairman of the formal and transparent procedure for the nomination of committee.
The committee monitors and reviews the directors and committee members.
It makes effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function recommendations to the board on the appointment and ensures that it is adequately resourced.
The and reappointment of directors to ensure that the committee receives regular reports from the internal board is of an appropriate size and composition and auditors detailing their findings and recommendations.
provides a balance of skills, knowledge and The committee has reviewed the risk based approach experience.
Prior to any nomination, the committee to internal audit procedures introduced in 2004 and prepares a description of the role, desired skills and being satisfied with the procedures will continue to capabilities required for a particular appointment.
monitor progress and effectiveness on an ongoing Candidates from a wide variety of backgrounds are basis.
considered and the committee has used external search consultants and taken into account the External auditors recommendations of other independent external The external auditors are invited to attend all audit & advisers to identify candidates.
The committee members, all other directors and senior management have direct Following the resignation of John Lovering in July access to the external auditors throughout the year, to 2005, the procedures referred to above were used by seek advice or raise any issues or concerns.
The the committee in the appointment of Paul Jackson as external auditors consider the systems of internal an independent non-executive director on 14th financial control, to the extent necessary to express December 2005. their audit opinion.
The committee encourages candidates to carry out The committee recognises that there are occasions due diligence on the Company and informs individuals when it is advantageous to use the external auditors to of the anticipated time and commitment necessary to undertake additional non-audit services, when they are successfully fulfil the role.
FOODSERVICE GROUP Corporate governance Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial were requested with the senior independent director or three-year term pursuant to a standard letter of the other non-executive directors.
appointment, which is available for viewing at the Companys registered office during normal business Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to hours or at the AGM.
shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting, and separate resolutions are proposed on During the year the committee in conjunction with the each substantial issue.
The AGM is considered by the board reviewed succession planning for the board and board to be an important opportunity for direct senior management positions within the Group and the communication with the Companys private framework is continually being developed to ensure shareholders.
The directors are available for questions, issues are managed promptly and effectively.
The formally during the AGM and shareholders may meet Company also conducts succession planning reviews the directors informally after proceedings have ended.
at appropriate management levels to identify At the meeting, the Company makes the details of the development potential, training needs, resource and proxy votes cast on each resolution available.
the 2005 AGM are set out in the notice of meeting on pages 76 to 77, along with details of the facilities Changes to directors commitments are reported to the available for proxy votes to be cast electronically.
board as they arise and are considered on their individual merits.
There have been no significant In the annual and interim reports, AGM statements, changes to the chairmans external commitments results presentations and Stock Exchange during the year.
announcements, the Company seeks to present an accurate and objective view in a manner appropriate Remuneration committee for the intended audience.
As detailed on page 78, The remuneration committee determines on behalf of shareholders may contact our investor relations the board the remuneration of the executive directors personnel at the corporate office or by email to and the chairman.
The committee is chaired by Peter ir@agafoodservice.
com with any questions, issues or Tom and comprises all the independent non-executive concerns.
The non-executive directors may be directors.
The chairman and chief executive attend contacted by e-mail nonexec@agafoodservice.
meetings by invitation, but do not participate in discussions relating to their own remuneration.
Details Directors responsibilities for the financial of the committees activities, remuneration policies and statements the remuneration of directors are set out in the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual Remuneration report on pages 23 to 29. report and the financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group Relations with shareholders in accordance with International Financial Reporting The board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that Standards IFRS and have elected to prepare there is effective dialogue with shareholders, including financial statements for the Company in accordance institutional investors, private and employee with UK GAAP.
Company law requires the directors to shareholders.
The Company reports formally to prepare such financial statements in accordance with shareholders twice a year when its preliminary and applicable accounting standards, the Companies Act interim results are announced and reports are issued to 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The executive directors also make presentations to institutional investors, analysts and the International Accounting Standard 1 requires that media.
Copies of the main reports and presentations financial statements present fairly for each financial are posted on the Companys website.
year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful The chairman, senior independent director and other representation of the effects of transactions, other non-executive directors make themselves available to events and conditions in accordance with the meet with shareholders and attend meetings if requested.
definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, The chairman and other non-executive directors hosted income and expenses set out in the International events enabling communication with a number of major Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the shareholders during the year.
No other specific meetings preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
