DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 27 Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the principle and relevant Committee meetings unless Board Committees and application of sound corporate governance.
exceptional circumstances prevent them The principal Committees of the Board from attending.
During the year there were are the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination The Company has complied throughout the no absences from any Board or Committee Committees.
The Audit Committee comprises financial year with all the provisions of the meetings by any Director.
In addition to independent non-Executive Directors.
Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 formal Board meetings, the Chairman and The Remuneration Committee comprises of the Combined Code on Corporate Chief Executive maintain regular contact independent non-Executive Directors.
Governance issued in July 2003 except as with all Directors and hold informal meetings Mr Piette ceased to be a member of the stated below in respect of A.
The with non-Executive Directors to discuss Remuneration Committee during the year Board has an ongoing review of its corporate issues affecting the Company.
Once a year as he is no longer considered an independent governance policy and has implemented some the Board visits a business unit and receives non-Executive Director solely by reason of changes to take account of the Combined Code a presentation from local management.
his length of service Combined Code B.
The Companys Auditors Individual Directors are encouraged to make The Nomination Committee comprises have reviewed the compliance with those additional site visits during the year.
The the Chairman, Mr Beeston the Senior provisions of the Combined Code specified Board continually reviews the performance Independent Director and Mr P M Johnson.
The Nomination Committee did not consist of all of the divisions and undertakes a Board and Board Committees of a majority of independent non-Executive strategic review on an annual basis.
There The role of the Board Directors during the year Combined Code is a formal schedule of matters reserved for The Board is collectively responsible for A.
For this reason Mr A D Thorne ceased consideration and approval for the Board.
promoting the success of the Company by to be a member of the Committee on 28 June These include the annual Plan, substantial directing and supervising the Companys 2005 and Mr Johnson was appointed in his acquisitions and divestments, the approval affairs.
The Boards role is to provide place.
All Board Committees have written of the annual and interim results and a review leadership of the Company within a terms of reference agreed by the Board.
A of the overall system of internal control and framework of prudent and effective controls copy of these is available on the Companys risk management.
which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
The Audit Committee is chaired by The Board and its Committees, as detailed Mr C J Bunker, the Remuneration Committee The Board sets the Companys strategic below, receive timely information of a is chaired by Mr Beeston and the Nomination aims and ensures that the necessary financial quality that enables them to carry out their Committee is chaired by Mr A P Hichens.
and human resources are in place for the roles effectively.
All Directors have access The membership of each Committee can be Company to meet its objectives and reviews to the advice and services of the Company seen on page 26.
The Board has used the management performance.
A procedure is in place for any criteria proposed by the National Association Director to take independent professional In addition, the Board sets the Companys of Pension Funds for determining whether advice in the furtherance of his duties at values and standards and ensures that its a non-Executive Director is independent.
No such advice obligations to its shareholders and others Audit Committee was sought by any Director during the are understood and met.
In addition to the Committee members year.
The Directors are provided with The Board currently comprises three listed on page 26 the Chairman, the Group opportunities for training to ensure that Executive and six non-Executive Directors.
Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, they are kept up to date on relevant new The offices of Chairman and Group Chief the Head of Operational Audit and the Group legislation and changing commercial risks.
Mr R G Financial Controller attend by invitation.
New Directors are given appropriate Beeston is the Senior Independent Director.
Mr Bunker recently retired as Finance induction training, including site visits During the year each of the non-Executive Director of the Water Division of RWE AG to major business units.
During the Directors has at all times acted independently and was previously Group Finance Director year the Board carried out a comprehensive of management and has no relationships of Thames Water Plc.
The Board is satisfied self-appraisal which was led by the Chairman which would materially interfere with the that he has both current and relevant and the Senior Independent Director.
The exercise of their independent judgement financial experience.
appraisal included the performance of Board and decision making.
It is recognised that Committees.
All Directors and the Company The responsibilities of the Audit Committee, Mr D R Piette is not considered a fully Secretary participated in the exercise.
During which meets at least three times a year, cover independent non-Executive Director the current financial year the Board intends all the points recommended by the Combined because of his length of service.
The Committee monitors the Groups The Board meets a minimum of eight times Directors meet separately at least once a year accounting and financial procedures, per year.
All Board members attend all Board to appraise the Chairmans performance.
including the discussion of the accounting 28 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance continued implications of major transactions, and as a whole.
The Group Chief Executive interim reports and via the Companys receives regular reports on the review of attends by invitation.
It has responsibility to is in place for the appointment of new Internal Control monitor and review the effectiveness of Directors, involving the use of external The Board has overall responsibility for the internal audit function.
The Committee recruitment consultants, where appropriate, the Groups system of internal control is responsible for the review of the annual followed by meetings both with the and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such Committee and then with the Board.
The accounts and interim statement.
The a system, however, can only be designed Committee met twice during the year and Committee meets with the external Auditors to manage rather than to eliminate risk and there were no absences.
to determine their independence, objectivity can therefore provide only reasonable and effectiveness in carrying out the and not absolute assurance against material Remuneration Committee external audit and makes recommendations misstatement or loss.
In accordance with The Chairman and the Group Chief to the Board regarding their re-appointment, the Turnbull Committee guidance, the Executive attend these meetings by invitation, terms of engagement and remuneration.
Company established the procedures necessary except when their remuneration is being The Audit Committee receives written to ensure that there is an ongoing process discussed.
In addition Mr Piette attends confirmation from the external Auditors for identifying, evaluating and managing the by invitation in order that he can provide as to any relationships that might have a significant risks to the Group.
These procedures an international view on remuneration.
The external have been in place for the whole of the The Remuneration Committee is responsible Auditors also confirm whether they financial year ended 30 April 2005 and up for determining the remuneration of the consider themselves independent within to the date of the approval of these financial Executive Directors, the Company Secretary the meaning of the UK regulatory and statements and they are reviewed regularly.
The Report on professional requirements.
Remuneration is set out on pages 30 to 36.
The Board determines the objectives and During the year the Committee met four The Committee has adopted a policy on broad policies of the Group.
It meets regularly times and there were no absences.
the supply of non-audit services by external and there is a schedule of matters which auditors.
The external Auditors are permitted are required to be brought to it for decision.
Other Board Committees to undertake some non-audit services, for The Board has delegated to management the The Board has delegated certain powers, example advisory services and due diligence responsibility for establishing a system of mainly of a routine nature, to the General activities associated with potential acquisitions internal control appropriate to the business Purposes Committee, which comprises the and divestments.
The external Auditors provide environments in which the Group operates.
Group Chief Executive and the Group tax compliance services on certain historical Key elements of this system include: Finance Director under the chairmanship periods, but in the future will not carry out of the Group Chief Executive.
a set of Key Corporate Values which have such work, which will be performed by other been communicated to all concerned: Relations with Shareholders external advisors.
Non-audit services and fees The Company has a programme of regular a clearly defined divisionalised organisation are reported to the Audit Committee twice meetings which sometimes includes the structure for monitoring the conduct and a year.
For guidance, annual non-audit fees Chairman and the Senior Independent operations of individual business units: payable to the external Auditors should not Director, site visits and results briefings exceed 75% of the annual Group audit fee clear delegation of authority throughout without prior formal approval of the with its major institutional shareholders, the Group, starting with the matters Committee.
Approval for permitted non-audit which provides opportunities to discuss reserved for the Board: services are sought as required by the relevant the progress of the business.
The Board a formal process for ensuring that key Group policy.
also receives feedback from major risks affecting all the Groups operations shareholders in the form of independently During the year the Committee met on are identified and assessed on a regular prepared reports.
The Annual General three occasions and there were no absences.
basis, together with the controls in place Meeting is used as an opportunity to In addition to its regular business, in 2004 05 to mitigate these risks.
Risk consideration communicate with private shareholders, the Committee monitored arrangements for the is embedded in decision-making processes.
including a short presentation on the business adoption of International Accounting Standards.
The most significant risks are periodically and current trading position as well as an reported to the Board and considered by it: opportunity for questions from investors to Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee considers the Chairman of the Board and the chairmen the preparation and review of comprehensive the appointment of Directors, reviews of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
annual divisional and Group budgets and an succession planning at Board level, and Regular communication with shareholders annual review and approval by the Board of makes recommendations to the Board also takes place through the annual and the corporate strategy: DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 29 the monthly reporting of actual results and their review against budget, forecasts and the previous year, with explanations obtained for all significant variances: clearly defined policies for capital expenditure and investment, including appropriate authorisation levels, with larger capital projects, acquisitions and disposals requiring Board approval: procedure manuals laying down common control procedures and policies to apply throughout the Group: and formal quarterly meetings between central and divisional management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues.
The Groups operational audit function undertakes regular reviews of the Groups operations and their systems of internal control.
The work of the function is overseen by the Audit Committee, which regularly reviews its plans and activities.
The Directors can confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
This exercise included a process of self-certification by senior divisional management in which they confirmed that their divisions have complied with Group policies and procedures and reported any significant control weaknesses identified during the past year.
It also involved reviewing the results of the work of the Groups operational audit function and the risk identification and management processes identified above.
Going Concern The Directors are required under the Combined Code to have satisfied themselves as to the Groups ability to continue in existence for the foreseeable future.
A review has been carried out and the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts on pages 40 to 64.
