Nomination Committee Report Responsibilities and role of the Nomination Committee the Committee The principal responsibility of the Committee is to assist the Board with succession planning and with the selection process for the appointment of a new Director or Chairman.
In discharging that responsibility the Committee is required: 1. to evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: 2. to assess the time commitment expected on the part of a new Chairman of the Company and to require new Non-executive Directors to undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them: 3. to oversee the search process, using such outside advisers as the Committee may consider appropriate: 4. to keep the Board advised of the candidates who have been identied for approach and on the preferred candidates for initial interviews: 5. to arrange for all members of the Board to meet the preferred candidate prior to making a formal recommendation to the full Board.
The full Terms of Reference of the Committee are available on our website at www.
com investors under the heading Corporate Governance.
Composition of the Committee The names of the members of the Committee who served during the year ended 31 December 2005 are as follows: Mr P G Rogerson Chairman Mr R C Soames Mr A C Salvesen Mr N H Northridge Mr R V McGlone The Committee is composed of the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the independent Non-executive Directors.
The qualications of the members of the Committee and their biographical details are set out on pages 36 and 37.
There is no specic provision for remuneration of the members of the Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Meetings The number of meetings during 2005 and attendance is set out on page 42.
Main activities of the committee in the year to 31 December 2005 1.
Succession Planning The Committee met to consider Board succession planning and a process for identifying and managing talent within the Group.
2. Letters of Appointment The Committee considered the issue of a new letter of appointment to one Non-executive Director.
Appointment of an additional Director During the year the Committee selected one Executive Director.
A selection agency was provided with selection criteria and a job prole for the position of Managing Director Europe.
A total of ten individuals were interviewed for this position and Kash Pandya was selected as the outstanding candidate.
Before the Committee considered the selection of Mr. Pandya, all of the Directors had meetings with him individually.
The Committee then nominated him to be appointed as Managing Director Europe and as a Director of the Company.
Directors retiring by rotation The Committee considered the contribution and commitment of the Directors standing for re-election and recommended to the Board that they be put forward for re-election.
Philip G Rogerson Chairman 9 March 2006 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 47
