Corporate governance Principles statement easyJet is committed to meeting the required standards of corporate governance.
During the year it has complied with the best practice provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code of 2003, with six exceptions, which are set out below.
Statement of compliance The Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code during the year, with the exception of the following six items: a Prior to Admission to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority, the Group granted share options without performance criteria attached to them.
The majority of these options remain outstanding.
Options granted since December 2000 have had performance conditions attached.
The Group does not intend to grant further share options to employees without attaching performance conditions to their exercise: b The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Tony Illsley, has not had regular meetings with major external shareholders during the year, on the basis that the Board considers this more appropriate to be carried out by the Chairman: c Where Non-Executive Directors exercise share options, they are not required to retain these until at least one year after they have resigned from the Board.
However, given that the Board has decided not to grant further options to Non-Executive Directors, this only relates to existing options held: d Whilst the terms of reference of various Committees have been made available on the Companys website since early 2005, they have not been made available through this method for the entire year: e An external recruitment agency was not used in the appointment of Stelios Haji-Ioannou.
Stelios was considered by the Board to be the most appropriate candidate for appointment to the Board given that he was previously Chairman of the Group: and f During at least part of the year, Sir Colin Chandler Chairman has sat on both of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Sir Colins appointment to the Remuneration Committee is a transitional arrangement until the appointment of a further Independent Non-Executive Director to the Board.
Sir Colins appointment to the Nominations Committee is not a transitional arrangement.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairmans personal integrity and experience make him a highly effective member of the Board and Nominations Committee.
Furthermore, until the appointment of Dawn Airey on 2 August 2005, the Nominations Committee did not include three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Board of Directors As at 30 September 2005, the Board comprised seven Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, and two Executive Directors.
The roles of Chairman Sir Colin Chandler and Chief Executive Ray Webster are separated, clearly defined and approved by the Board.
Tony Illsley was the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Company regards Tony Illsley, Colin Day, Dawn Airey, and Diederik Karsten as Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Tony Illsley and Colin Day resigned from the Board on 30 September 2005.
The Combined Code states that the holding of share options could be relevant to the determination of a NonExecutive Directors independence.
Share options were granted to some of the Independent Non-Executive Directors just prior to Admission to the Official List of the UK Listing Authority in November 2000 and at the end of that financial year.
In 2002, after discussion with shareholder lobby groups, those Directors agreed that they would exercise their options as soon as was reasonably practical after the date that they were allowed so to do.
All such options have either been exercised or have lapsed.
The Board has considered the holding of these options and was aware of them at the time that it made its judgement as to which Directors were to be considered independent.
The judgement was made on the basis that the number of options was insignificant in relation to the financial affairs of each Independent Director.
There are matters which are reserved to the Board by virtue of a resolution of the Board.
These include matters relating to share issues, material acquisitions and disposals of assets, connected party transactions, borrowings and guarantees, material contracts, capital expenditure, shareholder and investor relations, officers and employees, treasury policies, risk management policies, donations, litigation, strategy, internal control, budgets, accounting issues Annual report and accounts 05 33 plc 95 05 Corporate governance continued and authority levels.
By resolution, the Board has delegated certain authorities to management.
This delegation covers areas such as finance expenditure, treasury and the sale of assets, revenue management, customer compensation, contracts, leases, employment and business development.
The Chairman participates in investor meetings and makes himself available for questions, in person, at the time of major announcements.
This direct contact, together with feedback from management and from the Companys two sponsors ABN Amro and Credit Suisse First Boston, is used to brief the Board.
In addition, the Board has sought direct feedback from sources who are independent of easyJet.
The Board considers that it is appropriate for the Chairman to be the conduit with investors, rather than the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Chairman updates the Board and particularly the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on the results of his meetings and the opinions of the investors.
On this basis, easyJet considers that the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is able to gain full awareness of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Notwithstanding this policy, all directors have a standing invitation to participate in meetings with investors.
Tony Illsley, who served as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director until his resignation on 30 September 2005, has met during the year with the other Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Board meets regularly, with 12 meetings being held during the year ended 30 September 2005.
All members of the Board are supplied in advance with appropriate information covering matters which are to be considered.
Number Total of meetings number of attended meetings Sir Colin Chandler 11 12 Dawn Airey 12 12 Diederik Karsten 10 12 Amir Eilon 12 12 Stelios Haji-Ioannou reappointed 16 May 2005 4 4 Ray Webster 12 12 Jeff Carr appointed 7 March 2005 7 7 Directors who resigned during the year: Tony Illsley resigned 30 September 2005 9 12 Colin Day resigned 30 September 2005 10 12 Chris Walton resigned 18 March 2005 5 5 The Chairman discusses governance and strategy with major shareholders when required and communicates the results of these visits to the Board.
All Non-Executive Directors have been offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
Similarly, if a major shareholder requests the attendance of a specific NonExecutive Director at a meeting, then they will be made available.
However, there are no instances of shareholders having made such requests during the year.
The Chairman confers with other Non-Executive Directors on a regular basis, without the Executive Directors present.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary.
They have access to appropriate independent professional advice, resources and other services as they see fit to discharge their duties.
The Nominations Committee, Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee also have access to sufficient resources to allow them to undertake their duties effectively.
The Company Secretary is responsible for generating the funding for these activities.
All Directors, both Executive and Non-Executive are encouraged to request inclusion of any unresolved concerns that they may have in the Board minutes.
34 Annual report and accounts 05 The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures have been complied with.
The Board has agreed that the appointment or removal of the Company Secretary is a matter to be decided by itself.
Insurance cover has been established for all directors to provide cover against their reasonable actions as an officer of easyJet.
During the year, the Chairman undertook a performance review of the Board using an external evaluation framework.
The process involved structured interviews with Directors and management.
The Chairman has also reviewed the performance of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees and also that of the individual Board Directors.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next Annual General Meeting AGM.
At each AGM one-third of the Directors will retire by rotation and be eligible for re-election.
The Directors to retire will be those who wish to retire and those who have been longest in office since their last appointment or reappointment, with the proviso that all must retire within a three-year period.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for three-year terms, after which time they may offer themselves for reelection.
Executive Directors are not appointed for specific terms, however, in practice each director will normally serve a term no longer than three years due to the required retirement by rotation of one-third of the Board at each AGM.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises at least three independent Non-Executive Directors, and at 30 September 2005 comprised Sir Colin Chandler, the Chairman, Colin Day, Tony Illsley and Dawn Airey.
Tony Illsley was Chairman of the Remuneration Committee until Sir Colins appointment to the Committee on 25 August 2005.
Sir Colin Chandlers appointment to the Remuneration Committee is a transitional arrangement until the appointment of a further Independent Non-Executive Director to the Board and to this Committee.
This Committee, which meets at least twice per year, has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the compensation of senior executives and determining, within agreed terms of reference, the specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors and the Chairman.
In addition to meetings to allot shares under the Companys share option schemes, the Remuneration Committee has met 12 times during the year.
The Board has discussed the composition of the Remuneration Committee and is satisfied that the Directors who are members of this Committee are those who are best able to contribute to the Committees objectives.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are documented and agreed by the main Board.
The full text of the terms of reference are available in the investor relations section of the easyJet website, www.
The key terms set out that the Remuneration Committee will: l Seek to provide the packages needed to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the quality required without paying more than is necessary: l Judge where to position easyJet relative to other companies, taking account of what comparable companies are paying and relative performance: l Determine the terms of any compensation package in the event of early termination of any Executive Directors contract in accordance with its terms: l Make recommendations to the Board on the Companys framework of executive remuneration and its cost: and l Determine on behalf of the Board specific remuneration packages and conditions of employment for Executive Directors.
Annual report and accounts 05 35 plc 95 05 Corporate governance continued The record of attendance is: Number Total of meetings number attended of meetings Dawn Airey 12 12 Sir Colin Chandler with effect from 25 August 2005 1 1 Directors who resigned during the year: Tony Illsley resigned 30 September 2005 11 12 Colin Day resigned 30 September 2005 8 12 By invitation: Ray Webster 44 Subsequent to his appointment to the Board on 1 October 2005, David Bennett was appointed to the Remuneration Committee.
Shareholders are required to approve all new long term incentive plans.
A Sharesave Save As You Earn Plan was approved at the Annual General Meeting on 24 February 2005, and a Long Term Incentive Plan was approved at an Extraordinary General Meeting on 15 September 2005.
Further details of these plans can be found in the remuneration report.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
During the year, the Audit Committee members were Colin Day Chairman, Tony Illsley and Diederik Karsten.
This committee meets at least three times per year.
The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by reviewing the financial reports and other financial information in advance of publication, reviewing on a continuing basis the systems of internal controls regarding finance and accounting that management and the Board have established and reviewing generally the auditing, accounting and financial reporting processes.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual and other accounts remains with the Board.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are documented and agreed by the main Board.
The key terms set out that the Audit Committee will: l Serve as an independent and objective party to monitor the quality and timeliness of the financial reporting process and monitor the internal financial control system: l Review and appraise the audit efforts of the external auditors: l Provide an open avenue of communication among the external auditors, financial and senior management, and the Board: l Confirm and assure the independence and objectivity of the external auditor: and l Review annually the need for an internal audit function.
The Audit Committee has the responsibility for appointing the external auditors.
In order to preserve auditor independence, the Board has decided that the auditor will not be used for consulting services unless this is in the best interests of the Company.
The auditors are asked on a regular basis to articulate the steps that they have taken to ensure their independence.
easyJet then monitors the auditors performance and behaviour during the exercise of their duties.
In the financial year, easyJet spent 0.1 million 2004: 0.3 million with KPMG in respect of non-audit services and 0.7 million 2004: 0.5 million with other parties who are entitled to act as registered auditors.
During the year, three firms tendered for the position as auditors for the Group in an open and transparent process.
At the Annual General Meeting, the Board will propose the appointment of  LLP as auditors 36 Annual report and accounts 05 of the Group.
KPMG Audit Plc have indicated that they will resign as auditors for the Group once they have completed the audits of all the statutory accounts of the Group companies to which they are appointed auditors.
The Board has discussed the composition of the Audit Committee and is satisfied that the Directors who were members of this Committee during the year were those who were best able to contribute to the Committees objectives.
The Chairman of the Committee during the year, Colin Day, is the Chief Financial Officer of a major FTSE 100 company, which the Board considers to be recent and relevant experience.
The record of attendance is: Number Total of meetings number attended of meetings Diederik Karsten 23 Directors who resigned during the year: Colin Day resigned 30 September 2005 3 3 Tony Illsley resigned 30 September 2005 3 3 By invitation: Ray Webster 11 Chris Walton resigned 18 March 2005 1 1 Jeff Carr appointed 7 March 2005 2 2 Following the resignation of Colin Day and Tony Illsley from the Board, David Bennett was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2005, and has been appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
David Bennett is the Group Finance Director of a FTSE 100 company, Alliance and Leicester plc.
In addition, Sir Colin Chandler was appointed to the Audit Committee on 1 October 2005.
Sir Colins appointment to the Audit Committee is a transitional arrangement until the appointment of an additional Independent NonExecutive Director to the Board and to the Audit Committee.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises at least three members.
During the year the Nominations Committee members were Sir Colin Chandler Chairman, Colin Day, Tony Illsley and Dawn Airey.
Sir Colin Chandler is not considered to be independent as he is Chairman of the Group.
Therefore the Nominations Committee did not comprise three Independent Non-Executive Directors until Dawn Aireys appointment on 2 August 2005.
The Board is satisfied that Sir Colin Chandlers personal integrity and experience makes him a highly effective member of the Board and the Nominations Committee.
This Committee is responsible for nominating candidates to fill Board positions and for making recommendations on Board composition and balance.
In appointing Non-Executive Directors, the Boards practice is to use an external recruitment agency.
This was the case for the appointments to the Board of Jeff Carr, David Bennett and the announced appointment of Andrew Harrison.
For the appointment of Stelios Haji-Ioannou to the Board, an external recruitment agency was not used, and the Nominations Committee did not go through a formal selection procedure prior to his appointment.
Stelios Haji-Ioannou was previously Chairman of the Group and was considered to have the relevant skills and experience to add strength to the Board.
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are documented and agreed by the Board.
The full text of the terms of reference are available in the investor relations section of the easyJet web site, www.
The key terms are as follows: l To consider, at the request of the Board or the Chairman of the Board, the making of any appointment or reappointment to the Board, whether of Executive or Non-Executive Directors: and l To establish and carry out a formal selection process of candidates and provide advice and recommendations to the Board or Chairman as appropriate on any such appointment.
Annual report and accounts 05 37 plc 95 05 Corporate governance continued Before selecting new appointees, the Nominations Committee considers the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board to ensure that a suitable balance is maintained.
All job specifications prepared include details of the time commitments expected in the role.
On joining the Board, new Board members receive a full and tailored induction.
Shareholders are offered the chance to meet new Non-Executive Directors.
Contracts with Directors are made available at the Annual General Meeting or on request.
The record of attendance is: Number Total of meetings number attended of meetings Sir Colin Chandler 33 Dawn Airey with effect from 2 August 2005 2 2 Directors who resigned during the year: Colin Day resigned 30 September 2005 0 3 Tony Illsley resigned 30 September 2005 1 3 Subsequent to his appointment to the Board on 1 October 2005, David Bennett was appointed to the Nominations Committee.
Before the appointment of Sir Colin Chandler to the Board in 2002, his significant other commitments were disclosed to the Board.
Sir Colin continues to have significant commitments outside easyJet: he is Pro-Chancellor of Cranfield University and until November 2004 was Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of Smiths Group plc.
The Board has considered this and has decided that these commitments do not represent an impediment to proper performance of his role as Chairman of easyJet.
Relations with investors and the Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate directly with the Board.
There is also regular communication with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts on key business issues.
The Group has an investor relations department.
It is the Companys policy that the following procedures should be adhered to with respect to AGMs: l All proxy votes are counted and read out at the AGM: l Separate resolutions are proposed for each separate issue, including approval of the report and accounts: l The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available for any questions at the meetings: and l It is the Companys intention that notice of the forthcoming AGM and related papers will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before that meeting.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the need for a whistleblower function.
Management is currently in the process of implementing such a system and the Audit Committee is content with this course of action.
Internal control The overall responsibility for easyJets systems of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the Directors of the Company.
The responsibility for establishing and operating detailed control procedures lies with the Chief Executive.
However, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and by their nature can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
38 Annual report and accounts 05 A formal ongoing process has been established to identify, evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts and this has been regularly reviewed by the Board during the period.
An ongoing process for the effective management of risk has been defined by the Company Directors and has been adopted as follows: l Ongoing assurance and risk management is provided through the various monitoring reviews and reporting mechanisms embedded into the business operations.
Key monitoring reviews include those conducted continuously in weekly meetings.
Operational meetings include the Safety Audit Group which meets monthly to discuss safety, security and environmental risks.
The Safety Review Board meets monthly, or more regularly where events require, to review safety performance.
In addition, there are regular commercial, financial and IT meetings: l The Airline Management Board meet monthly to consider current significant risks.
Individual department and overall business performance is reviewed: l The Board considers current significant risks at each of its formal meetings.
Control weaknesses or failings are considered by the Board if they arise: l easyJet has an internal control function which considers, reviews and tests internal control matters throughout the Group.
This is not an internal audit function, but is an addition to existing processes within easyJet: l Risk reviews form an integral part of specific projects.
For example, prior to entering into a ten-year maintenance contract with SR Technics during 2005, a comprehensive examination of the two short-listed contractors was undertaken: l Comprehensive risk reviews are also performed to help improve risk management.
A fatigue control assessment was completed in 2005, which resulted in implementation of a fatigue risk management plan which has significantly improved easyJets safety performance above industry standards: l An annual risk and control identification process, together with control effectiveness testing, is conducted.
The key risks to significant business objectives are identified and the key controls to manage these risks to the desired level are also identified.
The controls, which mitigate or minimise the high level risks, are tested to ensure that they are in operation.
The results of this testing are reported to the Board which considers whether these high-level risks are effectively controlled: and l Action plans are set to address any control weaknesses or gaps in controls identified.
The Directors reviewed the effectiveness of internal control, including operating, financial, compliance and risk management controls, which mitigate the significant risks identified.
The procedures used by the Directors to review the effectiveness of these controls include: l Reports from management.
Reporting is structured to ensure that key issues are escalated through the management team and ultimately to the Board as appropriate: l Discussions with senior personnel throughout the Company: and l Consideration by the Audit Committee of any reports from external auditors.
Internal audit The Company does not have an internal audit function.
This is presently considered appropriate given the size of the Company and the close involvement of Executive Directors and senior management on a day-to-day operational basis.
The Board has considered the need for such a function and will continue to review the need for one from time to time.
However, as set out above, an internal control function exists.
