directors report and corporate governance The Directors of Emap plc present their Annual Report and the with the Code in all but one area, namely membership of Board audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2005.
Committees as more fully explained below.
Principal activities and future developments b Directors The Company and its subsidiary undertakings, which operate principally i The Board in the UK and France, have market leading positions in consumer The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the success and trade magazines, exhibitions, conferences, commercial radio and of the Company.
Its role is to provide effective leadership and music TV.
A review of the businesses activities during the year and to ensure appropriate controls are in place to assess and manage future prospects are set out in the Chairmans statement and the risk.
It is responsible for setting the Companys strategic aims and Operating and Financial Review on pages 4 to 26.
The Directors ensuring the right financial and human resources are in place expect continued growth of the Group through focused investment to achieve the Companys objectives.
The Board is responsible for in the core, new product development and bolt-on acquisitions.
reviewing managements performance and setting the Companys values and standards.
The Directors act in the best interests of the Results and dividends Company, mindful of their duties to shareholders but also with The Groups profit before taxation amounted to 112m.
After consideration of other stakeholders.
deducting taxation and minority interests of 57m, the profit for the financial year amounted to 55m which, after dividends of 64m, The Board Manual incorporates a formal schedule of matters leaves a deficit for the year of 9m which has been transferred that can only be decided by the Board.
It establishes the Boards to reserves.
responsibility for Group strategy, for monitoring and reviewing internal control procedures and ensuring systematic contact with The final dividend recommended by the Directors is 16.9 pence per shareholders.
The schedule of reserved matters requires that the share which, together with the interim dividend of 8.0 pence, makes Board approves, among other things, all interim and annual results, a total dividend for the year of 24.9 pence per share.
Subject to the Companys dividend policy, shareholder circulars and listing shareholders approval, the final dividend will be paid on 1 August particulars, all matters relating to share capital, the annual budget, 2005 to members on the register on 1 July 2005. and major capital projects, investments and commitments.
The Board delegates its authority for certain matters, within clearly defined Share capital limits, to management who exercise that authority primarily through Details of all changes to the Companys share capital during the year the Executive Board and the four Divisional Boards.
There are clearly are shown in Note 25 on page 72. defined levels of delegated authority covering expenditure and investment which are reviewed at least annually by the Board.
Post balance sheet events Details of post balance sheet events are given in Note 33 on page 75.
The Board meets each month, except August, with additional meetings being held when necessary.
Board papers are circulated Corporate governance to Directors properly in advance of each meeting.
The Board holds a Statement of compliance with the Combined Code a strategy meeting once a year, at which it considers the future The Board is committed to ensuring high standards of corporate direction of the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors meet without governance are maintained by Emap.
The Board endorses, with the the Executive Directors annually with the Chairman leading these limited exceptions that are detailed below, the main and supporting meetings.
The independent Non-Executive Directors also meet, principles and the provisions set out in the Combined Code annually, without the Chairman in attendance to assess Board on Corporate Governance of the Financial Reporting Council balance and independence and to monitor whether any one individual the Code which was published on 1 July 2003. has unfettered powers of decision.
The Senior Independent Director chairs these meetings.
In addition to this, the Senior Independent The Company applies the principles of the Code through its own Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns which behaviour, by monitoring corporate governance best practice and contact through the normal channels of the Chairman, the Group by adopting appropriate recommendations of relevant bodies such Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director has failed to resolve as the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and or for which such contact is inappropriate.
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
The Boards policies and procedures are documented in a Board Responsibilities are delegated to the four committees of the Board: Manual which sets out the roles and delegated authorities applying the Audit Committee: the Remuneration Committee: the Nomination to Directors and the Groups Main, Executive and Divisional Boards.
Committee: and the Treasury Committee.
The Board sets the terms The Board Manual is updated whenever necessary, and formally of reference for these committees, which are formally documented submitted for approval by the Board on an annual basis.
and are available from the Company Secretary, at the Companys registered office, on request contact details on the shareholder The Board considers that, throughout the period under review, information page and on the Companys website, www.
the Company has, in the main, complied with the provisions Although committee meetings are not closed to non-member recommended in the Code and the following sets out a description Directors, no Director can attend meetings where he could have of how it has done this.
It includes full disclosure of the limited a conflict of interest.
Further details of the individual committees number of areas in which the Company is non-compliant, and activities are described later in this report on pages 34 and 35. explanations as to why this is so.
Following the conclusion of a recent review of Executive Directors pension provision, the Company has During the period under review, there were 13 meetings of the Board determined that with effect from 1 April 2005, it will no longer 2 of which were extraordinary meetings held outside the ordinary include bonuses when calculating salary for pension purposes.
Board cycle, 3 meetings of the Audit Committee, 3 meetings of the As a result, the Company believes that it is in full compliance Remuneration Committee and 3 meetings of the Nomination emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 32 Committee.
Other than as noted below, there was full attendance at The Board believes that strength of character and independence these meetings by the Directors that were eligible to attend: of judgement and opinion are more important than absolute numbers on the Board and it is satisfied that no individual or group hasunfettered Meeting Apologies received from powers of decision or unequal access to information.
The Board intends Main Board, 22 April 2004 Gary Hughes to continue its current practices and the Chairman will remain Main Board, 6 July 2004 Pierre Danon a member of its principal committees and will continue to chair the Nomination Committee although he will not lead any consideration Main Board, 21 October 2004 Karen Jones of his successor.
All Directors will also continue to have the right Main Board, 11 November 2004 Pierre Danon and Tom Moloney to attend all committees except where there is a conflict of interest.
Main Board, 24 February 2005 Pierre Danon and David Rough The Board believes that the transparency of its committees activities Main Board, 17 March 2005 Pierre Danon to all Directors is in the interests of shareholders.
It ensures a good Audit Committee, 22 February 2005 Pierre Danon flow of information amongst all Board members and thereby enhances Nomination Committee, 17 March 2005 Pierre Danon the efficiency of the Board and strengthens the Companys corporate Extraordinary Main Board Adam Broadbent, Pierre Danon, governance framework by creating an even balance of power and 1 18 August 2004 Andrew Harrison, Karen Jones influence throughout the Board.
The Board actively encourages all Nonand Tom Moloney Executive Directors to become members of its principal committees.
Extraordinary Main Board, Karen Jones and Pierre Danon 30 September 2004 The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors contribute external expertise and experience in areas of importance to the Group such 1 This meeting was convened to give formal approval to a loan that had previously as marketing, consumer business, customer focus, corporate finance, been approved in principle by the Board.
general finance, corporate governance and international experience.
They also contribute independent challenge and rigour to the Boards ii Chairman and Group Chief Executive deliberations.
It is the Boards opinion that all those Non-Executive The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separately Directors who served throughout the period under review were held and the division of their responsibilities is clearly set out in the independent in accordance with the Code.
At the date of his Board Manual.
The Chairmans responsibility for the running of the appointment, the Chairman was deemed independent.
Board is clearly segregated from the role of the Group Chief Executive, who has executive responsibility for the Companys operations.
iv Appointments to the Board There is a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment iii Board balance and independence of new Directors to the Board, the prime responsibility for which The Directors of the Company who served throughout the year, is delegated to the Nomination Committee.
The appointment process together with their biographical details, are shown on pages 30 and begins with an evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and 31.
Gary Hughes also served as Group Finance Director throughout experience existing on the Board which is effected through a series the year under review but, following his resignation from the Board on of meetings between the Committee Chairman and each of the 6 April 2005, his biographical details are no longer included.
An external search consultant is then appointed and Mr Hughes resigned on 6 April 2005, he continued as Group Finance a description of the role and capabilities required is prepared using Director until 9 May 2005, at which point he handed over duties the information gathered.
This consultant draws up a list of potential to Ian Griffiths.
Mr Griffiths assumed the position of Acting Group candidates and a shortlist is then created through consultation with the Finance Director on 6 April 2005 pending the appointment Committee Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
These candidates of Mr Hughes successor.
His biographical details are shown meet with the Committee Chairman and a final selection of potential on page 31.
The search for a permanent successor to Mr Hughes appointees meets each Director individually.
Following these meetings, will be carried out in accordance with the procedures set out the Nomination Committee formally meets to consider each Directors in paragraph b iv below.
feedback and to finalise a recommendation to the Board concerning any appointment.
At the date of this report and throughout the year under review, at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprised As part of the Boards succession planning, the process described independent Non-Executive Directors.
During the year under review, above was followed in reaching the decision to appoint Alun Cathcart the Board was made up of the Chairman Adam Broadbent, and Rita Clifton as Non-Executive Directors.
The Board believes the Group Chief Executive Tom Moloney, the Group Finance that the experience they each bring will add much value to the Director Gary Hughes and four independent Non-Executive Boards activities.
Alun Cathcart is Chairman of The Rank Group plc, Directors Pierre Danon, Andrew Harrison, Karen Jones and Palletways Group Limited and Avis Europe plc.
He has broad public David Rough.
On 19 April 2005, Paul Keenan, Chief Executive company experience gained from an operating and governance of the Companys operating division, Emap Consumer Media, perspective, having been both a Chief Executive Officer and was appointed to the Board.
Mr Keenans biographical details are a Non-Executive Chairman.
Rita Clifton is Chairman of Interbrand Ltd, shown on page 31.
On 17 June 2005, Alun Cathcart and Rita Clifton a Non-Executive Director of Dixons Group plc and Non-Executive will be appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman of The Times pollster, Populus Limited.
She has wide Their biographical details are shown on page 31.
As a result of experience of brands and marketing, and an extensive knowledge these appointments and Gary Hughes resignation, the Board of global advertising.
as at 17 June 2005 will be made up of Adam Broadbent, Alun Cathcart, Rita Clifton, Pierre Danon, Andrew Harrison, The Board believes that Paul Keenans promotion, which was conducted Karen Jones, Paul Keenan, Tom Moloney and David Rough.
without appointing an external consultant but otherwise in accordance Since April 2005, Board meetings have also been attended by with the process described above, strengthens the balance between Ian Griffiths, Acting Group Finance Director.
David Rough is the the Executive and Non-Executive Directors on the Board.
Companys Senior Independent Director, as prescribed by the Code.
emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 33 directors report and corporate governance continued The Board recommends the reappointment of Alun Cathcart, Rita Clifton vi Performance evaluation and Paul Keenan to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
A formal appraisal process for the Board as a whole and its principal committees is conducted each year, facilitated by the Groups Human The terms and conditions of appointment of each Non-Executive Resources Director.
The evaluation covers an assessment of the Director will be available for inspection at the AGM, and they are following: the role of the Board: effectiveness: relationships and also available for inspection during normal business hours at the communication: structure and processes: and development.
As far Companys registered office, and on the Companys website, as individual Directors are concerned, each is subject to a formal www.
appraisal prior to being proposed for reappointment by shareholders.
Each Director is also subject to a formal appraisal at the completion During the year, the Board instigated an annual people review of their first year of service.
In addition, all Directors are subject focused upon Emaps senior management team, led by the Groups to informal appraisal by the Chairman where necessary.
This review was designed to ensure the necessary leadership resources are in place for the Company As a consequence, Pierre Danon was appraised following the end to meet its objectives.
of his first year of service, and Andrew Harrison and Tom Moloney will have been given appraisals of their performances as Directors v Information and professional development ahead of this years AGM.
The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information with all Board and committee Each of the Companys Executive Directors is subject to an annual papers being issued in advance of meetings by the Company Secretary.
appraisal of their performance as executives that is conducted In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman maintains regular by the Group Chief Executive or, in his case, by the Chairman.
contact with the Group Chief Executive and the other Directors Their performance as Directors of the Board is also appraised to discuss specific issues.
To ensure there is no over-reliance on the in the same way as other Board members prior to their reappointment.
opinions of the Executive Directors, the Group Chief Executive takes responsibility for ensuring frequent contact between the Directors and vii Reappointment senior management of the Companys operating divisions.
The operating In addition to any Director joining the Board after the previous AGM, divisions senior management teams present to the Board on a regular the Companys Articles require that one third of the Board retires by basis and a series of opportunities exists throughout the year for rotation at each AGM.
The Articles also require that any Director not informal contact.
Directors are free to meet individual members of the otherwise covered by these requirements must retire at the AGM senior management team and have done so during the year under three years after his appointment or last reappointment.
Throughout the year, Directors are encouraged to attend any to be held on 14 July 2005, Tom Moloney and Andrew Harrison number of Emap events, exhibitions and awards.
will retire by rotation under Articles 83 and 84 and will both offer themselves for reappointment, each having received an appraisal of The Board believes that, given the experience and skills of its particular their conduct as Directors as set out above.
Alun Cathcart, Rita Clifton Directors, the identification of general training needs is best left to the and Paul Keenan will also offer themselves for reappointment individuals discretion.
If any particular requirement is identified through in accordance with Article 82 but, because they will only have the Boards formal appraisal processes or by an individual Director, the served on the Board for a very limited time, it has not been Company makes the necessary resources available.
Biographical details of all Directors can be found on pages 30 and 31.
Following a formal performance On joining the Board, new Directors are given a full, tailored induction evaluation, the Chairman confirms that Andrew Harrison continues programme including financial training, site visits and meetings to be effective and demonstrates commitment to his role as with senior management.
Major shareholders are provided with an a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee and opportunity to meet any new Non-Executive Director.
This induction his reappointment to the Board is recommended to shareholders.
is supported by briefing papers prepared by the Company Secretary in accordance with the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and c Board committees Administrators guidelines.
i The Nomination Committee Composition: Adam Broadbent Chairman, Karen Jones, Andrew The Company Secretary acts as an adviser to the Board on matters Harrison and David Rough were members of the Nomination concerning governance and he ensures Board procedures are Committee throughout the year.
Pierre Danon, Tom Moloney and complied with.
All Directors have access to his advice and a procedure Gary Hughes were appointed to the Committee on 17 June 2004 also exists for Directors to take independent professional advice at and Gary Hughes resigned from the Committee on 6 April 2005 the Companys expense.
No such advice was sought during the year.
when he stood down from the Board.
With the exception of Adam The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary and his Broadbent, Tom Moloney and Gary Hughes, all were considered remuneration are matters for the Board as a whole.
independent Non-Executive Directors as prescribed by the Code.
On 1 January 2005, Gary Hughes was appointed to the Main Board Role: The Nomination Committees primary purpose is to maintain and Audit Committee of J Sainsbury plc as a Non-Executive Director.
the balance and effectiveness of the Board, identify those skills This was the only Non-Executive Directorship that Gary Hughes held needed and the individuals who might best perform them.
at the time of his resignation from the Emap Board.
Consistent with The Committee monitors the Board structure, size and composition the Companys policy, throughout the period of Mr Hughes employment and it leads the process for nominating individuals for election by Emap, his fees for fulfilling this non-executive role were payable to the Board see paragraph b iv above.
In making appointments, to the Company.
the Committee considers the capabilities required from potential candidates such as an individuals independence of mind and, where a non-executive appointment is being made, the time available emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 34 to fulfil the role.
The Committee always uses professional, b Going concern basis independent external search consultants when making Non-Executive Director appointments.
The Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Through the appraisal process, the Committee also formally reviews foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going the contribution of Directors who are offering themselves for concern basis in preparing the accounts.
reappointment and makes recommendations to the Board as to whether such Directors should be put forward for reappointment ii Audit Committee and auditors by shareholders.
Composition: Andrew Harrison Chairman, Adam Broadbent, Karen Jones and David Rough were members of the Committee ii The Remuneration Committee throughout the year and Pierre Danon was appointed to the Committee Composition: David Rough Chairman, Karen Jones, Andrew Harrison on 20 January 2005.
With the exception of Adam Broadbent, all are and Adam Broadbent were all members of the Remuneration considered independent Non-Executive Directors as prescribed by the Committee throughout the year and Pierre Danon was appointed Code.
The Board is satisfied that the Committee Chairman holds to the Committee on 20 January 2005.
With the exception of appropriate recent and relevant financial experience to fulfil his duties.
Adam Broadbent, all are considered independent Non-Executive Directors as prescribed by the Code.
The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director or, in his place, the Acting Group Finance Director and other senior management, Role: The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee including the Head of Internal Audit, as well as the Companys auditors, the authority to determine the Chairmans remuneration and the  LLP PwC, attend Audit Committee Chairman is excluded from any involvement in this process.
meetings at the invitation of the Chairman.
The Committee also meets The Committee also sets the basic pay and performance-related with each of the Head of Internal Audit and the Companys auditors awards of the Executive Directors under the Groups incentive separately and in the absence of management as necessary.
Each of these tasks is effected within the framework set out in the Remuneration Report on page 38, where the work Role: The Committee, which meets at least three times a year, of the Committee is also more fully described.
is responsible for monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements: reviewing internal financial controls and internal control iii The Treasury Committee and risk management systems: monitoring and reviewing the The Board delegates various operational matters relating to banking effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: making and treasury issues to the Treasury Committee, which is normally recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment of comprised of two Executive and two Non-Executive Directors.
These the Groups external auditors including their remuneration and terms operational matters are clearly defined in the Groups treasury policies, of engagement : reviewing and monitoring the external auditors which are regularly reviewed by the Board and included in the Board independence: and implementing the Companys policy on the Manual.
Matters delegated include debt funding, investment, hedging engagement of the Companys auditor to perform non-audit work.
Auditor independence: The Committee monitors the Companys d Accountability and audit safeguards against compromising the external auditors objectivity i Financial reporting and independence by performing an annual review of non-audit a Directors responsibilities for the preparation of financial statements services provided to the Group and their cost: reviewing whether the auditors believe there are any relationships that may affect their The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for independence: and obtaining written confirmation from the auditors each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state that they are independent.
of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss, total recognised gains or For the year ended 31 March 2005, the Committee has advised losses and cash flows of the Group for that period.
The Directors the Board that the current level and nature of non-audit services confirm that appropriate accounting policies have been used and provided by the Companys auditors which are fully disclosed in applied consistently, and reasonable and prudent judgements and Note 5 on page 59 do not affect their independence and objectivity.
estimates have been made in the preparation of the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2005.
The Directors also Policy on the provision of non-audit services by auditors: During confirm that the financial statements have been properly prepared the year, the Committee has continued to monitor the Companys in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, and all applicable procedures for maintaining and safeguarding the independence accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors are of the Companys external auditors.
The Companys formal policy responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records, for concerning the provision of non-audit services identifies three safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and categories of accounting services: audit-related services, which the the investment of shareholders.
They also take reasonable steps Companys auditors provide such as interim and full year reporting : to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
prohibited services, which the Companys auditors may never provide such as acquisition due diligence : and potential services, which the This Annual Report, together with other financial information, Companys auditors may in certain circumstances provide, subject presentations and announcements, is available on the Groups to tender and fee constraints such as tax advisory services.
The maintenance and integrity of the Emap plc website is the responsibility of the Directors.
Legislation Fees charged by the Companys auditors in respect of non-audit in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of financial services require the prior approval of the Audit Committee, except statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
where: i the fees charged do not exceed 10% of the most recent emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 35 directors report and corporate governance continued audit fee or 80,000 whichever is the greater and the value a formal mechanism, based on self-assessment of the principal of the transaction under review does not exceed 10,000,000 financial controls across business units, with the evaluation of risk or ii the auditors are acting as Emaps reporting accountants, forming an integral part of this assessment: in which case the fees are deemed to have been pre-approved.
All fees deemed to have been pre-approved are subsequently a comprehensive financial review cycle, which includes an annual ratified by the Audit Committee.
budget approved by the Board: review of monthly variances against budget at title, Company, Divisional and Group levels with, where As the Companys auditors are prevented from providing prohibited necessary, corrective action supplemented by quarterly forecasting services, competitive tender processes are run on a case-by-case of annual performance: basis, with PwC being prohibited from participating.
As a result, Ernst & Young LLP are Emaps preferred provider of transaction a formal mechanism, based on self-assessment, for the evaluation support for acquisitions and due diligence, post-acquisition balance of the effectiveness of procedures and controls in relation to sheet reviews, internal audit, forensic accounting and investigation compliance risk: services: Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte, Mercer Human Resource Consulting Limited Mercer, and Hay Group Hay provide executive identification of key operational risks and development of mitigation remuneration consultancy services: and the Company maintains plans by the Divisional Boards reported on an ongoing basis: an independent panel of legal advisers that does not include PwC.
The Companys auditors are also prohibited from providing human regular reviews of both forward looking and historic key resource and information technology advisory services, with each performance indicators: material project awarded in these disciplines the subject of ad hoc review by the Audit Committee and a formal tender process.
provision to the Board and management of relevant, accurate, timely information based on solid management information systems Provision of potential services by the Groups auditors is subject to which are continually being improved and updated: ongoing review and monitoring by the Audit Committee.
The mandate to provide one such service, tax advice, was awarded to PwC following monthly reports to the Board from the Group Chief Executive, a rigorous and formal tender process.
As PwC are also the Companys the Group Finance Director or, in his place, the Acting Group auditors, the Committee has introduced further safeguards and Finance Director and the Executive Board members: and controls by pre-approving set levels of fee expenditure above which the engagement of PwC for further tax-related work has to be referred formal arrangements for staff to raise, in confidence, any concerns back to it, or to the Main Board.
over financial reporting and other matters.
Systems of internal control: The Board has delegated responsibility The internal control environment will continue to be monitored and for reviewing the Groups system of internal control and for regularly reviewed by the Committee which will, where necessary, ensure monitoring its effectiveness to the Audit Committee.
The control improvements are implemented.
Associated undertakings are not system is intended to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure treated as part of the Group for the purposes of the internal to achieve the Groups strategic objectives and any such system can control review.
only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board and the Audit Committee have Internal audit: The Committee receives detailed reports from the reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system, including Head of Internal Audit which identify any significant risk and financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management compliance issues and management plans in place to address them.
in accordance with the Code for the period from 1 April 2004 to the The Committee reviews the scope and activities of the internal audit date of approval of this Annual Report.
function to ensure they are appropriate to the key risks facing the Group and sufficient to assess the effectiveness and adequacy The Company operates a continuous process of identifying, evaluating of the Groups material operational and financial controls, systems and managing the significant risks the Group faces which has been and practices.
The internal audit function assists the Committee in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this in meeting its governance and regulatory responsibilities and assists Annual Report.
The process, which complies with the requirements management by enhancing the control environment.
of the Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, includes the following controls: e Relations with shareholders i Dialogue with institutional shareholders defined organisational structure with appropriate delegation Under the guidance of the Group Communications team, of authority: communication with major shareholders, analysts and the financial press is maintained through a programme of one-on-one meetings, formal authorisation procedures for all investments with clear presentations and news releases.
To support this process, the guidelines on appraisal techniques and success criteria: Chairman has written to the Groups major shareholders inviting them to meetings with him and the Senior Independent Director clear responsibilities on the part of line and financial and to meet the Companys new Non-Executive Directors should management for the maintenance of good financial controls they wish.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director also and the production and review of detailed, accurate and timely attend the Companys half-yearly presentations of results to financial management information: the investment community.
This communications programme is designed to ensure a thorough understanding by the investment the control of key financial risks through clear authorisation levels community of the Groups business, its key performance indicators and proper segregation of accounting duties: and its strategy.
emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 36 The Board places importance on understanding shareholder views Business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting and messages and believes the best way to achieve this is through At the 58th AGM of the Company, to be held at the Holiday Inn, independent, unattributed feedback, which is provided by the 1 Kings Cross Road, London, WC1X 9HX, a number of resolutions Companys brokers.
The feedback provided to the Board details will be proposed.
The resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting, key analyst and shareholder meetings and ensures shareholders which is in the circular enclosed with this Annual Report and includes views and messages are clearly understood and communicated, a letter from the Chairman explaining the business to be transacted.
unedited, to the Board as a whole.
The Board additionally welcomes In July 2004, shareholders granted authority for the Company and encourages the participation of all shareholders at the to purchase up to 25.66 million Ordinary Shares.
This authority was Companys AGM.
still valid as at 31 March 2005 and will expire at the conclusion of the AGM to be held on 14 July 2005.
A resolution to renew this This Annual Report, together with other financial information, authority will be put to shareholders at that meeting.
The Company presentations and announcements, is available on the Groups confirms that it complies with all the Code provisions concerning website, www.
constructive use of its AGM.
Directors interests Auditors A statement of Directors interests in the ordinary share capital Following a recommendation of the Audit Committee to the Board, of the Company appears in the Remuneration Report on pages a resolution to reappoint PwC as auditors to the Company will be put 40, 46 and 47.
The Companys Register of Directors Interests, which to the shareholders at the AGM.
The resolution to appoint PwC will is open to inspection at the Companys registered office, contains propose that they hold office until the conclusion of the next general full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company, at a level for shares.
In the year, no Director had any interest in any other of remuneration to be agreed by the Directors.
share capital of the Company or any other Group company, nor did any Director have a material interest in any contract of significance Approved by the Board of Directors on 24 May 2005. to the Group.
Donations The Group has made no political donations in the year.
Details of the wide and varied community and charitable involvement of the Groups companies can be found in the section headed corporate social responsibility on pages 27 to 29.
Nick Folland Company Secretary Employees It is the Groups aim that recruitment, training, development and promotion should be determined solely on skill, ability and other requirements relevant to a job and in accordance with the laws of the country concerned.
Disabled people are given the same consideration as others and, depending on their skills and abilities, will enjoy the same training, development and prospects as other staff.
Staff who become disabled during their employment with Emap will be retained wherever possible and encouraged to develop their careers.
Further information in respect of employee involvement and the workplace in general can be found in the section headed our people on pages 12 to 14.
Creditor payment policy The Company recognises the benefits to be derived from maintaining good relationships with its suppliers.
It is the Companys policy that payment is made on time, provided suppliers perform in accordance with agreed terms.
Trade creditors at the year end represented 15 days 2004 8 days of purchases.
Substantial shareholdings As at 23 May 2005, the Company received the following notifications from financial institutions under Section 198 of the Companies Act 1985 in respect of their own interests in 3% or more of the Groups ordinary share capital: % of share Shares capital Aviva plc 10,364,085 4.03 Legal & General Group plc 10,031,201 3.90 AXA S. A.
9,878,420 3.84 Zurich Financial Services 8,371,061 3.25 emap plc annual report & accounts 2005 37
