Corporate governance EMI is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board It is the Boards policy that, so long as the Chairman is also the chief considers that the Company has complied throughout the year with the executive officer of the Company, the independent Non-executive Code provisions set out in section 1 of the revised Combined Code Directors should comprise a numerical majority of the Board and that on Corporate governance which was issued in July 2003 the Code, the senior independent Non-executive Director should also be either except as regards the length of Directors service contracts, which sole or joint Deputy Chairman.
is discussed in the Remuneration report on pages 56 and 57, and the combination of the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive which Apart from EMI, Eric Nicolis only other significant commitment during is discussed below.
the year was the chairmanship of The Tussauds Group Limited, a private company.
Ernst & Young LLP has reviewed the Companys statement as to its compliance with the Code, in so far as it relates to those parts of the Code The Board as a whole considers the appointment of Directors to, and which the UK Listing Authority specifies for review by the external auditor, executive appointments within, the Board, based on recommendations and its report is set out on page 67. from the Nomination Committee which follows a formally approved selection process.
The Articles of Association include a requirement that The Code was revised for reporting years which began on or after all Directors should submit themselves for election by the shareholders 1 November 2003.
The first of the Companys reporting years subject at the AGM immediately following their appointment and for re-election to the revised Code began on 1 April 2004 and is reported on in this at least once every three years thereafter.
The Board meets at least eight times each year, with additional meetings The remainder of this section, together with the Remuneration report, or contact between meetings as necessary.
The programme for each year provides an explanation of how EMI applies the principles of good is approved by the Board.
Currently, the programme includes reviews of governance as set out in the revised Code.
strategy together with the operations and results of the two main business units, as well as the approval of annual budgets and regular presentations The Board on key business developments, major projects and strategic issues.
As at 31 March 2005, the Board of EMI Group plc comprised nine Actual results for the Group and individual business units are reported to Directors of whom four were Executive Directors.
Following the all Directors each month.
In the year ended 31 March 2005, the Board met appointment of Sly Bailey on 2 April 2004, there were six Non-executive nine times, including a strategy review as part of its October meeting in Directors.
However, on the retirement of Dr Harald Einsmann as a Director New York.
In coming years, the Board intends to meet at least twice each at the conclusion of the 2004 AGM, the number of Non-executive year outside the UK to allow closer contact with local management.
These procedures, together with other regular and ad hoc reports, aim All of the Non-executive Directors are considered to be independent to ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with information of management and free from any business or other relationship that that is appropriate to the discharge of its duties.
could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Nomination Committee has conducted an annual review The Boards programme also includes management development as to whether the Non-executive Directors remain independent against and succession planning, reviews of the effectiveness of the Board and the criteria set out in the revised Code.
As reflected in their biographies, its principal committees, and an assessment of the performance of the which appear on pages 44 and 45, the Directors have a wide and Executive and Non-executive Directors conducted by the Chairman balanced range of experience in multinational and consumer-orientated and the Non-executive Deputy Chairman.
The review of the Chairmans businesses, as well as an appropriately international spread.
performance is led by the Deputy Chairman and senior independent Non-executive Director.
Additionally, the Boards programme provides Eric Nicoli is executive Chairman of the Company, which incorporates for at least two meetings a year between the Chairman and the Nonthe role of chief executive officer.
Day-to-day executive responsibility executive Directors, as well as at least one meeting of the Non-executive for the running of the Companys two main businesses lies with Alain Directors alone.
Levy, as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, EMI Music, and Martin Bandier, as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, EMI Music Publishing, During the year, the effectiveness of the Board and its principal committees who each report to Eric Nicoli.
was assessed through each Director completing a questionnaire prepared by the Company Secretary and approved by the Chairman In recent years, and as explained in previous Annual Reports, the Board and Deputy Chairman.
The results were then presented to the Board by has concluded that EMI has been best served by the CEOs of the the Company Secretary and, following discussion by the Board, agreed recorded music and music publishing businesses reporting to an changes were implemented.
A similar process was applied during the executive chairman who complements their music industry experience year by each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees and expertise.
The Board has further concluded that the interposition with the effectiveness questionnaire being approved by the Committees of another senior executive over the business CEOs would lead Chairman.
The performance of the Executive Directors and Nonto unnecessary duplication, and diffusion of responsibility.
executive Directors was reviewed by the Chairman and Non-executive Deputy Chairman, through completion of an appraisal form, and the The Board considers that, for the present, the structure outlined above is results were communicated to the Directors concerned.
the most effective for EMI and is in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders.
Furthermore, the Board considers that the nature and level of matters reserved for decision, either to the Board as a whole or to standing committees of the Board, appropriately limit the authority of the Chairman and reflect the combination of the posts of chairman and chief executive officer in one person.
48 Tailored induction programmes are provided for new Directors.
In addition Board committees to briefings by the Chairman, Company Secretary and Chief Financial The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration, Officer, meetings are arranged with a range of corporate and business Nomination and Executive Committees.
Reflecting the important role executives as well as the external auditors and other advisers.
Inductions played by the independent Non-executive Directors in ensuring high also now include modular sessions covering topics such as key financial standards of corporate governance, all the Non-executive Directors and other characteristics of, and operating risks faced by, the recorded are members of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
music and music publishing businesses.
The Board has also instituted Each committee has written terms of reference and levels of authority a programme of ongoing professional development for Directors with which have been amended so as to ensure compliance with the revised modular sessions approved in advance by the Board.
Code: these can be viewed on the Groups website, www.
com, or obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
Except in the case The Board has delegated certain matters to standing committees, details of the Remuneration Committee, minutes of meetings are circulated of which are set out below.
However, to ensure its overall control of the to all Directors.
Companys affairs, the Board has reserved certain matters to itself for decision.
These include the Groups strategic plans and annual operating Remuneration Committee budgets: significant acquisitions or disposals of companies, businesses The role of the Remuneration Committee, which is chaired by John or assets, and significant contractual commitments or items of Gildersleeve, is described on page 52.
It meets at least three times each expenditure: together with policies relating to the Groups treasury year.
The Remuneration report on pages 52 to 64 gives information function, pensions, major litigation, employee share schemes, and about the Directors remuneration.
The delegated authorities, together with each Committees terms of reference and the schedule of matters The main responsibilities and activities of the other three principal reserved to the Board for decision, are reviewed each year.
Committees are as follows: All Directors have access to the services and advice of the Company Audit Committee Secretary, who is appointed by, and may only be removed by, the Board.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Kathleen ODonovan and comprises The Company Secretary advises the Board on all governance matters, all the independent Non-executive Directors.
The Committee meets four through the Chairman.
There are also procedures for Directors, in times each year and its meetings are normally attended by the Executive appropriate circumstances, to obtain independent professional advice Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the at the cost of the Company.
external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit.
In addition, the Company Secretary & Group General Counsel attends in his capacity as secretary The Executive Directors are permitted to take external appointments as to the Committee.
Separate meetings are held by the Committee with non-executive directors but usually only one such appointment may be both the external auditor at least twice each year and the Head of with another publicly quoted company.
They may retain the remuneration Internal Audit at least once each year without the presence of Executive from such appointments.
All appointments must be approved by the Directors or other management.
Following each meeting the Committee Board to ensure that they do not give rise to conflicts of interest.
Chairman reports to the Board any matter of particular importance.
The attendance by individual Directors at scheduled and ad hoc meetings The Committee is authorised to investigate any matter within its terms of the Board and its Committees in the financial year ended 31 March of reference and, where necessary, to obtain external legal or other 2005 was as follows: independent professional advice.
The Committees responsibilities, which it has carried out during the year, include: Director Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive E L Nicoli 9 9 4 6 3 3 13 13 reviewing, and assessing the effectiveness of, the Groups internal M N Bandier 9 9 n a n a n a 12 13 financial controls together with its internal control and risk A M J I Levy 9 9 n a n a n a 12 13 management systems: a R C Faxon 7 7 3 n a n a 10 11 b M D Stewart 2 2 1 n a n a 2 2 J Gildersleeve 9 9 4 4 6 6 3 3 n a making recommendations to the Board with regard to: the c S Bailey 9 9 4 4 6 6 3 3 n a appointment, removal and remuneration of the external auditor: d H Einsmann 2 4 0 1 1 3 1 1 n a overseeing the Companys relations with the external auditor: P A Georgescu 8 9 4 4 6 6 3 3 n a monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity: D J Londoner 9 9 4 4 6 6 3 3 n a and the effectiveness of the audit process: K A ODonovan 8 9 4 4 6 6 3 3 n a Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that each Director could have attended.
reviewing the internal audit plan for the year: monitoring and reviewing Not Committee members, but invited to attend all or part of the number of meetings indicated.
the effectiveness of the internal audit function: ensuring appropriate a co-ordination between internal audit and the external auditor: providing Resigned on 31 January 2005. b Appointed on 1February 2005. adequate resources for the internal audit function and ensuring that c Appointed on 2 April 2004. d it has appropriate standing: and approving the appointment or Retired on 13 July 2004. termination of appointment of the head of the internal audit function: and, reviewing the half-year and annual financial statements with particular reference to accounting policies: significant estimates and financial reporting judgements: and the disclosures made therein.
49 Corporate governance continued For each year, the Committee adopts a formal programme which Executive Committee is structured to coincide with key events in the Companys financial Chaired by the Chairman, the Executive Committee also comprises the reporting cycle.
The programme also includes other regular items, chief executive officers of the Companys two main businesses, together for example: a review of the Committees own effectiveness and that with the Chief Financial Officer.
The Committee is responsible for the of the internal audit function: a continuing programme of post-investment approval of acquisitions, divestments, capital expenditure and contractual reviews: the Companys policy for the provision of non-audit services commitments below the level that the Board has reserved to itself for by the external auditor: reviews of material litigation to which the Group decision, and for certain operational, administrative and other routine matters.
is party: a review of treasury policies and the Groups main pension plans: and the review and supervision of the Groups worldwide whistleblowing The Committee also regularly reviews and reports to the Board on the arrangements.
In addition, the Committees programme during the last performance of the Groups businesses.
At least twelve meetings are year has included regular reports on the Groups preparations for the held by the Committee each year and senior Group executives frequently implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards and an attend by invitation.
assessment of the effectiveness of the Internal Audit Department which was supported by a review conducted by external consultants.
Directors responsibilities UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements Each year, the Committee reviews the independence and objectivity for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the external auditor with a view to confirming that, in its opinion, of the Company and the Group, as well as the profit or loss and cashflows the maintenance of objectivity on the one hand and value for money of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, on the other have been kept appropriately in balance.
During the past year the Directors are required to: the Committee has reconfirmed its detailed and formal policy regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
Services for select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: which the external auditor may be considered under this policy include supporting and reporting on financial representations in public make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and, documentation and general advice on accounting and financial reporting matters.
Services for which the external auditor may not be engaged, state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, without the prior approval of the Audit Committee, include tax planning subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the advice, employee tax services and consulting services.
Further details of the Committees role in relation to the annual The Directors confirm that they have complied with these requirements assessment of the Groups internal control framework are set out below.
in preparing the financial statements on pages 68 to 96.
Nomination Committee The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Chaired by John Gildersleeve, the Committee comprises all the which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, the financial Non-executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee makes position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also the reappointment of Non-executive Directors on the expiry of their responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and, hence, three-year terms of appointment.
In addition, the Committee is for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud responsible for making recommendations to the Board regarding plans and other irregularities.
for succession for both Executive and Non-executive Directors.
Going concern A formal process has been adopted by the Committee to make The Directors believe that, after making enquiries they consider to be recommendations on both the appointment of new Directors and the appropriate, the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational re-election of existing Directors.
This involves an evaluation of the skills, existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue knowledge and experience of the Board as a whole, consideration to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
of the need for the progressive refreshing of the Board and agreement of a description of the role and capabilities required for an anticipated Internal control new appointment.
The selection process is led by the Chairman in close The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls consultation with the Non-executive Deputy Chairman and all Directors and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control is based are offered the opportunity to meet a potential appointee before the on what the Board considers to be appropriate to the Groups activities, Committee meets to discuss the proposed recommendation.
to the materiality of the financial and other risks inherent in those activities and to the relative costs and benefits of implementing specific controls.
In addition, the Committee reviews the structure, size and composition It is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve of the Board, and oversees the process for reviewing the effectiveness business objectives and, as such, provides reasonable, but not absolute, of the Board and its principal committees as well as the performance assurance against material misstatement and loss.
The full Board meets regularly throughout the year and the matters The Committee meets at least twice a year and otherwise when required.
specifically reserved for its approval ensure that the Directors maintain During the financial year ended 31 March 2005, the Committee met three control over significant strategic, financial and compliance matters.
It recommended: the succession plan for EMI Music Publishing involving Martin Bandier and Roger Faxon: and the appointment of Martin The Group has an established organisational structure with clearly defined Stewart as Chief Financial Officer in succession to Roger Faxon.
lines of responsibility and reporting.
The Board has devolved to executive An external search agency was engaged in connection with the latter management responsibility for implementing and maintaining the Groups appointment of a new Director.
Each business unit operates in accordance with policies and procedures applicable to all of the Groups units.
50 The Group operates comprehensive annual planning, financial reporting The Group has in place a social responsibility policy as well as specific and forecasting processes.
The Board formally approves strategic plans ethics and environmental policies.
A revised ethics policy Standards and annual budgets.
The Groups performance is monitored against of Business Conduct was issued in 2004.
Compliance with the policy budget on a monthly basis and all significant variances are investigated.
is monitored by means of self-certification by senior and middle There are defined authorisation procedures in respect of certain matters management and through checks made by the Internal Audit including capital expenditure, investments, the granting of guarantees Department.
A Social Responsibility Report is published in respect and the use of financial instruments.
The Audit Committee also receives, of each financial year and a briefer review of such matters is included twice yearly, a review of all material litigation undertaken by, or against, in this Annual Report on pages 38 to 42. the Groups companies and considers the associated risks.
The Audit Committee receives additional assurance on the operation The strength of an internal control system is dependent on the quality and of internal control systems around the Group, primarily from the Internal integrity of management and staff.
Those executives at senior levels are Audit Department, which presents the conclusions of its reviews twice informed of their responsibilities as to the maintenance of sound systems a year.
The external auditor also takes internal financial control into of internal control.
A routine and Group-wide process, which requires key consideration as part of its audit.
In addition, incidences of control failure executives and managers to certify their compliance with the Groups and the internal control implications of significant business issues are policies and procedures, reinforces this integrity.
recorded in a central Control Issues Register, from which a summary report is prepared for the Audit Committee.
A report is also prepared The internal audit function operates as one Group-wide department for distribution to senior management throughout the Group and which monitors and supports the internal control system and reports appropriate actions are taken to rectify any control failures.
Any significant to both the Audit Committee and the Groups senior management.
new issues and material changes to the risk environment are reported The responsibilities of the internal audit function include recommending at the next Board meeting.
improvements in the control environment and ensuring compliance with the Groups policies and procedures.
The Audit Committee reviews Investor relations the audit plan prepared by the Internal Audit Department.
The Group is committed to regular and open dialogue with investors.
The Chairman and Executive Directors have held, and will continue to An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the hold, discussions with institutional shareholders and analysts.
The senior significant risks faced by the Group has been in place for the year independent Non-executive Director is also available to meet investors, under review and up to the date of this Report.
This process is regularly if so requested.
In addition, there are general presentations to investors reviewed by the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board and accords and analysts after the announcement of the half-year and annual results with the requirements of Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the which are simultaneously webcast.
From time to time, more tailored Combined Code.
presentations on specific areas of importance are made.
During the year to 31 March 2005, significant potential risks facing the Individual shareholders have the opportunity to question the Chairman Group have been assessed and graded in a process managed by the and other Directors at the AGM and can meet them informally after the Group Risk Director and involving line and functional management AGM.
Results announcements and other press releases are made throughout the Group.
The controls in place to manage or mitigate each available on the Groups website as soon as possible after their publication.
risk were reviewed for adequacy and the processes to monitor and inform the Board about control performance were confirmed.
Actions taken to develop an understanding amongst Directors of the views of major shareholders about the Group include reports to the Board This assessment is overseen and supervised by the Group Risk on investor relations.
Twice each year, these reports are supplemented Management Steering Committee.
This Committee is chaired by the by more detailed reviews by the Senior Vice President, Investor Relations, Chief Financial Officer and its members include representatives of the supported by the Companys brokers.
two operating businesses as well as the heads of relevant central functions.
The assessment is reviewed by the Audit Committee and is repeated annually.
The risk and control assessment is also shared with senior management throughout the Group.
The Board is aware of the disclosure guidelines on social responsibility issued by the Association of British Insurers, and an update on social, ethical and environmental SEE issues is part of the Boards annual programme.
Annual performance in these areas is already monitored and publicly disclosed through the Groups Social Responsibility reporting programme.
As part of the annual risk review process and the presentation of those results to the Board, account is taken of any issues arising from SEE matters that could cause risk to value: no significant risks of this nature were identified during the year under review.
The visibility of SEE matters in the risk-capture process has also been enhanced during the year under review.
Appropriate SEE matters are included in the induction programme for Non-executive Directors.
