35 Enodis plc and all Directors were present at each meeting.
It maintains a dialogue as and when necessary between formal meetings.
Corporate governance Briefing papers are circulated in advance of all meetings.
Newly appointed Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction programme.
The programme includes Board papers and minutes of recent meetings, analysts reports on the Company, a description of the Boards operations, the most recently adopted Long Range Plan and budget, and a guide to the role and duties of a Director.
A formal procedure is in place to enable Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice, if necessary, under the guidance of the Company Secretary and at the The Combined Code Companys expense.
Should a Director have any concerns about a particular issue, such concerns will be recorded in The Board is accountable to shareholders for the running of the minutes of the relevant Board meeting.
Should he the Company and continues to aspire to high standards of choose to resign over such a matter, the concerns would corporate governance.
be communicated to the other Directors.
All Directors are The Company has applied the principles set out in Section 1 expected to keep themselves regularly up to date with of the Combined Code Principles of Good Governance developments relevant to their role.
Periodic visits to Group and Code of Best Practice issued in July 2003 the Code operations are encouraged and during the year, non-executive throughout the period as detailed herein.
Whilst formal members of the Board visited several Group sites and compliance is important, the Boards overall approach is to relevant trade shows.
Directors also receive appropriate UK be guided by and observe the spirit of the Code.
and US journals and investor materials relevant to Board members and have full and timely access to relevant The Board information and the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The non-executive Directors met without executive The Directors biographies, which are set out on page 32, Directors present on five occasions during the period.
demonstrate a range of business backgrounds and international experience.
Board performance evaluation An evaluation of the Boards and the Chairmans performance was led by the Senior The composition of the Board is balanced, with a Independent Director in September 2005.
This was the third non-executive Chairman, four non-executive Directors year such an exercise had been undertaken.
Questionnaires and three executive Directors.
The Board has determined regarding the performance of the Board and of the Chairman that, leaving aside the Chairman, each non-executive Director were completed by all Directors: these were designed to is independent.
Waldemar Schmidt is the Senior Independent explore subjects such as management of Board meetings Director.
identification of correct topics, enough time for discussion, The Board has agreed a written statement setting out the quality of papers for meetings, effective review of financial division of the responsibilities between the Chairman and the performance, quality of presentations, establishment of Chief Executive Officer.
Broadly, the Chairman is responsible appropriate structures to ensure proper oversight of for the management of the Board and the Chief Executive significant corporate actions, receipt of relevant additional Officer is responsible for the management of the Groups materials analysts reports, industry data to monitor business and operations.
Company performance and communication of Board goals to CEO.
The results of these questionnaires were then The Boards policy is that its Chief Executive Officer should discussed individually by the Chairman with each other not become Chairman of the Company.
These discussions also included an individual Re-election All non-executive Directors, including the evaluation of each Director.
Careful consideration was given Chairman, have been appointed for a term of three years.
before this evaluation exercise was undertaken to the In the case of Peter Brooks and Waldemar Schmidt, they involvement of an outside third party.
It was determined that were appointed for an initial term of five years and their outside involvement would not be used on this occasion.
appointments have been extended in each case for a further The outcome of the evaluation was discussed by the Board at period of three years.
The Board concluded that the evaluation exercise had confirmed that the Directors had the All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the appropriate range of skills and experience and constituted first opportunity after their appointment, and to re-election an effective and unified Board.
Progress had been made in thereafter by rotation at least every three years in accordance addressing the matters identified in the previous years with the Companys Articles of Association.
The names of the evaluation: the overall conclusion was that the right approach Directors submitted for re-election, and reasons why the was to continue to seek, as the Board does, ways to Board believes they should be re-elected, are detailed in the develop the level of Board performance by building on Directors report on page 33 and biographical details for each current practices.
Relationships with shareholders and understanding Board procedures and support The Board considers, as their views There is an agreed allocation of responsibilities confirmed by the performance evaluation referred to below, for regular executive Director and senior executives that it provides effective leadership and control of the Group.
communication with institutional investors and analysts.
During the period the Board reviewed and updated the The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and formal schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval.
other senior corporate executives have made a number of Matters reserved include Group strategy and performance, structured presentations to major shareholders following acquisitions and disposals, major capital projects, Board results announcements.
Feedback from these presentations appointments and dividend recommendation.
The Board met is reported to other members of the Board.
In addition, ten times during the period including meetings by telephone quarterly analyses of shareholders are prepared by the Companys brokers and distributed to the Board.
36 Enodis plc Corporate governance The Chairman has written to a number of the Companys remuneration of the members of the Committee are set out larger shareholders to confirm the Companys resolve to in the table on page 42 in the Directors remuneration report.
ensure that communications with shareholders were The Committee met seven times during the period, with all satisfactory, as the Board believes them to be, and that he members present at each meeting.
Other Directors and and the Senior Independent Director were available at any executives may attend by invitation.
During the year the Audit time, in the event of their wishing to discuss any matters Committee Chairman invited inter alia the Chief Financial regarding the Company.
Officer, Deputy CFO and the Head of Internal Audit to attend.
Representatives from the external auditors, Deloitte & Touche Principal communication with private shareholders is through LLP, were also present at each meeting.
The Committee also the provision of the Annual Report and Accounts and the met separately with the external and internal auditors and Interim Results.
Also, the Annual General Meeting provides an with management.
excellent opportunity for private shareholders to question the Board and discuss issues with executive management after the Amongst other things, the Committee undertook the meeting.
com contains following activities at its meetings: financial and other information and is regularly updated.
reviewed and approved the interim and annual results, Nomination Committee The Board has established a considering any matters raised by management and the Nomination Committee.
Appointments to the Board are external auditors and reviewed judgements made on reviewed by the Board as a whole, while the Nomination provisioning and accounting treatments: Committee undertakes the search process and recommends reviewed and approved the audit plans for the external and candidates to the Board as necessary.
The Committee internal auditors: comprises Peter Brooks Chairman, Waldemar Schmidt and Joseph Ross.
The Nomination Committee meets as needed monitored the scope, effectiveness, independence and and met once during the period.
Waldemar Schmidt did not objectivity of the external auditors: attend as the meeting was held to discuss extending his discussed the results of internal audit reviews, including appointment as a non-executive Director.
As there were no significant findings, managements action plans and the proposals for new Board appointments, it was considered timeliness of resolution: that there was no need to conduct an evaluation of the Committees performance.
The terms of reference of the reviewed and approved the upgraded approach to the Nomination Committee are available for inspection on the Groups risk management process: Companys website.
reviewed and approved the Groups Turnbull Report to Remuneration Committee Details concerning the support the Boards sign-off on the system of internal Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors control see below for more details : remuneration report.
The Committee reviewed its reviewed and approved the Companys approach to effectiveness in October 2005 and concluded that it had implementing International Financial Reporting continued to operate effectively.
Standards IFRS : and Report on the Audit Committee and its main activities in reviewed its own effectiveness and concluded that it had the period to 1 October 2005 The Audit Committees written continued to operate as an effective Audit Committee.
terms of reference are available on the Companys website and its principal oversight responsibilities cover: External auditor financial reporting: The Audit Committee appraised the effectiveness of the external auditors and the external audit process.
This was internal control and risk management: achieved by reviewing a thorough appraisal by management recommendation to the Board on the appointment and a response thereto by the external auditors.
of auditors: The Company has a policy and procedures in place for the external audit including auditor independence : and review and pre-approval of the performance of non-audit services by the external auditor, Deloitte & Touche LLP, internal audit.
to ensure no impairment of independence and objectivity.
The Committees Chairman is Michael Arrowsmith, appointed The policy approved by the Audit Committee includes a on 11 February 2004 who sits together with Michael Cronk description of the non-audit services that Deloitte & Touche and Joseph Ross appointed on 31 July 2003 and 5 May LLP can provide, after pre-approval, and a reference to those 2004 respectively.
The Secretary of the Committee is services which shall not be performed by the auditors.
David Hooper, the Company Secretary.
A comprehensive Details of the audit and non-audit services performed by and induction programme is made available for new members of the amounts paid to Deloitte & Touche LLP are set out in of the Committee and ongoing education is actively note 3 to the accounts.
At all times, the Committee must comprise only non-executive Directors and shall normally consist of not less Deloitte & Touche LLP reported to the Audit Committee in than three members.
The Board is satisfied that the writing that they are independent within the meaning of Committee Chairman, a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of regulatory and professional requirements and that the Management Accountants, and having had extensive objectivity of the audit engagement partner and staff is experience as a senior finance executive of publicly traded not impaired.
companies, has recent and relevant financial experience.
Going concern As indicated on page 32, Michael Cronk is an experienced businessman having formerly been Executive Vice President The Directors believe that the Group has adequate resources of Aramark.
Joseph Ross, a qualified US attorney, was to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this formerly Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Federal reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Signal Corp, a public US corporation.
Details of the preparing the accounts.
37 Enodis plc Corporate governance Internal control A treasury report, with details of borrowings and investments, is distributed to corporate management on Introduction The Board has established procedures to a weekly basis.
implement the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
These procedures, The Audit Committee reviews reports detailing any significant which are subject to regular review, provide an ongoing legal actions faced by Group companies.
process designed to identify, evaluate and manage significant Monitoring and review activities There are clear processes risks faced by the Group.
for monitoring the system of internal control and reporting Responsibility The Board has overall responsibility for the any significant control failings or weaknesses together with system of internal control.
A sound system of internal control details of corrective action.
is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and to achieve business objectives and can only provide reviewing, on behalf of the Board, the Groups system of reasonable and not absolute assurance against material internal control, risk assessment, management policies and misstatement or loss.
the integrity of management systems.
Framework The Board recognises that Risk Management is The Audit Committee periodically receives and reviews the cornerstone of a sound system of internal control.
reports on internal controls from the external auditors Therefore, the Board performs an annual review of the key and a formal annual self assessment is provided by the risks faced by the Group, covering strategic, business, presidents and controllers of each operating company financial, compliance and other risks.
Controls are then detailing the operation of their control systems and identified to alleviate or mitigate these risks to an acceptable highlighting any weaknesses.
level, and these are then constantly monitored to ensure they have been operating throughout the period under review and A bi-annual survey is prepared of employees views and any weaknesses or issues addressed on a timely basis.
opinions on a wide variety of risk management issues.
Control structure The Group maintains an extensive system Regional management, the Audit Committee and the Board of internal controls.
Key elements include: review the results of such reports and assessment taking action as appropriate.
There is a defined operating structure for the Group with clear lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
Where, as a result of these reviews, issues are identified in The Groups organisational structure is relatively flat, the internal control environment, prompt corrective actions assisting close control, fast information flow and are taken.
The Group has an internal audit function that reports directly Written policies and procedures are in place which define to the Audit Committee whose role includes assisting the the limits of delegated authority and provide a framework Board discharge its responsibilities as regards internal control.
for management to deal with areas of significant business Review of effectiveness The Directors confirm that they risk.
These policies and procedures are regularly reviewed have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal and, where necessary, updated.
control through the monitoring process set out above for The Board has a Treasury Operating Committee which the period under review and to the date of approval of the oversees the operation of the Group treasury function and annual report and accounts.
sets appropriate limits to mitigate treasury risk.
Compliance statement Prior to publishing results, management obtains representation letters from all operating companies The Listing Rules require the Board to report on compliance confirming complete disclosure and compliance with with the Code throughout the accounting period.
internal and external requirements, compliance with ethical The Company has complied throughout the accounting policies, appropriate recruitment checks are made and that period ended 1 October 2005 with the provisions set out in a whistleblower policy has been circulated.
Section 1 of the Code except in respect of the following: The Groups operating procedures include a comprehensive no evaluation of the Nomination Committee has been system for reporting information to the Directors which is performed as it met formally only once during the period adjusted as necessary.
and there was no recruitment of Directors Code provision A.
6.1 : Budgets are prepared by operating company management and subject to review by both Group management and the the provisions of the employment agreements of the Directors.
Forecasts are revised during the year and executive Directors contain liquidated damages on compared against budget.
termination thereof without cause, as explained on page 41 B.
1.5 : When setting budgets and forecasts management identifies, evaluates and reports on potential significant business risks.
one provision in the employment agreement of David McCulloch, as explained on page 41 B.
1.6 : and Monthly reports of operating performance, with commentary on variances against budget, forecasts and prior year, are the Chairman sits on the Remuneration Committee.
prepared at operational and Group levels.
Key performance The Board is aware of the guidance on this subject but, indicators are monitored by the Board.
given the Chairmans overall responsibility for the operation of the Board, considers it is appropriate for him to be a The acquisition of any business requires a rigorous analysis member of this Committee for it properly to discharge of the financial implications of the acquisition and key its duties B.
A sensitivity analysis is performed of the key assumptions made in the acquisition case.
Post investment appraisals of the Groups investments are conducted on a periodic and timely basis.
