Corporate Governance Introduction The Board continues to recognise that good governance helps deliver strategy, minimise risk and safeguard the interests of shareholders in the long term.
For the year under review the appropriate governance provisions are as set out in the Combined Code published by the UK Listing Authority in July 2003 the Combined Code following reports by Sir Derek Higgs and Sir Robert Smith.
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance set out in the Combined Code provisions as adopted by the UK Listing Authority, the Turnbull Report on Internal Control and appropriate best practice guidance issued by investor bodies.
This report sets out the governance structures the Company has put in place to ensure it complies with the Combined Code and best practice.
Statement by the directors on compliance with the Combined Code The Board is responsible for the policies and controls put in place to discharge the Companys responsibilities under the Combined Code.
These include for example a sound system of internal controls and risk management procedures designed to ensure the Companys policies ensure compliance.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2005 the Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code with the exception of provision A.
3.2 which provides that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be independent.
During the year the Board has continued to review its composition having regard to its own circumstances, its size and complexity and the risks and challenges it faces.
The Board has again concluded that a strong executive presence was important to its effectiveness and that three independent non-executive directors, in addition to the Chairman, would complete its composition, fully match the requirements of the business and ensure proper governance of the Group.
The Company has also complied with the Smith guidance on Audit Committees in all material respects.
The Workings of the Board and its Committees The Board Composition The Chairman, Mr H V Reid, has primary responsibility for running the Board and devotes such time to his role as is necessary to properly discharge his duties.
The Chief Executive, Mr G E Tuppen, has executive responsibilities for operations, results and for executing the Companys strategy and development.
Clear divisions of accountability and responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive have been agreed by the Board, are set out in writing and operate effectively for these positions.
The written responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive are available on the Companys website.
The Board requires that all non-executive directors are free from any relationship with the executive management that could result in any conflict or affect their independent judgement.
The Board considers that all of its non-executive directors and the Chairman meet this requirement.
Changes to the membership of the Board during the year reflected the ongoing needs of the business.
Mrs S E Murray joined the Board on 3 November 2004 and Mr M F Garner retired from the Board on 20 January 2005.
The Board membership and that of its Committees is designed to ensure that no one individual or group dominates proceedings and that the wide variety of skills allows effective leadership across the Companys business activities.
Biographical details of the Board members are set out on pages 2 and 3.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2005 21 Corporate Governance Operation of the Board The Company has an effective Board which leads and controls the Company and is responsible to the shareholders for its proper management.
It reviews trading performance, sets and monitors strategy and examines major capital expenditure and acquisition opportunities.
The Board has established guidelines requiring that specific matters are reserved for a decision by the full Board.
This ensures that the Board maintains control over strategic, major financial and key operational issues.
Such matters include, for example the approval of financial statements, material acquisitions and disposals of assets, risk management and governance policies.
All meetings of the Board are structured to allow open discussion by all directors and ensure full participation in the decision making process.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is set out and agreed in writing and is reviewed annually.
Meetings and Attendance The Board meets at least six times per annum and convenes additional meetings to consider matters that are time critical.
In addition there is a separate meeting held annually to discuss and review strategy and future opportunities.
All of the current directors attended all Board Meetings and the Strategic Review during the year.
Non-executive directors and the Senior Independent Director The non-executive directors complement the skills and experience of the executive directors and bring an independent judgment to the decision making process at Board and Committee level.
Their role requires a time commitment in the order of 15 days per annum plus additional time as necessary to properly discharge their duties.
The Company has appointed a Senior Independent Director whose role and responsibilities are clearly defined, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The written responsibilities of the Senior Independent Director are available on the Companys website.
In compliance with the Combined Code the Senior Independent Director met with the other non-executives during the year to discuss matters in a forum that did not include executive directors or the Chairman.
In addition all the non-executives including the Chairman met without the executive directors being present to discuss amongst other matters the performance of the Chief Executive.
Information and Training The Board and its Committees are supplied with full and timely information which enables the proper discharge of their responsibilities.
All directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
There is a formal written procedure concerning independent professional advice setting out clear guidelines which have been agreed by the Board.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its Committees and is responsible for advising the Chairman on matters of corporate governance, ensuring the good flow of information to the Board and its Committees and that all applicable regulations are followed.
The written responsibilities of the Company Secretary are available on the Companys website.
All new directors receive an appropriately tailored induction programme arranged to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Group and the key business issues.
The training needs of each Director are regularly reviewed and assessed by the Board.
Existing directors undertake such professional development as is necessary for them to carry out their duties as directors.
22 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Retirement of Directors The Companys Articles of Association provide that all directors are subject to re-election at least every three years.
In addition, all directors are subject to election by shareholders after their initial appointment.
The Board has determined that re-election of the Chairman and non-executive directors is not automatic and is subject to formal review and recommendation by the Nominations Committee.
Board Committees In order to ensure effective leadership and governance the Board governs through clearly identified Committees which have delegated powers to deal with specific aspects of the Companys affairs.
A summary of the operation of these Committees is set out below.
The names and biographical details of all Board Committee members is set out on pages 2 and 3.
The Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr D A Harding who has current and relevant financial experience.
The Committees other members are Mr A J Stewart and Mrs S E Murray.
During the year Mr M F Garner resigned from the Committee on retiring from the Board.
The Committee met three times during the year.
Two of these meetings were held immediately prior to the submission of the interim and year end financial statements.
All current Committee members attended each meeting during the year.
Representatives from the external auditors, the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director were in attendance at part or all of each meeting by invitation.
The Committee has terms of reference which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board and are in accordance with the recommendations set out in the Combined Code.
These are available on the Companys website.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial matters including the interim and annual accounts prior to their submission to the Board, and monitoring the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to shareholders.
The Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration and discusses the nature and scope of their work.
The Committee has also been concerned to ensure that the appropriate standards of governance, reporting and compliance are being met.
To ensure full compliance the Committee has an approved whistleblowing policy under which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in such matters as financial reporting.
During the year and in accordance with the Combined Code, internal audit staff met with the Committee to review internal audit procedures.
The Committee reviews and monitors annually the independence and objectivity of external auditors and in particular takes into consideration relevant guidance on the use of external auditors for non-audit services.
During the year the Committee has received updates on the progress of the IFRS conversion project from both management and the external auditors.
The Committee has been involved in all key decisions taken during the transition to IFRS and these decisions have been based on comprehensive briefing papers produced by management.
The Nominations Committee The Committee is chaired by Mr H V Reid and its members are the Chief Executive and the three non-executive directors Mr A J Stewart, Mr D A Harding and Mrs S E Murray, who joined the Committee in November 2004.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2005 23 Corporate Governance The Committee is responsible for nominating, for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to its balance and structure.
The Committee is also responsible for succession planning and takes into account the knowledge and skills mix required by the Board in the future.
The Committee meets as required and met twice during the year when all the then current members attended.
The Committee seeks the advice of external recruitment consultants as necessary and follows a formal and transparent procedure to ensure that new appointments, including that of Mrs S E Murray, comply with the principles set out in the Combined Code.
The Committee has terms of reference which are set out in writing and agreed by the Board and are in accordance with the recommendations set out in the Combined Code to ensure that no director is involved in discussions regarding his or her own succession.
These terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
The Remuneration Committee The Committee is chaired by Mr A J Stewart and its members are the two other non-executive directors Mr D A Harding and Mrs S E Murray, who joined the Committee in November 2004.
The Committee is responsible for determining the contract terms, remuneration and other benefits of the executive directors and senior management, including performance related bonus schemes and the Chairmans fee.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is set by the Board.
The Committee appoints external remuneration consultants and advisers as necessary to provide remuneration services and advice to the Remuneration Committee and the Company.
The Committee met three times during the year during which all current members were in attendance.
The responsibilities of the Committee, together with an explanation of how it applies the principles set out in the Combined Code, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report which includes details of directors remuneration and directors interests in options, together with information on service contracts, and is set out on pages 27 to 35.
Finance Committee and Disclosure Monitoring Committees The Board has delegated, within agreed terms of reference, responsibility for certain matters of a routine nature which are not reserved for full board consideration to a Finance Committee.
This Committee comprises two executive directors, one of which must be the Finance Director.
In addition and to ensure full compliance with its obligations under the new Disclosure Rules published by the UK Listing Authority, effective from 1 July 2005, the company has established a Disclosure Committee comprising the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director to maintain adequate procedures, systems and controls to enable it to make timely and accurate disclosure of information via a regulatory news service when it is impracticable to hold a full board meeting.
A separate Monitoring Committee has been established to monitor compliance with UK Listing Principles.
6 of the Combined Code provides that the Board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
During the year the Company has internally undertaken a full performance evaluation programme in accordance with this principle and has effectively evaluated the Board, its Committees and its individual directors, including the Chairman.
24 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Board performance evaluation The process was led by the Chairman and all directors completed a questionnaire in which they were asked to score a number of performance criteria.
The results of the questionnaires were compiled into a report by the Company Secretary and the Chairman presented the findings to the Board at a Board meeting when all the directors were present.
The review found that the Boards performance continues to be highly effective.
Board Committee performance evaluation For the Board Committee evaluation processes each Committee Chairman and Committee member completed a questionnaire in which they were asked to score a number of performance criteria.
The results of the questionnaires were compiled into a report by the Company Secretary and the Chairman presented the findings to the Board.
The review found that the Committees were highly effective and concluded that the membership and structure of the Committees complemented the workings of the Board.
Non-executive director performance evaluation This process was led by the Chairman and all non-executive directors completed a self-appraisal questionnaire in which they were asked to score a number of performance criteria.
Each non-executive director then met on a confidential basis with the Chairman to review the questionnaire and to discuss matters in detail.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director met with the other non-executives without the Chairman being present to review the Chairmans performance.
Executive director performance evaluation This process was led by the Chief Executive and all executive directors completed a self-appraisal questionnaire and were asked to score a number of performance criteria.
Each executive director then met on a confidential basis with the Chief Executive to review the questionnaire and to discuss matters in detail.
Each executive director is also set challenging performance objectives.
The successful achievement of these objectives makes up part of the short-term incentive criteria.
Shareholder relations The Company recognises the importance of understanding the views of its stakeholders and has a continuing dialogue with institutional investors to discuss the progress of the business and deal with a wide range of enquiries.
This includes direct face to face contact, presentations after the preliminary announcement for the year and the results for the half year and specific analyst presentations with feedback from the Companys brokers as necessary.
The Company uses the Annual General Meeting to encourage participation by private investors.
The Annual General Meeting, held in January each year, provides the opportunity for a dialogue with private investors and procedures at such meetings are in accordance with the Combined Code.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 19 January 2006 can be found in the Notice of the meeting on pages 74 to 77.
The Notice is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the Annual General Meeting and details of proxy votes for and against are made available after the result of hand votes.
In accordance with the New Combined Code the Company has proposed in the Notice separate resolutions on each substantial matter.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring, via the Company Secretary, that views of major shareholders are fed back to the non-executive directors on a regular basis.
The effectiveness of how shareholder views are communicated forms part of the annual Board performance evaluation process.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2005 25 Corporate Governance Information about the Company, including reports, announcements and presentations are made available on its website.
The Company offers all its shareholders the opportunity to register and receive shareholder communications, such as the report and accounts, the interim report and notices of meetings, electronically via the internet rather than in paper form through the post in accordance with good investor practice.
Again this year the Company is, in accordance with the Myners Report, offering shareholders a facility for electronic proxy voting.
Finally the Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, deal with a wide range of investor queries on behalf of shareholders.
Internal Control The directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
An ongoing process on internal control has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing risks faced by the Group.
This process is reviewed regularly by the Board and meets the requirements of the guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in 1999 and the Turnbull guidance.
The risk management process and systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups strategic objectives.
It should be recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
This process has been in place since the start of the financial year and up to the date of approval of the accounts.
Internal control procedures have not altered significantly following the acquisition of Unique.
However, the internal audit function has been examining any changes and considering the integration processes as part of their ongoing work.
The key procedures which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control are as follows: Regular Board meetings to consider a schedule of matters reserved for directors consideration.
The Board carries out an annual review of corporate strategy which includes a review of risks facing the business, and how these risks are monitored and managed on an ongoing basis within the organisation.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
An established organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Documented and enforced policies and procedures.
Appointment of staff of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities.
Comprehensive budgets and forecasts, approved by the Board, reviewed and revised on a regular basis, with performance monitored against them and explanations obtained for material variances.
A detailed investment approval process, requiring Board approval for major projects.
Post-investment appraisals are conducted and are reviewed by the Board.
The Audit Committee of the Board, comprising non-executive directors, considers significant financial control matters as appropriate.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
26 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 2005
