33 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Corporate Governance Report Filtrona is committed to a high standard of corporate governance, corporate responsibility and risk management throughout its Group.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the relevant principles of corporate governance are applied throughout its Group.
Combined Code The Board consider that based upon the information below and that included within the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 26 to 32 Filtrona has complied with the provisions set out in the Combined Code of Corporate Governance appended to The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Code save with the exception of Performance evaluation as disclosed in this Report.
Board of Directors The Board comprises a Non-executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and three Non-executive Directors.
The Board has appointed Paul Drechsler as the Senior Independent Non-executive Director.
There is a clear separation of the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Chairman leads the Board and ensures its effectiveness, and the Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management and performance of the Groups operations.
Biographies of the Directors appear on page 21.
The three Non-executive Directors are, in the opinion of the Board, independent of management.
The Board exercises overall control of the Groups affairs by reference to a schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
These matters include: public announcements: approval of financial statements and assessment of financial performance: major acquisitions and disposals: approval of annual strategic plan and annual budget: authority levels of expenditure, with detailed appraisals and reviews: risk management policies: treasury policies and review of financial planning: insurance policy selection and deductibles: and approval of major contracts.
The Board normally meets at least eight times a year and papers to be considered at each Board meeting are usually provided five clear days before each meeting.
At each meeting, the Board considers an assessment from the Chief Executive on current trading, a financial review, and other significant business issues.
Additionally, the Board considers reports from the heads of business on a regular basis.
The Board discusses and agrees major strategic initiatives and the operating plan for the following financial year.
Such information enables business performance to be monitored, evaluated, discussed and challenged where necessary and enables informed, sound decisions to be made.
Operational matters are delegated through the Chief Executive and the Finance Director to the respective divisional and subsidiary directors as appropriate.
This structure ensures that there is a strong link between Filtronas overall corporate strategy and its effective implementation.
In furtherance of their duties, there are agreed procedures for the Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Board has a process to ensure that all Directors keep their skills and knowledge up to date to enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board and its committees and actively encourages professional development.
The Company ensures that the financial resources and time are available for Directors to attend courses and seminars where necessary.
34 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Corporate Governance Report Board of Directors continued An induction programme is in place to help a new director settle into their role and become effective as quickly as possible.
The programme includes details of fiduciary duties and dealing restrictions as outlined in the Disclosure Rules and the Model Code on directors dealings in securities contained in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Board and business related matters, meetings with senior management, site visits and the opportunity to meet with major shareholders.
The following were Directors of the Company and attended the following number of meetings during the period ended # 31 December 2005 : Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee Held 8 6 2 Attended Jeff Harris Chairman 8 Mark Harper Chief Executive 8 Steve Dryden Finance Director 8 Paul Drechsler Senior Independent Non-executive Director 7 6 1 Adrian Auer Non-executive Director 8 6 2 Paul Heiden Non-executive Director 7 3 2 Paul Hussey Director 1 # Filtrona was incorporated on 5 May 2005 and listed on the London Stock Exchange on 6 June 2005 Paul Hussey was appointed on 5 May 2005 and resigned on 12 May 2005 The Articles of Association of the Company require one third of the Directors to retire from office and submit themselves for re-election on a date which is no more than three years from the date of their appointment or last re-appointment.
The Directors retiring at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and submitting themselves for re-election are Mark Harper and Steve Dryden.
Performance evaluation During the year the Board did not undertake any performance evaluation programmes as the Company was only listed on the London Stock Exchange on 6 June 2005.
However, the Board has initiated the process of evaluating its own performance and that of its committees and the individual Directors.
The Board intends to complete this evaluation in 2006 and repeat the process on an annual basis thereafter.
The level and make-up of Directors remuneration The level and make-up of remuneration is set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
As that Report shows, a proportion of Executive Directors remuneration is linked to corporate performance through the Long Term Incentive Plan, and the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan.
Board committees Each Board committee has established clear and defined terms of reference detailing their responsibilities and powers.
The terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available on Filtronas website at www.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Adrian Auer and comprises all the Non-executive Directors.
The Chairman has recent and relevant financial experience and a professional accountancy qualification.
The Groups external auditors attend all meetings of the Audit Committee and the Finance Director normally attends the meetings.
The Audit Committee will meet normally at least three times a year and its terms of reference cover the points recommended by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Its duties include to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: to review, challenge and approve Filtronas accounting policies: and to scrutinise the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems.
35 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Audit Committee continued Additionally, the Audit Committee keeps under review the scope and results of the external audit and its cost effectiveness.
The Audit Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding the re-appointment or removal of the external auditor, their terms of engagement and the level of their remuneration.
The Audit Committee reviews the process which is in place to ensure the independence and objectivity of the external auditor, including changes to the membership of the external audit team at regular intervals.
A policy regarding the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services has been implemented.
The policy recognises the importance of maintaining the objectivity and independence of the external auditor by minimising their involvement in projects of a nonaudit nature.
It is, however, also acknowledged that, due to their detailed understanding of the Companys business, it may sometimes be necessary to involve the external auditor in non-audit related work.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Paul Drechsler and comprises only the Non-executive Directors.
The composition and role of the Remuneration Committee is described more fully in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 26 to 32.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises Adrian Auer, Paul Drechsler and its Chairman, Jeff Harris.
As there were no changes, or anticipated changes, to the Board during the period from demerger to 31 December 2005, the Nomination Committee did not meet.
However, the Nomination Committee has since held its first meeting.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the balance, structure and composition of the Board, and gives full consideration to succession planning in the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company and the skills and expertise are required by the Board for the future.
It takes into account the required blend of skills and experience required to lead and manage the Company, and is responsible for selecting and appointing the Companys Executive and Non-executive Directors and meets as required.
Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee is chaired by Mark Harper and comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and Company Secretary.
The Disclosure Committee is responsible for identifying inside information for the purpose of maintaining the Companys insider lists.
It periodically evaluates and monitors compliance with the disclosure controls and procedures of the Company.
It meets at such times as are appropriate, and takes external advice when necessary, to determine the disclosure treatment of material information, review any announcements dealing with significant developments in the Companys business, and to consider generally the requirement for announcements in the case of rumours relating to the Company.
Shareholder communications The Company communicates regularly with its major institutional shareholders, and ensures that all the Directors, including the Nonexecutive Directors, have an understanding of the views and concerns of major shareholders about the Company.
This is achieved by the Executive Directors maintaining contact from time to time with representatives of institutional shareholders to discuss matters of mutual interest relating to the Company and reporting back to the Board.
Shareholders have the opportunity to meet any of the Directors of the Company should they so wish.
Additionally, the Board intends to use the AGM as an occasion to communicate with all shareholders, including private investors, who are provided with the opportunity to question the Directors.
At the AGM the level of proxy votes lodged on each resolution will be available.
Each substantially separate issue is presented as a separate resolution and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to answer questions from shareholders.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are posted to shareholders more than 20 days before the AGM.
36 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Corporate Governance Report Shareholder communications continued The interim and final results of Filtrona are posted on the Companys website, www.
com, as soon as they are announced.
The website also includes Filtronas press releases and other investor information.
Internal control In accordance with the Code, the Board acknowledges its responsibility to ensure that an adequate system of internal controls is in place.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
Such a system can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can therefore only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board is of the view that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group was in place throughout 2005 and up to the date that the Annual Report for 2005 was approved.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the internal control guidance for directors as required by the Code.
A Risk Management Committee consisting of the Executive Directors, Company Secretary, Director of Group Human Resources and Head of Internal Audit has been established to enhance managements ability to review and monitor the effectiveness of this process on a regular basis.
The terms of reference of the Risk Management Committee include supporting corporate governance requirements, recommending business risk strategy and developing policies and procedures for risk management and internal controls.
They also include the monitoring of the effectiveness of internal controls and the design of processes to test the effectiveness of controls.
Businesses are required to include risk management on agendas for their regular management meetings and to report half yearly to the Risk Management Committee on actions taken to review the effectiveness of their controls.
Businesses are also required to have processes to identify risks and, so far as possible, take action to reduce those risks.
At the meeting held in December 2005, the Audit Committee carried out its annual review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
This involved a presentation from the Head of Internal Audit on action taken during the year to identify and reduce risks and to increase awareness of both risk management and the importance of having effective internal controls.
Financial reporting The Directors have acknowledged, in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities, their responsibility for preparing the financial statements of the Company and the Group.
The auditor has included, in the Independent Auditors Report, a statement about their reporting responsibilities.
The Directors are also responsible for the publication of an unaudited interim report of the Company which provides a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups financial position for the first six months of each accounting period.
The Directors apply the same standard to other statutory, regulatory and public documents.
Going concern After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider that the Company and Group have adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
