24898 PRE-ACC new 13 12 05 11:02 pm Page 18 CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE The Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code on for the approval of acquisitions, divestments, capital corporate governance is part of the Listing Rules of the expenditure and contractual commitments below the Financial Services Authority.
The paragraphs below and level that the board has reserved to itself for decision, in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 23 to and for certain operational, administrative and other 35 set out how the company has applied the principles routine matters.
The committee also regularly reviews laid down by the Code.
The company has substantially and reports to the board on the performance of the complied with the Code, save for the exceptions groups businesses.
At least 11 meetings are held each disclosed in the directors compliance statement on year and other senior executives frequently attend page 22. by invitation.
Nominations committee Directors The nominations committee is responsible for The board and its role proposing candidates for appointment to the board Details of directors who served during the year are having regard to the balance of skills and structure of set out on page 19.
The board comprises the chairman the board and ensuring the appointees have sufficient PM Fallon, managing director PR Ensor, 11 other time available to devote to the role.
The committee executive directors and six non-executive directors.
meets when required and comprises PM Fallon Two of the six non-executive directors are independent, chairman of the nomination committee, PR Ensor one is the founder and ex-chairman of the company, and four non-executive directors: Sir Patrick Sergeant, and the other three are also directors of Daily Mail and The Viscount Rothermere, CJF Sinclair, and JC Botts General Trust plc, an intermediate parent company.
The committees terms of reference There are clear divisions of responsibility within the are available on the companys web site.
board such that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The board although large does The nominations committee did not meet formally not consider itself to be unwieldy and believes it is during the year, although its members met frequently beneficial to have representatives from all key areas of to informally discuss matters such as possible the business at board meetings.
There is a procedure management succession and board appointments.
for all directors in the furtherance of their duties The suitability of possible new non-executive directors to take independent professional advice, at the was discussed at the full board, which in November companys expense.
They also have access to the 2004 approved the appointment of JC Gonzalez as advice and services of the company secretary.
Neither an external search directors submit themselves for re-election at least consultancy nor open advertising was used as this once every three years.
Newly appointed directors are was not considered necessary as the company had submitted for election at the first available opportunity access to a number of potential candidates through after their appointment.
its own network of contacts.
The committee plans to meet formally in this financial year on management The board meets every two months and there is succession planning and to consider the appointment frequent contact between meetings.
Board meetings of additional non-executive directors.
take place in London and New York, and occasionally in other locations where the group has operations.
Remuneration committee The board has delegated specific aspects of the groups The remuneration committee meets twice a year affairs, each of which operates within defined terms of and additionally as required.
It is responsible for reference, to standing committees.
Details of these are determining the contract terms, remuneration and set out below.
However, to ensure its overall control of other benefits for executive directors, including the groups affairs, the board has reserved certain performance related profit share schemes.
The matters to itself for decision.
The board meetings are committee also recommends and monitors the level held to set and monitor strategy, identify, evalute and of remuneration for senior management and for the manage material risks, review trading performance, rest of the group.
The composition of the committee, ensure adequate funding, examine major acquisition details of directors remuneration and interests in share possibilities and approve reports to shareholders.
options, together with information on directors service Procedures are established to ensure that appropriate contracts, are set out in the Directors Remuneration information is communicated to the board in a timely Report on pages 23 to 35.
The committees terms of manner to enable it to fulfil its duties.
reference are available on the companys web site.
Executive committee Audit committee Chaired by the companys chairman, the executive Details of the members and role of the audit committee committee comprises the divisional directors of the are set out on page 21.
The committees terms of groups main businesses, together with the managing reference are available on the companys web site.
The committee is responsible 18 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 24898 PRE-ACC new 13 12 05 11:02 pm Page 19 Tax and Treasury committee Mail and General Trust plc and because of this he is Details of the members and role of the tax and treasury not considered independent.
committee are set out on pages 10 and 11.
Sir Patrick Sergeant also has a significant shareholding in the company and in addition has served on the board Non-executive directors in various roles since founding the company in 1969 The non-executive directors bring both independent and has been a non-executive director since 1992 and views and the views of the companys major hence, under the Code, is not considered independent.
The non-executive directors, whose biographies can be found on page 17 of the The Viscount Rothermere, CJF Sinclair, and JP Williams accounts, are: The Viscount Rothermere, Sir Patrick are also executive directors of Daily Mail and General Sergeant, CJF Sinclair, JP Williams, JC Botts and Trust plc, an intermediate parent company.
At least once a year the companys the company is run as a separate, distinct and chairman meets the non-executive directors without decentralised subsidiary of Daily Mail and General Trust the executive directors being present.
plc and these directors have no involvement in the day-to-day management of the company.
They bring The board considers JC Botts and JC Gonzalez to valuable experience and advice to the company but the be independent non-executive directors.
Although board does not believe these non-executive directors JC Botts has been on the board for more than the are able to exert undue influence on decisions taken recommended term of nine years under the Code, the by the board, nor does it consider their independence board believes that his length of service enhances his to be impaired by their positions with Daily Mail and role as an independent director.
JC Botts also holds General Trust plc.
However, their relationship with options to subscribe for common stock in Internet Daily Mail and General Trust plc means they do not Securities, Inc. a subsidiary of the company.
However, meet the Codes definition of independence.
the number of options held by JC Botts is not material to him or to the company.
In addition CJF Sinclair and JP Williams have been on the board for more than the recommended term of The Viscount Rothermere has a significant shareholding nine years under the Code.
in the company through his beneficial holding in Daily Board and committee meetings Board and committee meetings are arranged well in advance of the meeting date and papers covering the points to be discussed are distributed to its members in advance of the meetings.
The following table sets out the number of board and committee meetings attended by the directors during 2005: Tax & Board Executive Remuneration Audit treasury meetings committee committee committee committee Number of meetings held during year 6 11 3 3 3 Executive directors PM Fallon Chairman 6 11 2 PR Ensor Managing Director 6 11 3 NF Osborn 6 10 DC Cohen 6 11 CR Brown 5 9 GB Strahan 2 2 E Bounous 6 11 CR Jones Finance Director 6 11 3 RT Lamont 6 9 SM Brady 6 11 D Alfano 6 9 G Mueller 6 11 MJ Carroll 6 10 CHC Fordham 6 10 Non-executive directors The Viscount Rothermere 5 3 Sir Patrick Sergeant 5 2 CJF Sinclair 4 3 JP Williams 3 2 2 JC Botts 6 3 3 JC Gonzalez 5 retired as a director on December 16 2004. appointed as a non-executive director on November 23 2004.
He attended all board meetings from that date.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 19 24898 PRE-ACC new 13 12 05 11:02 pm Page 20 CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE continued Board and committee effectiveness The board of directors During the year the board, through its chairman, The board normally meets six times a year to assessed its performance and that of its committees.
consider group strategy, risk management, The chairman distributed a detailed questionnaire financial performance, acquisitions, business to each of the board members and together with development and management issues: personal interviews evaluated the strengths and The board has overall responsibility for the group weaknesses of the board and its members.
In addition, and there is a formal schedule of matters each of the main committees completed a detailed specifically reserved for decision by the board: questionnaire encompassing key areas within their mandates.
The results of the assessment were Each executive director has been given responsibility presented and discussed at a board meeting and it for specific aspects of the groups affairs: was concluded that the board and its committees The board divides the groups key risks into six had been effective throughout the year.
broad categories and reviews and assesses each of these at least annually: Communication with shareholders The board seeks assurance that effective control The companys chairman, together with the board, is being maintained through regular reports from encourages regular dialogue with shareholders.
business group management, the audit committee Meetings are held, both in the US and UK, to discuss and various independent monitoring functions: annual and interim results and highlight significant and acquisitions or disposals, or at the request of institutional shareholders.
Private shareholders are The board approves the annual forecast after encouraged to participate in the Annual General performing a review of key risk factors.
In line with best practice all shareholders Performance is monitored regularly by way of have at least 20 working days notice of the Annual variances and key performance indicators to General Meeting at which the executive directors, enable relevant action to be taken and forecasts non-executive directors and committee chairs are are updated each quarter.
The board considers available for questioning.
longer-term financial projections as part of its regular discussions on the groups strategy.
Internal control and risk management The board is responsible for the groups system of Quality, integrity of personnel and whistle internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
blowing arrangements Such a system is designed to manage rather than The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business through high recruitment standards and a commitment objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not to management and business skills training.
High quality absolute assurance against material misstatement personnel are seen as an essential part of the control or loss.
environment and the high ethical standards expected are communicated by management leadership and In accordance with the guidance published by the through the employee handbook which is provided to Internal Control Working Party of the Institute of all employees.
The employee handbook also sets out Chartered Accountants in England and Wales the procedures available to staff to raise, in confidence, the Turnbull Report, the board has implemented possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and or other matters.
managing the material risks faced by the group.
The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Social responsibility groups system of internal control and has taken The group is keen to maintain a high level of social account of material developments which have taken responsibility and has core procedures embedded in place since September 30 2004.
It has considered its internal systems and controls to ensure its social the major business and financial risks, the control standards are monitored regularly and are not breached.
environment and the results of internal audit.
Steps The group supports and encourages employees who have been taken to embed internal control and risk become involved in social projects and examples of management further into the operations of the group these are given in the Operating and Financial Review.
and to deal with areas of improvement which have come to managements and the boards attention.
Environmental responsibility The group does not operate directly in industries Key procedures which the directors have established where there is the potential for serious industrial with a view to providing effective internal control, pollution.
It does not print products in-house or have and which have been in place throughout the year, any investments in printing works.
However, it does are as follows: 20 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 24898 PRE-ACC new 13 12 05 11:02 pm Page 21 take its environmental responsibility seriously and team to assist in completing the audit assignments.
complies with all relevant environmental laws and Internal audit aims to provide an independent regulations in each country in which it operates.
assessment as to whether effective systems and Wherever economically feasible, account is taken of controls are in place and being operated to manage environmental issues when placing contracts with significant risks in the businesses visited.
It also aims suppliers of goods and services and these suppliers to support management by providing cost effective are regularly reviewed and monitored.
The group is recommendations to mitigate risk and control not a heavy user of energy, however it does manage weaknesses identified during the audit process, as well its energy requirements sensibly using low energy as provide insight into where efficiencies and monetary office equipment where possible and using a common gains might be made by improving the operations of sense approach such as switching off equipment, the business.
Businesses and central departments are air-conditioning, heating and lights when not required.
selected for an internal audit visit on a risk-focused basis taking account of the risks identified as part of Health and safety the risk management process: the risk and materiality The group is committed to the health and safety of of each of the groups businesses: the scope and its employees and communities in which it operates.
findings of external audit work: and the departments The group complies with all local health and safety and businesses reviewed previously and the findings regulations and makes use of external health and from these reviews.
This approach ensures that the safety advisors where appropriate.
The UK businesses internal audit focus is placed on the higher risk areas benefit from a monthly assessment of the working of the group, while ensuring an appropriate breadth environment by experienced assessors and regular of coverage.
The head of DMGTs internal audit training of all existing and new UK employees in department reports his findings to management health and safety matters.
and to the audit committee.
Investment appraisal Accountability and audit The managing director, finance director and business Audit committee group managers consider proposals for acquisitions and The audit committee comprises three non-executive new businesses.
Proposals beyond specified limits are directors: JC Botts chairman, Sir Patrick Sergeant put to the board for approval and are subject to due and JP Williams, and meets three times each financial diligence by the groups finance team and, if necessary, year.
The committee is responsible for reviewing the independent advisers.
Capital expenditure is regulated interim report, the annual report and accounts and by strict authorization controls.
For capital expenditure other related formal statements before their submission above specified levels, detailed written proposals must to the board, and reviewing and overseeing controls be submitted to the board and reviews carried out to necessary to ensure the integrity of the financial monitor progress against budget.
information reported to the shareholders.
The audit committee advises the board on the appointment of Accounting and computer systems controls external auditors and on their remuneration, both for and procedures audit and non-audit work.
It has set and applied a Accounting controls and procedures are regularly formal policy, which focuses on the effectiveness, reviewed and communicated throughout the group.
independence and objectivity of the external audit, Particular attention is paid to authorization levels and the type of non-audit work permissible and a segregation of duties.
The groups tax, financing and diminimus level of fees acceptable.
Any non-audit foreign exchange positions are overseen by the tax and work performed outside this remit is assessed and treasury committee, which meets at least twice a year.
where appropriate approved by the committee.
The Controls and procedures over the security of data held committee discusses the nature, scope and findings on computer systems are periodically reviewed and are of the audit with the external auditors and considers subject to internal audit.
Controls include a specific and determines relevant action in respect of any focus on data security and disaster recovery.
control issues raised by the external auditors.
The audit committee is also responsible for monitoring Internal audit and assessing the effectiveness of internal audit, and The group has an internal audit function which is reviews the internal audit programme and receives managed by the head of Daily Mail and General Trust periodic reports on its findings.
It reviews the whistle plcs DMGT internal audit department, working closely blowing arrangements available to staff.
The audit with the companys finance director.
Internal audit committees terms of reference are available on the draws on the services of the groups central finance companys website.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 21 24898 PRE-ACC new 13 12 05 11:02 pm Page 22 CORPORA TE GOVERNANCE continued Financial reporting exceptions outlined below, the group has complied Going concern throughout the financial year ended September 30 After making enquiries, the directors are satisfied that 2005 with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the the group has adequate resources to continue in Combined Code.
operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern Provision A.
3.2 states that half the board, excluding basis in preparing the accounts.
the chairman, should be comprised of non-executive directors determined by the board to be independent.
Statement of directors responsibilities in respect The board currently comprises 19 directors of whom of the accounts only two are considered to be independent United Kingdom company law requires the directors non-executive directors.
to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of Contrary to provision A.
3.3, the board has not the company and of the group as at the end of the identified a senior non-executive director as the financial year and of the profit or loss of the group for directors are of the opinion that all matters relating that period.
In preparing those accounts, the directors to the effective governance of the group must be are required to: dealt with by the board as a whole.
select suitable accounting policies and apply Provision A.
4.1 requires that the majority of the them consistently: nominations committee should be comprised of independent non-executive directors.
Although the make judgements and estimates that are committee consists of four non-executive and two reasonable and prudent: executive directors, only one of the non-executive state whether applicable accounting standards directors can be considered independent under the have been followed: and Combined Code.
prepare the accounts on a going concern basis Provision A.
4.4 states that the terms and conditions unless it is inappropriate to presume that the of appointment of non-executive directors should be company will continue in business.
As explained in the Directors Remuneration Report, the non-executive directors do The directors are responsible for keeping proper not have service contracts.
accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Provisions B.
2.1 and C. 3.1 require the remuneration company and group and to enable them to ensure that and audit committees to comprise entirely of the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985. independent non-executive directors.
Both the They are also responsible for the groups system of remuneration and audit committees comprise of three internal controls, for safeguarding the assets of the non-executive directors, only one of whom on each group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the committee can be considered independent under the prevention and detection of fraud and other Combined Code.
The directors confirm that these requirements have On behalf of the board been satisfied.
Statement by the directors on compliance with the Combined Code The Listing Rules require the board to report on compliance throughout the accounting year with the Padraic Fallon 49 provisions of the July 2003 Financial Reporting Chairman Councils Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Services Authority.
