CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company applies all of the main and supporting principles of good governance set out in section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code.
The way in which it applies those principles is set out below.
Except as described in paragraph 1.1 b below, the Company complies with all of the provisions of section 1 of the Code.
THE BOARD AND ITS PRINCIPAL COMMITTEES Details of the Board, its members and its principal committees are set out below.
1.1 The Board a Board structure and responsibilities The Board currently consists of the Chairman, three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
The Board meets at least eight times each year and is responsible for setting and reviewing the Companys strategy and objectives, reviewing the financial and operational performance of each of the Groups business units, agreeing and reviewing progress against the Groups annual budgets and setting and reviewing on a regular basis its longer-term business plans.
It also has a schedule of matters specically reserved to it including approval of the annual and interim financial statements, nancing arrangements, material capital commitments, business acquisitions and disposals, relationships with regulatory authorities and operating and accounting policies.
During the year, the Board met eight times and all members of the Board attended all meetings held whilst they were Directors, with the exception of John Sievwright who attended seven meetings.
The Board also held a number of separate strategy meetings.
b Board balance and independence The independence of the Non-Executive Directors has been reviewed against the denition of independence in the Code.
David Dunn, Jim Forbes and John Sievwright are considered to be independent within this denition.
As Martyn Williams is an employee of one of the Groups subsidiaries, he cannot be considered to be independent.
However, the Board feels very strongly that it is extremely beneficial for its employees to be represented on the Board in this way so that important employee-related issues can be raised at the highest level and a two-way communication process between the management of the Company and its employees is maintained.
Therefore at present, the Company does not comply with the Code provision that at least one half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, is made up of Non-Executive Directors who are considered by the Board to be independent.
The Board has engaged Spencer Stuart, executive search consultants, to assist in the search for a new independent Non-Executive Director.
Discussions with a suitable candidate are at an advanced stage and it is anticipated that the Company will be in a position to make an announcement on the appointment of a new independent Non-Executive Director prior to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 July 2005.
The appointment of a further independent Non-Executive Director will ensure compliance by the Company with the Code.
The Directors are confident that notwithstanding such non-compliance, and as reinforced by the performance evaluation referred to below, the Board and its Committees remain and will continue to be effective.
The Directors are satisfied that the current Board possesses the breadth of business, financial and international experience necessary to manage effectively an organisation of the size and complexity of the Group.
c Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The Chairman The Chairman of the Board is Martin Gilbert.
He has a written statement of responsibilities which has been approved by the Board: The Chairman is responsible for: leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda, taking into account the issues relevant to the Group and the concerns of all Board members.
ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, the provision of accurate, timely and clear information to the Board.
ensuring effective communication with shareholders and that the Board develops an understanding of the views of major investors.
managing the Board, ensuring that sufficient time is allowed for the discussion of complex or contentious issues.
ensuring a regular evaluation of the performance of the Board as a whole, its Committees and individual Directors.
taking the lead in identifying and meeting the development needs of individual Directors and the Board as a whole, with a view to enhancing the overall effectiveness of the team.
facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
ensuring, with the Chief Executive and Company Secretary, that new Directors receive a comprehensive induction programme to ensure their early contribution to the Board.
encouraging active engagement by all members of the Board.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Martin Gilbert is standing for re-election at the Annual General Meeting this year.
The Board is of the opinion, reinforced by the performance evaluation review referred to below, that Martin Gilberts significant and in-depth knowledge and experience of the Groups business, combined with his external business experience enables him to provide effective leadership of the Board and to continue to make a positive contribution to the Groups ongoing business.
18 The Chairmans other significant business commitments, which remain unchanged from last year, are described in his biography on page 17.
The Board performance evaluation process confirmed that the other Board members are satisfied that Martin Gilbert has the necessary time available to devote to the proper performance of his duties as Chairman.
The Chief Executive The Chief Executive is Moir Lockhead.
The Chief Executive also has a written statement of responsibilities which has been approved by the Board: The Chief Executive is responsible for: running the day-to-day business of the Group, within the authorities delegated to him by the Board.
ensuring implementation across the Group of the policies and strategy set by the Board for the Group.
day-to-day management of the executive and senior management team.
leading the development of senior management within the Group with the aim of assisting the training and development of suitable individuals for future Director roles.
ensuring that the Chairman is kept appraised in a timely manner of the issues facing the Group and of any important events and developments.
leading the development of the Groups future strategy including identifying and assessing opportunities for the growth of its business and reviewing the performance of its existing businesses.
d Senior Non-Executive Director David Dunn, who chairs the Audit Committee, is the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
He is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
e Information and professional development of Board members The Board receives detailed papers on the business to be conducted at each meeting well in advance and individual Board members have direct access to senior executives should they wish to receive additional information on any of the items for discussion.
The head of each operating division attends Board meetings on a regular basis to ensure that the Board is properly informed about the performance of and current issues facing that division.
Management give presentations on current issues facing the business.
A number of Board meetings each year are held on site at operating locations in the UK and USA allowing the Directors to visit the Groups operations and to discuss key issues with local operational management and stakeholders.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, if necessary, can seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on corporate governance matters and for ensuring compliance with Board procedures.
Directors receive induction on appointment to the Board, which is tailored to their individual needs.
This includes meetings with senior management and relevant external advisers.
In addition, information is provided on their responsibilities and obligations under law, regulation and best practice guidelines.
The induction process is supported during the year by the programme of business presentations and operational visits described above.
The Board also receives updates, as required, on changes to the law and the regulatory regimes affecting the Group.
f Performance evaluation During the course of the year, the Board undertook an evaluation of its performance.
The Chairman led the process, assisted by the Company Secretary.
The objectives of this exercise were to ensure that the Board, its Committees and each individual Director continued to act effectively and to full the duties and responsibilities expected of them, and also to identify any additional training requirements.
A tailored questionnaire was developed, which each Director completed.
The responses were analysed and discussed at a special meeting of the Nomination Committee.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors held a separate meeting at which the performance of the Executive Directors was discussed.
The Senior Independent Director held a separate meeting with the Non-Executive Directors to discuss the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman.
No significant issues were raised in the course of the evaluation process.
g Re-election of Directors As required by the Companys Articles of Association, Directors offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Any Director appointed during the year is required to seek re-appointment by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The biographical details of all the Directors, including those seeking re-election at the 2005 Annual General Meeting, are set out on page 17.
The Companys Articles of Association do not contain any age limits for Directors.
h Appointment of Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board for an initial term of three years, subject to re-appointment by shareholders.
They have letters of appointment, which are available on request for inspection.
None of the Non-Executive Directors has yet to serve a term of six years.
19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED i Directors and ofcers liability insurance The Company maintained Directors and Ofcers liability insurance cover throughout the year.
The cover was renewed on 1 April 2005.
COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD In addition to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, the terms of reference for which are published on the Companys website and details of which are set out below, the Board has also delegated certain matters to Committees.
The principal such Committees are: 2.1 Executive Safety Committee ESC The ESC is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets on a monthly basis.
It comprises the Executive Directors, other senior managers and safety ofcers.
The ESC reviews the Groups safety performance and practices, develops safety policies and procedures and follows up on outstanding issues.
During the year, a number of meetings were attended by independent safety experts and senior representatives of relevant industry bodies, including Her Majestys Railway Inspectorate.
2.2 Executive Management Board EMB The EMB, which comprises the Executive Directors and certain senior business managers, is chaired by the Chief Executive.
It acts as a general operating management committee and meets on a monthly basis to review outstanding issues and to consider the Groups operational and financial performance.
2.3 Executive Committee The Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors and meets on an ad hoc basis to consider matters which arise in the ordinary course of the Groups operations.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive and has specic delegated powers within prescribed limits to deal with matters arising in the ordinary course which need to be considered before the next scheduled Board meeting.
2.4 Nomination Committee and appointments to the Board The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman and includes David Dunn, Jim Forbes, John Sievwright and Moir Lockhead.
Martyn Williams attends meetings of the Committee at the invitation of the chairman of the Committee to represent the Groups employees.
The Committee meets as required to discuss appointments to the Board of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Its recommendations are then put to the full Board for consideration.
External search consultants are used to assist the process, where appropriate.
The Employee Director is elected by the Employee Directors forum, which comprises the Employee Directors and representatives of each of the Companys UK subsidiaries, and generally serves a three-year term.
During the year, the Committee met twice.
Items considered by the Committee include the results of the Board performance evaluation process described above and also potential appointments to the Board.
In its deliberations, the Committee is required to have regard to the skills and experience needed for the future commercial and strategic development of the Group.
All members of the Committee attended each meeting.
Although none of the Executive Directors currently holds any such positions, the Companys policy is to permit Executive Directors to accept a limited number of outside non-executive directorships, recognising that this is an effective way to broaden their knowledge and expertise.
However, no such appointment can be taken up without prior Board approval.
The Companys policy on fees relating to such outside directorships is set out on page 25 of the Directors remuneration report.
2.5 Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, under the chairmanship of Jim Forbes, met four times during the year and, with the exception of John Sievwright who attended three meetings, all members of the Committee attended all of its meetings.
Details of the membership of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 23 to 29, together with a statement of the Groups remuneration strategy and policy.
Full details of Directors remuneration appear on page 26.
2.6 Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by David Dunn and includes Martin Gilbert, Jim Forbes and John Sievwright.
It met four times during the year and all members attended each of those meetings.
The Group Director of Internal Audit and the Companys external auditors also attended three of those meetings.
Executive Directors and other senior managers attended where requested and as appropriate.
The Board considers that each member of the Committee has sufficient and recent financial experience to enable the Committee to discharge its functions effectively.
Under its remit, the Committee keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting and internal control policies and procedures for the identication, assessment and reporting of risk.
It also keeps under review the nature, scope and results of the audits conducted by the internal audit department and the external auditors, the consistency of accounting policies and reporting across the Group and it reviews the half-year and full-year financial statements before they are presented to the Board.
20 The Committee considers the Groups compliance with the Code and its related guidance and oversees the objectivity and effectiveness of internal audit.
The work of the internal audit department is focused on areas of priority as identied by risk analysis and in accordance with an annual audit plan approved by the Committee and the Board.
Reports are sent to senior executives of the Group and subsidiary units and there is a follow-up process to ensure that actions to resolve identied control weaknesses are implemented.
The Group Director of Internal Audit has the right of direct access to the chairman of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in respect of the appointment or re-appointment of the Groups external auditors and, subject to the approval of shareholders, recommends to the Board the audit fee to be paid to the external auditors.
The Committee is also charged with monitoring the independence of the external auditors and the objectivity and effectiveness of the external audit process.
The objectivity and independence of the external auditors is considered on a regular basis, with particular regard to the level of non-audit fees.
The majority of non-audit work is put out to tender, with the exception of due diligence work on acquisitions or potential acquisitions in both the UK and overseas, where the current auditors knowledge of the Companys business processes and controls means that they are best placed to undertake this work cost-effectively on the Companys behalf.
The majority of the non-audit work undertaken by the auditors during the year was associated with acquisition-related due diligence and reviews of the financial models for the Companys rail franchise bids.
Details of the audit and non-audit fees, including a breakdown of the non-audit fee, are set out in note 7 to the financial statements.
The external auditors have direct access to the Committee to raise any matters that may concern them.
The Committee reviews with management a detailed analysis of the Groups financial information prior to completion and announcement of the half-year and full-year results and receives a report from the external auditors on the audit process.
If necessary, the external auditors also meet separately with the Audit Committee and or the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The Annual Report and Financial Statements and interim results go through a detailed verication and due diligence process involving external advisers.
The Committee may request the Executive Directors and any other ofcers of the Group to attend its meetings but none have the right of attendance.
Committee meetings may be requested by the external or internal auditors if they consider it necessary.
The business considered and discussed by the Committee during the year included the reports of the external auditors on the half-year and full-year results, the 2005 06 Group Internal Audit Plan and budget, papers concerning any regular and special audits and an executive summary of each internal audit report, risk analysis assessments and a review of the implications of changes in accounting standards and the application and implementation of International Financial Reporting Standards.
FINANCIAL REPORTING The Directors have a commitment to best practice in the Groups external financial reporting in order to present a balanced and comprehensible assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects to its shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and other third parties.
This commitment encompasses all published information including but not limited to the year-end and interim financial statements, regulatory news announcements and other public information.
A statement of the Directors responsibility for preparing the financial statements may be found on page 32.
INTERNAL CONTROLS The Board has established procedures to meet the requirements of the Code and its related guidance on internal controls.
These procedures, which are subject to regular review, provide an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by the Group.
4.1 Responsibility The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and assessing risk.
The responsibility for establishing detailed control and risk management procedures within each subsidiary lies with the Executive Directors and subsidiary unit managing directors.
A sound system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
4.2 Control environment The Board is committed to business integrity, high ethical and moral values and professionalism in all its activities, principles with which all managers and employees are required to comply.
The Group has a Code of Ethics, which applies to all of its subsidiary undertakings, a copy of which is available on the Companys website.
The Group has a dened divisional organisational structure with lines of authority and delegated responsibility which allows the Board to plan, execute, control and monitor the business in a manner consistent with the Groups objectives.
The day-to-day business management is delegated to the Executive Directors and subsidiary unit managing directors under the overall direction of the Chief Executive.
As noted above, the Board reserves to itself a number of specic items, which ensures that it retains control over key business decisions and significant transactions in terms of size, type or risk.
A number of the Groups key functions, including treasury, taxation, insurance, corporate finance, legal, corporate communications and procurement are dealt with centrally.
Each of these functions is monitored by an Executive Director.
21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED 4.3 Monitoring The Group adopts a financial reporting and information system which complies with generally accepted accounting practice.
The Group Finance Manual, circulated by the Group Finance function to all subsidiaries, details the Group accounting policies and procedures with which subsidiaries must comply.
These are also available on the Groups intranet.
Budgets are prepared by subsidiary company management and are subject to review by both Group management and the Executive Directors.
Monthly forecasts are completed during the year and compared against actions required.
Each subsidiary unit prepares a monthly report of operating performance, with a commentary on variances against budget, forecasts and prior year.
Similar reports are prepared at a Group level.
Key performance indicators, both financial and operational, are monitored on a weekly basis.
In addition, business units participate in strategic reviews which include consideration of long-term financial projections and the evaluation of business alternatives.
A process of annual self-assessment and hierarchical reporting provides for a documented and auditable trail of accountability from the subsidiary units to senior management to the Executive Directors.
This process includes an internal control questionnaire and risk assessment and is signed off by the subsidiary unit directors.
This process and the supporting documentation are reviewed by both the internal and external auditors.
Detailed action plans are developed from these questionnaires to resolve any control weaknesses or significant risks identied.
4.4 Risk assessment The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
As an integral part of planning and review, management from each business area and major projects identify their risks, the probability of the risks occurring, the impact on the business should the risks occur and the actions taken to manage the risks.
The risks are assessed on a regular basis and could be associated with a variety of internal and external sources including regulatory requirements, disruption to information systems, industrial relations issues, control breakdowns and social, ethical and environmental issues.
4.5 Whistleblowing The Group has established procedures whereby employees of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns relating to matters of potential fraud or other improprieties.
These procedures also cover other issues affecting employees including health and safety issues.
The condential hotline, which covers all businesses across the Group and each country in which it operates, was re-launched during the year and the Committee is confident that these whistleblowing arrangements are satisfactory and will enable the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow-up action to be taken.
4.6 Review of effectiveness of financial controls The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control for the year under review and to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements through the monitoring process described above.
In addition, the Directors confirm that they have conducted a specic annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Group recognises the importance of regular communication with all of its shareholders.
The full Annual Report and Financial Statements are made available to all shareholders and an Interim Report is published and sent to shareholders at the half-year.
These reports are intended to provide shareholders and other interested parties with a clear and balanced understanding of the Groups operational performance, its financial results and prospects.
All investors are kept informed of key business activities, decisions, appointments etc.
via regulatory news and press releases and the Groups website.
There is also regular dialogue with institutional shareholders throughout the year and general presentations are made by the Chief Executive and Finance Director following the announcement of the full and half-year results.
Other Directors, including Non-Executive Directors, attend meetings with major shareholders if requested.
Regular reports on investor relations activity and feedback from investors are submitted to the Board and senior management.
The Non-Executive Directors have also had informal contact with major shareholders regarding the Group during the year and they expect that informal dialogue to continue.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions to the Directors at the Companys Annual General Meeting, at which a report is made on the highlights of the key business developments during the year under review.
The Chairmen of each of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit Committees attend the Annual General Meeting to answer specic questions from shareholders.
All Directors were present at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed at the Annual General Meeting on each substantially separate issue.
Proxy votes are counted on all resolutions and, where votes are taken on a show of hands, the proxy results are subsequently announced to the meeting.
