Corporate governance The directors are committed to achieving and maintaining the highest The directors may at any time appoint an additional director.
A formal possible standards of corporate governance and during the year followed selection process is carried out, making use of external agencies in the the principles set out in Section 1 of the 2003 FRC Combined Code selection of suitable candidates where it appears necessary or appropriate.
Upon the appointment of a new director, relevant training and induction to the Company is provided as required.
The directors consider that, throughout the year ended 31 March 2005, the Company complied fully with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Any directors so appointed shall hold office until the next annual Combined Code.
general meeting and shall be eligible for reappointment at that meeting.
Following such appointment, the Articles of Association require each This statement on corporate governance, together with the Remuneration director to retire by rotation and seek re-election at least every three years.
report, provides a commentary on how the Company complied with the principles included in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
There was an appraisal of the performance of the Board in the period November 2003 March 2004.
Further appraisal of the performance of the The Board Board and of the performance of the Chairman will be undertaken during The directors supervise the management of the business and the affairs of the next 12 months.
the Company and see their prime responsibility as being to determine the Board Committees broad strategy of the Group and to ensure its implementation with a view to enhancing the prosperity of the Group and its shareholders over time.
The Board has appointed the following principal Committees: The Board currently comprises three executive and five non-executive Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr R P Edey and directors, and their names are listed on page 28.
The Board has reviewed its membership comprises all the non-executive directors.
Mr Page attends the position of its non-executive directors and has determined that they by invitation.
It meets at least three times a year and its primary tasks are to are all independent in character and judgement in accordance with the receive regular reports from the Groups external auditors and the internal guidance as set out in the Combined Code.
Mr R P Edey has been the audit function, and to review the preliminary results, interim information senior independent director throughout the year.
and annual financial statements before they are presented to the Board.
It concentrates particularly on accounting policies and compliance, areas of Gordon Page, the Chairman, was appointed to the Board as a non-executive management judgement and estimates, and the monitoring of the controls director on 1 August 2004.
Mr Page fulfilled the criteria for independence as which are in place to ensure the integrity of the financial information to be set out in the Combined Code at the time of his appointment and the Board reported to shareholders.
The Committee also discusses internal control is satisfied that Mr Page remains free from any relationship with the issues, and conducts a review of the remit of the internal audit function, executive management of the Company which could materially interfere with including its authority, resources and scope of work.
Recommendations are the exercise of his independent judgement.
The same comment also applies given to the Board concerning the appointment and remuneration of to the three non-executive directors.
Immediately following the conclusion of the year end The Board meets at least six times each year with additional meetings as audit, the Committee will undertake a review of Auditor effectiveness in line required.
All directors receive regular information on the Groups operational with the requirements of the Combined Code.
The Committee sets the and financial performance and the Board has reserved certain items for its policy on their engagement and remuneration for non-audit work which is review and approval, including the annual and interim results, the strategy work that they are best suited to perform, will not involve the audit of their of the Company, the annual profit plan, corporate governance and internal own firms work and will not involve them making management decisions control.
It makes decisions regarding acquisitions and divestments, and sets for or acting as advocate for the Company.
The Committee monitors the policies on, amongst other things, remuneration, health and safety, and the cost of non-audit work throughout the year and so is in a position to environment, leaving implementation of these decisions to management.
take action at any time if it believes that there is a risk of the auditors independence being undermined through the award of non-audit work.
The Company Secretary is appointed by and responsible to the Board and all directors have access to his advice and services.
Directors may obtain Remuneration Committee This Committee meets at least twice a year, independent professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
and consists of all the non-executive directors with Mr C R N Clark as Formal agendae, papers and reports are supplied to directors in a timely Chairman.
Mr Page attends the Committee by invitation.
Its key role is to manner, prior to Board meetings.
Briefings are also provided at other times, make recommendations to the Board on the Companys framework of for example, through operational visits and business presentations.
executive remuneration and its cost, and to determine specific remuneration packages for each of the executive directors, including pension rights and The Company has a Chairman and a Chief Executive each having their own compensation payments.
The objective of the Remuneration Committee is separate responsibilities.
Essentially, the Chairman is responsible for the to ensure that the executive directors are both highly motivated and fairly effective working of the Board and the Chief Executive is responsible for all rewarded for their contributions to the Groups overall performance.
Further details of the Committees work and of the directors emoluments and interests are set out in the report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 33 to 41.
29 FKI plc Corporate governance continued Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee consists of the system is a systematic process designed to identify, assess, treat, Chairman of the Board and all the remaining non-executive directors, and it manage and communicate business risks.
It also provides a process for meets when necessary to make recommendations to the Board on all new the escalation and delegation of risks to the appropriate level in the Board appointments and also to advise generally on issues relating to Board operations and ensures that actions are properly defined, resourced composition and balance.
and effected to give confidence in achievement of business objectives.
The system operates throughout FKI and is applied equally to the The number of full scheduled Board meetings and Committee meetings operating units and corporate function and reports on significant areas attended by each Director during the year was as follows: of risk and the appropriate controls.
Number of Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Risks arise from a wide variety of internal and external sources and can be meetings 9351 associated with customer requirements, competitor actions, regulations and Attendance political actions.
They may also arise from the products and services sold by the Group and the processes used by operations as part of their normal K Orrell-Jones 4121 activities.
Management regularly carries out risk assessments covering risks G Page 52 3 in strategy, risks to achieving commitments contained in contracts with R P Edey 8341 customers, risks in organisational change, risks associated with major projects and risks involving potential acquisitions.
N Bamford 9 n a n a n a The Company has a whistle blowing policy which is currently under J A Biles 3 n a n a n a review.
To date, no actual instances have been recorded under the policy.
C R N Clark 7351 The output from each assessment is a list of prioritised risks, with the R L Gott 9 n a n a n a probability of them happening and their impact, including any reputation P Heiden 9 n a n a n a aspects, together with the associated action plans to mitigate them.
Operating unit and corporate function managers are responsible for these Sir Michael action plans and their progress is reported at least twice a year to the FKI Hodgkinson 7241 Risk Committee as part of their performance review.
The Risk Committee is C Matthews 9351 accountable for the risk management system and for reporting key risks and associated mitigating actions to the Board through the Audit Committee Up to date of cessation of directorship.
and meets at least twice a year.
It is chaired by the Chief Executive and the From date of appointment.
other members are the senior executive management.
The Finance Director By invitation.
is responsible for the implementation of the risk management process throughout the Group and the compilation of the Group risk register which Communications with shareholders records all risks which management consider to be significant, together with In addition to ensuring that sufficient information is disseminated in order all appropriate mitigating actions.
The risk registers are reviewed with the to maintain an orderly market in the ordinary shares of the Company, the three year business plans in August September and with the annual budget Company, primarily through the Chief Executive and Finance Director, in February March.
These reviews cover actions completed and the status maintains a regular dialogue with major institutional shareholders and of ongoing actions.
analysts, particularly following trading updates and results announcements, Recommendations to improve the system from the independent review which are posted on the Companys website, which provides additional held in 2003 have now been implemented and embedded into the normal Company information and is regularly updated.
Any points of interest are business processes, including approval of tenders, capital expenditure and reported to the Board for their consideration.
Lessons learnt from the implementation and operation of The Board members attend the annual general meeting and, in particular, the risk process are being fed back and will be further reviewed in future to the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees ensure continuous improvement.
are available to answer questions.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal At annual general meetings, separate resolutions are proposed on each control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Board has reviewed the substantially separate issue and the number of proxy votes received for and key risks inherent in the Group, together with the operating, financial and against each resolution is announced.
Notices of annual general meetings compliance controls that have been implemented to mitigate those key are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
However, any system of internal control can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Financial reporting The Company has an organisation structure with clearly defined lines of The directors, who have sole responsibility for the preparation and responsibility, accountability and delegated authority and with clear local presentation of this report and accounts and other price sensitive public operating autonomy within a framework of central management, stated reports, seek to prepare those reports in a way that represents a balanced corporate aims and objectives.
The operating performance of each and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
business is regularly reviewed by the executive directors, and progress Internal control and risk management system is monitored against business plans, utilising established procedures for business planning, budgeting, capital expenditure approval and The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility to safeguard the treasury management.
Companys assets and shareholders investment.
In accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance, the Board of FKI has established a risk management policy and system which are an integral part of the managements approach to delivery of the strategic and business objectives.
The risk management 30 FKI plc Corporate governance
