CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Directors are committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Directors believe that it is essential that the Group should be led The way in which the Company applies the principles set out in the and controlled by an effective Board.
The Board has adopted a formal Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Schedule of Matters specifically reserved to it on such matters as: Reporting Council in July 2003 the Combined Code is described below.
Agreeing objectives, policies and strategies and monitoring the performance of the Executive Directors and Senior Management: Compliance Statement The Company has been in compliance with the provisions of the Controlling and monitoring the financial performance of the Group: Combined Code throughout the year under review with the exception of: provision A3.2 half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Reviewing strategic options on an annual basis to include any major independent Non-Executive Directors, provision C3.1 at least one changes in organisation and direction of the Group: member of the Audit Committee should have recent and relevant financial experience and the Smith Guidance paragraph 2.4 the Chairman of Approving major expenditure and transactions with other companies the Company should not be a member of the Audit Committee and including, for example, acquisitions, disposals and joint ventures: provision B2.1 the members of the Remuneration Committee should all be independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company complied with Ensuring compliance in relation to provisions A3.2 and C3.1 of the Combined Code with effect from 1st June a Safety, health and environmental matters 2005 when David Richardson was appointed to the Board and to the b Corporate Governance Audit Committee.
He was appointed as Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from 13th September 2005 and the Company complied with Delegating clear responsibility and authority to the Chairman, the Smith Guidance paragraph 2.4 from that date.
Christopher Collins Committees of the Board, the Group Chief Executive and other resigned as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 28th April 2005 Directors: and was succeeded by Struan Robertson.
The Company was thus in compliance with provision B2.1 of the Combined Code from that date.
Compliance with the Companies Act, UK Listing Authority, London Stock Exchange and other regulations: The Combined Code Application of Principles Consideration and approval of strategy, budgets and major A.
Directors management financial decisions as determined from time to The Board time by the Board.
Christopher Collins is the Non-Executive Chairman of the Board and Charles Hammond is the Group Chief Executive.
Bill Harkness Board Meetings is the Senior Independent Director.
There have been no changes The Board met nine times last year for regular business and the to these positions during the year.
At the beginning of the year, the Directors participated in the Annual Strategy Conference.
The Board Board of Directors comprised four Non-Executive Directors and five meets as necessary for any matters arising at other times.
David Richardson was appointed to the Board Board meeting, the Board considers reports from each of the as a Non-Executive Director on 1st June 2005.
The Board considers Executive Directors covering his area of responsibility.
all its Non-Executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman, to be independent.
Sandy Morrison retired on 6th May 2005.
Terry Smith An Annual General Meeting is held every year.
All Directors are subject will retire immediately following the Annual General Meeting on 3rd to re-appointment by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting May 2006. after their appointment and thereafter to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
No Non-Executive Director has served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of his appointment.
The Board has adopted The attendance at Board Meetings during 2005 was as shown below: the principle that Non-Executive Directors should normally serve two Name Meetings Attended three year terms and that any term beyond six years should be subject to particularly rigorous review.
In any event, no Non-Executive Christopher Collins 9 Director shall serve longer than nine years.
Bill Harkness was reCharles Hammond 9 elected to the Board for a third term at the Annual General Meeting Wilson Murray 9 in 2004.
Sandy Morrison 4 Terry Smith 9 Perry Glading 9 Bill Harkness 8 Gerry Brown 7 Struan Robertson 9 David Richardson 4 Retired during the year Appointed during the year The Chairman holds one meeting with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
34 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 Sub-Committees of the Board Annual Evaluation of Performance The Board has delegated certain matters to three sub-committees An annual evaluation of the Boards performance and that of its subof the Board comprising the Audit Committee, the Remuneration committees, individual Directors and Chairman is undertaken.
Each Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Details of the membership Director receives a Board Performance Evaluation Questionnaire and of each sub-committee are shown on pages 37 to 46. separate Committee Performance Evaluation Forms where appropriate for use in assessing the Boards own performance and The following table sets out the frequency of, and attendance at, that of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
As the Nomination the various sub-committee meetings for the period under review: Committee meets infrequently, there is no separate Performance Evaluation Questionnaire for that Committee however any comments Audit Remuneration Nomination on the Nomination Committee may be sent to the Group Company Committee Committee Committee Secretary as part of the Board Questionnaire.
Number of meetings held 4 6 1 The Committee Performance Evaluation Questionnaires consider Name fulfilment of terms of reference, necessary skills and resources of # # members, evaluation of the supporting processes for the Committee Christopher Collins 3 2 1 and an overall view of the effectiveness of the Committee.
The results Bill Harkness 3 5 1 were compiled and addressed by the Group Company Secretary and Gerry Brown 2 5 1 reported to the Board.
The results were considered by the Board at its Struan Robertson 4 6 1 March meeting in 2006.
No major changes were implemented as a result of this review.
David Richardson 1 3 0 Charles Hammond n a n a 1 An evaluation of the performance of the Group Chief Executive and Appointed during the year # Retired from the Committee during the year each of the other Non-Executive Directors was undertaken by the Chairman.
Group Company Secretary The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are met once without the Chairman and the Executive Directors to observed.
All Directors have access to the advice and services evaluate the performance of the Chairman.
of the Group Company Secretary.
The Group Company Secretary is also responsible for ensuring that the Directors are fully aware of As part of the annual budget presentation to the Board, the Board their duties and responsibilities as Directors and that they undertake reviews the targets which were given to individual Executive Directors appropriate training.
and Senior Managers within the Group and subsequently discusses and approves the targets to be given to these individuals for the Independent Advice following year.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
External Audit Process The Audit Committee has reviewed and monitored the effectiveness Unresolved Concerns of the external audit process by way of a questionnaire which Where Directors have concerns which cannot be resolved in reviewed, on a graded scale, the robustness of the audit, the quality connection with the running of the Company or a proposed action, of delivery and the quality of people and service.
The Audit Committee their concerns are recorded in the Board Minutes.
If a Non-Executive was satisfied as to the effectiveness of the external audit process.
Director resigns, he should provide a written statement to the Chairman, for circulation to the Board, if he has any such concerns.
Directors Remuneration Reference is made to the Directors Remuneration Report on page Insurance Cover 39 which sets out the composition of the Remuneration Committee, The Company purchases insurance to cover its Directors and the Companys remuneration policy for Directors and details of such Officers and the Trustees of its pension schemes against the costs remuneration including bonus schemes and pensions for each of defending themselves in civil legal proceedings taken against Director, and the Committees compliance with all relevant sections them in that capacity and in respect of damages resulting from the of the Combined Code.
unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
To the extent permitted by UK Law, the Company also indemnifies its Directors, Officers and All Executive Directors are on one year rolling contracts.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides cover where a Director, Officer or Trustee has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
None of the Executive Directors who have external Directorships are paid for these Directorships.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED C. Relations with Shareholders Main Control Procedures The Company encourages regular dialogue with institutional Divisional management establishes control procedures in response to shareholders based on a mutual understanding of objectives.
each of the key risks identified.
Standard financial control procedures operate throughout the Group to ensure the integrity of the Groups The Board receives reports prepared by the Companys broker accounts.
The Board has established procedures for authorisation of which reflect the views of the major shareholders on an unattributable capital expenditure and exceptional maintenance.
The Group has an basis following the half-yearly and annual presentations to major internal audit function which carries out systematic reviews of the shareholders.
The Board also receives copies of analysts reports on financial control procedures.
Representatives of the Companys brokers attended the Annual Strategy Conference to report to the Board on their views Monitoring System used by the Board as to how the Company compares within its peer group.
The Board participates in an annual strategy conference which includes a three year forward financial review which is then updated In 2005, the Chairman met, or had discussions with, four of the on an annual basis.
The Board reviews and approves budgets and Companys major shareholders.
As part of the governance process, monitors the Groups performance against those budgets.
The Board other major shareholders were offered the opportunity to meet the receives reports on a regular basis from the Audit Committee.
Chairman should they so wish.
The Senior Independent Director is also available for meetings if requested.
Audit Committee: Full details of the work of the Audit Committee are contained in the Report of the Audit Committee on page 37.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private investors and encourages their participation both inside and Directors Responsibilities for the Accounts: Company law requires outside the formal meeting.
the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of As in prior years, the Company, at the 2006 Annual General Meeting, the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those will ensure that the level of proxies for and against each resolution is accounts, the Directors are required to: intimated to shareholders after each resolution has been dealt with.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently D. Financial Reporting and compliance with the Turnbull Committee make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent Guidance on Internal Control the Guidance state that the accounts comply with IFRS prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is Internal Control: The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business Groups system of internal control in accordance with the Guidance throughout the year.
It should be recognised that such a system can The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position material misstatement or loss.
The key features of the system which of the Company and the Group to enable them to ensure that the have been established are as follows: accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group Control Environment and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection The Groups control environment is the responsibility of the Groups of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors and managers at all levels.
The Groups organisational structure has clear lines of responsibility.
Operating and financial The maintenance and integrity of the Forth Ports PLC website is the responsibility for subsidiary companies is delegated to the local responsibility of the Executive Directors: the work carried out by the boards.
auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have Identification of Business Risks and compliance with the Guidance occurred to the accounts since they were initially presented on the Throughout last year, the Group complied with the Guidance.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and The Group Risk and Insurance Manager oversees the procedures dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
involved in the identification of business risks and compliance with the Guidance.
The Board regularly reviews the process of identifying, Going Concern: The Directors, having made enquiries, have a evaluating and managing the Groups key risks which allows it to reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate take a view on the effectiveness of these procedures.
All subsidiaries resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, are required to assess key risks and related control and monitoring and that therefore it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern procedures on an ongoing basis.
The Board monitors this process basis in preparing the accounts.
By Order of the Board Major Corporate Information Systems The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system which, as a matter of routine, compares actual results to budget.
Management accounts are compiled on a monthly basis.
Variances from budget are thoroughly investigated Morag McNeill and revisions to forecasts are made twice during the year.
Cash Flow Group Company Secretary projections are prepared monthly and cover a rolling twelve month period to ensure that the Group has adequate funds.
