REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The members of the Nomination Committee during the year were: The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties.
It is authorised to obtain, at the Companys expense, outside legal or other professional Christopher Collins Non-Executive Director Chairman advice on any matters within its Terms of Reference.
Bill Harkness Non-Executive Director Gerry Brown Non-Executive Director Shareholders were advised in the Report of the Nomination Committee Struan Robertson Non-Executive Director in last years annual report and accounts that the Nomination Committee David Richardson Non-Executive Director appointed 1st June 2005 had prepared a detailed brief of a search to be carried out by Hanson Charles Hammond Group Chief Executive Green, an independent firm of Search Consultants, for a new NonExecutive Director.
The recruitment process was as follows: The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
a. an overall profile for potential candidates was agreed.
This was Members of the Nomination Committee serve for an initial period of up to arrived at having regard to the balance of the Board, the business three years with the option to extend by no more than two additional three experience of the existing Non-Executive Directors and the Combined year periods.
Bill Harkness was reappointed in 2004 for a third three year Code requirement that at least one member of the Audit Committee period.
should have recent and relevant financial experience: The Committee meets not less than once a year and at such other times b.
A shortlist of candidates was drawn up based on the search results as business requires.
During the year there was one meeting held.
against the profile: The Terms of Reference of the Committee may be summarised as follows: c. The shortlisted candidates were then interviewed by the Chairman and Group Chief Executive and the results of the interviews were a. to prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a discussed at a meeting of the Nomination Committee.
The particular Board appointment: Nomination Committee then interviewed the preferred candidates who also met the other Board members: and b. to be responsible for identifying and nominating, for approval of the Board, candidates to fill the Board vacancies as and when they arise: d. Thereafter the Nominations Committee recommended to the Board that David Richardson be invited to become a Non-Executive Director c. to satisfy itself with regard to succession planning: of the Company and his appointment was confirmed at the January Board meeting.
d. to ensure that new Board members have sufficient time to undertake the role: and A short biography of David Richardson can be found on page 30.
The Committee is delighted that David Richardson has become a e. to ensure that an appropriate induction plan has been put in place for Non-Executive Director of the Company and has agreed to chair every new Director.
He brings a wealth of financial experience which the Nomination Committee is confident will make a valuable contribution The Committee shall also make recommendations to the Board in respect to the Company.
of the following: Following their appointment all new Directors and Senior Managers a. the re-appointment of a Non-Executive Director: participate in the Companys induction programmes where each individual will meet all the Senior Managers of the Group, be shown b. the re-election by shareholders of any Director under the retirement the principal locations of the Group and be given presentations on the by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles of Association: Companys strategy, targets and different business units.
c. the continuation in office as a Director of any Director at any time: and d. the appointment of any Director to Executive or other office other than to the positions of Chairman and Group Chief Executive, the recommendation for which shall be considered at a meeting of Christopher Collins all the Directors regarding these two appointments.
Chairman 20th March 2006 46 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
