REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The members of the Audit Committee during the year were: The Terms of Reference of the Committee may be summarised as follows: a. to consider the appointment of the external auditors, the audit fee Christopher Collins Non-Executive Director and any questions of resignation or dismissal and to make Chairman resigned on 13th September 2005 recommendations to the Board for it to put to shareholders: Bill Harkness Non-Executive Director Gerry Brown Non-Executive Director b. to monitor and review the external auditors independence and Struan Robertson Non-Executive Director objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into David Richardson Non-Executive Director consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: Appointed on 1st June 2005.
Appointed as Chairman on 13th September 2005 c. to discuss with the external auditors the nature and scope of the audit and ensure co-ordination where more than one audit firm is involved: The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director are in attendance at the Audit Committee meetings, however, they are not d. to develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external present for the full meeting as the Audit Committee has separate sessions auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant with only the external auditor present.
The Chairman is also in attendance.
ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm: The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
e. to monitor and review the integrity of the accounts focusing Members of the Audit Committee serve for an initial period of up to particularly on any changes in accounting policies and practices, three years with the option to extend by no more than two additional three major judgmental areas, significant adjustments resulting from the year periods provided the members are considered to be independent.
audit, the going concern assumption, compliance with Accounting The Company has complied with the Combined Code in relation to Standards and compliance with UK Listing Authority, London Stock the requirement of the Combined Code that at least one member of the Exchange and legal requirements: Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience since the appointment of David Richardson on 1st June 2005 and with effect from f. to monitor and review any formal announcements relating to the 13th September 2005 following his appointment as Chairman with the Companys financial performance: requirement that the Chairman of the Audit Committee be an independent Non-Executive Director.
Bill Harkness was reappointed for a third term g. to monitor and review the Companys internal financial controls: in 2004. h. to monitor and review the internal audit programme, to review the The Audit Committee met on four occasions during the year to receive co-ordination between the internal and external auditors and to ensure reports on various matters including the full year accounts March, that the internal audit function is adequately resourced to a level the Interim Statement August, and on planning work for the forthcoming commensurate with the Companys requirements: 2005 full year audit November.
i. to ensure that all matters within the remit of the Committee are dealt The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee authorise it to seek any with in an open, fair and transparent manner: information it requires from any employee and all employees are required to co-operate with any requests made by the Committee.
The Committee j. to report to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it is authorised by the Board to obtain outside legal or other independent considers that action or improvement is needed and make professional advice and to secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant recommendations as to the steps to be taken: and experience and expertise if it is considered necessary.
k. to review arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters, and to ensure that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow up action.
The risk management system is reviewed by the Board.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 37 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE CONTINUED The Audit Committee has satisfied itself as to the external auditors During 2005, the Company used four different firms of professional independence: it has considered the external auditors quality control advisers to advise on accounting, corporation tax, VAT and other procedures and has reviewed and approved the level of audit fees by financial matters.
The fees received by the external auditors in 2005 reference to the level of fees which the external auditor has been paid were as follows: during the year: it also compared the fees paid to the external auditor 2005 2004 with fees paid to other professional advisors for accounting and other 000 000 tax work.
It received a presentation from the external auditor in which the views of the external auditor were expressed in relation to the question Statutory audit fees 375 272 of independence.
It also assessed the effectiveness of the external audit Non-audit services: process considering the quality of people and service provided by the Tax advisory services 26 53 external auditor, the robustness of the audit and the quality of delivery.
IFRS accounting advice 97 48 Other 13 The Audit Committees policy on the external auditors undertaking nonaudit work is as follows: 511 373 1.
Audit Related Services The Audit Committee carried out a review of its effectiveness by This is the primary area of work for the external auditors.
If any considering such matters as skillsets of members, quality of Audit additional accounting support is required, then this should be Committee papers, relationships with the external auditor and the internal considered on a competitive basis.
auditor and suggestions for improving the Committees performance.
The results were discussed and approved by the Audit Committee which 2.
Tax Consulting expressed itself satisfied as to its effectiveness.
In cases where knowledge of the Groups tax position is important, Forth Ports may use the external auditors and their associates but this The Audit Committee also received a report at three of the meetings from does not preclude the Group from using other tax consulting firms.
the internal auditor on the work which he carried out.
A separate Internal Significant additional tax work should be evaluated competitively.
Audit Plan is presented to the Audit Committee by the Internal Auditor for consideration in November of each year in respect of the following years 3.
General and Systems Consulting work programme.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness All significant consulting projects, including due diligence work, of the internal audit function and is satisfied as to the effectiveness of that should be subject to competitive tender.
The Group Finance Director function given the size and complexity of the business.
is required to give prior approval of work to be carried out by the external auditors if the fee proposal is between 5,000 and 49,999.
A whistle blowing policy is in operation throughout the Group.
This If the fee proposal is in excess of 50,000, this should be policy sets out the position whereby any concerns, including those of a pre-approved by the Chairman of the Audit Committee if it financial nature, may be raised at the appropriate level within the Group.
is proposed to give this work to the external auditors.
David Richardson Chairman 20th March 2006 38 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
