37 Corporate Governance Statement The boards statement on the companys corporate governance performance is based on the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 the Combined Code.
The Combined Code requires companies to disclose how they apply the codes principles, and to confirm that they comply with the codes provisions or, where they do not comply, to provide an explanation.
a Application of Combined Code principles The board comprises the non-executive chairman Jrgen Philip-Srensen, a non-executive deputy chairman Alf Duch-Pedersen, six other non-executive directors, the chief executive Nick Buckles, the chief financial officer Trevor Dighton and the chief operating officer Grahame Gibson.
The board considers all the non-executive directors, with the exception of Mr Philip-Srensen, to be independent.
The senior independent director is Malcolm Williamson.
All continuing directors are subject to election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment and will submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
Membership of the three board committees is as follows: Audit Committee Thorleif Krarup chairman Bo Lerenius joined March 2006 Mark Seligman joined January 2006 Malcolm Williamson Remuneration Committee Alf Duch-Pedersen chairman Lord Condon Bo Lerenius Waldemar Schmidt Mark Seligman joined March 2006 Nomination Committee Jrgen Philip-Srensen chairman Lord Condon Alf Duch-Pedersen Mr Krarup joined the Audit Committee on 1 July 2005 having previously been on the Remuneration Committee, whilst Mr Schmidt joined the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2005 having previously been on the Audit Committee.
Lord Sharman was chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee until his retirement from the board on 31 December 2005.
Mr Seligman has replaced Lord Sharman as the member of the Audit Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
The terms of reference of each of the above committees are available on the companys website.
It is intended that the chairmen of the three committees will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The board met on eight occasions during the year ended 31 December 2005.
There were seven board meetings and one two-day strategy session, at which presentations on the groups principal businesses were made to the board by senior executives and at which the groups acquisition and growth strategy was discussed.
Alf Duch-Pedersen and Lord Sharman were each absent for two board meetings and Thorleif Krarup and Bo Lerenius were each absent for one board meeting.
At each meeting, the board receives reports from the chief executive, the chief financial officer and the company secretary and an investor relations report which includes a summary of comments received from major shareholders since the previous board meeting.
In addition, the board receives monthly management accounts.
There are ten board meetings scheduled for the current year, together with a two-day strategy session.
There is a detailed schedule of matters reserved to the board which are set out under five separate categories: 1 Board and management: 2 Operations: 3 Finance: 4 Business control: and 5 Secretarial.
By way of example, board approval is required for a acquisitions, disposals, investments and capital projects exceeding 4m: b any changes to the groups business strategy: and c the annual trading, capital expenditure and cash flow budgets.
38 Corporate Governance Statement continued In the year under review, the Audit Committee met four times and the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee each met three times.
All members attended each of the meetings except for Lord Sharman who was absent for one meeting of the Audit Committee and Bo Lerenius who was absent for one meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
Having the previous year used an external consultancy to conduct an evaluation of the performance of the board as a whole, the directors have this year carried out a questionnaire-based self-assessment of board performance, the findings of which will be discussed by the board at its strategy session in the summer.
Based on feedback from the previous years evaluation, several measures have been implemented to help enhance board performance, including regular provision to the board of more detailed financial information and more site visits and management presentations focusing on the groups major businesses.
The non-executive directors met to assess the performance of the chairman but, with the board relatively new and a number of changes to its membership being made during the period, it was still felt too soon to carry out individual assessments of other board members.
It is intended that this will be done later in the current year.
Questionnaire-based self-assessments have also been carried out for the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
For the first Audit Committee evaluation, questionnaires were completed both by members of the committee and by the other attendees of committee meetings.
Several areas for improvement were identified, particularly in relation to ongoing training of the committee members.
The chief executive and the chief financial officer hold regular meetings with individual institutional shareholders to discuss the groups strategy and financial performance, although price sensitive information is never divulged at these meetings.
It is intended that all the directors will attend the Annual General Meeting and will be available to answer questions from shareholders.
Mark Seligman was appointed as a non-executive director with effect from 1 January 2006 on the advice of the Nomination Committee which had received recommendations on a number of potential candidates from an external search consultancy.
Audit Committee meetings are also attended by representatives of the group auditor, the chief financial officer, the head of internal audit and the company secretary.
The committee considers the groups annual and interim financial statements and any questions raised by the auditor on the financial statements and financial systems.
It also reviews, amongst other matters, whistleblowing arrangements, risk management procedures and internal controls and it meets with the groups auditor in the absence of management.
The Audit Committee has established a policy on the provision by the external auditor of non-audit services, so as to ensure that the independence of the audit is not compromised.
Besides the formal audit function, the auditor is permitted to provide consultancy and due diligence services related to mergers and acquisitions, audits of employee benefit plans, reviews of internal accounting and control policies, general advice on financial reporting standards and corporate tax services.
The auditor is prohibited from providing other services without specific permission from the Audit Committee.
The value of non-audit services provided by the auditor must not exceed the fees charged for the statutory audit, save in the event of a major transformation deal.
The auditor has written to the Audit Committee confirming that, in its opinion, it is independent.
b Compliance with provisions of Combined Code Save as set out below, the company complied throughout the year under review with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
Non-compliance with Combined Code Provision B1.6 of the Combined Code recommends that notice or contract periods should be set at 12 months or less.
The service contract of Lars Nrby Johansen, who was the companys chief executive, entitled him to a period of notice from the company of 24 months for a two year transitional period with effect from 19 July 2004, after which his employment could have been terminated on 12 months notice.
Mr Nrby Johansen stepped down as chief executive and left the board after the Annual General Meeting on 30 June 2005.
39 Corporate Governance Statement continued c Risk Management and Internal Control The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The risks associated with the groups activities are reviewed regularly by the board, which considers major risks and evaluates their impact on the group.
Policies and procedures, which are reviewed and monitored by the head of internal audit, are in place to deal with any matters which may be considered by the board to present significant exposure.
The key features of the groups risk management process are: A common risk management framework is used to provide a profile of those risks which may have an impact on the achievement of business objectives.
Each significant risk is documented, showing an overview of the risk, how the risk is managed, and any improvement actions.
The risk profiles ensure that internal audit reviews of the adequacy, application and effectiveness of risk management and internal controls are targeted on the key risks.
Risk and control self-evaluation exercises are undertaken at least twice a year and updated risk profiles are prepared.
Similar exercises are undertaken as part of the integration process for all major acquisitions.
The process, which is reviewed regularly by the board and accords with the internal control guidance for directors on the Combined Code, is carried out under the supervision of divisional risk management committees, which meet quarterly and report to the group risk management committee.
This latter committee, which also meets quarterly and which reports to the Audit Committee, includes both the chief executive and the chief financial officer.
Divisional and group risk profiles are reviewed and updated at each meeting.
A project to implement company-level risk and control self-evaluation exercises throughout the group was commenced and largely completed during 2005, with full implementation to be achieved during the current year.
The results of the company-level risk evaluations are assessed by the respective divisional risk management committees and are incorporated into their risk profiles.
In addition, a regional risk management committee structure is being established for the security services division because of its very wide geographic spread.
The Audit Committee undertakes a high level review of risk management and internal control.
Both the divisional risk management committees and the group risk management committee receive internal audit reports and regular reports on risks.
They monitor the actions taken to manage risks.
The internal control system includes clearly defined reporting lines and authorisation procedures, a comprehensive budgeting and monthly reporting system, and written policies and procedures.
In addition to a wide range of internal audit reports, senior management also receive assurance from other sources including security inspections, third party reviews, company financial control reviews, external audit reports, summaries of whistleblowing activity, and risk and control self-evaluations.
The board has reviewed the groups risk management and internal control system for the year to 31 December 2005 by considering reports from the Audit Committee and has taken account of events since 31 December 2005.
