1 Corporate Governance Capital Radio plc to be renamed GCap Media plc on completion of the merger of Capital Radio plc with GWR Group plc the Merger on 9 May 2005 the Company recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of corporate governance.
This statement, together with the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 19 to 30, describes how the Company has applied the principles of good governance as set out in the Combined Code.
The Company complied with the requirements of the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the period under review.
2 Directors The Board of the Company is responsible and accountable for the Groups operations.
Its principal focus is the overall direction and control of the Group.
As at the date of this report, the Board comprises the Non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive, three other Executive Directors and five other Non-executive Directors.
Their biographies set out on page 6 illustrate the Directors breadth of experience which should ensure an effective board to lead and control the Group.
The Board believes that it has an appropriate balance of non-executive presence.
Each Non-executive Director has entered into an appointment letter with the Company.
All of the Non-executive Directors are considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Non-executive Directors bring individual judgement to Board decisions and extensive expertise at a senior level of business operation and practice.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years and each Director receives appropriate training on appointment and subsequently if necessary.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary and, in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional advice if necessary at the Companys expense.
The Board regularly re-evaluates the mix of skills and experience of its members.
During the course of the forthcoming financial year, the Board will complete a formal evaluation of the Board and its Committees.
All new Directors receive a full induction into the Company as soon as possible after appointment.
The induction process involves meeting with representatives of all areas of the Companys business and visits to key locations.
The role of the Board and its Committees, as well as a directors responsibilities, are also explained to the Directors.
Directors have opportunities to receive training and these opportunities are to be developed further to include areas that affect each Directors role within the Company, including corporate governance and risk management.
All directors are kept regularly updated on the Companys business throughout their period of office.
The Board met six times throughout the period.
A programme of regular business is approved by the Board.
Currently, the programme includes reviews of strategy together with the operations and results of the main business units, as well as the approval of annual budgets.
Actual results for the Group and individual business units are reported to all Directors each month.
These procedures, together with other regular and ad hoc reports, are intended to ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with information that is appropriate to the discharge of its duties.
1 As at 9 May 2005 shortly before the merger of Capital Radio plc and GWR Group plc became effective for the six month period 1 October 2004 to 31 March 2005.
2 Being the Directors of the Company listed on page 6 of this document.
