Corporate Governance continued The Board reserves to itself certain key matters to approve or monitor, such as the Groups strategic plans, annual operating plan and budget and the Groups operating and financial performance.
The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Reflecting the important role played by the independent Non-executive Directors in ensuring high standards of corporate governance, the Audit and Remuneration Committees comprise solely Non-executive Directors as detailed below.
The Board delegates specific responsibilities to Committees as described below: The Audit Committee, during the period under review, comprised of Peter W Williams as Chairman, Tony Illsley and Barbara Thomas.
Peter W Williams has recent and relevant experience for his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee, having been, until recently, Chief Executive of Selfridges plc.
Immediately prior to that he had been Finance Director of Selfridges between 1991 and 2003: he is a qualified chartered accountant.
The Committee met twice during the financial period to review the 2005 results and the Report and Accounts.
The Committee has also reviewed the appropriateness and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, policies and procedures and is responsible for the appointment of external auditors.
The Group has an internal risk and audit function that conducts a rolling programme of reviews and introduces improvements to the Groups financial controls.
The Committee believes that this function will continue to prove beneficial in identifying and correcting any control deficiencies.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Finance Director and by other Directors and the Groups external and internal auditors as appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee during the period under review comprised of Peter Mitchell as Chairman, Tim Mason, Tony Illsley and Peter W Williams.
The Committee met once during the period to review the Companys general policy on Executive Remuneration and the application of this policy to the remuneration and benefits of the Executive Directors and other senior executives of the Company.
The Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 19 to 30 contains a more detailed description of the Companys policy and procedures for executive remuneration.
Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chairman and Chief Executive as appropriate.
The Nominations Committee during the period under review comprised Peter Cawdron as Chairman, Barbara Thomas, Peter Mitchell and Tony Illsley.
The Committee is chaired by the Chairman and meets as required to select and propose to the Board suitable candidates of appropriate calibre for appointment as Non-executive Directors.
The Committee did not meet during the period under review.
Membership of the Committees will change with effect from the completion of the Merger on 9 May 2005.
Membership of these Committees is outlined on page 8.
Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association, currently the nearest number to, but not exceeding, one third of the Board shall retire each year by rotation Directors may submit themselves for re-election.
In practice, all Directors usually offer themselves for re-election at least every three years.
It is proposed that the Articles should be amended to reflect this practice see resolution 21 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 67 to 70.
Details of appointments during the year and Directors retiring and submitting themselves for re-election can be found in the Directors Report on pages 10 and 11.
The Company considers that each Director who is retiring by rotation and is submitting themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting continues to be effective.
16 Corporate Governance continued The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees during the period 1 October 2004 to 31 March 2005 together with details of attendance.
As noted above, the Nominations Committee did not meet during the period.
Board Audit Remuneration No of Meetings 6 2 1 D Mansfield 6 n a n a P Davies 6 n a n a P Harris 6 n a n a L Smith 6 n a n a N Schwarz Note 1 3 n a n a P Cawdron 6 n a n a A Illsley 4 1 0 T Mason 4 n a 1 P Mitchell 6 n a 1 B Thomas 5 2 n a P W Williams 6 2 1 Note 1 Nathalie Schwarz resigned as a Director on 23 January 2005 and was therefore only eligible to attend three Board Meetings.
Directors remuneration The Directors Remuneration Report appears on pages 19 to 30 and contains a statement of remuneration policy and details of the remuneration of each Director.
Shareholders will be invited to consider separately the Directors Remuneration Report at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 20 October 2005.
Relations with shareholders There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings with the Chairman, the Chief Executive, and the Finance Director.
In addition there are presentations of the annual and interim results and other topics.
This activity is a keystone of the Companys corporate communications programme and is headed by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
The programme includes formal presentations in London of the Companys full-year and interim results and meetings between institutional investors, analysts and senior management on a regular basis.
Regular communication with shareholders also takes place through the Companys Annual and Interim Reports and via the Company website which contains up to date information on Group activities.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an important opportunity for communication with both institutional and private shareholders, and also involves a short statement on the Companys latest trading position.
Shareholders may ask questions of the full Board, including the chairs of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
The results of the proxy votes submitted by shareholders in respect of each resolution are declared at the Annual General Meeting.
17 Corporate Governance continued Internal control In September 1999, Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Guidance was published to assist Directors in complying with the internal control elements of the Combined Code.
The Financial Services Authority requires all listed companies to follow this guidance when determining the extent of their compliance with the Combined Code.
Associate companies have not been dealt with as part of the Group for the purposes of applying these guidelines.
The Directors acknowledge their overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Although no system of internal control can provide absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, the Groups systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to meet business objectives and can only provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that material errors and irregularities are either prevented or detected on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The Board confirms that there are ongoing procedures for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group and these accord with the Turnbull Guidance which the Board has fully adopted.
These procedures have been in place for the financial period covered in this Report and Accounts and up to the date of its approval, and their effectiveness is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the financial period.
In particular, the Board has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
There are supporting Group policies and procedures for the reporting and resolution of suspected fraudulent activities.
The Board has an established internal risk management function and appointed a Head of Risk Management to identify, with relevant management, the major business risks facing the Group and put in place appropriate policies and procedures to manage those risks.
Internal and external risks are assessed on a continual basis, and may be associated with a variety of internal or external sources including control breakdowns, disruption in information systems, competition, natural catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
These involve a process of control, self-assessment and hierarchical reporting that has been established to provide for a documented trail of accountability.
These procedures are relevant across Group operations and provide successive assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, finally, to the Board.
Management regularly reports on its review of the risks and how they are managed to both the Board and the Audit Committee, whose role is to review the key risks inherent in the business and the systems of control necessary to manage those risks.
The Audit Committee presents its findings to the Board as appropriate.
Management also reports to the Board on significant changes in the business and the external environment which affect significant risks.
The Board is provided with monthly financial information, which includes key performance and risk indicators.
Where areas for improvement in the system are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made by management and the Audit Committee.
The Board reviews the risk management and control process and considers the: authority, resources and co-ordination of those involved in the identification, assessment and management of significant risks faced by the Group: response to the significant risks which have been identified by management and others: monitoring of reports from Group management: maintenance of a control environment directed towards the proper management of risk: and annual reporting procedures.
Going concern The Group continues to generate a strong positive operating cashflow.
As a result the Directors are confident in making the following formal statement on going concern: After making appropriate enquiries, including a review of budgets and other plans, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
