Alfred McAlpine plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Compliance The Board supports the principles of good governance set out in Section 1 of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003.
Throughout 2005, the Company complied with the Code in all respects, save that the Board comprised five executive and four non-executive directors one of whom was the chairman, rather than an equal number of executive and independent non-executive directors as recommended in principle A.
The Board believes that the current size of the Board is appropriate for the Company, and the balance of executive and nonexecutive directors is correct.
Application The Board The chairman is responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of the Board and proper communication with shareholders.
The group chief executive is responsible for implementing strategy and ensuring the effectiveness of the executive functions.
A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees was again carried out in 2005.
This included the composition and effectiveness of each body and its individual members.
Individual interviews were conducted by the chairman with each Board member, and the senior independent non-executive director reviewed the performance of the chairman with each of the other two independent non-executive directors, taking into account the comments of the executive directors.
As previously, the process in the form of a detailed questionnaire asked members of the Board to respond to questions on an extensive range of issues.
These included conduct of meetings, content and time allocation, availability and quality of information, numbers and quality of membership and the value of presentations to the Board.
Training and development needs, succession planning, quality of communications internally and externally and effectiveness of risk management policies and practices were also covered, as were questions on the appropriateness of and adherence to the Group strategy, corporate social responsibility, culture and values.
The responses were constructive, generally positive and also creative.
As previously, the responses have been reviewed and, where needed, acted upon, with suggestions agreed and implemented.
The Board believes that the assessment of its performance, both collectively and individually, has been carried out in a thoroughly appropriate manner, and intends to repeat the process annually.
The following table sets out the frequency of, and attendance at, Board and principal Board Committee meetings during 2005.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Scheduled Ad hoc Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 7 3 4 4 2 C D Collins 7 1 4 4 2 i i I M Grice 7 3 4 4 2 R E Hough 7 1 4 4 2 i D Lavelle 7 3 4 ii C M McGilvray 7 1 iii A R Robertson 4 1 M D Swan 7 1 iv P H Swatman 6 4 4 2 i i G O Whitehead 7 1 4 4 2 i Attendance by invitation for all or part of the meeting.
ii Mr McGilvray attended two of the Board meetings held between 1 January 2005 and 17 March 2005 the date of his appointment by invitation.
iii Mr Robertson attended all Board meetings held between 16 May 2005 the date of his appointment and 31 December 2005. iv Mr Swatman was unable to attend only one scheduled meeting together with the ad hoc meeting held earlier that day to approve the sale of the Groups interest in Core Utility Solutions Limited.
Board meetings Seven scheduled Board meetings were held during the year, in addition to three ad hoc meetings and the Groups strategy review, which is held in July.
A number of matters are reserved for the Boards formal approval, including major capital expenditure, treasury and dividend policy, overall Group strategy and all Group budgets and business plans.
These matters are clearly identified in the Group Authority Listing, which sets out the requirements for notification and authorisation of transactions and procedures throughout the Group, and is reviewed annually.
The Group Authority Listing is readily available to all employees via the group intranet.
Group Executive Committee The executive directors, the group company secretary, the group director of human resources and the director of corporate development comprise a Group Executive Committee which meets twelve times a year to deal with all executive business of the Group not specifically reserved to the Board or its other committees.
It is responsible for the ongoing management and monitoring of the Groups system of internal control.
Additional meetings are held to discuss specific issues.
Alfred McAlpine plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Audit Committee The Audit Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and may be downloaded from the corporate governance section within the investor centre on the Groups website: www.
The Committee comprises the three independent non-executive directors, and is chaired by Mr P H Swatman, who is appropriately qualified and has extensive and current relevant financial expertise.
All three members of the Committee hold recognised and relevant professional qualifications.
The Committee currently meets four times a year.
The chairman, the group chief executive, the group finance director and the external auditors are invited to attend each meeting.
The other executive directors, each of whom is responsible for one of the three principal business streams, and the head of the Groups corporate audit function attend when the Committee so requires.
Each meeting provides an opportunity for discussion between the non-executive directors and the external auditors, from which the executive directors are excluded.
The Committee oversees the work of the Groups corporate audit function, formally reviewing the remit and scope of its plans in advance to ensure that the necessary resources are available and that appropriate priorities are set.
In reviewing the findings of the corporate audit function, the Committee pays particular attention to the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control brief details of which are set out on page 42.
The Groups internal controls are reviewed by the external auditors as part of the audit process.
The Committee also monitors the schedule of key risks identified by the Group Executive Committee and ranked according to materiality and probability.
By reference to these sources, the Committee has reviewed and continues to review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and identifies any areas where improvement may be required.
In relation to risk management, the Committee also considers contract risk attaching to major projects undertaken by the Group.
The review of systems of internal control and risk management measures is also applied to the Groups material joint ventures and associates.
The Committee also reviews the scope, result and cost-effectiveness of the external audit and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
Details of non-audit services provided by  LLP to the Group during 2005 are set out in note 2 on page 58.
Such work is only awarded to  LLP following careful assessment of: their expertise relative to that of other potential service providers: the value for money offered: and assurances that, individually or cumulatively with any other factors, the independence of  LLP is not at risk of compromise.
The award of non-audit work to  LLP is subject to pre-determined fee thresholds, requiring prior approval by the chairman of the Audit Committee or the full Committee.
The chairman of the Committee reports to the full Board on matters discussed at each Audit Committee meeting.
Corporate Risk Committee The Corporate Risk Committee was formally constituted in 2005 and its terms of reference, which will be reviewed annually, may be downloaded from the corporate governance section within the investor centre on the Groups website: www.
The Committee meets on a quarterly basis and is chaired by the group finance director.
The other members of the Committee are the head of corporate audit, the group director of human resources, the group company secretary, the group director for HSE and corporate responsibility, the group solicitor, the group tax manager and the group insurance manager.
The Committee focuses on the areas of risk that are not business-specific, as well as providing a means of disseminating risk management issues and best practice across the Group, and its proceedings are reported to the Audit Committee by the head of corporate audit.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and may be downloaded from the corporate governance section within the investor centre on the Groups website: www.
The Committee comprises the independent non-executive directors, and was chaired by Mr C D Collins until 1 May 2005, when he was succeeded by Mr R E Hough.
The Committee meets three or four times a year and is responsible for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors and certain key senior executives.
The Committees report may be found on pages 30 to 38.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and may be downloaded from the corporate governance section within the investor centre on the Groups website: www.
It is chaired by Mr G O Whitehead, and comprises the non-executive directors and the group chief executive.
The Committee meets on an ad hoc basis and nominates candidates for appointment and re-appointment to the Board.
Appointments and re-appointments are made by the full Board.
Routine Business Committee The Routine Business Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and may be downloaded from the corporate governance section within the investor centre on the Groups website: www.
The Committee comprises two directors one of whom shall be either the group chief executive or the group finance director and the group company secretary, and deals primarily with routine administrative and banking matters arising between Board meetings.
The Committee also deals with matters that have been approved in principle by the Board and do not warrant specific sub-committees.
Alfred McAlpine plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 41 Non-executive directors The non-executive directors are appointed by the Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, for specified terms.
They are subject to periodic re-appointment by shareholders and statutory provisions regarding removal.
There are clear channels of communication between the non-executive directors and the chairman, providing opportunities for private discussion outside board meetings.
All four non-executive directors have significant external commercial experience, and bring expert advice and strong judgement to the Board.
The directors are of the opinion that, with the exception of Mr Whitehead, each of the non-executive directors is independent of the Companys management and free from any restraint that could materially interfere with the exercise of his judgement.
The re-appointment of a non-executive director is a matter for consideration by the Nomination Committee and agreement by the Board.
Mr Collins, who is the senior independent non-executive director, is now in the final year of his second three year term as a director.
As requested by the Board, Mr Hough and Mr Swatman have each agreed to serve for a second three year term and are submitting themselves for re-appointment at the forthcoming AGM.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors takes the form of an annual fee, which is set by the Board in line with market levels for the role undertaken.
As chairman, Mr Whitehead is the only non-executive director for whom pension and other benefits are provided by the Company.
Non-executive directors are not entitled to participate in any bonus scheme or to receive options or awards under any of the Companys share schemes.
Re-appointment The Companys articles of association direct that all of the directors submit themselves for re-appointment at least every three years.
Although the articles allow the group chief executive to be excluded from this requirement, the Board has determined that all directors shall comply with the Code.
The names of the directors submitting themselves for re-appointment at the forthcoming AGM are set out in the report of the directors on page 28.
The secretary and independent advice All directors have access to the advice and services of the group company secretary, who is responsible to the directors for ensuring that board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations complied with.
The directors consider that it is reasonable for any director who wishes to seek independent legal advice to consult the Company, before advice is sought and any costs are incurred by the Group.
Relations with shareholders The Group encourages two-way communications with its institutional and private investors.
Each year, the group chief executive and group finance director attend a number of meetings with analysts, shareholders and private client brokers.
The non-executive directors attend the AGM each year.
The chairman and senior independent non-executive director are available to meet with any major shareholder when reasonably requested.
Analysts reports are circulated to the Board, and the executive directors make a report to the Board following meetings with analysts.
All queries from shareholders are dealt with in a timely manner, with welcome packs being sent to new shareholders.
Accountability and audit Directors responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with both of the reports of the auditors set out on pages 43 and 82, is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the accounts: The directors are required by UK company law to prepare accounts which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Group for the financial year then ended.
The directors are also responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records and for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and detect irregularities and fraud.
The directors confirm that in preparing the Groups accounts appropriate policies have been consistently applied and they have complied with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable accounting standards.
These accounts have been produced in accordance with IFRS.
Further, in all material respects the accounts are supported by prudent judgements and estimates made by reference to information available at the time of their preparation.
The directors are also responsible for the integrity and maintenance of the Groups websites.
The Group financial statements are published on the Groups main website, and follow UK guidance as regards preparation and dissemination.
The requirements in other jurisdictions may differ.
All directors bring independent judgement to bear on their deliberations concerning strategy and performance.
The directors are satisfied that throughout the period they have had access to sufficient information to enable them to make proper decisions in a timely manner, and the chairman has ensured that all directors were kept properly briefed.
Alfred McAlpine plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Going concern After reviewing current performance and detailed forecasts and taking into account available bank facilities and making further enquiries as considered appropriate, the directors are satisfied that the Company and Group have adequate resources to enable them to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the accounts which appear on pages 45 to 90 have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Internal control The Group has fully complied with provision C. 2.1 of the Code throughout the financial year to 31 December 2005 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, a process has been established, and is ongoing, for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal control relating to operational, financial and compliance controls and risk management, in order to safeguard the shareholders investments and the Companys assets, and has regularly reviewed the effectiveness thereof.
Such a system, however, is designed to manage and meet the Groups particular needs and mitigate the risks to which it is exposed, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The Group has a control environment, with policies, processes and codes of conduct that are designed to identify, manage and mitigate risk across a wide range of business activities.
As new procedures and working practices are adopted, risk factors are considered and appropriate internal controls are embedded into the Groups management systems wherever possible.
In 2004 the Group embarked on a progressive and detailed review of its principal IT systems.
This process, which identifies areas where upgrades are necessary to enhance consistency across the Groups various businesses and support future growth, continues into 2006.
During 2005, a review of the Group Policy Manual, which includes the Group Authority Listing and the whistle-blowing policy, was led by the Corporate Risk Committee.
The key components of the Groups system of internal control are: The HSE and corporate responsibility unit, which reports to the group chief executive, with the objective of monitoring and improving the safety, health and environmental record of the Group.
The corporate audit function, which reports regularly to the Audit Committee, the group chief executive and the group finance director on compliance with procedures and authority limits and on the effectiveness of the bottom-up risk management strategies of the businesses, such that the principal areas of business risk and exposure are identified, evaluated and mitigated.
The corporate audit function is also involved in overseeing a system of peer reviews involving audit of business units by other operational staff.
An established management structure for the major operating businesses, with short lines of communication to the group chief executive, group finance director and group company secretary.
A comprehensive financial reporting system of annual budgets, periodic forecasts and detailed monthly reporting, together with weekly cash reporting.
Budgets and forecasts are reviewed and approved by the Board.
Delegation within the framework of the Group Policy Manual of clearly defined responsibilities and procedures, with authorisation limits set at appropriate levels for the maintenance of effective controls across the whole Group.
A bottom-up system of self-assessment whereby each business and business unit within the Group addresses on a comprehensive basis its approach to controlling business risks, culminating in the annual completion of an internal control framework document.
Management of operational risk is reviewed on a monthly basis, and risk registers are developed for each contract at the tender and approval stages.
The corporate audit function conducts regular reviews of contracts at the execution stage.
A top-down quarterly Group-level review carried out by the Group Executive Committee to identify the major risks facing the Group and to develop and implement appropriate initiatives to manage those risks.
This information is summarised in the schedule of key risks.
As an integral part of the Committees regular meetings, assessment is made of the progress against objectives, changes to operational risk, adequacy of control and handling of any problems which arise from such reviews.
The twice-yearly review by the Board of the schedule of key risks identified by the Group Executive Committee.
Advised by the Audit Committee, the Board considers the extent to which the measures taken by the Group address those risks.
A Corporate Risk Committee, reporting to the Audit Committee, which co-ordinates risk management activities across the Group, focusing on those areas not covered by the Group Executive Committee in its quarterly reviews.
