Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Introduction During the year, there were no absences from any Board meetings by The Board is and remains fully committed to high standards of corporate any Directors.
governance throughout the Group and supports the Combined Code on In line with the Combined Code, the Board considers that an independent Corporate Governance Combined Code which was published in July 2003.
Director is one who is independent in character and judgement and where The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority require the Company there are no relationships or circumstances which could affect the Directors to include a statement to allow shareholders to evaluate how it has applied judgement.
Each of the Non Executive Directors has at all times throughout the principles and provisions of good governance as set out in Section 1 the year or part of the year in the case of Anthony Reading and Robert of the Combined Code.
This report, together with the information set out Sharpe acted independently of management and has had no relationships in the Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 42, is published pursuant to which would materially interfere with the exercise of their independent the Combined Code which deals with directors, directors remuneration, judgement and decision making.
The Board is of the view that the relations with and accountability to shareholders and the audit of the Non Executive Directors play an important role in upholding corporate company.
Together, these sections explain how the Company has applied governance and in ensuring that no individual or group dominates the the principles in Section 1 of the Combined Code and they also provide Boards decision making process.
In achieving this, independence is vital.
an insight into how the Board and management run the business for the The roles of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive are separately benefit of shareholders.
held and have been throughout the year.
There is a clear division of Statement of compliance responsibilities between each position which is documented.
In brief, The Board considers that it has complied with the provisions of Section 1 the Chairman is responsible for the working of the Board and all matters of the Combined Code throughout the year.
Provision C. 3.4 of the Combined relating to it including its balance and composition subject to Board Code requires the Audit Committee to review arrangements by which and shareholder approval and for effective shareholder communications.
staff of the Company may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the management of the improprieties in financial reporting or other matters.
During the year, on Group and its businesses.
He develops the strategy for Board approval behalf of the Board, the Executive Committee undertook a review of the and is then responsible for its implementation.
The Audit Committee undertook its review of such David Williams is the Senior Independent Director appointed in line with arrangements as part of its year end sign off procedures.
In order to meet its the Combined Code and was appointed to this role with effect from objectives as set out in provision C. 3.4, the Audit Committee decided that 1 September 2005, taking over from Mike Blackburn who stood down the relative strength of the arrangements within Morrison Homes could be from the Board on this date.
enhanced by introducing a more formal procedure and measures will be taken during the current financial year to address such enhancements.
The Articles of Association require one third of the Directors who are subject to retirement by rotation to retire at each Annual General Meeting.
However, The Board of Directors if their number is not a multiple of three, the number nearest to but not During 2005, the Board consisted of the Chairman John Robinson, the exceeding one third shall retire from ofce.
The Directors to retire by rotation Group Chief Executive Peter Johnson, three other Executive Directors and shall be those who have been longest in ofce since their last appointment four independent Non Executive Directors between 1 January 2005 and or reappointment.
In line with the Combined Code each Director also seeks 15 April 2005 and five independent Non Executive Directors throughout re-election every three years.
Accordingly, at the forthcoming Annual General the rest of the year.
David Williams, Christine Cross and Brenda Dean Meeting two Directors will be required to retire by way of rotation.
John were Non Executive Directors throughout the year.
Anthony Reading Robinson and David Williams, being the longest standing Directors since their was appointed to the Board as a Non Executive Director on 15 April 2005. appointment or reappointment, will therefore retire and offer themselves Mike Blackburn stood down from the Board on 1 September 2005 and for reappointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Robert Sharpe was appointed as a Non Executive Director from that date.
Throughout the year, in line with the Combined Code, excluding Any new Directors appointed by the Board since the last Annual General the Chairman, at least half of the Board comprised independent Non Meeting must, in accordance with the Articles, seek reappointment at Executive Directors.
A list of Directors and details of their biographies the next Annual General Meeting and shall not be taken into account in is set out on page 30. determining the Directors or the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation as outlined above.
Accordingly, Anthony Reading, Robert Sharpe The business and management of the Company is the collective and Steve Parker, who were appointed on 15 April 2005, 1 September 2005 responsibility of the whole Board.
At each meeting the Board reviews and 1 January 2006 respectively will be seeking reappointment at the the performance of each of its trading businesses in detail and during Annual General Meeting.
each year it undertakes a strategic review.
There is a formal written schedule of matters reserved for consideration and approval by the Board and these An induction programme is provided for new Directors which includes include the annual budget, major land purchases and investment proposals, the provision of a comprehensive set of background information on the approval of annual and interim results and a review of the overall system the Group including its corporate governance policies and procedures.
of internal control and risk management.
This list was implemented by the Where appropriate, newly appointed Directors are also provided with the Board in 2004 as part of an overall review of the terms of reference applicable opportunity of attending a training course on the role and responsibilities to the Board and its standing Committees, which also took into account the of being a Director in a public limited company.
requirements of the Combined Code.
The terms of reference can be found Formal agendas and reports for Board and Committee meetings are on the George Wimpey Plc website www.
provided to Directors one week prior to the meeting, thus allowing There are four standing Board Committees: Nomination, Audit, Corporate sufficient time for detailed review and consideration of the documents Social Responsibility and Remuneration.
Each Board Committee operates beforehand.
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive maintain regular within its clearly dened terms of reference and reports back to the Board contact with all Directors.
James Jordan is the Group Company Secretary at the next Board Meeting.
Membership of these Committees was reviewed and General Counsel Secretary and he attends all Board and Board during the year by the Board and the changes made took into account a Committee meetings Nomination, Remuneration, Corporate Social the expertise and background of newly appointed Directors and b the Responsibility and Audit.
All Directors have direct access to the Secretary need to refresh Committee membership as appropriate.
The Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the correct procedures are followed at all Board and Committee meetings.
During 2005 the Board met formally, as a whole, nine times.
Twice yearly the He reports directly to the Chairman and also to the Group Chief Executive.
Board spends time with a business unit in the UK and the US which consists of site visits, presentations from local management and also provides the The Board has adopted a procedure whereby any Director may seek, opportunity for the Board to meet employees both on site and in the host through the ofce of the Secretary, independent professional advice, regional ofce.
at the Companys expense, in furtherance of his or her duties.
co. uk 33 Corporate Governance continued During 2005 the Board carried out a self appraisal in line with the Combined During the year the Committee formally met on three occasions and there Code.
The Chairman led the process which included meeting separately with were no absences.
each Director and also with the Secretary, to discuss and appraise his or her Corporate Social Responsibility Committee performance, the performance of the Board and each of its Committees.
The Current Members: Christine Cross Committee Chair, Brenda Dean, Peter Senior Independent Director carried out a formal appraisal of the Chairman Redfern who were members throughout the year and Steve Parker who and, as part of this process, liaised with each Director and the Secretary, in became a member with effect from 1 January 2006.
Stewart Cline was a each case in the absence of the Chairman.
The outcome of the appraisal member of this Committee throughout 2005.
He retired from the Board process has been formally considered by the Board.
Board Committees The Committee has formal terms of reference and is responsible for setting Nomination Committee the Companys CSR strategy and policies and for performance monitoring Current Members: John Robinson Committee Chair, Peter Johnson and and reporting against identied key performance indicators including, those Brenda Dean, who were each members throughout the year.
David Williams, relating to Health and Safety, Environment, Customer Care, Supply Chain Christine Cross, Anthony Reading and Robert Sharpe are also members and Management, Employees and the Community.
The Committee also highlights joined the Committee on 1 September 2005.
Mike Blackburn was a member significant social, environmental and ethical risks and opportunities for the of the Committee until 1 September 2005.
Prior to 1 September 2005, the attention of the Board.
The 2005 CSR Report entitled Meeting the Challenge Committee consisted of the Chairman, two independent Non Executive has been sent to all shareholders and many of our stakeholders, including Directors and the Group Chief Executive.
Having regard to the role and suppliers, local authorities, Governmental departments and regulatory bodies.
independence of the Chairman this composition is considered to be in The report is also made available to all employees of the Group via the line within the requirements of the Combined Code which requires there intranet or in hard copy if preferred.
The Report can also be found on the to be a majority of Non Executive Directors.
George Wimpey Plc website www.
The Companys approach to CSR is also summarised on pages 24 to 25 of this Annual Report.
The Committee meets as and when necessary to consider the appointment of new Executive and Non Executive Directors.
The Committee adopts a During the year the Committee met on four occasions and there were rigorous process for the appointment of new Directors, involving the use no absences except that Brenda Dean was unable to attend one meeting.
of external recruitment consultants followed by meetings with both the Remuneration Committee Committee and subsequently with the Board as a whole and the Secretary.
Current Members: David Williams Committee Chair and Christine Cross who This ensures that the selection process is formal, objective and based on were members throughout the year, Anthony Reading and Robert Sharpe merit.
The Committee has formal terms of reference and meets as and when who each joined the Committee on 1 September 2005.
Mike Blackburn appropriate but at least once a year to comprehensively review succession was a member of and chaired the Committee until 1 September 2005. planning at both Board and senior management level across the Group.
The Committee consists of four independent Non Executive Directors.
In line with the Combined Code, it also reviews the Board structure, size, Details of the Remuneration Committee and its policies are set out in the composition and time commitments required from each Non Executive Remuneration Report on pages 36 to 42.
The Committee has formal terms Director and through this keeps under review the balance of membership of reference.
and the blend of skills, knowledge and experience that is required.
During the year the Committee met on five occasions and there were During the year, the Committee formally met on six occasions principally no absences.
to consider Board changes and review succession planning.
Relations with shareholders and investors During the year, the Company has continued to maintain an active investor Audit Committee relations programme, encouraging constructive two way communication Current Members: Anthony Reading Committee Chair, David Williams, with investors, fund managers and analysts.
Presentations are given at the time Brenda Dean and Robert Sharpe.
of both preliminary and interim results and at the Annual General Meeting.
David Williams and Brenda Dean were members of the Committee throughout The Company has a well established cycle of communication based on the the year.
Anthony Reading and Robert Sharpe became members of the Groups financial reporting calendar.
Webcasts of both results presentations, Committee on 1 September 2005.
Christine Cross and Mike Blackburn along with the question and answer sessions, are made publicly available were members of this Committee until 1 September 2005. on the George Wimpey Plc website www.
During 2005, Non Executive Directors attended both the Companys preliminary and The Committee consists of four independent Non Executive Directors interim results presentations where, in line with the Combined Code, they including David Williams who was the Group Finance Director of Bunzl plc were available to meet with both institutional and private shareholders.
until his recent retirement on 31 January 2006.
The Board is satisfied, in line The Company makes full use of its website www.
co. uk with the Combined Code, that David Williams has both recent and relevant to provide information for shareholders and others interested in George financial experience to meet the needs of this Committee.
The Committee Wimpey as an investment opportunity.
Our registrars LloydsTSB have also Chair, Anthony Reading a Chartered Accountant was appointed to this developed www.
co. uk: an electronic service where shareholders position on 1 September 2005 and has substantial operational experience can review their shareholding, vote on resolutions and update their in both the UK and the US.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group personal details.
Finance Director and senior management attend Committee meetings for specic items at the invitation of the Committee Chair.
The Committee Peter Johnson, Andrew Carr-Locke, Peter Redfern and Terri Wright Group routinely meets without any operational management present.
Communications Manager carried out an extensive programme of meetings with institutional shareholders and investors throughout the year following The Committee has formal terms of reference.
It receives reports from guidance issued by the Financial Services Authority.
Meetings were held in the external auditors,  LLP PwC, the Internal London, Edinburgh, Dublin, Paris, New York, Boston, Chicago, San Francisco, Audit Department and also from senior management at each meeting.
Eindhoven, Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Stockholm and Copenhagen.
The The Committee is responsible for reviewing the external audit process Company also hosted an analyst event and will consider other visits as and for monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls.
It also considers appropriate or requested.
The Committee supports the Board in reviewing information which is sent to shareholders to ensure that it presents a Andrew Carr-Locke and David Rallison Group Treasurer held meetings balanced assessment of the Companys position.
In addition, the Committee across the US with investors in the Companys US Private Placement reviews the performance and objectivity of PwC, the scope of its work and programme.
Presentations are made twice a year to the Companys UK that of the Internal Audit Department.
It also reviews the fees to be paid bankers following the announcement of the Companys preliminary and to PwC for both audit and non-audit related work.
34 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance The Companys joint brokers, JPMorgan Cazenove and ABN Amro Hoare Development activity Govett, attend Board meetings to provide feedback on the shareholder There is an established framework for managing and controlling all site surveys that they each carry out following the publication of the Companys related activity.
This includes extensive health and safety procedures, regular results and subsequent meetings with shareholders.
performance monitoring and clear accountability on customer satisfaction.
The Company is pleased to welcome private and institutional shareholders Operational and financial reporting to its Annual General Meeting which it regards as an important forum for There is a developed budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the Board to engage with shareholders.
The Chairman and the Group Chief the Board.
profit and cash forecasts are prepared and reviewed on a monthly Executive use the Meeting as an opportunity to make presentations on the basis.
The performance of each business is reviewed monthly by Divisional business.
The Board will be present at the Meeting to answer questions and and Group management and subsequently reported to the Board against will be available both prior to and after the Meeting for discussions with both budget and forecast.
Particular emphasis is placed on cash ow, as well shareholders.
The result of the voting on each resolution will be declared as profit and loss and balance sheet reporting, and on key operating issues at the Meeting and will also be announced publicly afterwards in line with including health and safety and environmental matters.
Control Self Assessment Accountability and audit The improved procedures put in place during 2004, requiring each business The Board believes that the financial statements and reviews contained to report on a regular basis, through a formal Control Self Assessment within this document present a balanced and understandable assessment process its compliance with the core policies and key controls governing of the Companys performance and prospects.
The sound system of internal the Group, was continued and further rened.
This process has also been control within the Company enables the Board to make this statement.
extended to key non-operational areas.
The Audit Committee has a rm policy of not using the Companys auditor Treasury for non audit work if this could jeopardise the ability of the auditor to provide The principal treasury related risks, decisions and control processes are an independent and objective audit opinion.
However, in certain cases the documented.
The Treasury Committee, consisting of Andrew Carr-Locke use of PwC for non audit work may make it more timely and cost effective Chair, Peter Johnson, David Rallison Group Treasurer and Matthew Rose due to the rms knowledge of the Group.
Following a competitive tender Head of Tax, meets quarterly to consider treasury related issues, decisions process, which is designed to ensure the best provider is selected, PwC and control processes.
The Committee has terms of reference.
currently carries out routine tax compliance work.
PwC also assisted the All of the above internal controls have been in place during the year Company in its review of new International Accounting Standards.
The and are subject to ongoing Internal Audit review.
Internal Audit supports Committee takes the view that carrying out this non audit work does not the Audit Committee, the Executive Directors and senior management affect PwCs objectivity or independence.
In addition, PwC is subject to its by independently and objectively reviewing the effectiveness of risk own professional standards which safeguards the integrity of the auditing management and the control environment.
The Internal Audit methodology role performed on behalf of shareholders.
Details of the fees paid to PwC in 2005 are set out in note 2. is aligned to the key elements of the Groups internal control framework.
All reviews are formally followed up to ensure agreed actions have been Internal control implemented.
The results of all Internal Audit reviews are categorised The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control according to the outcome of the review and are presented and discussed and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The implementation and maintenance in detail at the Audit Committee.
In addition to Audit Committee reporting, of the risk management and internal control systems are the responsibility Internal Audit reviews are discussed at Group Executive Committee meetings of the Executive Directors and senior management.
It is recognised that the which take place at least monthly.
During the year, the Committee system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to consisted of Peter Johnson Chairman, Andrew Carr-Locke, Stewart Cline, achieve business objectives.
Consequently, it can only provide reasonable, Peter Redfern, Steve Parker and James Jordan.
Internal audit reviews are and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The also discussed at Divisional executive meetings of George Wimpey UK system has been in place throughout the period and is reviewed within and Morrison Homes.
the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control on an annual basis.
Going concern The Board has reviewed in detail the areas of major risk that the Group The Directors are required under the Financial Services Authoritys Listing faces in its operations and the key risks that are identied are documented Rules and the Combined Code to have satisfied themselves as to the Groups in the Group Risk Schedule.
This Schedule is regularly monitored for ongoing ability to continue in existence for the foreseeable future.
Specific key operational risks include land purchase, health and carried out and the Directors have concluded that the Group has adequate safety, the environment and product quality.
The Board, following its review, resources and is justied in using the going concern basis in preparing the is satisfied with the process in place for risk identification, evaluation and financial statements.
It is satisfied with current control mechanisms and reporting lines that have been in place throughout the year and the programme of continuous improvement initiatives that has been implemented.
The Group seeks to maintain high standards of business conduct and operates under an established internal control framework which can be described as follows: Organisational structure The Group operates through a number of operating businesses, each with its own management board.
Clear reporting lines and delegated authorities are in place.
The management and monitoring of risk and performance occurs at multiple levels throughout the Group and the use of interactive review processes provides successive assurance through the levels of management up to the Board.
Land purchase and investment appraisal There are clearly dened policies and procedures for the purchase of land and for capital expenditure.
These include detailed appraisal and review requirements and due diligence procedures which incorporate a detailed environmental appraisal of land prior to acquisition.
These procedures are subject to rigorous review and authorisation.
