88 GKN plc Annual Report 2005 Directors report Richard Clowes and Ian Grifths ceased to be Directors of the Company on Business review The principal businesses of the Group are described on pages 4 to 9 and in 31 December 2005 and 3 February 2006 respectively, on leaving the service of the Group.
Baroness Hogg, Deputy Chairman, retires from the Board at the the business review on pages 22 to 30.
A review of the development of those businesses in 2005, events affecting the Group since the end of the year and forthcoming AGM, after serving as a non-executive Director of the Company since 1996.
She was also Senior Independent Director from December 2003 likely future developments are referred to in the Chief Executives statement on pages 12 and 13 and in the business review.
An assessment of the Groups to December 2005.
The Directors would like to record their appreciation of the contribution each has made to the Group over the years.
exposure to financial risks and a description of how these risks are managed are also included in the business review.
In accordance with the provisions for retirement by rotation in the Companys articles of association, Baroness Hogg, Deputy Chairman, Sir Ian Gibson, Share capital non-executive Director, and Kevin Smith, Chief Executive, retire at the AGM.
During 2005, 4,794,334 GKN plc Ordinary Shares of 50p each were issued in Sir Ian Gibson and Kevin Smith, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
connection with the exercise of options under SAYE and Executive share option schemes.
In addition, in order to comply with the provisions of the Combined Code, At the Annual General Meeting held in May 2005, shareholders authorised Roy Brown, Chairman, being a non-executive Director who has served on the Board for more than nine years, also retires at the AGM and, being eligible, the Company to purchase up to a maximum of 72,234,688 of its own Ordinary Shares, representing 10% of the issued share capital of the offers himself for re-election.
Company excluding treasury shares as at 31 December 2004.
During Directors interests in GKN shares are shown on pages 101 and 103. the year, 11,895,000 shares representing 1.6% of the Companys called Following the amendment of the Companies Act 1985 by the Companies up share capital at 31 December 2005 were purchased for an aggregate consideration of 29.9 million excluding expenses as part of a 100 million Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004, the directors indemnity provision in the Companys articles of association was amended.
Authority to purchase up to 60,339,688 shares remained in place at 31 December 2005.
Since the programme commenced Pursuant to the articles as amended, the Company has executed a deed poll of indemnity for the benefit of the Directors of the Company and persons who in October 2004, a total of 25,220,000 shares have been purchased at an aggregate consideration of 59.3 million excluding expenses.
All of the were Directors of the Company during the financial year under review in respect of costs of defending claims against them and third party liabilities.
These shares purchased are being held by the Company as treasury shares.
provisions are currently in force.
The indemnity provision in the Companys The issued share capital of the Company at the end of the year was articles of association also extends to provide a limited indemnity in respect 740,466,222 Ordinary Shares of 50p each including the 25,220,000 shares of liabilities incurred as a director, secretary or officer of an associated held in treasury.
The Company has been informed of the following notiable interests in the A copy of the deed poll of indemnity and of the Companys articles of issued capital of the Company at 27 February 2006: association are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce % of issued capital during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the Franklin Resources, Inc. 11.98 Companys AGM.
Barclays plc 3.45 Donations Legal & General Group plc 3.37 Contributions to good causes made by Group companies around the world amounted to some 902,200 in 2005.
This included cash donations to UK Annual General Meeting registered charities of 139,000 for educational purposes and 97,900 for The notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at 11.00 a. m. on Friday community activities.
Further details of contributions made by the Group 12 May 2006 at the Institution of Electrical Engineers, Savoy Place, London worldwide are given in the corporate social responsibility review on page 33 WC2R 0BL is contained in the AGM circular enclosed with this annual and on the Companys website.
report, together with an explanation of the resolutions to be considered at the meeting.
It is the policy of the Group not to make political donations.
During 2005, no donations were made to EU political organisations, no EU political expenditure Dividend was incurred and no contributions to political parties outside the EU were The Directors recommend a final dividend of 8.2p per 50p Ordinary Share in made within the meaning of Part XA of the Companies Act 1985. respect of the year ended 31 December 2005 payable on 17 May 2006 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 21 April 2006.
This, The Groups US Aerospace business has a Political Action Committee PAC together with the interim dividend of 4.0p paid in September 2005, brings the which is funded entirely by employees and their spouses.
No funds are total dividend for the year to 12.2p per share.
provided to the PAC by GKN and any administrative services provided to the PAC by the US Aerospace business are fully charged to and paid for by the Key dates for the dividend reinvestment plan as it will operate in respect of the PAC, and the Company does not therefore consider these to be political proposed 2005 final dividend are given on page 106. donations.
Employee contributions are entirely voluntary and no pressure is Directors placed on employees to participate.
Under US law, an employee-funded PAC The constitution of the Board and of its Committees, together with biographical must bear the name of the employing company.
notes on the Directors, are shown on pages 20 and 21.
GKN plc 89 Annual Report 2005 Payments to suppliers It is Group policy to abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers, provided that the supplier has performed its obligations under the contract.
Given the nature and diversity of the Groups international purchasing arrangements and contracts, it is not Group policy to follow any specic code or standard in relation to payment practice.
GKN plc, as a holding company, did not have any amounts owing to trade creditors at 31 December 2005.
Corporate governance The Boards statement on corporate governance matters is given on pages 90 to 94, and its report on Directors remuneration is set out on pages 95 to 103.
Directors responsibility for the accounts At the end of each financial year the Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2005, the most appropriate accounting policies, supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, have been used consistently.
The Group accounts have been prepared on the basis of applicable International Financial Reporting Standards effective and endorsed by the European Union as at 31 December 2005 and the Company accounts have been prepared in accordance with UK applicable accounting standards.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company and the Group keep proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
In addition, the Directors are responsible for ensuring that an appropriate system of internal control is in operation to provide them with reasonable assurance that the assets of the Company and the Group are properly safeguarded and to ensure that reasonable steps are taken to prevent or detect fraud and other irregularities.
Auditors Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
On behalf of the Board Grey Denham Secretary 27 February 2006 The Company has been informed that, as at 1 March 2006, the notiable interests of Franklin Resources, Inc. and Barclays plc are 11.97% and 3.39% respectively.
The Company has not been informed of any other changes in notiable interests as at that date.
90 GKN plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate governance In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, GKN is required all the non-executive Directors are regarded by the Board as independent and to state whether it has complied with the relevant provisions set out in the Board does not consider that there exist any relationships or circumstances Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and, likely to affect the judgement of any Director.
where the provisions have not been complied with, to provide an explanation.
The Board normally meets 11 times a year, including at least one meeting at GKN is also required to explain how it has applied the principles set out in a Group operating company.
Comprehensive brieng papers are provided to the Code.
all Directors one week before Board meetings.
During the year there are The following paragraphs, together with the report on Directors remuneration sufficient opportunities for the Chairman to meet with the non-executive on pages 95 to 103, provide a description of how the main and supporting Directors without the executive Directors being present should this be deemed principles of the Code have been applied within GKN.
of compliance with the Code is given on page 94.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company The Board of Directors Secretary who is tasked with ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
In The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
Its role addition, Directors may, in furtherance of their duties, take independent is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal managed: to set the Companys strategic aims, ensure that the necessary proceedings and other claims against its Directors.
Details of indemnities in financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its place between the Company and the Directors can be found in the Directors objectives, and review management performance: to set the Companys report on page 88. values and standards and ensure that its obligations to its shareholders including reporting to shareholders on the Boards stewardship and others Chairman and Chief Executive are understood and met.
Specic responsibilities reserved to the Board The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive have been split since 1997.
Whilst include: collectively they are responsible for the leadership of the Company, the Chairmans primary responsibility is for leading the Board and ensuring setting Group strategy and approving an annual budget and medium-term its effectiveness and the Chief Executive is responsible for running the projections: Companys business.
reviewing operational and financial performance: The other significant current commitments of Roy Brown, Chairman, are listed approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure: in his biography on page 21.
The Board is satisfied that his commitments do not unduly restrict his availability to GKN and, in particular, would not do reviewing the Groups systems of financial control and risk management: so in the event of GKN being involved in a major corporate transaction or ensuring that appropriate management development and succession plans other action.
are in place: Induction and professional development reviewing the activities of the three sub-committees of the Executive On joining the Board, a Director receives a comprehensive induction pack Committee: which includes background information about GKN and its Directors, and details of Board meeting procedures, Directors responsibilities, procedures reviewing matters relating to corporate social responsibility, including the for dealing in GKN shares and a number of other governance-related issues.
environmental, health and safety performance of the Group: This is supplemented by a brieng with the Company Secretary.
The Director approving appointments to the Board and to the position of Company meets with the Chief Executive and with relevant senior executives to be Secretary, and approving policies relating to Directors remuneration and briefed on the general Group strategy and each individual business portfolio.
the severance of Directors contracts: and Plant visits are organised as necessary for new Directors.
External training, particularly on matters relating to the role of a Director and the role and ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue takes place with shareholders.
responsibilities of Board Committees, is arranged as appropriate.
The Directors responsibility for the preparation of accounts is explained on Ongoing training is provided as and when necessary and may be identied in page 89 their conrmation that they consider it appropriate to prepare the annual performance reviews see below or on an ad hoc basis.
The suitability accounts for 2005 on a going concern basis is given on page 30. of external courses is kept under review by the Company Secretary who is A description of the role of the Board, together with that of the Chairman, Chief charged with facilitating the induction of new Directors both into the business Executive, Senior Independent Director and Company Secretary, is available and as to their roles and responsibilities as Directors, as well as with assisting on the GKN website at www.
com and further details of the Boards role in in the ongoing training and development of Directors.
relation to the Groups systems of internal control and risk management are Training and development of Directors in 2005 took various forms, including given on pages 93 and 94.
Descriptions of the specic responsibilities which visits to GKN plants both with the Board as a whole and on an individual have been delegated to the principal Board Committees are given on pages basis, attendance by certain Directors at courses run by executive educational 91 to 93. establishments and professional bodies, attendance at external training The Board currently comprises two executive and seven non-executive sessions and seminars on matters relevant to members of remuneration Directors including the Chairman.
Biographical details of the Directors are committees, seminars facilitated by professional services rms on given on page 21.
With the exception of the Chairman, who is presumed under International Financial Reporting Standards and workshops run by external the Code not to be independent, and Baroness Hogg, who is no longer bodies on various commercial and regulatory matters.
considered to be independent by virtue of her length of service on the Board, GKN plc 91 Annual Report 2005 Performance evaluation In its annual and interim reports, trading statements, results presentations and During 2005, the Board continued its ongoing evaluation process to assess City announcements generally, GKN endeavours to present an accurate, performance and identify areas in which effectiveness might be enhanced.
The objective and balanced picture in a style and format which is appropriate to Chairman conducted performance evaluations of each Director and, taking the intended audience.
The GKN website provides information about the into account the views of the other executive Directors and the non-executive Group including copies of annual and interim reports and presentations made Directors, of the Chief Executive.
Baroness Hogg, as Senior Independent to institutional investors.
Director, led the evaluation by the non-executive Directors of the performance Board Committees of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive Directors.
The full terms of reference of the following Board Committees are available To assist the evaluation process, a number of assessment areas were upon request and on the GKN website.
identied in advance and used as a framework for conducting the appraisal Executive Committee interviews.
Such areas included commitment and preparation, training and The Executive Committee consists of the executive Directors and, with effect development, contribution, and interaction with other Board members.
As from 1 January 2006, the Groups senior executive team under the part of the performance evaluation, the Chairman evaluated with each Director chairmanship of the Chief Executive.
The current membership of the Executive the effectiveness of the Board and of the principal Board Committees.
Committee is given on page 20.
The Committee is tasked with leading, The results of the evaluations were discussed by the Board and used to overseeing and directing the activities of the Group, reviewing divisional and consider opportunities for improvement.
Minor changes to Board and Group strategy plans and deciding how the various risks facing the Group are Committee procedures were identied and have been implemented.
It reviews the Groups annual budget prior to submission to the Board and monitors monthly performance of the Company against the Director re-election approved plans.
It also reviews acquisitions and divestments, and corporate All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first Annual development activity and approves major human resource policy issues General Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
Under the articles including management development and training.
The Committee is also of association of the Company, each of the Directors is required to retire by responsible for reviewing and leading the implementation of business and rotation at least once every three years.
Any non-executive Directors who have operational processes across the Group.
served for more than nine years are subject to annual re-election.
Details of the Directors retiring and seeking re-election at the 2006 Annual General The Executive Committee has three sub-committees consisting of members Meeting are given in the Notice of Meeting circular.
The Chairman confirms of senior management: that, following the performance evaluations undertaken in 2005, the the Lean Enterprise Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of Kevin Smith, performance of the Directors seeking re-election continues to be effective, Chief Executive, is responsible for monitoring and reviewing key elements and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their respective roles.
that contribute directly to operational performance and the improvement of The Deputy Chairman confirms that, following the performance evaluation business health.
It is assisted in this by three senior executive councils which she undertook in 2005 as Senior Independent Director, the performance covering people excellence, production excellence and business process of the Chairman continues to be effective, and that the Chairman continues excellence: to demonstrate commitment to his role.
the Technology Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of Martyn Vaughan, Communicating with shareholders Chief Executive GKN OffHighway, is responsible for setting policy and Meetings between Directors, senior management and major institutional providing guidance and direction in relation to technologies employed across shareholders are held during the year in accordance with GKNs investor all business areas, and provides input to the Executive Committee to relations programme and when required in relation to particular issues.
The contribute to the formulation of the Groups business strategy: and Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive Directors are encouraged to attend presentations to analysts and shareholders, in particular the Governance and Risk Sub-Committee, under the chairmanship of the the annual and interim results presentations.
Company Secretary, Grey Denham, is responsible for monitoring and reviewing matters relating to governance and compliance, risk management The Chairman, periodically, offers to major investors in GKN the opportunity and corporate social responsibility.
to meet with him should they so wish to discuss matters relating to governance, including Directors remuneration, and strategy.
Feedback to the Chairmans Committee Board is provided by the Chairman on any issues raised with him.
The Finance The Chairmans Committee consists of the non-executive Directors together Director reports twice-yearly to the Board on meetings with investors.
These with the Chief Executive under the chairmanship of the Chairman.
The reports include summaries prepared by the Companys brokers on the Committee meets before each Board meeting and is a forum for the Chairman markets reaction to results announcements and the subsequent meetings and Chief Executive to brief and obtain the views of the non-executive Directors between management and investors.
External brokers reports on GKN are on particular issues.
circulated to all Directors and the Board is briefed periodically by external Audit Committee financial consultants on investor perceptions of GKN.
The Audit Committee consists of the independent non-executive Directors.
All Directors normally attend the Annual General Meeting and shareholders John Sheldrick assumed the chairmanship of the Committee from Sir Peter are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with Directors after Williams with effect from 1 January 2006 following Sir Peter Williams the formal proceedings have ended.
Shareholders at the meeting are advised appointment as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
as to the level of proxy votes received, including the percentage for and against As Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc, Mr Sheldrick has, as each resolution together with the level of votes withheld, following each vote required by the Code, recent and relevant financial experience.
92 GKN plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate governance continued The Committee monitors the integrity of the Companys financial statements During the year, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by: and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
It is responsible for reviewing the Groups draft 2004 preliminary annual results announcement ensuring that an appropriate relationship between GKN and the external and financial statements and 2005 interim results statement prior to Board auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees, and approval including consideration of the significant accounting judgements makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment, reappointment or contained therein and reviewing the external auditors detailed reports dismissal of the external auditors.
It also reviews bi-annually the Groups thereon: systems of internal control and the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the reviewing the Groups 2004 financial statements as restated under internal audit function see page 94 and is responsible for approving, upon International Financial Reporting Standards and the associated the recommendation of the Chief Executive, the appointment and termination announcement released in April 2005: of the head of that function.
It also reviews periodically the Groups employee reviewing the Groups trading update announcement prior to release at the disclosure procedures policy which provides for employees to disclose, in Annual General Meeting: confidence, instances of wrongdoing by other employees.
reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies including The Committee reviews annually its effectiveness and recommends to the changes necessary in the light of the transition to International Financial Board any changes required to its terms of reference.
No changes to the Reporting Standards: Committees terms of reference were recommended following the 2005 review.
reviewing regularly the potential impact on the Groups financial statements The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year, including meetings of certain matters such as impairments of xed asset values and before the annual and interim results announcements and at the planning International Financial Reporting Standards: stage of the annual external audit process.
Members attendance record at meetings of the Committee in 2005 is given on page 93. reviewing the effectiveness of the 2004 external audit process and recommending to the Board, after due consideration, the reappointment of The Committee has authority to investigate any matters within its terms of the incumbent external auditors at the Annual General Meeting: reference, to access resources, to call for information and to obtain external professional advice at the cost of the Company.
Should there be any reviewing the application of the Boards policy on non-audit work performed disagreement between the Committee and the Board which cannot be by the Groups external auditors together with the non-audit fees payable to resolved, the Committee has the right to report the issue to shareholders the external auditors in 2004: within the Companys next annual report.
reviewing compliance with the Groups policy on the employment of former No person other than the members of the Committee is entitled to be present employees of the external auditors: at meetings but others may be invited to attend by the Committee.
The head reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups 2005 of the internal audit function and the external auditors usually attend meetings accounts, which included key areas of focus, key risks on the accounts, of the Committee.
At each meeting there is an opportunity for the external conrmations of auditor independence and the proposed audit fee, and auditors, and annually an opportunity for the head of internal audit, to discuss approving the terms of engagement for the audit: matters with the Committee without any executive management being present.
The minutes of each meeting are circulated to all members of the reviewing reports from the internal audit function and the external auditors Board.
The Committee has independent access to the internal audit function on the Groups systems of internal control in advance of the announcement and to the external auditors and both the head of internal audit and the of the Groups results for 2004 the internal report included a summary of external auditors have direct access to the Chairman of the Committee outside and commentary on the annual detailed divisional reports on their business formal Committee meetings.
The Chairman of the Committee has quarterly risks and internal control processes and reporting to the Board on the results meetings and regular intervening contact with the head of internal audit, and of this review, and reviewing interim updates prior to the half-year results: twice-yearly formal meetings as well as ad hoc contact with the external receiving regular updates from management on key financial control matters auditors on specic matters.
arising in the Group: The Audit Committee has the specic task of keeping under review the nature reviewing work undertaken by management in connection with analysis of and extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors in order to fraud risks: ensure that objectivity and independence are maintained.
As a matter of policy, the auditors are excluded from invitations to undertake assignments reviewing a post-acquisition report on the integration and performance of a of a purely consultancy nature.
For other non-audit work, the policy is that significant recent acquisition: GKN does not use the external auditors unless there are compelling reasons reviewing the terms of reference, resources, performance and effectiveness to do so, i. e. they can provide a unique skill or a service not readily available of the internal audit function, its work programme for 2005 and quarterly from any other source.
Under the policy, agreed by the Board, any proposal reports on its work and findings during the year, and monitoring compliance to use the auditors for non-audit work must be submitted to the Finance by Group companies with its recommendations: and Director who will, depending on the nature of the service, seek the prior authorisation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The external auditors reviewing the Groups employee disclosure procedures policy.
have in place processes to ensure their independence is maintained including safeguards to ensure that, where they do provide non-audit services, their independence is not threatened.
They have written to the Audit Committee conrming that, in their opinion, they are independent.
