Corporate governance This section discusses GlaxoSmithKlines management structures and governance procedures.
It contains the companys reporting disclosures on corporate governance required by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial Reporting Council Combined Code, including the required statement of compliance.
Further, the company reports on compliance with the US laws and regulations that apply to it.
The Board 28 Corporate Executive Team 29 Governance and policy 30 Dialogue with shareholders 31 Annual General Meeting 32 Internal control framework 33 Committee reports 34 The Combined Code 35 US law and regulation 36 GSK Annual Report 2005 27 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued Dr Ronaldo Schmitz Aged 67 The Board Appointed on 23rd May 2000.
Dr Schmitz Sir Christopher Gent Aged 57 was formerly a Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc.
He is Appointed on 1st June 2004.
Sir Christopher was the Chief a Non-Executive Director of Legal & General Group plc and a member Executive officer of Vodafone plc, until his retirement in July 2003.
He of the Board of Directors of Rohm and Haas Company and Cabot is a Non-Executive Director of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc, a Corporation.
member of the Financial Reporting Council, a Senior Adviser at Bain & Co. and Chairman of the advisory board of Reform.
Dr Lucy Shapiro Aged 65 Appointed on 23rd May 2000.
Dr Shapiro Dr Jean-Pierre Garnier Aged 58 was formerly a Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
Dr Garnier is Ludwig Professor of Cancer Research in the Department of was appointed an Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc in Developmental Biology and Director of the Beckman Center for 1992, and became Chief Executive officer in April 2000.
He is a NonMolecular and Genetic Medicine at the Stanford University School of Executive Director of United Technologies Corporation and a member Medicine and a Non-Executive Director of Anacor Pharmaceuticals, of the Board of Trustees of the Eisenhower Exchange Fellowships.
He Inc. She holds a PhD in molecular biology.
holds a PhD in pharmacology from the University of Louis Pasteur in Tom fide Swaan Aged 59 France and an MBA from Stanford University in the USA.
Mr fide Swaan Lawrence Culp Aged 42 is a member of the Managing Board of ABN AMRO, of which he was Appointed on 1st July 2003.
Mr Culp is Chief Financial officer until 31st December 2005.
He will retire from President and Chief Executive officer of Danaher Corporation.
Prior the Board of ABN AMRO on 1st May 2006.
He is a Non-Executive to joining Danaher, he held positions in Accenture, previously Director of the Financial Services Authority, a member of the Board Andersen Consulting.
of the Institute of International Finance, Chairman of the Board of the Netherlands Opera and a member of the Board of the Royal Sir Crispin Davis Aged 56 Concertgebouw Orchestra.
Sir Crispin is Chief Executive of Reed Elsevier PLC.
Prior to that, he was Chief Sir Robert Wilson Aged 62 Executive of Aegis Group plc, which he joined from Guinness plc, Appointed on 1st November 2003.
Sir Robert where he was a member of the main board and Group Managing is Non-Executive Chairman of BG Group plc and the Economist Group Director of United Distillers.
He spent his early career with Procter & and was previously Executive Chairman of Rio Tinto.
Dr Tachi Yamada Aged 60 Julian Heslop Aged 52 Appointed on 1st January 2004.
Mr Heslop joined Research & Development.
Dr Yamada was a Non-Executive Director, Glaxo Wellcome as Financial Controller in April 1998.
In January 2001, and subsequently an Executive Director, of SmithKline Beecham plc.
following the merger, he was appointed Senior Vice President, Prior to joining SmithKline Beecham, he was Chairman of the Operations Controller.
Prior to joining Glaxo Wellcome, he held senior Department of Internal Medicine at the University of Michigan Medical finance roles at Grand Metropolitan PLC.
School and Physician-in-Chief of the University of Michigan Medical Center.
He is a Trustee of the Rockefeller Brothers Fund and a member Sir Deryck Maughan Aged 58 of the Advisory Board of Quaker BioVentures, Inc.
Sir Deryck is a Managing Director of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.
He was formerly Moncef Slaoui Aged 46 Chairman and CEO of Citigroup International and of Salomon Chairman Designate, Research & Development.
Dr Slaoui, Senior Vice Brothers Inc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of Reuters Group plc, as President, Worldwide Business Development, has been appointed to well as serving on the Boards of Directors of Carnegie Hall, Lincoln the Board with effect from 17th May 2006, and will succeed Dr Center and NYU Medical Center.
He is also an International Advisory Yamada as Chairman, Research & Development on 1st June 2006.
Dr Board member of British American Business Inc. and a Board member Slaoui joined GSK Biologicals in 1988 where he engineered the of the Trilateral Commission.
He served as Vice Chairman of the New development of a robust vaccines pipeline.
He has a PhD in Molecular York Stock Exchange from 1996 to 2000.
Biology and Immunology from Universit Libre fide Bruxelles.
Sir Ian Prosser Aged 62 Appointed on 23rd May 2000.
Sir Ian Other Directors was formerly a Non-Executive Director of SmithKline Beecham plc.
He Mr John Coombe, formerly Chief Financial officer, retired from the was Chairman and Chief Executive of Bass plc and ultimately Board on 31st March 2005.
Chairman of the demerged InterContinental Hotels Group plc.
He Details of membership of the Board Committees may be found on was Chairman of the World Travel and Tourism Council and the page 31.
London Stock Exchange Listed Advisory Council.
He is Non-Executive Deputy Chairman of BP plc, a Non-Executive Director of Sara Lee Corporation and a member of the CBI Presidents Committee.
GSK Annual Report 2005 28 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued David Pulman Corporate Executive Team CET President, Global Manufacturing and Supply JP Garnier Dr Pulman is responsible for the Global Manufacturing and Supply Chief Executive officer Organisation and Global Procurement.
He joined Glaxo in 1978 and was As Chief Executive officer, Dr Garnier is responsible for the responsible for the North American supply network, manufacturing management of the Group.
He oversees all operational aspects of strategy and logistics until his current appointment in 2002. the Group, including establishing policies, objectives and initiatives, and he directs long-term strategy.
He was formerly Chief Executive David Stout officer of SmithKline Beecham, having joined the Group in 1990.
President, Pharmaceutical Operations Mr Stout is responsible for all pharmaceuticals and vaccines operations Rupert Bondy worldwide, including the USA, Europe, International, Japan and Senior Vice President and General Counsel Global Manufacturing and Supply.
He joined SmithKline Beecham in Mr Bondy is responsible for legal matters across the Group, together 1996 and was President, US Pharmaceuticals, until his current with environmental, health and safety issues, insurance and security.
He was a lawyer in private practice before joining SmithKline Beecham Chris Viehbacher in 1995.
President, US Pharmaceuticals Ford Calhoun Mr Viehbacher is responsible for US Pharmaceuticals.
He joined Chief Information officer Wellcome in 1988 and was responsible for GSKs European Dr Calhoun is responsible for information technology, a global Pharmaceuticals business before his current appointment in 2003. function that enables key business processes across all parts of the Group.
With doctoral and post-doctoral training in microbiology, Andrew Witty genetics, biomathematics and computer science, he joined Smith President, Pharmaceuticals Europe Kline & French in 1984.
Mr Witty is responsible for the Groups pharmaceuticals operations in Europe.
He joined Glaxo in 1985 and was Senior Vice President, Asia John Clarke Pacic until his current appointment in 2003.
President, Consumer Healthcare Tachi Yamada Mr Clarke succeeded Mr Ziegler as President, Consumer Healthcare Chairman, Research & Development on 31st January 2006.
He joined Beecham in 1976 and progressed Dr Yamada leads the Groups complex business of drug discovery and through roles in Australasia, South Africa, The Far East, Japan, Canada development, creating new medicines through research.
From 1998 to 2003, John was President, Consumer SmithKline Beecham in 1994 as a Non-Executive Director and became Healthcare Europe, and in 2004, appointed President, Futures Group.
Marc Dunoyer President, Pharmaceuticals Japan Jennie Younger Mr Dunoyer was appointed President, Pharmaceuticals Japan in March Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications & 2003.
He joined the Group in 1999 and was Senior Vice President and Community Partnerships Regional Director, Japan until his current appointment.
Mrs Younger is responsible for the Groups internal and external communications, its image and partnerships with global communities.
Russell Greig She joined Glaxo Wellcome in 1996 as Director of Investor Relations President, Pharmaceuticals International and was appointed to her current position in 2001.
Dr Greig leads the pharmaceutical operations outside the USA, Japan Moncef Slaoui and most of Europe, covering more than 100 countries.
He joined the Chairman Designate, Research & Development Group in 1980 and was Senior Vice President, Worldwide Business Dr Slaoui will succeed Dr Yamada as Chairman, Research & Development for R&D prior to his current appointment in March Development on 1st June.
He will join the CET on 17th May.
He joined 2003. the Group in 1988 and is currently Senior Vice President, Worldwide Julian Heslop Business Development.
Chief Financial officer Mr Heslop became Chief Financial officer on 1st April 2005.
As head Other members of the finance function Mr Heslop is responsible for activities such as Mr Coombe retired as Chief Financial officer on 31st March 2005. financial reporting and control, tax and treasury, investor relations, Mr Ziegler retired as head of the Consumer Healthcare business on finance systems, internal audit and real estate.
Wellcome as Financial Controller in April 1998.
Mr Ingram continues to work part-time as Vice Chairman of Pharmaceuticals, acting as a special advisor to the Group and Dan Phelan attending CET meetings in that capacity.
Senior Vice President, Human Resources Mr Phelan is responsible for benets, compensation, recruitment, organisation development, leadership development and succession planning, human resource information systems and employee health management.
He was a lawyer in private practice before joining Smith Kline & French in 1981.
GSK Annual Report 2005 29 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued The Board appraises and approves major nancing, investment and Governance and policy contractual decisions in excess of dened thresholds.
In addition, the The Board and Corporate Executive Team Board evaluates and monitors the performance of the Group as a The Directors are listed under The Board page 28. whole.
This includes: The Board is responsible for the Groups system of corporate engaging at Board meetings with the CEO, the other Executive governance and is ultimately accountable for the Groups activities, Directors and members of the CET as appropriate, on the financial strategy and financial performance.
and operating performance of GSK and external issues material to The Chief Executive officer CEO is responsible for executive the Groups prospects management of the Group and is assisted by the CET.
The CET meets evaluating progress toward the achievement of the Groups financial 11 times per year and otherwise as necessary.
The members and their and business objectives and annual plans responsibilities are listed under Corporate Executive Team page monitoring, through reports received directly or from various 29. committees, the significant risks facing the Group.
The Board comprises three Executive and nine Non-Executive The Board has overall responsibility for succession planning for the Directors.
Whilst the Board considers all its Non-Executive Directors to CEO and the other Executive Directors.
The Board has given the CEO be independent in character and judgement, it has determined that broad authority to operate the business of the Group, and the CEO one Non-Executive Director, Dr Shapiro, should not be considered as is accountable for, and reports to the Board on, business performance.
independent under the Combined Code.
Dr Shapiro is not considered to be independent due to the remuneration that she CET members make regular presentations to the Board on their areas receives from the Group as a member of the GlaxoSmithKline of responsibility, and the Board meets with all the CET members on scientific Advisory Board.
When Sir Christopher Gent was appointed an annual basis to discuss collectively the Groups strategy.
A primary to the Board as Deputy Chairman, he was determined by the Board element of the induction process for new Non-Executive Directors is to be independent.
Upon taking up the chairmanship of the Board undertaken by members of the CET, and all Non-Executive Directors on 1st January 2005, in accordance with the Combined Code, he are encouraged to have separate informal discussions at their was excluded from the determination of whether at least half the discretion with any CET members.
Board are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Neither Dr Shapiro The Board met six times in 2005, with each member attending as nor Sir Christopher Gent hold positions on a Board Committee where follows: independence is required under the Combined Code.
Number of meetings Number of The Board considers that Mr Culp, Sir Crispin Davis, Sir Deryck Name held whilst a Board member meetings attended Maughan, Sir Ian Prosser, Dr Schmitz, Mr fide Swaan and Sir Robert Sir Christopher Gent 6 6 Wilson are independent in accordance with the recommendations of Dr JP Garnier 6 6 the Combined Code.
Mr J Heslop 5 5 At the date of publication and throughout 2005, a majority of the Dr T Yamada 6 6 Board members, excluding the Chairman, were independent NonMr L Culp 6 5 Executive Directors.
Sir Crispin Davis 6 6 Sir Deryck Maughan 6 6 Sir Christopher Gent succeeded Sir Christopher Hogg on 1st January Sir Ian Prosser 6 6 2005 and was Chairman throughout 2005.
The Dr R Schmitz 6 6 Chairman leads the Board, and represents the Board to the CEO and Dr L Shapiro 6 6 other CET members as necessary between Board meetings.
The CEO Sir Robert Wilson 6 6 manages the Group and implements the strategy and policies Mr J Coombe 1 1 adopted by the Board.
The Chairman and the chairmen of Board Committees communicate regularly with the CEO and other CET In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a members.
The division of responsibilities between the role of quorate basis on two occasions.
Chairman and the CEO has been set out in writing, agreed by the Board and appears in full on the website.
Business environment development Sir Ian Prosser was Senior Independent Director SID throughout To ensure that the Board is kept up-to-date on important matters, 2005. including legal, governance and regulatory developments, presentations are made on a regular basis by both external and Board process internal advisers.
The Board has the authority, and is accountable to shareholders, for ensuring that the company is appropriately managed and achieves the Independent advice strategic objectives it sets.
The Board discharges those responsibilities The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or more through an annual programme of meetings which includes the of the Directors feel it is necessary to take independent legal and or approval of overall budgetary planning and business strategy.
The financial advice at the companys expense.
There is an agreed Board reviews the companys internal controls and risk management procedure to enable them to do so.
This is explained in the Corporate policies and approves its governance structure and code of ethics.
Governance section of the companys website.
GSK Annual Report 2005 30 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued indemnification of Directors Nominations Committee Qualifying third party indemnity provisions as dened in section The Nominations Committee reviews the structure, size and 309B 1 of the Companies Act 1985 are in force for the benefit of composition of the Board and the appointment of members of the the Directors and former Directors who held ofce during 2005.
Board and the CET, and makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
The Committee also monitors the planning of succession Company Secretary to the Board and Senior Management.
The Committee consists The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board and is available to entirely of Non-Executive Directors, of whom a majority are individual Directors in respect of Board procedures.
The Company independent, and meets at least once a year and otherwise as Secretary is Simon Bicknell, who was appointed in May 2000.
The Nominations Committee Report is given on page 35. barrister and joined the Group in 1984.
He is secretary to all the Board Committees.
Corporate Responsibility Committee The Corporate Responsibility Committee consists entirely of NonBoard Committees Executive Directors and provides a Board-level forum for the regular The Board has established a number of Committees and provides review of external issues that have the potential for serious impact sufficient resources to enable them to undertake their duties.
Executive upon the Groups business and for the oversight of reputation Directors are not members of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations management.
The Committee is also responsible for governance or Corporate Responsibility Committees, although they may be invited oversight of the Groups worldwide donations and community to attend meetings.
Each Director is a member of the Corporate support.
The Committee meets formally three times a year and Administration & Transactions and Financial Results Committees.
Membership of these Committees is shown in the table below.
Financial Results Committee Corporate Audit Remuneration Nominations Responsibility The Financial Results Committee reviews and approves, on behalf of the Board, the Annual Report and Form 20-F, the Annual Review and Sir Christopher Gent C C the convening of the Annual General Meeting, together with the Mr L Culp M preliminary and quarterly statements of trading results.
Each Director Sir Crispin Davis M is a member of the Committee and the quorum for a meeting is any Sir Deryck Maughan M three members.
To be quorate, each meeting must include the Sir Ian Prosser M M M Chairman or the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the CEO or Dr R Schmitz C M M the Chief Financial officer CFO.
The Committee meets as necessary.
Dr L Shapiro M Mr fide Swaan M Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee Sir Robert Wilson M C The Corporate Administration & Transactions Committee reviews and Mr fide Swaan will succeed Dr Schmitz as Chairman of the Audit Committee from approves matters in connection with the administration of the Groups September 2006. business, and certain corporate transactions.
The Committee consists Key: C Chairman.
of the Directors, CET members and the Company Secretary.
The The following is a summary of the role and terms of reference of each Committee meets as necessary.
The current full terms of reference of each Committee Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees and Directors may be obtained from the Company Secretary or the Corporate The performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and Governance section of the companys website.
Directors during 2005 was undertaken by the Chairman and Audit Committee implemented in collaboration with the Committee Chairmen, with the The Audit Committee reviews the financial and internal reporting support of the Company Secretary.
The Board considered the review process, the system of internal controls, the management of risks and conclusions at its meeting in December 2005 and agreed a number the external and internal audit process.
The Committee also proposes of minor improvements to its procedures and operating methodology.
to shareholders the appointment of the external auditors and is The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Sir Ian Prosser, directly responsible for their remuneration and oversight of their work.
undertook the performance evaluation of the Chairman through The Committee consists entirely of independent Non-Executive a discussion with the Directors, excluding the Chairman, in Directors.
It meets at least four times a year and otherwise as December 2005. necessary.
The Audit Committee Report is on pages 34 and 35.
Remuneration Committee Dialogue with shareholders The Remuneration Committee determines the terms of service and Financial results are announced quarterly.
remuneration of the Executive Directors and members of the CET and, with the assistance of external independent advisors, it evaluates and The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, when its makes recommendations to the Board on overall executive half-year and full-year results are announced.
The full-year results are remuneration policy.
The Committee consists entirely of independent included in the companys Annual Report and Annual Review, which Non-Executive Directors.
It meets at least four times a year and otherwise are issued to shareholders.
The companys half-year results are as necessary.
Information on the remuneration of Directors is given in published in a national newspaper shortly after release.
The CEO and the Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 54.
The Chairman of the CFO give presentations on the full-year results to institutional investors, company and the CEO are responsible for evaluating and making analysts and the media.
recommendations to the Board on the remuneration of the NonExecutive Directors.
GSK Annual Report 2005 31 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued There are webcast teleconferences after the release of the first, second Donations to Political Organisations and EU Political and third quarter results for institutional investors, analysts and the Expenditure media.
The Annual Report, Annual Review and quarterly results are At the AGM in May 2001, shareholders first authorised the company available on the companys website.
to make donations to EU Political Organisations and to incur EU Political Expenditure, under the provisions of the Political Parties, The Annual General Meeting AGM takes place in London, and Elections and Referendums Act 2000, of up to 100,000 each year.
formal notication is sent to shareholders at least one month in This authority has since been renewed annually.
At the Meeting, a business presentation is made to company does not make and does not intend to make such payments shareholders and all Directors able to attend are available, formally or donations to political parties, within the normal meaning of that during the AGM, and informally afterwards, for questions.
Committee expression, the denition in the legislation of EU Political Chairmen ordinarily attend the AGM to respond to shareholders Organisation is wide.
It may extend to bodies, which the company questions.
Mr Culp was unable to attend the companys AGM in May and its subsidiaries might wish to support including those concerned 2005 due to other commitments.
All resolutions at the AGM are with policy review, law reform, the representation of the business decided on a poll as required by the companys Articles of Association.
community and special interest groups, such as those concerned with The results of the poll are announced to the London Stock Exchange the environment.
No donations were made to EU Political and posted on the companys website.
Details of the 2006 AGM are Organisations during 2005.
The Group made donations to non-EU set out in the section Annual General Meeting see this page.
Political Organisations totalling 320,000 during 2005 291,000 in To ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are aware of and 2004. understand the views of major shareholders about the company, the Donations of 301,000 were made in the USA and 19,000 in Board has in place a process focusing on sector-specic issues, as well Canada.
The USA is the largest recipient of political donations, and as general shareholder preferences.
At its meeting in July, the Board this reects the US political system, where candidates are sponsored received an external review of shareholder opinion.
solely by donations from individuals, NGOs, companies and other The CEO and CFO maintain a dialogue with institutional shareholders parties.
on performance, plans and objectives through a programme of In line with US law, the corporate donations by GSK are not made at regular meetings.
a federal level, but only to candidates and political parties at the state The Groups Investor Relations department, with ofces in London and local levels.
Donations are accepted practice in the USA, and as and Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for contact with investors a major employer in a heavily regulated industry, it is important for throughout the year.
GSK to engage fully in the political process.
Donations are one of the ways of doing this.
GSK supports those candidates who seek an The Chairman meets regularly with institutional investors to hear their environment that appropriately rewards high-risk, high-investment views and discuss issues of mutual importance.
industries and who believe in free market principles and intellectual The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee meets with major property rights.
shareholders to discuss executive remuneration policy.
All NonThe situation is similar in Canada, and donations follow the same Executive Directors, including new appointees, are available to meet guidelines.
In the rest of the world donations are very rare and of with major shareholders if requested.
The companys website gives access to current financial and business There is also a GSK Political Action Committee PAC in the USA which information about the Group.
PACs are employee organisations which Share buy-back programme allow employees to contribute to a fund for political donations.
A total of 6.5 billion has been spent by the company on buying its Employees decide upon the recipients of the PAC donations.
In 2005, own shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares, of which a total of 282,000 was donated to political organisations by the GSK 1 billion was spent in 2005.
The programme covers purchases by the PAC.
company of shares for cancellation or to be held as Treasury shares, in accordance with the authority given by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting companys AGM in 2005.
The AGM will be held at 2.30pm on Wednesday, 17th May 2006 at In May 2005, the company was authorised to purchase a maximum The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, of 586.4 million shares.
During 2005, 72.8 million shares, representing Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The business to be transacted at the 1.2% of the issued share capital, were purchased and held as Treasury meeting will include: shares see Note 31 to the financial statements, Shar f e capital and Receiving and adopting GlaxoSmithKline's 2005 Annual share premium account.
Report The exact amount and timing of future purchases, and the extent to Approving the 2005 Remuneration Report which repurchased shares will be held as Treasury shares rather than The Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 54 sets out the being cancelled, will be determined by the company and is dependent remuneration policies operated by GlaxoSmithKline and disclosures on market conditions and other factors.
on Directors remuneration, including those required by the Companies Act 1985 and the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
A resolution will be proposed to approve the Remuneration Report.
GSK Annual Report 2005 32 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued Retirement, election and re-election of Directors The internal control framework also relies on the following for Dr Slaoui and Mr fide Swaan have been appointed Directors since the overseeing and reporting risk and compliance issues.
2005 AGM and will offer themselves for election to the Board.
Mr Risk Oversight and Compliance Council ROCC Culp, Sir Crispin Davis and Dr Schmitz will retire and offer themselves The ROCC is a council of senior executives authorised by the Board for re-election to the Board under article 93 of the companys Articles to assist the Audit Committee oversee the risk management and of Association.
Dr Shapiro will retire at the conclusion of the AGM internal control activities of the Group.
Membership comprises several and will not offer herself for re-election.
CET members and some of the heads of departments with internal Re-appointment and remuneration of Auditors control, risk management, audit and compliance responsibilities.
Resolutions will be proposed to re-appoint  The ROCC meets on a regular basis to review and assess significant LLP as auditors and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine risks and their mitigation plans.
The ROCC, responding to the Group their remuneration.
policy referred to above, has provided the business units with a Special business framework for risk management and upward reporting of significant The company will seek authority to: risks.
Mitigation planning and identication of a manager with overall responsibility for management of any given risk is a requirement.
make donations to EU Political Organisations and incur EU Political Risk Management and Compliance Boards RMCBs Expenditure Risk Management and Compliance Boards RMCBs have been allot Ordinary Shares in the company established in each of the major business units.
Membership often comprises members of the senior executive team of the respective give the Directors authority to disapply pre-emption rights when business unit, augmented by specialists where appropriate.
The RMCBs allotting new Shares in connection with rights issues or otherwise oversee management of all risks that are considered important for their up to a maximum of 5% of the current issued share capital and respective business units, including those risks that are designated as purchase its own Ordinary Shares up to a maximum of just under significant to GlaxoSmithKline as a whole, thus increasing the number 10% of the current issued share capital.
of risks that are actively managed across the Group.
Internal control framework Each RMCB regularly reports the status regarding its significant risks The Board recognises its responsibility to present a balanced and to the ROCC.
understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Compliance functions The structure of accountability and audit operated in GSK is as follows.
In a number of risk areas, specic standards that meet or exceed requirements of applicable law have been established.
Specialist audit The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the adequacy and compliance functions for example Corporate Environment, and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Group, including Health & Safety, Global Quality Assurance and Worldwide Regulatory financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Compliance assist in the dissemination, implementation and audit The Board has delegated responsibility for such review to the Audit of these standards.
Committee, which receives reports from those individuals identied in the Committees Report on pages 34 and 35.
It is the responsibility of Corporate Ethics & Compliance CEC management, through the CET, to implement Board policies on risk The ROCC is also supported by the Corporate Ethics & Compliance and control.
The CET is responsible for identifying, approving, department which is responsible for supporting the development and monitoring and enforcing key policies that go to the heart of how the implementation of practices that facilitate employees compliance Group conducts business.
The internal control framework includes with laws and Group policy.
central direction, resource allocation and risk management of the key The thrust of the Groups compliance effort is due diligence in activities of research and development, manufacturing, marketing and preventing and detecting misconduct and non-compliance with law sales, legal, human resources, information systems and financial or regulation by promoting ethical behaviour, compliance with all laws practice.
As part of this framework, there is a comprehensive planning and regulations, corporate responsibility at all levels and effective system with an annual budget approved by the Board.
The results of compliance systems.
operating units are reported monthly and compared to the budget.
Forecasts are prepared regularly during the year.
The CEC is managed by the Corporate Compliance officer, who Extensive financial controls, procedures, self-assessment exercises and reports directly to the CEO.
The Corporate Compliance officer chairs risk activities are reviewed by the Groups internal auditors.
Commercial the ROCC and provides summary reports on the ROCCs activities and and financial responsibility, however, is clearly delegated to local the Groups significant risks to the CET and the Audit Committee on business units, supported by a regional management structure.
The Corporate Compliance Ofcers direct reporting principles are designed to provide an environment of central leadership line to the Audit Committee provides a mechanism for bypassing the coupled with local operating autonomy as the framework for the executive management should the need ever arise.
exercise of accountability and control within the Group.
Areas of potentially significant risk The Group also attaches importance to clear principles and procedures For details of risks affecting the Group, see Note 41 to the financial f designed to achieve appropriate accountability and control.
A Group statements, Legal proceedings and Risk factors on pages 71 to 74. policy, Risk Management and Legal Compliance, mandates that business units establish processes for managing and monitoring risks significant to their businesses and the Group.
GSK Annual Report 2005 33 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued Effectiveness of controls Accordingly, the Board chose not to nominate any one committee The internal control framework has been in operation for the whole member as having recent and relevant financial experience as dened of the year under review and continues to operate up to the date of by the Combined Code, or as an Audit Committee Financial Expert approval of this report.
The system of internal controls is designed to as dened by Sarbanes-Oxley.
manage rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving business In arriving at its conclusion, the Board considered the following points.
objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Dr Schmitz has been the Chairman of the Committee since April assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Prior to his appointment as a Non-Executive Director of the company, he was a Non-Executive Director of Glaxo Wellcome plc, The Audit Committee receives reports on areas of significant risk to where he served on the Audit Committee.
Dr Schmitz has also been the Group and on related internal controls.
Following consideration a member of the Executive Board of Directors of Deutsche Bank AG.
of these reports, the Audit Committee reports annually to the Board He retired from that Board in 2000 having been in charge of on the effectiveness of controls.
Such controls may mitigate but investment banking.
Dr Schmitz was formerly a member of the cannot eliminate risks.
In addition, there are areas of the Groups Executive Board of Directors of BASF from 1980 to 1990, including business where it is necessary to take risks to achieve a satisfactory CFO from 1985 to 1990.
He holds an MBA from Insead.
Sir Ian Prosser return for shareholders, such as investment in R&D and in acquiring was CFO and later CEO of Bass PLC and is a member of the Institute new products or businesses.
In these cases, it is the Groups objective of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Sir Robert Wilson to apply its expertise in the prudent management rather than began his professional career as an economist.
He is Chairman of BG elimination of risk.
The Directors review relates to the company and Group plc.
He held senior management positions at Rio Tinto plc its subsidiaries and does not extend to material associated culminating in his appointment as Executive Chairman, from which undertakings, joint ventures or other investments.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the Sir Deryck Maughan was appointed a member of the Committee on assessment of risks and the internal control framework that operates 21st January 2005.
He is Managing Director of Kohlberg Kravis in GlaxoSmithKline and has considered the effectiveness of the system Roberts & Co KKR and Chairman of KKR Asia.
He was Chairman and of internal control in operation in the Group for the year covered by CEO of Citigroup International and Vice Chairman of Citigroup Inc. this report and up to the date of its approval by the Board.
The process Prior to the creation of Citigroup, he was Chairman and Co-Chief followed by the Board in reviewing the system of internal controls Executive officer of Salomon Smith Barney.
He was also Chairman and accords with the guidance on internal control issued by the Turnbull Chief Executive officer of Salomon Brothers.
When appointing Mr fide Swaan to the Committee with effect from Committee reports 1st January 2006, the Board determined that he had recent and relevant financial experience in accordance with the Combined Code.
Audit Committee Report In coming to this conclusion, the Board paid particular attention to Mr The Audit Committees role ows directly from the Boards oversight fide Swaans role as Chief Financial officer of ABN AMRO, from which function and it is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity he retired on 31st December 2005.
The Board also considers Mr fide within its terms of reference.
The Committee has written terms of Swaan to be an Audit Committee Financial Expert as dened by reference which have been approved by the Board.
reports regularly to the Board on the performance of the activities it has been assigned.
The Committees main responsibilities include The Committee is supported by the Company Secretary, who attends reviewing the corporate accounting and financial reporting process, the Committees meetings, and it has available to it financial resources monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, evaluating the to take independent professional advice when considered necessary.
system of internal control and the management of risks, overseeing Meetings of the Committee are attended by the Chairman, CEO, activities of each of the Groups compliance audit functions and CFO, General Counsel, Head of Global Internal Audit GIA, Corporate overseeing compliance with laws, regulations and ethical codes of Compliance officer and the external auditors.
The Committees oversight role requires it to address regularly In 2005, the Committee worked to a structured programme of the relationships between management and the internal and external activities, with standing items that the Committee is required to auditors, and understand and monitor the reporting relationships and consider at each meeting together with other matters focused to tiers of accountability between them.
The Committee receives regular coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle: reports from members of the CET and senior managers covering the the external auditors reported to the Committee on all critical key compliance activities of the Group, including those concerning accounting policies and practices used by the company, alternative R&D, manufacturing, sales and marketing and EHS.
accounting treatments which had been discussed with Committee members bring considerable financial and accounting management and the resultant conclusion by the external auditors, experience to the Committees work.
Members have past employmaterial written communications with management and any ment experience in either finance or accounting roles or comparable restrictions on access to information experience in corporate activities.
the CFO reported on the financial performance of the company In respect of 2005, the Board had determined that the combined and on technical financial and accounting matters qualications and experience of the Committee members, when the General Counsel reported on material litigation taken together with its modus operandi, gave the Committee the Company Secretary reported on corporate governance collectively the financial expertise necessary to discharge its responsibilities.
GSK Annual Report 2005 34 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued the Heads of each of the Groups compliance and audit groups The Committee also recommended to the Board the appointment of reported on their audit scope, annual coverage, audit resources and Sir Deryck Maughan to the Audit Committee in January 2005 and Dr on the results of audits conducted throughout the year Schmitz to the Remuneration Committee in May 2005.
In February 2006, the Committee recommended to the Board that Dr Moncef the Corporate Compliance officer reported on the activities Slaoui, succeed Dr Yamada as Chairman, Research & Development on undertaken by the ROCC his retirement from the company on 1st June 2006. the Company Secretary, as Chairman of the Disclosure Committee, reported on matters that affected the quality and timely disclosure In addition, the Committee recommended to the Board that Dr Schmitz of financial and other material information to the Board, to the should serve a further term of three years as a Non-Executive Director public markets and to shareholders.
This enabled the Committee to and that he should remain Chairman of the Audit Committee until review the clarity and completeness of the disclosures in the September 2006.
The Committee also made a recommendation to published annual financial statements, interim reports, quarterly the Board that Dr Ralph Horwitz be appointed a Non-Executive and preliminary results announcements and other formal Director.
Following the announcement of Dr Horwitzs appointment, a potential conict of interest was disclosed, and Dr Horwitz decided announcements relating to financial performance prior to their not to take up his appointment as a Non-Executive Director of the release by the Board.
The Audit Committee, management, internal auditors and the full Board work together to ensure the quality of the companys corporate When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, the Committee considers the accounting and financial reporting.
The Committee serves as the particular skills, knowledge and experience that would benefit the Board primary link between the Board and the external and internal auditors.
most signicantly for each appointment.
Broad selection criteria are This facilitates the necessary independence from management and used which focus on achieving a balance between the representation encourages the external and internal auditors to communicate freely of European, UK and US markets, and having individuals with CEO and regularly with the Committee.
In 2005, the Committee met both experience and skills developed in various sectors and specialities.
During collectively and separately with the external auditors and the Head of 2005, particular focus was placed upon recruiting a new Non-Executive GIA, without members of management being present.
Director with recent and relevant financial expertise, to join the Audit Committee.
Professional search agencies are engaged specialising in The Committee has primary responsibility for making a the recruitment of high calibre Non-Executive Directors.
Dossiers of recommendation to shareholders on the appointment, reappointment potential non-executive appointees are provided to the Committee and and removal of the external auditors by annually assessing the candidates are short-listed for interview after considering their relevant qualications, expertise, resources and independence of the external qualications.
auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process.
A customised induction process is conducted for each of the new In making its assessment, the Committee considers papers which Non-Executive Directors focusing on their particular experience and detail the relevant regulatory requirements relating to external auditors taking account of their different backgrounds.
This process includes and evaluates reports from the external auditors on their compliance meeting members of the CET and other senior executives and visiting with the requirements.
Where the external auditors provide non-audit particular operational facilities of the Group.
services, the Committee ensures that auditor objectivity and independence are safeguarded by a policy requiring pre-approval by The Committee continued to keep under review the succession the Audit Committee for such services.
Expenditure on audit and nonplanning for senior executive positions, including that of the CEO and audit services is set out on pages 95 and 96.
When appointing new Executive Directors, the Committee considers The guidelines set out in the companys policy on engaging the the skills, knowledge and experience required for the particular external auditors to provide non-audit services include ascertaining executive position.
The Committee will consider potential external and that: the skills and experience of the external auditors make them a internal candidates before recommending to the Board to approve the suitable supplier of the non-audit services: adequate safeguards are new appointment.
All new Directors offer themselves for election at in place so that the objectivity and independence of the audit are not the companys next AGM.
Their appointments are announced publicly.
compromised: and the fee levels relative to the annual audit fee are within the limits set by the Committee.
The Committee met once during 2005 in full session and twice on a The company also has well-established policies, including a Code of quorate basis.
All members were present at the full meeting.
Ethics, which is available on its website, and a help-line facility for the Remuneration Report reporting and investigation of unlawful conduct.
No waivers to the The Remuneration Report can be found on pages 37 to 54.
The Committee met in full session five times in 2005 and five times The Combined Code on a quorate basis.
Each full session was attended by all members Throughout 2005, the company complied with the Code provisions except Sir Robert Wilson, who was unable to attend one meeting.
of the Combined Code, except as follows: Nominations Committee Report B.
1.1 In designing schemes of performance-related remuneration, The Nominations Committees terms of reference include responsibility the Remuneration Committee should follow the provisions in for proposing the appointment of Board and Committee members.
Item 6 of Schedule A states that, in general, During 2005, the Committee made recommendations to the Board on only basic salary should be pensionable.
The companys position is the appointment of Mr fide Swaan as a Non-Executive Director.
explained in the Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 54.
GSK Annual Report 2005 35 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Corporate governance continued C. 3.1 The Board should satisfy itself that at least one member of Sarbanes-Oxley also introduced a requirement for the CEO and the the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
CFO to complete formal certications, conrming that: The companys position is explained on page 34.
See page 34 for they have each reviewed the Annual Report and Form 20-F the position from 1st January 2006. based on their knowledge, it contains no material misstatements or D. 2.3 The Chairman should arrange for the Chairmen of the omissions Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees to be available to answer questions at the AGM and for all Directors to attend.
The based on their knowledge, the financial statements and other companys position is explained on pages 31 and 32. financial information fairly present, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash ows as of the US law and regulation dates, and for the periods, presented in the Annual Report and Form 20-F A number of provisions of US law and regulation apply to GSK because the companys shares are quoted on the New York Stock they are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure Exchange NYSE in the form of ADSs.
controls and procedures that ensure that material information is made known to them, have evaluated the effectiveness of these NYSE rules controls and procedures as at the year end, the results of such In general, the NYSE rules permit the company to follow UK corporate evaluation being contained in the Annual Report and Form 20-F governance practices instead of those applied in the USA, provided and have disclosed in the Annual Report and Form 20-F any changes that the company explains any significant variations.
This explanation in internal controls over financial reporting during the period covered is on the companys website.
NYSE rules that came into effect in 2005 by the Annual Report and Form 20-F that have materially affected, require the company to le annual and interim written afrmations or are reasonably likely to affect materially, the companys internal concerning the Audit Committee and the companys statement on control over financial reporting significant differences in corporate governance.
they have disclosed, based on their most recent evaluation of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 internal control over financial reporting, to the external auditors and Following a number of corporate and accounting scandals in the USA, the Audit Committee all significant deficiencies and material Congress passed the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley.
weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over Sarbanes-Oxley established new standards for corporate accountfinancial reporting which are reasonably likely to affect adversely ability for companies listed in the USA.
Although the companys the companys ability to record, process, summarise and report corporate governance structure was believed to be robust and in line financial information and any fraud regardless of materiality with best practice, certain changes were necessary to ensure involving persons that have a significant role in the companys compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley.
internal control over financial reporting.
As recommended by the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, The CEO and CFO have completed these certications, which will be GSK has established a Disclosure Committee.
The Committee reports led with the SEC as part of the Groups Form 20-F. to the CEO, the CFO and to the Audit Committee.
It is chaired by the Company Secretary and the members consist of senior managers Controls and procedures from finance, legal, compliance, corporate communications and The Group carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with investor relations.
the participation, of the Groups management, including the CEO and CFO, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the External legal counsel and the external auditors are invited to attend Groups disclosure controls and procedures as at 31st December its meetings periodically.
It has responsibility for considering the 2005.
There are inherent limitations to the effectiveness of any materiality of information and, on a timely basis, determining the system of disclosure controls and procedures, including the possibility disclosure of that information.
It has responsibility for the timely ling of human error and the circumvention or overriding of the controls of reports with the SEC and the formal review of the Annual Report and procedures.
In 2005, the Committee met eleven times.
Accordingly, even effective disclosure controls and procedures can Sarbanes-Oxley requires that the Annual Report contains a statement only provide reasonable assurance of achieving their control objectives.
as to whether a member of the companys Audit Committee is an Based upon the Groups evaluation, the CEO and CFO have concluded audit committee financial expert.
that, as at 31st December 2005, the disclosure controls and For an explanation and details of the basis for the Boards judgement procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that on this matter, refer to page 34. information required to be disclosed in the reports the Group les and submits under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as For accounting periods ending on or after 15th July 2006, Sarbanesamended, is recorded, processed, summarised and reported as and Oxley requires that the companys Form 20-F contain a report stating when required and that it is accumulated and communicated to the responsibility of management for establishing and maintaining management, including the CEO and CFO, as appropriate, to allow adequate internal control over financial reporting and assessing the timely decisions regarding required disclosure.
effectiveness of the companys internal control over financial reporting.
There have been no changes in the Groups internal control over Although the company is not required to report compliance in its financial reporting during 2005 that have materially affected, or are 2005 Form 20-F, management has undertaken a process to ensure reasonably likely to affect materially, the Groups internal control over that it will be in a position to report compliance by the due date.
GSK Annual Report 2005 36 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
