Corporate governance The company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
The board is accountable to the companys shareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the company and the companys compliance with the revised Combined Code published in July 2003.
Statement by the directors on compliance with the provisions of the combined code The company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code with the following exceptions: Combined code reference A.
2.1 Excluding the chairman, non-executive directors do not comprise at least 50% of the board.
The board and C. 3.1 considers that the chairman is robustly independent.
The two non-executive directors are equally independent.
In the opinion of the board, the appointment of a third non-executive director is not therefore necessary.
Given the size of the board, the audit and remuneration committees consist of the non-executive chairman and the two non-executive directors, and not three non-executive directors as required by code provisions C. 3.1 and B.
The independence of the chairman and non-executives is subject to ongoing monitoring by the board at least annually.
3.3 In the boards opinion, its size does not justify the appointment of a formally recognised senior independent non-executive director.
Furthermore, both of the independent non-executive directors are well known to investors and financial professionals in the UK.
Shareholders should feel free to approach either of them in the event that their contacts with the chairman and executives are deemed inadequate.
1.6 Up to 31 December 2004 two of the executive directors had contracts with two years notice.
The board confirms that it has established the procedures necessary to comply with The Turnbull Report:Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The board The board currently comprises three non-executive directors including the chairman, all of whom are considered to be independent, and three executive directors, and is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the group.
It meets at least every two months, developing and monitoring group strategy and safety standards, setting objectives for the operating subsidiaries of the group, monitoring performance, ensuring adequate funding, examining major acquisition possibilities, formulating policy on key issues and reporting to shareholders.
Day to day responsibility for the operation of group companies, implementation of group strategy and achievement of objectives is delegated to executive management.
Whilst non-executive directors are not appointed for a specified term, all directors are subject to re-election by shareholders following appointment and are subject to re-election at intervals of not more than three years.
The board maintains a group board procedures manual prepared in response to the Combined Code.
It includes formal procedures for the working of the board and its committees, the timely provision of appropriate information to directors, standards of conduct, and the procedures for directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary at the groups expense.
The board has adopted a procedure for the evaluation of the performance of the board, its committees and individual directors, using an external consultant to interview each board member in confidence and report the analysis of findings to the board as a whole.
Such a review is again being undertaken this year.
During the year the board met seven times.
All members of the board attended each meeting.
Re-election of directors Chris Moyes became group chief executive in January 2005 ensuring a seamless transition from the then group chief executive, Martin Ballinger.
His contribution to the company over nearly twenty years continues and is well recognised by all of the board.
The board believes that Christopher Moyes should be re-elected for a further term.
Ian Butcher has a successful track record as group finance director and company secretary, and possesses a wealth of experience at group finance director level.
The board believes that Ian Butcher should be re-elected for a further term.
The board has appointed the following committees to deal with specic aspects of the groups affairs.
Audit committee The audit committee is chaired by Sir Patrick Brown.
The committee comprises all the non-executive directors, and meets no less than four times annually.
The committee provides a forum for reporting by the groups external and internal auditors.
Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the executive directors.
It also receives and reviews reports from management relating to the annual and half year profit gures and statements and monitors the controls which are in force to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to the shareholders.
It also advises the board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration both for audit and non-audit work.
The provision of certain non-audit services including accounting and tax services if the fees exceed a level set by the audit committee is subject to approval by the chairman, and after a higher threshold is reached, by the committee as a whole, in order to ensure auditor 16 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 2 July 2005 objectivity and independence.
The audit committee has specified that the external audit rm may not provide certain categories of non-audit services to the group.
The audit committee keeps under review the cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external and internal auditors.
The committee has unrestricted access to the auditors.
During the year the committee met four times.
All members of the committee attended each meeting.
Remuneration committee The remuneration committee is made up of the non-executive directors and is chaired by Sir Patrick Brown.
The group chief executive attends all meetings, acting as secretary.
The committee has the responsibility for determining the remuneration, contract terms and other benets for executive directors, including performance-related bonus and share schemes.
Details of policy and directors remuneration, including share options and contract terms, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 19 to 21.
During the year the committee met five times.
The terms of reference of the audit and remuneration committees are available on request from the group company secretary.
Nomination committee The nomination committee is made up of the non-executive directors and is chaired by Sir Patrick Brown.
The group chief executive attends all meetings.
The nomination committee meets as needed to deal with necessary assignments and is responsible for leading the process of identifying candidates for board appointment and making recommendations to the board in accordance with the needs of the company and best practice in corporate governance from time to time.
Since the appointments of Christopher Moyes as group chief executive and Keith Ludeman as a board director last year, there has been no requirement for the nomination committee to meet during the year.
Relations with shareholders The executive directors meet the groups institutional investors after announcement of interim and final results and at other times as appropriate.
The directors are also regularly in contact with stockbrokers analysts.
All shareholders are invited to the annual general meeting.
The group maintains a website and expects this to continue to be a growing medium for communication to individual shareholders.
In addition to the meetings with executive directors, institutional shareholders have the opportunity of additional meetings with non-executive directors.
The shareholders have further opportunities to make their views known through follow up interviews by the companys brokers.
Their views are documented and circulated to all directors.
Pension plan The assets of the groups pension plan are totally separate from the assets of the group and are invested with independent fund managers.
There are 28 trustees, all employees chosen to reect the geographic and functional spread of the group and including two executive directors.
Christopher Moyes is chairman of the trustees.
The auditors and actuaries of the plan are both independent of the group.
Health, safety and environment The board is fully committed to delivering the highest standards of health, safety and welfare for all of its employees and customers and acknowledges its responsibility for other persons who may be affected by the groups activities.
The board is committed to minimising any detrimental effect that the groups activities may have upon the environment and acknowledges its responsibility to take reasonable measures to safeguard the environment for both present and future generations.
The board takes all necessary steps to ensure that its statutory duties are met.
These policies are regularly monitored and the groups subsidiaries subjected to independent audit to ensure that the relevant objectives are achieved.
The groups Environmental and Social Report is published separately and can be found on the groups website.
Internal controls The board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the groups system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the groups strategic objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
An ongoing process, in accordance with the guidance of theTurnbull Committee on internal control, has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the group.
The process has been in place for the full year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
The board regularly reviews this process.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 2 July 2005 17 Corporate governance continued The key procedures which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal controls are as follows.
a decentralised organisation structure with dened limits of responsibility and authority in accordance with the groups policy and procedures manual: an annual budgeting process with regular re-forecasting of results, identifying key risks and opportunities: monthly financial reporting and review of results by group executives: the company reports to shareholders twice a year: dened capital expenditure approval procedures: and a commitment to best practice in external reporting.
The key processes used by the board to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control include the following.
annual review of the group internal control document, which covers both financial and non-financial areas of internal control, and is certied by the respective subsidiary boards: monthly reporting of financial information to the board encompassing profit and loss, cash ow and balance sheet information and key operating ratios: regular reporting to the board on specic matters including safety, insurance and treasury management: and considering the outcome of the audit committee meetings and the relevant action determined in respect of any control issues raised by internal or external auditors.
Going concern On the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue for the foreseeable future and, accordingly, consider that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
18 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 2 July 2005
