CORPORATE GOVERNANCE with the opportunity to question management as required.
Governance structure Explanations of the securitisation of part of the companys assets, The board and of legislative changes affecting the industry, have been The board considers that it is vital to ensure that there is an provided to the board during the year.
appropriate range of skills and experience among its members, and that the objectivity and integrity of members should be The training needs of the board are regularly reviewed.
The board currently comprises a non-executive an agreed procedure, set out in writing, for directors to take chairman, five other non-executive directors and four executive independent professional advice at the companys expense.
The directors biographies are on page 19. company has in place directors and officers liability insurance.
There have been a number of changes to the board during the year.
Newly-appointed directors receive a full and appropriate Graham Greene retired as a non-executive director on 3 September induction on joining the board to acquaint them with the 2004, after twenty-five years of service.
David McCall retired as noncompany, the board and the relevant policies and procedures.
executive chairman on 1 May 2005, and was succeeded as This takes the form of meetings with other board members and chairman by Tim Bridge, former chief executive.
Rooney Anand, the provision of an induction pack containing relevant information.
previously managing director of the brewing division, took over as chief executive.
Jane Scriven was appointed as a non-executive Performance evaluation director with effect from 18 March 2005 and following the year end The board has in place a process for the annual performance John Brady was appointed as a non-executive director with effect evaluation of the board, its committees and individual directors.
A new executive director, Justin Adams, will be A questionnaire was distributed to all board members and the joining the board in September as managing director of the brewing company secretary, covering a wide range of matters including division.
The new non-executive directors are available to meet board structure and composition, board processes, major shareholders if required.
communications with shareholders and corporate governance matters.
When the questionnaire had been completed, the All of the directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first chairman had a one-to-one meeting with each of the directors annual general meeting after their appointment to the board and to and the company secretary to discuss their responses and to re-election by shareholders every three years thereafter.
In addition, review the performance of the non-executive directors.
The any non-executive director who has served more than nine years is results of the evaluation process were reported to the board and subject to annual re-election.
a number of matters which arose therefrom will be addressed during the course of this year.
The board is satisfied that it and The division of responsibilities between the chairman and the chief its committees are operating effectively.
executive has been clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the board.
The job descriptions are available on request.
The The performance of David McCall, chairman during the year, was chairman has primary responsibility for running the board and not separately reviewed in the light of his planned retirement at the devotes such time to his role as is necessary to properly discharge end of the financial year.
The performance of the executive directors his duties.
The chief executive has responsibility for executing the is reviewed annually by the remuneration committee in conjunction companys strategy and achieving operational and financial goals.
with their annual pay review and the payment of bonuses.
The board has a formal schedule of matters which are reserved for Independence of non-executive directors its decision, including approval of the long term objectives and The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to strategy, approval of budgets and financial statements including the ensure that the strategies proposed by the executive directors are report and accounts, acquisitions and disposals, changes to the carefully examined and fully discussed.
Their independence and structure of the group and overall corporate governance issues.
It objectivity are of paramount importance.
The board believes that reviews trading performance and considers major capital they all have a range of skills and experience which will help the expenditure and acquisition opportunities.
Management is company and that their understanding of the company, its strategy delegated the task of the detailed planning and implementation of and operations increases over the years.
The board is satisfied that all of the non-executive directors were Information and training independent throughout the year, being free from any relationship Full and timely information is provided to the board to enable it to with the executive management which could result in any conflict or properly discharge its functions.
All directors have access to the affect their independent judgment, that they all remained advice and services of the company secretary and are provided 58 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE independent in character and judgment.
In particular, the board was With effect from 2 May 2005 Tim Bridge stepped down as chief satisfied that the length of term served by Alan Bowkett did not executive and took over as chairman of the board.
As there have been a number of board considering his appointment the board noted the requirement that changes this year, the board asked Alan Bowkett to stay on to the chairman should meet the independence criteria of the provide continuity and stability until the AGM in 2006, when he will combined code.
As a result of Tim Bridges long tenure on the retire.
He will need to be re-elected this year as he has already board, he does not meet all of the independence criteria set out served for more than nine years.
The board is satisfied that his therein.
However, the board is confident that the strength of performance continues to be effective and that he continues to character and independent judgment that he has exhibited as chief demonstrate commitment to the role.
executive will continue in his role as chairman.
Further details on the background to Tim Bridges appointment as chairman are set out in None of the independent non-executive directors participates in the the report of the nomination committee below.
share option schemes or long-term incentive plan operated by the company and none was dependent on the fees received from the Meetings and attendance company as their primary source of income.
Board meetings are scheduled to be held nine times a year.
There is also a strategy day and a pub away-day for the full board each year.
The senior independent non-executive director is Howard Phillips, Between meetings, as required, the board can be in frequent contact who took over that role from Graham Greene on the latters to progress the companys business and if necessary, board retirement.
Howard was appointed to the board in June 1998, has meetings can be held at short notice.
Where possible, however, ad never been employed by the company and has diverse business hoc committees of the board are appointed to deal with matters interests.
The board considers that he remains independent from which it is known will need to be dealt with between scheduled board management in both character and judgment.
During the year his meetings.
If directors are unable to attend meetings they are given term of appointment was renewed until 18 June 2007, and he the opportunity to be consulted and comment in advance of the assumed the role of senior independent non-executive, following a meeting.
The chairman holds regular informal meetings with the nonreview by the chairman.
The board is satisfied that his performance executive directors without the executive directors being present.
continues to be effective and that he continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at scheduled board and board committee meetings during the year.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Meetings held during 2004-05 Board committee committee committee 95 6 5 Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings attended attended attended attended Executive directors Tim Bridge 9 - - 5 Rooney Anand 9 - - - Mark Angela 9 - - - David Elliott 9 - - - Michael Shallow 9 - - - Non-executive directors David McCall 7 - 6 5 Alan Bowkett 8 5 5 5 3 Graham Greene 3 1 2 - Howard Phillips 6 4 5 - Norman Murray 9 4 6 - 4 Jane Scriven 21 - - 1 - not a member of the committee 2 During the year, certain directors who were not committee members attended meetings of the audit committee, remuneration committee and nomination committee by invitation.
These details have not been included in the table.
3 Graham Greene retired as a director on 3 September 2004.
The number of board meetings and audit, nomination and remuneration committee meetings attended is stated with effect up to and including that date.
4 Jane Scriven was appointed as a director on 18 March 2005.
The number of board and audit committee meetings attended is stated with effect from that date.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board committees Simultaneously with the recommendation to the board regarding The board has established an audit committee, a remuneration the appointment of Tim Bridge as chairman, the nomination committee and a nomination committee, each of which has committee and the non-executive directors also recommended formal terms of reference governing its method of operation.
to the board that Rooney Anand, who was then managing Each of the terms of reference, which are available on request director of the companys brewing division, be appointed as chief and will be available for inspection at the annual general meeting, executive.
reflect the provisions of the new combined code and have been approved by the board.
The nomination committee also dealt with the appointment to the board of Jane Scriven as a non-executive director during the year.
Set out below are reports from each of the nomination External search consultants were employed to assist in the committee, audit committee and remuneration committee.
recruitment process and a short list of candidates was produced.
The chairman and chief executive met a number of potential Nomination committee report candidates and then all of the directors were given the During the year the nomination committee was chaired by David opportunity to meet Jane Scriven.
Having considered her other McCall and comprised, in addition, Tim Bridge, Alan Bowkett commitments and on receiving confirmation that she would and, whilst he was on the board, Graham Greene.
Since the year accept the appointment, the committee recommended her end and the retirement of David McCall, the chairmanship of the appointment to the board and it took effect from 18 March 2005. committee has been taken over by Tim Bridge and Howard Phillips and Norman Murray have been appointed as members.
All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders following their appointment and subsequently in every third year.
The The committees role is to propose candidates for appointment to nomination committee undertakes a review of all directors who the board, to review regularly the structure, size and composition are due for re-election to determine whether or not to of the board and make recommendations to the board with recommend their re-appointment.
regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
It met five times during the year, twice in conjunction with meetings of the Audit committee report non-executive directors as a whole.
The audit committee is chaired by Norman Murray and the other members of the committee during the year were Alan Bowkett, The principal role of the nomination committee and of the nonHoward Phillips, Jane Scriven, following her appointment in executive directors during the year was to ensure that plans for the March 2005, and, whilst he was a director, Graham Greene.
All recruitment of a new chairman were in place, in view of David members are considered by the board to be independent.
The McCalls planned retirement at the age of 70.
As the chief board is satisfied that Norman Murray has recent and relevant executive, Tim Bridge, had made it clear that he did not intend to financial experience, being a chartered accountant who has continue in an executive capacity for more than a limited period, already chaired audit committees of other UK listed companies and having regard to the highly successful track record which the and is also currently Vice-President of the Institute of Chartered group had established, the nomination committee and the nonAccountants of Scotland.
executive directors felt that it was overwhelmingly in the interests of shareholders to maintain continuity in the management of the The role of the audit committee is to review the results of the full group and that the loss of both the chairman and chief executive year audit and approve the interim results in each case prior to within a short time frame would give rise to an unacceptable risk.
their submission to the board.
It is also responsible for reviewing Note was also taken of the extensive delegation of authority which the companys internal financial control and risk management had already been achieved by Tim Bridge as chief executive.
systems, advising the board on the appointment of external auditors, overseeing the relationship with the external auditors, The non-executive directors therefore approached Tim Bridge to reviewing the companys whistleblowing procedures and ask him whether he would consider putting himself forward to considering the need for a full internal audit function.
succeed the chairman in a non-executive capacity.
In doing this, the non-executives were fully cognisant of the provision of the The committee had five meetings during the year and on each combined code that such a move should only be considered in occasion the finance director attended.
The external auditors exceptional circumstances: they therefore consulted with the attended four of the meetings.
companys five largest shareholders before putting a formal proposal to the board.
These shareholders were supportive of the The audit committee continuously monitors the relationship with proposal in the particular circumstances of the group at the time.
60 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the auditors and assesses their performance, cost-effectiveness, David McCall and the other members were Alan Bowkett, objectivity and independence.
It agrees the scope of the audit Graham Greene, whilst he was a director, Norman Murray and work and discusses the results of the full year audit and interim Howard Phillips.
Howard Phillips became chairman at the end of review each year.
A new audit partner took over responsibility for the year on the retirement of David McCall.
All the members were the companys audit work at the beginning of the financial year.
considered by the board to be independent.
The board is satisfied that the auditors are independent of the company and that best practice is being observed.
The role of the committee includes determining the remuneration policy for the executive directors and the chairman and fixing the The company uses specialist teams within Ernst & Young LLP for total individual remuneration package of each of the executive non-audit work such as taxation advice and assistance on risk directors, considering the granting of share options and awards management issues.
The committee has sought and obtained under the long-term incentive plan and determining bonuses detailed explanations from the auditors as to the safeguards and payable to the executive directors.
standards, including compliance with professional and regulatory requirements, applied by Ernst & Young LLP to ensure auditor The remuneration committee met six times during the year.
The independence in the light of the significant level of work undertaken chief executive, at the request of the committee, attends its by the firm for the company during the year, including detailed tax meetings.
He is consulted by the committee on its proposals, but advice relating to the acquisition of the Laurel neighbourhood does not participate in any meetings or discussions relating to his estate and the securitisation.
The audit committee is satisfied that own remuneration.
the use of Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit work has been subject to detailed scrutiny and the work only awarded when there have Details of the companys policies on remuneration, service been sound business reasons for preferring Ernst & Young LLP contracts and compensation payments are set out in the over and above other advisers.
Further the committee has remuneration report on pages 50 to 57. scrutinised the internal procedures of Ernst & Young LLP and satisfied itself that the independence and objectivity of the auditors Communication with shareholders are not affected by the non-audit work undertaken.
Shareholder communication is regarded as a key priority for the board, with the annual report and interim statements being the The audit committee has also established a policy in relation to principal media used.
In addition, the AGM is fully utilised as a the use of Ernst & Young LLP for non-audit work.
The company means of communicating directly with shareholders, who have a will award non-audit work to the firm which provides the best full opportunity to ask questions.
The board aims to ensure that all commercial solution for the work in question.
Pieces of work members of the board, including in particular the chairmen of the estimated to be in excess of an agreed level are put out to tender board committees, are available to answer questions at the AGM.
unless agreed otherwise by the chairman of the audit committee.
Limits of authority have been placed on the ability of the finance All substantive items of business at shareholders meetings are dealt director and the chairman of the audit committee to approve with under separate resolutions, including a resolution to adopt the specific engagements, with fees in excess of those limits being report and accounts.
The chairman announces the results of the subject to approval of the committee.
proxy voting on each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
The notice of meeting is issued in compliance with The company has a limited internal audit function which focuses both the articles and the combined code and is sent to shareholders on the groups managed house division, where the greatest a minimum of 20 working days before the meeting.
financial risks are perceived to exist.
Elsewhere within the group a combination of the external audit procedures and the types of There is a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, financial risks involved are felt to be such that a wider internal including meetings after the announcement of the year end and audit function would be superfluous.
However, as a result of interim results.
The board receives regular reports from the chief deliberations by the audit committee, the companys central executive on the meetings he and the finance director have with finance team has been strengthened and responsibilities clarified principal shareholders.
The chairman and senior independent to respond to the more complex treasury and financial non-executive director were involved in meetings with the major accounting needs which have emerged following the acquisition shareholders to discuss the board changes which were of the Laurel neighbourhood estate and the securitisation.
The senior independent nonexecutive director, Howard Phillips, is available to shareholders if Remuneration committee report they have concerns about governance issues which the normal During the year the remuneration committee was chaired by channels of contact have failed to resolve.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 61 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The company maintains a web site www.
co. uk to strategies, the implementation of suitable management actions and provide up-to-date, detailed information on the companys monitors progress made.
The audit committee receives regular operations and brands, which includes a dedicated investor reports on risk issues within the business.
All company announcements are available on this site, as are copies of slides used for presentations to The board is ultimately responsible for the companys system of investment analysts.
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
A formal assessment of the risk and control environment in place during Directors responsibility statement the period and to the date of this report has been undertaken, The following statement, which should be read in conjunction based on detailed reports from, and subsequent discussions with the auditors statement of their responsibilities on page 64, with, senior management.
No significant problems were is made with a view to distinguishing for shareholders the disclosed in these reports.
respective responsibilities of the directors and the auditors in relation to the financial statements.
The control environment comprises the elements set out below: The directors are required by law to prepare accounts for each Internal control and risk management process financial period which give a true and fair view of the state of The directors routinely monitor all aspects of risk management affairs of the company and the group as at the end of the financial and internal control, and regularly assess the data on the period and of the profit or loss for the period.
Major risks are identified, the financial implications of each risk assessed and the adequacy and The directors are responsible for ensuring that the group maintains effectiveness of the associated control environment analysed.
proper accounting records, which disclose with reasonable Any issues arising from this process are discussed with accuracy at any time the financial position of the group and which operational management as needed.
Appropriate steps are enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the then taken to mitigate and monitor the effect of these risks.
They are also responsible for safeguarding Data on the key exposures is reviewed regularly by the the assets of the group and taking reasonable steps for the executive directors and the audit committee of the board.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Internal audit The directors are required to ensure the accounts have been The controls over the groups managed houses are enhanced prepared using suitable accounting policies, consistently applied by an internal audit team and the availability of comprehensive and supported by reasonable and prudent judgments and information from the EPOS till system.
On behalf of the board, estimates and confirm that all applicable accounting standards the audit committee assesses the procedures and scope of have been followed.
internal audit within the group, including seeking the views of the external auditors.
Internal control The board acknowledges its responsibility for the groups Annual budgets systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Detailed annual budgets covering all financial aspects of the Such systems can only be designed to manage, and not to groups business are evaluated and approved by the board.
eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They The actual results are compared against these budgets on a can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that the four-weekly basis and variances analysed in order that any groups assets are safeguarded and that the financial information appropriate action can be taken.
used within the business and for external reporting is reliable.
Capital and project control The company has assessed the key risks to which it is exposed and There are clearly defined evaluation and approval processes has formalised the control environment needed to address these and for acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure and project other issues.
There are processes in place which are in accordance control.
These include escalating levels of authority, detailed with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee on internal control.
The appraisal and review procedures and post-completion reviews board regularly reviews risk management and internal controls, of all major projects to compare the actual outcome with the including key performance indicator data on the significant risks original plan.
Certain transactions are reserved for approval by faced.
The executive directors routinely consider the effective the board.
Limits of delegated responsibility and areas of management of risk throughout the business at their regular authority have been identified for employees.
This group oversees the development of risk management 62 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE External audit The audit committee reports to the board on matters discussed with the auditors during the course of the statutory audit and interim review.
Exception summary The company is committed to ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained.
The board considers that the company has complied with the new combined code issued in July 2003, except in the following areas.
1.3 requires the non-executive directors to meet without the chairman at least once a year to appraise the chairmans performance and on such other occasions as are deemed appropriate.
6.1 requires the non-executive directors to evaluate the performance of the chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
This did not occur in view of the impending retirement of David McCall as chairman at the end of the financial year.
An appraisal will be made of the current chairman during 2005 6.
2.2 provides that a chairman on appointment should meet the independence criteria set out in A.
3.1 and that a chief executive should not go on to become chairman.
During the year the board resolved to appoint Tim Bridge, then chief executive, as chairman, which appointment took effect from 2 May 2005.
The reasons for and background to the appointment are set out in more detail in the report of the nomination committee.
3.2 provides that at least half the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise independent non-executive directors.
At the beginning of the year the board comprised five executive directors and four non-executive directors, excluding the chairman, and following the retirement of Graham Greene in September 2004 until the appointment of Jane Scriven in March 2005 there were just three non-executive directors plus the chairman.
The board believes that the process of recruiting nonexecutive directors should not be hurried and it was keen to select the right people irrespective of time.
Since the year end John Brady has been appointed as a further non-executive director and the board therefore now complies with this provision.
