Corporate Governance The Board is responsible for the governance of the The Chairman, Rob Templeman, was Executive Chairman Company, governance being the systems and procedures prior to the flotation of the Company in June 2004, but on by which the Company is directed and controlled.
A flotation relinquished his executive role and became prescribed set of rules does not of itself determine good Non-executive Chairman.
Jonathan Feuer is deemed governance or stewardship of a company and, in fulfilling by the Board not to be independent due to him being their responsibilities, the Directors believe that they govern an employee of CVC Capital Partners Limited, which the Company in the best interests of shareholders, whilst provides advice, whether directly or indirectly, to the CVC having due regard to the interests of other stakeholders Shareholders who, collectively, held 19.8 per cent.
of the in the Group including, in particular, customers, employees Companys issued shares at 1 April 2005.
For the period from flotation to 1 April 2005, is also the appointee of the CVC Shareholders under the policy of the Board has been to manage the affairs of Article 73 of the Companys Articles of Association.
the Company in accordance with the principles of good governance and the code provisions set out in Section 1 of It is the policy of the Nomination Committee and the Board the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the to maintain an appropriate balance between Executive and Combined Code.
Non-executive Directors in line with the provisions of the Combined Code.
As reflected in the profiles of the Compliance with the Combined Code Directors on page 17, the Directors have wide experience The Directors consider that the Company has fully which enables them to contribute fully to the Board and complied with the requirements of the Combined Code to the Groups business and ensures that independent for the period since flotation, with the exception that the judgement is exercised on issues such as strategy and Chairman, Rob Templeman, is deemed by the Board not to performance and that a proper balance of power is have been independent for the purposes of paragraph maintained for full and effective control.
2.2 of the Combined Code, due to him having been an Directors devote sufficient time and attention as necessary executive chairman of the Company prior to the flotation.
in order to perform their duties.
The Directors The Company recognises that its Executive Directors The Boards role is to determine the long-term direction may be invited to become Non-executive Directors of and strategy of the Group, create value for shareholders, companies outside the Group and exposure to such duties monitor the achievement of business objectives, ensure can broaden experience and knowledge, which will be to that good corporate governance is practiced and that the the benefit of the Company.
Subject to Board approval Group meets its other responsibilities to shareholders, which will not be given if the proposed appointment is with customers and other stakeholders.
The Board is also a competing company, would otherwise lead to a conflict of responsible for ensuring that appropriate processes are in interest or could have a detrimental effect on a Directors place in respect of succession planning for appointments performance, the Boards policy is that an Executive to the Board and to senior management positions.
Director can accept no more than one Non-executive Directorship and may retain the fees.
Ian McLeod is Currently, the Board is composed of eight members, currently a Non-executive Director of Fulham Football consisting of two Executive Directors, a Non-executive Club 1987 Limited.
Chairman and five Non-executive Directors.
Four of the Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be The Board has appointed Richard Pym as the Senior independent, namely Richard Pym, Nigel Wilson, Keith Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director is Harris and Bill Ronald.
Accordingly, no individual or group available to meet shareholders upon request if they have of individuals dominates the Boards decision-making and concerns which contact through the normal channels of the requirement of the Combined Code that at least half the Chairman or Executive Directors has either failed to the Board excluding the Chairman should comprise resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
independent Non-executive Directors is satisfied.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 23 Corporate Governance The Board initially appoints all new Directors having first Specific presentations are made on business or strategic considered recommendations made to it by the issues, when appropriate.
The Board also receives Nomination Committee.
Following such appointment, the information from management on current trading and Director is required to retire and seek re-appointment at prospects and the market position of the Group, together the next Annual General Meeting.
Under the Companys with key issues being addressed by the management team.
Articles of Association there is also a process of rotation, Minutes of committee meetings are circulated to all Board which ensures that approximately one third of all Directors members, unless a conflict of interest has arisen.
These are required to retire and seek re-appointment at each procedures are intended to ensure that the Board is Annual General Meeting and that no Director serves for supplied in a timely manner with information appropriate to more than three years without being proposed for enable the Board to discharge its duties.
re-appointment at an Annual General Meeting.
The number of meetings of the Board and of each of the Non-executive Directors are appointed for specified terms Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees held normally three years subject to re-appointment under during the financial year ended 1 April 2005, together with the Companys Articles of Association and subject to a record of the attendance of the current Directors who are Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of their respective members, is set out below: a Director.
The Chairman will confirm to shareholders when proposing an appointment or re-appointment that, Number of meetings attended following formal performance evaluation, the individuals Board Audit Remuneration Nomination performance continues to be effective and to demonstrate Meetings Committee Committee Committee commitment to the role.
Any term beyond six years for a Rob Templeman 9 Non-executive Director would be subject to particularly Ian McLeod 8 rigorous review and will take into account the need for Nick Carter 9 progressive refreshing of the Board.
Any Non-executive Richard Pym 7 2 2 3 Director serving longer than eight years would be subject Nigel Wilson 8 2 2 to annual re-appointment.
Bill Ronald 9 2 3 Keith Harris 7 2 3 Profiles of the Directors are set out on page 17.
Jonathan Feuer 8 The Chairman is primarily responsible for the workings of Total meetings the Board and he is not involved in day-to-day operational in year 9 2 2 3 issues.
Save for matters reserved for decision by the Note: - denotes that a Director is not a member of the relevant Committee Board, the Chief Executive, with the support of the Executive Directors, is responsible for the running of the Groups business, carrying out the agreed strategy adopted The Board has a formal schedule of reserved powers, by the Board and implementing specific Board decisions which it retains for Board decision-making on a range of relating to the operation of the Group.
key issues, including the formulation of strategy, financial reporting and controls, corporate governance matters, and The Board meets on a regular basis.
During the financial treasury and risk management.
A procedure has been year ended 1 April 2005, the Board met formally nine adopted for Directors to obtain independent professional times.
In addition to the scheduled Board meetings, the advice, where appropriate, at the cost of the Company Board held an additional meeting to review corporate and all Directors have unrestricted access to the strategy.
Appropriate documentation and financial Company Secretary.
In relation to non-reserved matters, information is provided on a monthly basis and also in the Board is assisted by a number of committees with advance of each Board meeting.
These normally include delegated authority.
monthly management accounts, reports on current trading and papers on matters in respect of which the Board makes decisions or is invited to give its approval.
24 Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 The make up and roles of the three key committees the A Treasury Committee, chaired by Nick Carter, has also Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are been established to manage the day-to-day treasury needs described below and in relation to the Remuneration of the Group.
The Treasury Committees membership is Committee in the Directors Remuneration Report on drawn from senior members of the Groups finance and pages 30 to 35. treasury teams.
From time to time, separate ad hoc Committees may be set up by the Board to consider The Board has formally adopted an induction programme specific issues when the need arises.
for new Directors, which will be tailored to each new Director who joins the Board and includes briefings Audit Committee regarding the activities of the Group and visits to stores.
The Audit Committee comprises Nigel Wilson, Richard Pym Documentation and training on their duties as Directors are and Bill Ronald, all of whom are independent Non-executive also available to all Directors.
In addition, Directors are also Directors.
The Committee Chairman is Nigel Wilson, who, informed regularly on relevant material changes to laws being also Chief Financial Officer of United Business Media and regulations affecting the Groups businesses.
plc, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Each of the other independent The Board has established a formal process for the annual Non-executive Directors on the Committee has, through evaluation of the performance of the Board, its principal their other business activities, significant experience in committees and individual Directors.
Richard Pym, a Chartered Accountant drawn up, which provide the framework for the evaluation and Group Chief Executive of Alliance & Leicester plc, and process.
Each member of the Board submits replies to Bill Ronald, formerly Chief Executive of Uniq plc, both have the questionnaires, which are collated into a report for significant, recent and relevant experience of financial and the Board.
Following a review of the report by the Board, accounting issues.
any appropriate action will be taken to ensure that the performance of the Board as a whole, its principal The Committee has formal terms of reference and meets committees and individual Directors is such that each at least two times a year, according to the requirements of can perform at the optimum level for the benefit of the the Companys financial calendar.
The meetings of the Company.
The Senior Independent Director and the other Audit Committee also provide the opportunity for the independent Non-executive Directors conduct the annual independent Non-executive Directors to meet without the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
Executive Directors present to discuss the performance of the Group, its management and their ongoing stewardship The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors of the Group.
The independent Non-executive Directors and Officers liability insurance to provide cover for its also have the opportunity at this time to raise any issues of Directors and Officers for claims and liabilities or legal concern with the Auditor.
actions arising out of the performance of their duties or roles.
In addition to monitoring the internal and external audit functions and ensuring the integrity of the Groups interim Board Committees and full-year financial statements before publication, the The Board has established Nomination, Remuneration and Committee also has responsibility for monitoring a number Audit Committees, with formally delegated duties and of other areas of activity including: responsibilities and written terms of reference.
The the integrity, performance, and independence of Company Secretary acts as secretary to all three the Groups relationship with the external auditors: committees.
Only the members of each committee are reviewing the nature and extent of non-audit services entitled to attend its meetings, although other Directors, by the auditors in order to seek to balance the professional advisers and members of the senior maintenance of objectivity and independence, and value management team attend when invited to do so.
In this context, the Committee requires any Audit Committee will normally invite the external Auditor proposal for expenditure of over 25,000 on non-audit to its meetings.
In the cases of the Nomination and services to be referred to it for scrutiny and approval: Remuneration Committees, no member is present when business pertinent to him is under discussion.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 25 Corporate Governance the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and the During the year, the Committee nominated Ian McLeod for Groups risk management policies and systems, and appointment as Chief Executive.
In making its nomination, objective assurance on the control environment the Committee took account of his contribution to the across the Group: success of the Group and the breadth of his experience in making recommendations to the Board on the the retail sector.
The Board subsequently approved the appointment of auditors and the level of audit fees: and nomination and Mr McLeod was appointed as Chief keeping under review the scope and results of the Executive on 29 March 2005. audit and its cost effectiveness.
Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Keith Harris The Nomination Committee comprises Richard Pym Chairman, Richard Pym and Nigel Wilson, all of whom Chairman, Keith Harris and Bill Ronald, all of whom are are independent Non-executive Directors.
independent Non-executive Directors and Ian McLeod who joined the Committee in April 2005.
David Hamid was The Committee has formal terms of reference and also a member of the Committee until his resignation as meetings are held as and when required, although the Chief Executive on 29 March 2005.
Committee is required to meet at least twice each year.
The Nomination Committee has formal terms of reference The Committee, on behalf of the Board, determines all and meetings are held as and when required, although the elements of the remuneration packages of the Executive Committee is required to meet at least twice each year.
Directors and certain senior executives of the Group.
It During the period under review, it met to consider approves the terms of service contracts with Executive succession planning for the Board and senior Directors and would also approve any compensation management generally and to agree the appointment arrangements resulting from the termination by the of a new Chief Executive.
Company of a Directors service contract.
The Committee also approves the grant of share options.
The terms of In addition, its remit includes: reference of the Committee include the following: nominating for appointment to the Board candidates to make recommendations to the Board on the both Executive and Non-executive to fill vacancies Companys framework of executive remuneration and or appoint additional persons to the Board: its cost: monitoring the size, structure, balance and to review and determine, on behalf of the Board, the composition of the Board: remuneration and incentive packages of the Companys evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge Executive Directors and certain senior executives of the and experience of the Boards members: Group to ensure that they are fairly rewarded for their making recommendations in respect of the individual contributions to the Groups overall membership of the Audit and Remuneration performance: Committees: and to determine the basis on which the employment of making recommendations in respect of the the Companys Executive Directors and certain senior re-appointment or not of Non-executive Directors executives of the Group is terminated: and and of the continuance in service or not of to supervise the operation and administration of the Executive Directors.
Companys share option schemes and employee benefit trust.
In discharging its duties, the Committee considers the challenges and opportunities facing the Group and the To assist the Committee in its work, the services of skills and expertise required for the future.
In relation to remuneration consultants, Watson Wyatt LLP, were retained any new appointments, the Committee evaluates the to provide advice on appropriate levels of remuneration balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the for Executive Directors and for other senior executives in Board and, in the light of this evaluation, prepares a the Group and from Clifford Chance LLP in respect of description of the role and capabilities required for a share schemes.
26 Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 The Committee also assists the Board in preparing the The Boards internal control system focuses on a wide annual report on Directors remuneration.
The Directors range of business and financial risks as follows: Remuneration Report for the year ended 1 April 2005 is set out on pages 30 to 35 of this report.
Business risks: There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the business risks faced by the Accountability and audit Group and this process was in place for the year under The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the review and up to the date of this Report.
Business risks are Auditor in connection with the Companys financial identified and evaluated through senior managements statements are explained below under the headings ongoing review of progress against strategic objectives Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 36 and agreed with the Board and a system of formal risk Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors on assessments within each part of the Group.
The Directors are responsible for presenting a which are reviewed through the formal risk assessment clear and balanced assessment of the financial situation system include: and prospects of the Group and, as part of this external business risks including regulatory and assessment, the Chief Executives Report is set out on compliance obligations: pages 5 to 10 and the Finance Directors Report is set out operational risks arising from, for example supplier on pages 12 to 15. dependency, fire and explosion: financial risks, such as the management of The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system payroll controls: of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness legal risks, for example, the risks arising under throughout the Group.
However, such a system is designed leases of retail units and under contracts with suppliers: to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to informational risks, including the integrity of IT systems achieve business objectives and can provide only and the security of information: and reasonable and not absolute assurance against material the risks to members of staff from crime.
It is also recognised that it is the nature of any business that commercial risk must be taken The risk assessment system is supported by internal risk and, for a business to succeed, enterprise, initiative and reviews carried out by functional managers.
The results motivation are key elements to success which should not of this work are reported to the Audit Committee which be unduly stifled.
The effectiveness of the Groups system reviews the effectiveness of these controls on behalf of internal control is reviewed by the Audit Committee on of the Board and may lead to risk improvement behalf of the Board.
recommendations being agreed for implementation by the relevant operating unit.
The Board considers risk assessment and control to be fundamental to achieving its corporate objectives within an Financial risks: The key internal financial control acceptable risk reward profile, and there is an ongoing procedures which operated in the Group throughout the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks period covered by the financial statements are as follows: faced by the Group and the effectiveness of related Control environment: There is a clear organisational controls.
The key procedures in place to enable this structure in which levels of authority and accountability responsibility to be discharged are as follows: are well defined.
The Groups business operates within a reviews of Group risk assessment reports by the Audit framework of procedures laid down in written policy Committee and the Board: documents and the Groups personnel are required to production and regular updating of summaries of key comply with these procedures as relevant to their controls: functions and responsibilities.
Financial reporting follows reviews of reports prepared throughout the year by generally accepted accounting practice in all areas.
management: Identification and evaluation of risks and control the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the objectives: The process of risk assessment and the outcome of the Audit Committee meetings to the Board evaluation of its related financial impact is an ongoing and the Board receives minutes of those meetings: and process reflected in decision-making at Group and regular review of the role of insurance in transferring risk operating levels.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 27 Corporate Governance Monitoring and management of risk: Central review and The Audit Committee has reviewed the status of internal approval procedures are in place in respect of the major controls within the Group post-flotation and, in particular areas of risk such as acquisitions and disposals, major whether it is appropriate for the Group to establish an contracts, capital expenditure, litigation, treasury internal audit function.
management, taxation and environmental issues.
Wherever practical, duties are segregated and a high It concluded that, whilst as a private company it was not degree of management control is also exercised necessary to have an established internal audit function, through review by executives of historical and forecast the requirements of a listed company are different and the financial information.
Conformity with procedures is Committee therefore recommended to the Board that an monitored on an ongoing basis.
In addition, the Group internal audit function be established and that the has reporting systems which identify major financial and Company undertake a review of the effectiveness of the other business risks within the Group.
This assurance framework had procedures have been laid down for the regular review previously centred largely on a store focused internal audit and management of these risks, underpinned where resource, a framework considered inappropriate for the appropriate by insurance.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, as independent advisers, are currently engaged on a Information and communication: Comprehensive project, based on a systematic risk assessment of the information systems are maintained at Group and business, to evaluate appropriate lines of assurance and operating unit levels and are subject to scrutiny by the recommend options for resourcing in these areas.
Board as follows: detailed budgeting procedures with an annual The Directors have determined that the Company is a budget approval: going concern and will continue in business for the monthly consideration of actual results compared foreseeable future, and have therefore prepared accounts with budgets and forecasts: on this basis.
They have formed this opinion on the basis of regular reviews of rolling profit and cash the Groups annual budget for the year ending 31 March flow forecasts: 2006 and capital expenditure and cashflow forecasts for regular reviews of the Groups capital expenditure the subsequent two years.
plan: and reporting of legal and accounting developments.
Relationship with shareholders Regular executive and Board meetings and operational The Board recognises the importance of establishing and reviews are held with a view to ensuring variances and maintaining good relationships with all of the Companys discrepancies are identified and investigated in a timely investors.
The Chief Executive, Finance Director and the way.
The Company also reports to shareholders half-yearly.
Chairman meet regularly with analysts and institutional shareholders to keep them informed of significant Control procedures: Extensive systems of internal developments and report to the Board accordingly on the financial control including systems control are views of the major shareholders.
The Senior Independent operated throughout the Group with authority levels Director is also available to attend such meetings, if established which limit exposure.
There is recognition of required.
Each of the other Non-executive Directors are personal responsibility and accountability by the also offered the opportunity to attend meetings with members of the management team.
major shareholders and would do so if requested by any major shareholder.
Corrective action: Reviews of the comprehensive management information or issues arising under the annual audit are brought to the attention of the Audit Committee and the Board and corrective action agreed and implemented.
The Auditor reports directly to the Audit Committee.
28 Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 The investor relations programme includes formal The Chairmen of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit presentations of full year and interim results.
Feedback Committees expect to attend the Annual General Meeting from these meetings is provided to the Board.
The and will answer questions which may be relevant to the Company Secretary is also charged with bringing to the work of those Committees.
If they are unable to attend, attention of the Board any material matters of concern they will appoint a deputy to attend in their place.
The raised by the Companys shareholders, including private Chairman will advise shareholders on the proxy voting investors.
The Interim Report and the Annual Report and details for each of the resolutions after the resolution is Accounts are the primary means the Board has of put to the meeting.
communicating during the year with all of the Companys shareholders.
However, the Board recognises the The Companys financial calendar is set out on page 62. importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and cost effectively.
Accordingly, since Directors Remuneration flotation in June 2004, an extensive investor relations Details of Directors remuneration and emoluments website at www.
com has been required to be disclosed by the Combined Codes developed to facilitate communications to shareholders.
requirements regarding remuneration matters and by Information available online includes copies of press schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 are set out in releases and Group news, the terms of reference for the the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 35.
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, The Directors Remuneration Report will be submitted for corporate governance information and statements, the approval of shareholders at the forthcoming Annual schedule of matters reserved to the Board and the Listing General Meeting.
Particulars relating to the flotation and other information relevant to shareholders.
Copies of the full and interim financial statements will also be made available By Order of the Board electronically following their publication.
Philip Parker Company Secretary The Board is committed to constructive use of the Annual 8 June 2005 General Meeting as a forum to meet with investors and to hear their views and answer their questions about the Group and its business.
The Company will dispatch the notice of the Annual General Meeting, with an explanatory circular describing items of special business, at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All shareholders have the opportunity formally and informally to put questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
It is the Companys practice to propose separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue at the Annual General Meeting.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 29
