HALMA Corporate Governance The Board is committed to the maintenance of high standards of Corporate Governance.
The policy of the Board is to manage the affairs of the Company in accordance with the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Compliance with the Throughout the financial year, the Company complied with the Code provisions code of best practice set out in Section 1 of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance except in respect of provisions A3.2, A4.1 and C3.1 all of which involve the composition of the board or its committees and the number of members who are independent non-executive directors.
The Board re-affirmed its decision to maintain the composition of the Board and its Committees based on its assessment that this is the most appropriate structure for the Company.
Furthermore, the Board believes it important that the Chairman continue to serve on the Audit Committee to enable him to contribute to the deliberations of the Committee and to enable him to properly discharge his responsibilities.
Application of the The Group is controlled and directed by a Board consisting of a Chairman, principles of good four executive Directors and three non-executive Directors.
Their biographies governance appear on page 14.
The Board considers the Chairman and each of the nonexecutive Directors to be independent.
In assessing independence, the Board considers that the Chairman and non-executive Directors are independent of management and free from business and other relationships which could interfere with the exercise of independent judgment now and in the future.
The Board believes that any shareholdings of the Chairman and non-executive Directors serve to align their interests with those of all shareholders.
Mr Stone is acknowledged as the Senior Independent Director.
Upon appointment and at regular intervals, all Directors are offered appropriate training.
Each Director is subject to re-election at least every three years.
The Directors retain responsibility for the formulation of corporate strategy, investment decisions, and treasury and risk management policies.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision and the Board meets at least six times each year with further ad hoc meetings as required.
Directors are issued an agenda and comprehensive board papers in the week preceding each Board Meeting.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary as well as there being an agreed procedure for obtaining independent professional advice.
Board and committee During the year attendance by Directors at Board and Committee meetings was as meeting attendance follows: Remuneration Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Total scheduled meetings 6 2 3 2 E G Unwin 6 2 3 2 S R OShea 6 N A N A 2 A J Williams 3 N A N A N A K J Thompson 6 N A N A N A N Quinn 6 N A N A N A R A Stone 6 2 3 2 K J Roy 6 N A N A N A A J Walker 6 2 3 N A S R Pettit 6 2 3 N A 34 Halma p. l. c. 2005 HALMA Corporate Governance continued AJWilliams attended three of the four Board meetings that he was eligible to attend as he was abroad on residential corporate training.
A J Williams was not a member of the Nomination Committee when the two meetings were held.
Committees of the Board Halma has six committees of the Board: the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Share Plans Committee, the Bank Facilities and Guarantees Committee and the Acquisitions and Disposals Committee.
Each of these committees has terms of reference approved by the Board, copies of which are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Remuneration Committee Mr Stone chairs the Remuneration Committee of which the Chairman and each of the non-executive Directors is a member.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the framework for executive Directors and senior executives remuneration based on proposals formulated by the Group Chief Executive.
The Committee meets at least twice per year.
Further information about the Committee is contained in the Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 45.
Audit Committee Mr Walker chairs the Audit Committee.
The Chairman and each of the nonexecutive Directors is a member of the Committee.
The Committee reviews the interim and annual accounts and the disclosures contained therein, accounting policies and matters of significant judgment, the statement on internal controls, the process of Internal Audit and the Group whistleblowing procedures.
The Committee is also responsible for the relationship with the external auditors including terms of engagement, fee levels, approval of the annual audit plan, a review of the findings of the audit and assessing auditor effectiveness and independence.
The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and representatives from the Auditors attend Committee meetings by invitation in order to provide appropriate advice.
The Committee routinely meets with the Auditors without the involvement of the executive Directors.
The Committee meets at least three times per year.
Nomination Committee Mr Unwin chairs the Nomination Committee.
Mr OShea was a member of the Committee until his resignation in February 2005.
Mr Williams joined the Committee on his appointment as Group Chief Executive in February 2005.
Mr Stone is also a member of the Committee.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors.
External search consultancies are retained when recruiting non-executive Directors and are used to evaluate internal and external candidates for executive succession planning.
The Committee meets at least annually.
The Group Chief Executive succession process undergone in the 2004 05 financial year involved the Committees initial assessment of the candidates based on criteria formulated in consultation with the Board.
The comprehensive process also involved each candidate being interviewed and assessed by an external search consultant.
The ultimate appointment decision rested with the Board.
Other Committees The Share Plans, Bank Facilities and Guarantees and Acquisitions and Disposals Committees terms of reference provide that certain Directors and the Company Secretary may form sub-committees to cover administrative matters or to formally enact matters which have already been determined by the Board in principle.
Halma p. l. c. 2005 35 HALMA Corporate Governance continued Executive Board Control of divisional operating matters is delegated to the Executive Board of which the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and all of the Divisional Chief Executives are members.
Biographies of Executive Board members appear on page 14.
The Group Chief Executive chairs the Executive Board, which meets regularly, thereby ensuring the Boards strategies are communicated to those overseeing operations.
The Executive Board reviews operational activities, trading results, budgets, policy matters, investment opportunities, resource allocation and risk exposures.
Any matters arising out of the Executive Board meetings are reported to the Board via the Group Chief Executives report to the Board.
The Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director also meet regularly with each Divisional Chief Executive to monitor progress against key objectives and review operational performance.
Individual operating company boards, chaired by the appropriate Divisional Chief Executive, manage operating companies.
These boards have clearly defined responsibilities for the operation of their businesses, including compliance with legislation and regulations, and for internal reporting.
The system of internal control exercised within the Group is described below.
Board effectiveness The Board evaluates its performance and that of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees at least annually.
In 2004 05 the evaluation commenced with a self-assessment questionnaire, the results of which were compiled by the Company Secretary and discussed by the Board at the next Board meeting.
The second phase of the evaluation involved the Chairman meeting with each Director in order to address any individual concerns.
The Board then met, separate from any scheduled meeting, for a general discussion on Board effectiveness followed by a meeting of the Chairman and non-executive Directors, and then a meeting of the non-executive Directors without the Chairman present.
The outcomes of these meetings were then fed back to individuals by the Chairman, Senior Independent Director or Group Chief Executive, as appropriate.
Investor relations In regular meetings with shareholders and analysts the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director communicate the Groups strategy and results, disclosing such information as is permitted within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
Such meetings ensure that institutional shareholders representing over 50% of the Companys issued share capital meet with the Company on a regular basis.
Major shareholders are also offered the additional opportunity to meet with the Chairman and or Senior Independent Director.
The Company consulted with its largest shareholders prior to finalising the proposed Performance Share Plan which is included in the Notice of Meeting for approval at the 2005 AGM.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting, and major shareholders are also invited to briefings following the interim and annual results.
The content of presentations to shareholders and analysts at results announcements and all Company announcements are contained on the Group website, www.
36 Halma p. l. c. 2005 HALMA Corporate Governance continued The Group website also contains electronic versions of the latest Annual Report and Accounts, Interim Reports, biographical information on key Directors and Officers, share price information, and full subsidiary company contact details as well as hotlinks to their own websites.
The website also contains the facility to request e-mail alerts relating to announcements made by the Group.
The Financial Calendar is set out on page 80.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Internal control The Board of Directors has overall responsibility to the shareholders for the Groups system of internal control and responsibility for reviewing its effectiveness has been delegated to the Audit Committee.
Any system of internal control can provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Following publication by the Turnbull Committee of the guidance for directors on internal control Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, that this has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process has been reviewed by the Board, and the Group accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Groups external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have audited the financial statements and have reviewed the internal financial control systems to the extent they consider necessary to support their audit report.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year and has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision.
This procedure is intended to ensure that the Directors maintain full and effective control over all significant strategic, financial and organisational issues.
Group companies operate under a system of controls which includes but is not limited to: a defined organisational structure with an appropriate delegation of authority to operational management the identification and appraisal of risks both formally, through the annual process of preparing business plans and budgets, and informally through close monitoring of operations a comprehensive financial reporting system within which actual results are compared with approved budgets and previous years figures on a monthly basis and reviewed at both local and Group level an investment evaluation procedure to ensure an appropriate level of approval for all capital expenditure self-certification by operating company management of compliance and control issues a prescribed robust structure under which it is appropriate to adopt means of electronic communication and to conduct e-commerce.
Halma p. l. c. 2005 37 HALMA Corporate Governance continued The processes which the Board has applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control are summarised below.
Operating companies carry out a detailed risk assessment each year and identify mitigating actions in place or proposed for each significant risk.
A risk register is compiled from this information, against which action is monitored through to resolution.
In addition, Divisional Chief Executives carry out an independent risk assessment for each operating company.
A review of Group risks is also conducted.
Each month the board of each operating company meets, discusses and reports on its operating performance, its opportunities, the risks facing it and the resultant actions.
The relevant Divisional Chief Executive chairs this meeting.
Divisional Chief Executives meet regularly with the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director and report progress to the Executive Board.
A set of warning signs which are specifically relevant to every Halma operating company has been developed and these are reported and monitored each month with actions taken at senior level where required.
The Group Chief Executive submits a report to each Halma p. l. c. Board meeting which includes financial information, the main features of Group operations and an analysis of the significant risks facing the Group at that time.
Cyclical internal control visits are carried out by senior finance staff resulting in actions fed back to each company and followed up by Divisional Finance Directors and Divisional Chief Executives with the feedback process having been further strengthened during the year: visit reports are coded in terms of risk with any significant control failings reported directly to the Audit Committee and a summary of all such visits reported to the Audit Committee regularly: senior finance staff also carry out financial reviews at each operating company prior to publication of half year and year end figures.
The Group Finance Director and Group Chief Executive report to the Audit Committee on all aspects of Internal Control for its review.
The Board receives the minutes of the Audit Committee meetings and uses these as a basis for its annual review of internal control.
As noted above, a programme of internal control visits is conducted.
Following its review of internal control activities in 2004, the Audit Committee established an internal audit function for independent reporting of the outcome of these visits to the Audit Committee.
Auditor independence The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing auditor independence and objectivity annually.
During 2003 04, the Committee set down the Policy on Auditor Independence and Services provided by the External Auditor.
This policy states that the Group will only use the appointed external auditor for non-audit services in cases where these services do not conflict with the auditors independence.
The policy also sets a fee level of 50,000 100,000 for taxation compliance services above which non-audit services are subject to a tendering process.
The above fee levels for non-audit services regarding the external auditors are also subject to an annual cap equal to the audit fee.
