52 Alliance UniChem Plc Audit committee report The audit committee consists of four Terms of reference Operation of the audit committee independent non-executive Directors, The terms of reference of the committee, During the year, the business considered Neil Cross committee Chairman, which are available on the Companys and discussed by the committee included: Adrian Loader, Patrick Ponsolle and website, were reviewed and updated a review of the financial disclosures Manfred Stach.
The main responsibilities of contained in the Interim and Annual Director, the Director of Internal Audit, the committee, which are set out in the Reports to shareholders, together the Group Financial Controller and terms of reference, are to: with the associated interim and representatives from the external auditors review the effectiveness of systems preliminary announcements: are normally invited to attend meetings for internal financial control, financial as appropriate.
The committee met four a review of the Companys compliance reporting and risk management: times during 2005, the attendance record with the Code, including disclosures of members being shown in the table monitor, review and challenge where required to be included in the on page 51.
In accordance with the necessary the integrity of financial Annual Report: requirements of the Code, Paolo Scaroni statements and formal announcements a review of the appropriateness and resigned as a member of the committee relating to the financial performance financial impact of accounting policy on his appointment as Chairman of of the Group: changes arising from the adoption the Company.
consider the appointment, of IFRS.
This included a review of choices re-appointment and or removal of made under the first time adoption The Director of Internal Audit has the the external auditor: transition arrangements: right of direct access to the committee and the Chairman of the Company.
consider any change to the a review of the preliminary comparative The committee has the right to seek and independence of, objectivity of and financial information prepared in receive any information it requires to fulfil fees to the external auditor: accordance with IFRS for the six months its duties and all Directors and employees ended 30 June 2004 and year ended consider the effectiveness of the are directed to co-operate with any 31 December 2004, together with external audit process taking into request made by the committee and to detailed income statements and balance consideration relevant UK professional attend on demand any meeting of the sheet reconciliations to UK GAAP.
and regulatory requirements: committee to answer questions.
This information was published on maintain and monitor a policy on the 18 July 2005: At each meeting in 2005 the committee engagement of the external auditor proposals from the external auditor met the Director of Internal Audit and to supply non-audit services: about their independent review of representatives from the external auditor agree with the external auditor the the financial information contained without executive management present.
scope and nature of their audit, review within the Interim Report 2005 and Attendance of members at committee their quality control procedures, ensure their audit programme for the 2005 meetings is shown in the Board report co-ordination of audits, review their financial statements: on corporate governance.
The Chairman management letter and managements of the committee attends the AGM to the amounts of audit and non-audit response, and discuss any issues arising respond to any shareholder questions fees paid to the external auditor.
from their audit: that might be raised on the committees The amounts for 2005 are set out activities.
Following each committee review the programme, resourcing, in note 9 to the financial statements.
meeting, the Chairman of the committee effectiveness and results of the internal The Companys policy on non-audit reports material matters to the Board at audit function and approve any change services provided by the external the next available opportunity.
to the Director of Internal Audit: auditor is set out on page 53: oversee the process for dealing with a review of the objectivity, independence Neil Cross has a background in investment complaints received by the Group and effectiveness of the external auditor.
analysis and corporate finance, is a regarding accounting, internal The committee, after considering a paper Chartered Secretary and currently chairs accounting controls or auditing matters on the independence, objectivity and two PLC audit committees.
The Board and the confidential, anonymous effectiveness of the external auditor, is satisfied that he has both current submission by employees of concerns unanimously agreed to recommend the and relevant financial experience.
regarding questionable accounting re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP or auditing matters: as the Companys external auditor at the 2006 AGM: review the consistency of accounting policies: monitor compliance with the Groups borrowing limits: and monitor compliance with the principles of good boardroom practice.
53 Alliance UniChem Plc a review of internal controls, investment advisory services, including Policy on employment of former accounting policies and practices and broking or investment banking: employees of the external auditor risk management procedures including As part of its remit, the committee keeps legal services: an annual risk review.
The committee under review the objectivity, independence monitored and reviewed the internal audit on an outsourced basis : and effectiveness of the external auditor.
effectiveness of the Groups internal During 2005 the committee approved a design and or implementation of control systems, accounting policies policy on the employment by the Group financial information systems: and and practices and risk management of former employees or partners of the procedures, as well as the Companys any other services that a listed companys external auditor.
Under this policy: statement on internal controls.
The Board external auditors are prohibited from no member of the external audit retains overall responsibility for internal providing under UK or US regulations.
team can be recruited into a Group control and the identification and role in the Company for a period of management of risks: This list of prohibited non-audit services two years following their association may only be varied by the audit committee.
proposals from the internal audit with the audit: function about its audit programme Under this policy it has been agreed that, no current or former partner of the for 2006: due to their significant understanding external auditor may be appointed of the Groups business and therefore the results of audits conducted as a Director of the Company for three ensuring cost efficiency, the external by the internal audit function and years after the termination of their auditors may be engaged for the following managements response to issues raised: employment with the external auditor: non-audit services: and an annual review of the effectiveness assistance in tax compliance activities of the internal audit function.
no current or former partner or including tax advisory services: The committee considered that the employee of the external auditor may be function had been effective throughout due diligence activities associated appointed as a Director of the Company 2005 based on an external assessment with potential acquisitions or disposals or join its executive committee at any conducted in the second half of 2005: of businesses: time without the prior approval of the Chairman of the audit committee.
a review of the arrangements for accountants reports for any Stock employees to raise concerns, in Exchange purposes and ad hoc reporting Each year, the Group Director of Human confidence, about possible wrongdoing on historical financial information: and Resources is required to satisfy compliance in financial reporting or other matters, any other services which are not with this policy to the audit committee.
further details of which are set out prohibited and are authorised by below: and the audit committee.
Whistleblowing a review of the committees effectiveness A 24 hour helpline, managed by a third which concluded that it had discharged The policy requires the fees for these party, was introduced in the UK in 2004. its responsibilities as set out in its terms permitted non-audit services to be This helpline, which will be introduced in of reference.
approved in advance by the committee.
The Netherlands in 2006, provides reports Where such services are considered to to designated officers of the Company, Policy on non-audit services be recurring in nature, such as for tax including the Company Secretary, who As part of its remit, the committee keeps and due diligence, approval may be in turn report cases to the committee.
under review the nature and extent of sought for the full financial year at the Throughout the rest of the Group, the audit and non-audit services provided beginning of that year.
Approval for other Companys whistleblowing policy sets to the Group by the external auditor.
permitted non-audit services has to be out arrangements whereby employees The committee has approved a policy for sought on a case by case basis.
Where no can report to the Company Secretary the approval of non-audit services provided committee meeting is scheduled within any concerns or suspicions about possible by the external auditor.
Under this policy, an appropriate time frame, the approval wrongdoing in financial reporting or the external auditor cannot be engaged is to be sought from the Chairman of other matters, which are reported to to perform any of the following services: the committee.
The fee threshold for the committee.
pre-approved services during 2005 was bookkeeping for underlying accounting 0.6 million in total for taxation services Neil Cross records or preparation of financial and 0.5 million in total for due diligence Chairman of the audit committee statements to be audited and used and related services.
In accordance with 28 February 2006 outside the Group: this policy, during 2005 the committee appraisals or other valuation services approved the appointment of the external where the results may be incorporated auditor to prepare a synergy report, a in audited financial statements: working capital report and to carry out due diligence work in connection with actuarial or pension advisory services: the Companys proposed merger management functions including with Boots.
