48 Alliance UniChem Plc Board report on corporate governance The Board is committed to meeting Operation of the Board Directors and officers insurance the standards of good corporate The Board met eleven times in 2005.
The Company maintains an appropriate governance set out in the Code.
This The Board is scheduled to meet nine times level of Directors and officers insurance in respect of legal action against Directors.
report, together with the audit committee in 2006, with additional meetings held report on pages 52 and 53 and the Board as required.
The attendance record for In accordance with recent changes in the report on remuneration on pages 54 to 62, Board and committee meetings, including law, the Company, under its Articles of describes how the Board applied the Code the AGM, is set out on page 51.
Association, granted deeds of indemnity during the year under review.
to each of the Directors and to the The Board has adopted principles of good Company Secretary.
These principles The Board currently comprises the ensure that the Directors can perform their Board balance and independence Chairman, five executive Directors and six role effectively and that they are given The Board has reviewed the independence non-executive Directors.
The names of the the means and information necessary to of all the non-executive Directors Directors together with their biographical make informed decisions.
The principles and determined that of the seven details are set out on pages 44 and 45. include details of: non-executive Directors, six are Jeff Harris stepped down as Chairman independent.
Etienne Jornod is Chairman the legal responsibilities of Directors: of the Company and retired from the and Chief Executive of Galenica, an Board at the conclusion of the 2005 AGM.
the role and appointment of associate company, and therefore is Per Utnegaard resigned as a Director on non-executive Directors: considered to be non-independent.
The roles of the Chairman, Galenica is entitled, as long as the associate the procedure by which Directors are Chief Executive and Executive Deputy agreement exists between it and the given and can obtain information, Chairman have been set out in writing Company, to designate one Director training and independent advice: and approved by the Board.
The executive for appointment to the Board of the Directors service contracts and the letters the procedure for the provision of Company, subject to the approval of setting out the terms of appointment of notices, agendas, papers and minutes the Companys shareholders.
the non-executive Directors are available for meetings of the Board and Board for inspection by any person at the committees: and Throughout the year, the Company has not Companys registered office during complied with the Code requirement that how meetings of the Board and Board normal business hours and at the AGM.
at least half of the Board, excluding the committees are conducted.
Chairman, should comprise non-executive Chairman Directors determined by the Board to be The Board is collectively responsible for Paolo Scaroni, who is responsible for the independent.
However, there is a broad promoting the success of the Group by operation of the Board, was appointed pool of independent non-executive directing and supervising the Groups as Chairman in April 2005, having been Directors who can serve on committees, affairs.
There is a schedule of matters an independent non-executive Director such that undue reliance is not placed reserved for approval by the Board, which since December 2002.
On his appointment on particular individuals.
It is considered ensures that it takes all major strategy, as Chairman, Paolo Scaroni met the that the Board has the balance of skills policy and investment decisions affecting independence criteria set out in the Code.
and experience appropriate for the the Group.
This schedule is reviewed requirements of the Group and that no annually and includes specific matters Chief Executive individual or group of individuals unduly under the categories of legal, stock Ian Meakins is responsible for leading the influences the Boards decision making.
exchange, strategic management control, Groups businesses and managing the risk management, Board membership, Group on a day-to-day basis within the The senior independent non-executive Board committees, capital and revenue authorities delegated by the Board.
The roles terms commitments, financing, advisors and of reference provide that he is available to employees.
Executive Deputy Chairman shareholders if they have a concern that Stefano Pessina, in addition to his role would make contact through the normal At each scheduled Board meeting, the as Executive Deputy Chairman, has channels of Chairman or Chief Executive Board receives a report on current trading operational responsibility for strategic inappropriate, or if a concern has not and major business issues.
The Board also development, including acquisitions.
been resolved by such contact.
The senior reviews annually the Groups strategic plan independent non-executive Director and approves a budget for the following periodically holds meetings with the financial year.
The Board monitors the other non-executive Directors without Groups overall system of internal controls, the executive Directors present.
governance and compliance and has approved formal delegated powers giving the executive committee day-to-day management of the Group.
49 Alliance UniChem Plc A procedure is in place for Directors, Re-election of Directors Nomination committee if they wish, to receive independent All Directors are required to be elected The nomination committee consists of four independent non-executive Directors, professional advice in respect of their by shareholders at the AGM following their appointment by the Board and Kenneth Clarke committee Chairman, duties.
They also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary then re-elected at least once every Neil Cross, Patrick Ponsolle and who is charged with ensuring that Board three years.
In accordance with the Manfred Stach and three other Directors, procedures are followed and that good Articles of Association of the Company, Paolo Scaroni, Ian Meakins and Stefano corporate governance and compliance is one-third of the Directors excluding new Pessina.
The majority of the members implemented throughout the Group.
appointments must stand for re-election of the committee are independent The Company Secretary normally attends at each AGM.
Non-executive Directors are non-executive Directors as required by all meetings of the Board and Board normally appointed for an initial term of the Code.
The committee met twice in committees.
The appointment and removal three years which is then renewed and 2005, the attendance record of members of the Company Secretary is a matter extended for not more than two further being shown in the table on page 51. reserved for the Board.
The Board and three year terms.
its committees are supplied with full The duties of the nomination committee and timely information which enables In accordance with Company policy, it are to: them to discharge their responsibilities.
had previously been agreed that Neil Cross regularly review the structure, size and In addition to the papers circulated to the who has now served nine years as a composition of the Board: Board in advance of Board and committee non-executive Director would retire from meetings, reports are sent to the Directors the Board at the conclusion of the 2006 regularly review the skills, knowledge in months when the Board is not scheduled AGM.
In view of the Companys proposed and experience of the Board and make to meet.
The Company Secretary ensures merger with Boots, the nomination recommendations to the Board with good information flows within the Board committee has suspended the process to regard to any adjustments that are and its committees and between the identify a candidate with recent and considered necessary: non-executive Directors and management.
relevant financial experience to succeed ensure succession plans are in existence New Directors receive appropriate Neil Cross as a non-executive Director and for Directors: and induction training on joining the Board, as Chairman of the audit committee.
including site visits and meetings with In accordance with the Companys Articles keep under review the leadership needs senior management.
of Association and the Code, which require of the Group.
non-executive Directors serving longer Performance evaluation than nine years to seek annual re-election, As part of the ongoing review of During the year, the Board formally Neil Cross will seek re-election at the 2006 succession, early in 2005 the committee evaluated its own performance and that AGM for a period up until the conclusion instructed external consultants to identify of the Board committees, which included of the 2007 AGM.
The other Directors candidates for a number of positions as a follow up of matters raised in the coming up for re-election at the 2006 AGM independent non-executive Directors.
evaluation carried out by the Board in the are George Fairweather, Ornella Barra, This process involved an evaluation of the previous year.
This process was in the form Patrick Ponsolle and Etienne Jornod.
skills and experience required, including of a questionnaire, supplemented by the need for at least one new independent one-to-one meetings between the Prior to recommending the re-election non-executive Director to have recent Chairman and each of the non-executive of non-executive Directors to the Board, and relevant financial experience to serve Directors, where individual performance the nomination committee reviews their as Chairman of the audit committee.
The review process in 2005 In view of the Companys proposed met separately to discuss the performance concluded that all Directors continue to merger with Boots this process was of the Chairman.
Issues arising from the contribute effectively and with proper suspended by the committee.
Following self assessment evaluation were presented commitment, devoting adequate time to a rigorous review conducted by the to the Board by the Chairman with an carry out their duties.
The notice of this nomination committee, the Board is action plan to ensure continuous years AGM confirms that the performance satisfied that Neil Cross, who has served improvement in the operation of the of the Directors being proposed for on the Board for more than nine years, Board and its committees.
The evaluation re-appointment continues to be effective.
continues to contribute effectively and of the personal performance of the with proper commitment.
executive Directors was based on a Board committees 360-degree appraisal process, which was The Board has established four considered by the nomination and the committees, the nomination, remuneration committees.
remuneration, audit and executive committees.
Each committee has terms of reference, agreed by both the committee and the Board, which were reviewed during the year.
With the exception of the executive committee, the terms of reference for each of these committees are published on the corporate website at www.
Regular reports of committee business and activities are given to the Board.
50 Alliance UniChem Plc Board report on corporate governance Remuneration committee Relations with shareholders Internal controls The remuneration committee consists The Company organises a programme The Board has overall responsibility for of three independent non-executive of formal and informal events, investor the Groups system of risk management and internal control and for reviewing Directors, Kenneth Clarke committee meetings, and presentations which Chairman, Neil Cross and Adrian Loader.
take place throughout the year.
The system of internal Patrick Ponsolle resigned from the This programme is led by the Chief control is designed to manage, rather than committee in July 2005, having up Executive and the Group Finance Director eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve until that date been a member of three and involves other members of the business objectives and can provide only Board committees.
The Chairman, the executive committee and the Director reasonable, and not absolute, assurances Chief Executive and the Executive Deputy of Investor Relations.
Meetings are held against material misstatement or loss.
Chairman are invited to attend meetings with institutional investors and analysts as appropriate but are not present when to discuss information made public by The Board considers an efficient risk their own remuneration is discussed.
the Group and address any questions management and control framework to The committee met three times in 2005, that may arise.
The Company ensures be fundamental to the Company achieving the attendance record of members being that no price-sensitive information is its corporate objectives, with an actively shown in the table on page 51.
The role disclosed in these meetings.
managed balance of risk and reward.
of the committee and details of how it The effectiveness of the ongoing process applied the principles of the Code and the To ensure the Board is effectively informed to identify, evaluate and manage Directors Remuneration Report of shareholders views, the Companys significant risks in the Groups system of Regulations 2002 are set out in the Board brokers and the Director of Investor risk management and internal controls is report on remuneration on pages 54 to 62.
Relations seek to understand those views reviewed annually by the audit committee on an ongoing basis and provide regular on behalf of the Board, the committee Audit committee feedback to the Board.
The non-executive having responsibility for overseeing The audit committee consists of four Directors are offered the opportunity to management action needed to remedy independent non-executive Directors, attend meetings with institutional investors any shortcomings or weaknesses identified.
Neil Cross committee Chairman, and shareholder events.
They also make Adrian Loader, Patrick Ponsolle, and themselves available to shareholders upon Throughout 2005 and up until the date Manfred Stach.
In addition to the programme of this report the risk management and his appointment as Chairman of the described above, the Companys website internal controls systems comply with the Company resigned from the committee in provides financial and other information revised Turnbull guidance for Directors as accordance with the requirements of the about the Group.
Preliminary and interim required by the Code.
The role of the committee and results, as well as all announcements to details of how it carried out its duties are the London Stock Exchange are published Key elements of the Groups system of set out in the audit committee report on the Companys corporate website.
internal controls are as follows: on pages 52 and 53. regular Board meetings with a formal All shareholders have the opportunity schedule of matters reserved by the Executive committee to attend the Companys AGM and to Board for decision: The executive committee consists of the question the Directors on any issue relating executive Directors and is chaired by to the Company.
The Chairmen of the Board approval of the Groups strategic Ian Meakins.
The executive committee nomination, remuneration and audit plan and annual budget : met 11 times in 2005. committees are also present at the meeting an annual risk review by the audit to answer questions.
committee and subsequently by the The duties of the executive committee Board, based on business risk reviews are to: In accordance with best practice: and control self assessments: oversee the operation of the Group: the notice of the AGM is circulated to all clearly defined organisational structures shareholders at least 20 working days implement decisions of the Board: and appropriate delegated authorities before the AGM: for the Groups businesses: attend to all matters not reserved for the proxy votes for and against each approval by the Board or delegated by monthly reviews by the executive resolution, as well as abstentions, are the Board to other Board committees: and committee of key performance indicators made available at the meeting after to assess progress towards objectives, attend to all matters delegated to it.
shareholders have voted on each with action being taken as required: resolution on a show of hands, with the exception of the resolution in connection continuous monitoring of regulatory with the waiver of the obligations of developments: Rule 9 of the City Code on Takeovers and procedures for planning, approving, Mergers which is voted on by a poll: and executing and monitoring business separate resolutions are proposed at the acquisitions, divestments and capital AGM on each substantially separate issue.
expenditure projects, supplemented by post-investment performance reviews: 51 Alliance UniChem Plc Meeting attendance record  Audit Executive AGM Board committee committee committee committee Number of meetings in 2005 1 11 2 3 4 11 Director 1 P. Scaroni 110 2 1 I. K. Meakins 1 11 2 11 S. Pessina 1 11 2 11 G. R. Fairweather 1 11 11 O. Barra 1 11 11 S. W. J. Duncan 1 11 11 K. H. Clarke 1 10 2 3 N. E. Cross 1 9 2 3 4 W. A. Loader 1 10 2 3 2 P. Ponsolle 18113 3 M. Stach 110 4 E. Jornod 1 10 4 P. Utnegaard 2 2 5 J. F. Harris 1 3 1 1 Resigned from the audit committee in April 2005 on his appointment as Chairman.
One audit committee meeting was held before his resignation.
2 Resigned from the remuneration committee in July 2005: two remuneration committee meetings were held before his resignation.
3 Appointed to the nomination committee in January 2006.
4 Resigned from the Board in March 2005: two Board meetings and three executive committee meetings were held before his resignation.
5 Retired from the Board in April 2005: three Board meetings and one nomination committee meeting were held before his retirement.
dispensing and professional pharmacy a self-certification process, whereby Code provision A.
3.2 during the protocols which are reviewed and operating businesses are required to year, a majority of the members of against which compliance is audited confirm in writing that the system of the Board excluding the Chairman on a regular basis: internal control is operating effectively: were not independent non-executive Directors: and procedures for security and specialist the Director of Internal Audit has the handling of certain drug classes: right of direct access to the audit Code provision A.
4.1 for the period committee and the Chairman of the from 22 April the nomination a rolling programme of surveys by the Company: committee did not comprise a majority Groups insurance brokers to advise on of independent non-executive Directors.
physical risks: continuous monitoring by the Group Its membership did not change during legal function of claims and litigation centralised treasury operations operating 2005, however on his appointment as throughout the Group: and within defined limits and subject to Chairman, Paolo Scaroni, a committee regular reporting requirements: a requirement for specialist legal, member, was no longer considered to financial and other professional advice be independent.
Manfred Stach, an a Group internal audit function to be obtained as part of the Groups independent non-executive Director, providing independent scrutiny of business activities.
was appointed as a member of the internal control systems and risk committee on 26 January 2006. management procedures: Compliance statement operational review teams within The Company applied the principles of the individual businesses providing Code throughout the year under review management assurance on key controls with the following exceptions: primarily in wholesale depots and Code provision A.
2.2 for the period retail outlets: 1 January to 22 April 2005 Jeff Harris, regular monitoring of risks and control who was Chairman up until 22 April systems throughout the year by 2005, was Chief Executive of the operating businesses, with periodic Company prior to his appointment exception reporting: as Chairman:
