Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Hays plc bases its actions on the principles of openness, integrity and accountability emphasised by the July 2003 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
This statement describes how the Company applies the principles of the Code.
Throughout the year ended 30 June 2005 the Company has been in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
BOARD The Board provides the Group with both leadership and stewardship.
The Board comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and four independent non-executive Directors.
Five Directors served throughout the whole financial year.
Mr C S Taylor retired as a non-executive Director on 23 November 2004, and Messrs C W Eccleshare and P H Stoneham were appointed to the board as non-executive Directors on 24 November 2004.
Biographical details for all the Directors appear on page 25, and demonstrate the range of experience and independent judgement they each bring to bear on Board matters.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specically reserved for its decision, including acquisitions and disposals, major capital projects, financial results, Board appointments, dividend recommendations, material contracts and Group strategy.
The Board meets at least ten times a year and additionally as required.
A two day strategy review meeting was held and one overseas business unit was visited by the full Board during the financial year.
The Board received presentations on key aspects of the business from relevant senior management at other meetings during the financial year.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, plans the programme for Board visits and presentations from senior executives during the year.
The agenda for Board and Committee meetings is considered by the relevant Chairman and issued with supporting papers during the preceding week.
For each Board meeting, Directors receive a Board pack including detailed monthly management accounts, proposed acquisitions and disposals, and major capital and operating expenditure requests.
The attendance of those Directors in place at the year end at Board and Committee meetings during the year was as follows: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Held 10 324 Attended R A Lawson 10 2 D R Waxman 10 C W Eccleshare 722 L M S Knox 10 3 2 4 J W Martin 10 P H Stoneham 722 B G Wallace 10 3 2 4 Appointed 24 November 2004.
A procedure exists for the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, under the guidance of the Company Secretary and at the Companys expense.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Chairman for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and that applicable rules and regulations are followed.
On appointment, Directors receive a formal induction, which includes visits to relevant business units and functions.
These are tailored to the individual needs of the Directors and continue throughout their tenure.
Brieng sessions on legislative and accounting developments are held for the Board when appropriate.
The Company continues to maintain directors and ofcers liability insurance and under the Companys Articles of Association each director or officer of the Company is indemnified by the Company for any liability incurred in defending proceedings in which the director is acquitted, or judgement is given in his, or her, favour.
CHAIRMAN, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
A written division of each individuals responsibilities has been agreed by the Board.
Mr B G Wallace is the Senior Independent Director.
The non-executive Directors bring an independent view to the Boards discussions and its development of strategy.
Their range of experience ensures that managements performance in achieving the business goals is challenged appropriately.
In conjunction with the executive Directors, they ensure that financial controls and systems of risk management are both vigorous and adequate for the businesses needs.
All the non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent as detailed in the Code.
The letters of appointment for non-executive Directors are available for review at the Registered Ofce and prior to the Annual General Meeting.
Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued PERFORMANCE EVALUATION Building on the review undertaken in April 2004, the Board conducted a subsequent review of its effectiveness in 2005, the findings of which were considered at a Board meeting and certain actions are due to be implemented as a result.
The Chairman has met with the non-executive Directors, without the executive Directors being present, to consider the findings of the review.
The Senior Independent Director has also met with the other non-executive Directors to review the Chairmans performance, having received input from the executive Directors.
Following the review, the Chairman is satisfied that each of the Directors being put forward for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting continues to be effective and that their ongoing commitment to the role is undiminished.
Mr B G Wallace, who is the non-executive Director being put forward for re-election, has completed one full three year term since appointment.
RESPONSIBILITIES AND MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES The Board has agreed written terms of reference for the following committees: Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee identies and selects candidates in connection with any proposed new appointments of Directors and makes recommendations to the Board in respect of such appointments.
Mr R A Lawson chairs the Nomination Committee.
Mrs L M S Knox and Mr B G Wallace were members of the Committee throughout the year.
Mr C S Taylor was a member until his retirement on 23 November 2004.
Messrs C W Eccleshare and P H Stoneham became members of the Committee following their appointment to the Board on 24 November 2004.
The Chief Executive attends by invitation when appropriate.
During the year under review, two non-executive Directors were appointed to the Board.
In consultation with the Board, the Nomination Committee identied the type of candidate and experience needed, and using the services of a search agency identied candidates for the individual Board members to meet and consider.
From the selection of candidates, the Nomination Committee put forward a final recommendation to the Board for approval.
Remuneration Committee Mrs L M S Knox, an independent non-executive Director, chairs the Remuneration Committee.
Mr B G Wallace was a member of the Committee throughout the year.
The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the Board, the remuneration and benets of the Chairman and executive Directors of the Company and recommends and monitors the levels of remuneration and benets of selected senior managers of the Group.
In formulating its remuneration policy, the Remuneration Committee gives full consideration to the matters set out in Schedule A to the Code.
The Groups remuneration policy is described in the Remuneration Report on page 32.
The Board as a whole determines the level of fees of non-executive Directors, after taking into account fees payable by comparable companies and after receiving external advice.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee examines all financial statements and preliminary announcements, considers the appropriateness of accounting polices adopted and whether the financial statements give a true and fair view.
The Audit Committee considers the appointment of external auditors and the scope, materiality and results of their work.
It also oversees the Internal Audit department and considers compliance with legal, regulatory, ethical and other issues.
Mr B G Wallace, an independent non-executive Director, was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee on 24 November 2004 following the retirement of Mr C S Taylor.
Mrs L M S Knox was a member throughout the year.
Messrs C W Eccleshare and P H Stoneham became members of the Committee following their appointment on 24 November 2004.
The Board is satisfied that Mr B G Wallace has recent and relevant financial experience.
The external auditors normally attend Audit Committee meetings and, at the request of the Audit Committee, the Finance Director, Head of internal audit and other senior managers also attend.
In addition to reviewing the preliminary and interim statements before publication, the Committee reviews financial and control issues throughout the Group.
These include tax and treasury issues, issues relating to the disposal of the Groups former businesses, internal audit reports and updates on the recommendations of the internal audit department.
The Groups whistleblowing procedure was reviewed during the year.
The Audit Committee meets the external auditors without management being present and considers the effectiveness of the external auditors.
The Committee has set guidelines for the use of the external auditors for non-audit work.
It reviews and considers whether any appointments of the external auditors for non-audit services are appropriate, thereby ensuring that independence and objectivity are safeguarded.
The terms of reference for all three Board Committees are published on the Companys website, www.
com, and are also available from the Company Secretary at the Registered Ofce.
Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 31 INTERNAL CONTROL The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for maintaining and reviewing its effectiveness.
A review has been completed for the year ended 30 June 2005 in accordance with the recommendations of the Turnbull Report.
The Groups systems and controls are designed to safeguard the Groups assets and to ensure the reliability of information used both within the business and for publication.
Systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key features of the internal control systems which operated throughout the period covered by the financial statements and up to the date of signing the accounts, are described below.
Day-to-day responsibility for the management and operations of the business has been delegated to the Chief Executive and his Executive Committee, comprising of the Finance Director and Divisional Managing Directors.
The Company Secretary attends all Executive Committee meetings.
Clear levels of authority and terms of reference exist for the Groups Executive Committee.
As far as possible, the business units are given autonomy, whilst operating within an established internal control environment as set out in the Group Policies and Procedures Manual.
This manual is designed to ensure that significant risks, investment decisions and management issues are escalated to Group Board level at the earliest appropriate opportunity.
The Group Policies and Procedures Manual is updated on an ongoing basis to reect changes in procedures as and when they occur.
Certain specic administrative functions are controlled centrally by the Group.
Taxation, treasury, and insurance functions report to the Board via the Finance Director.
The legal, property, compliance and health and safety functions report to the Board via the Company Secretary.
Procedures are clearly dened to ensure that the activities of these functions reduce the risk prole of the organisation.
An overview of the Groups treasury policy is set out on page 11.
The Group has a process for the identication, evaluation and reporting of major business risks.
Progress on the management of key issues is reported through the management structure to executive management and to the Board.
The Group operates a comprehensive budgeting and financial reporting system.
Annual budgets are reviewed and approved at business and Group level.
This process includes the identication and quantication of significant risks relating to markets and operations.
Monthly performance is reported against budget and prior year.
The monthly management accounts analyse and explain variances against budget and report on key indicators.
In addition, progress against the annual budget is comprehensively reviewed on a quarterly basis, with detailed explanations for variances and movements in forecasts provided to the Board.
The Group has an internal audit department.
The resources of this department are augmented with independent expert external resources, wherever necessary, to review risk and monitor compliance with Group policies and procedures.
Regular reviews of the most important controls are undertaken to ensure that key control objectives are achieved.
Reports on the effectiveness of operational and financial controls are regularly presented to executive management and to the Audit Committee and recommendations are agreed upon and implemented.
Although the Group transformation is complete in all material respects, there is a level of residual risk.
Management continue to monitor and control any matters that arise.
The monitoring of control procedures is achieved through review by executive management reporting to the Board.
This is supplemented by reviews undertaken by the internal audit department of the controls in operation in the business units.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The executive Directors of the Company have a regular dialogue with analysts and large shareholders.
All non-executive Directors are aware of the programme of proposed visits and are invited to attend.
Investors have been offered the opportunity to meet the Senior Independent Director and the Chairman following the announcement of the 2005 results.
The Board reviews published broker reports and considers the issues raised within them.
The Groups advisers maintain a dialogue with major shareholders and after each investor roadshow compile a report of shareholders views on key issues and management performance.
This report is subsequently considered by the Board.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to communicate with all shareholders.
In addition, preliminary results are posted on the Companys website, www.
com, as soon as they are announced.
Also, at least twice a year, the Company hosts a teleconference for analysts and investors.
The notice of the meeting to be held on 3 November 2005 see page 65 has been sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
At the meeting the level of proxy votes lodged on each resolution will be available.
Each substantially separate issue is proposed in the Notice of Meeting as a separate resolution and there are separate resolutions relating to the Report and Accounts and the Directors Remuneration Report.
Furthermore, it is intended that the Chairmen of the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees will be present at the Annual General Meeting.
GOING CONCERN The accounts have been prepared on the going concern basis as the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
