Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 35 Audit Committee report The Combined Code requires that this Annual Report The Audit Committee terms of reference, approved by the separately describes the work of the Audit Committee and Board on 31 October 2005, clearly set out its authority and how it discharges its responsibilities.
These can be found on the Companys website at http: investors.
jsp and are On 31 October 2005, the Board established an Audit summarised as follows: Committee to oversee financial reporting and internal control matters and to maintain appropriate relationships with the monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any Companys auditors.
Hikmas Audit Committee comprises other formal announcement relating to the Groups financial three members Breffni Byrne, Michael Ashton and performance and review summary financial statements and Sir David Rowe-Ham all of whom are independent significant financial returns to regulators: Non-Executive Directors, and whose qualifications are set out review and challenge accounting policies and accounting for on page 28.
The committee is chaired by Breffni Byrne, who is significant or unusual transactions: a Chartered Accountant and who is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
No members review and challenge the adoption of accounting standards, of the committee have links with the Companys external estimates and judgements and the clarity of disclosure in auditors.
The Company therefore considers that it complies financial reports: with the Combined Code recommendation regarding the review and challenge compliance with stock exchange, composition of the Audit Committee.
The committee UK Listing Authority and legal requirements including the chairman receives additional remuneration to compensate requirements of the Combined Code: him for his additional responsibilities.
review arrangements for employees to raise concerns, in The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting responsibilities with regard to financial reporting, external and or other matters: internal audit and control, including reviewing the Companys annual financial statements, reviewing and monitoring the monitor and review the internal financial controls and the extent of the non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, Groups overall risk identification and management systems: and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal consider and approve the remit and effectiveness of the audit activities, internal controls and risk management internal audit function, its annual plan, its resources and systems.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for making access to information and its freedom from management recommendations to the Board on the appointment, or other restrictions: reappointment and removal of the external auditors, as well as the effectiveness of the audit process.
The ultimate review and monitor managements responsiveness to the responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual findings and recommendations of the internal auditors: report and accounts and the half-yearly reports remains consider and make recommendations for appointment, with the Board.
reappointment and removal of the Companys external auditor, and oversee the relationship with the external auditor: review and monitor the quality, independence and objectivity of the external auditor accounting for relevant UK and professional regulatory requirements and approve their remuneration and terms of engagement: develop and implement a policy on the supply by the external auditor of non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance and potential conflicts of interest.
36 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Audit Committee report continued The Audit Committee will formally meet at least three times Insurance per year and otherwise as required.
The Chief Executive, the The Company maintains an appropriate level of Directors and Chief Financial Officer, other Directors and representatives from Officers insurance in respect of action taken against Directors.
the finance function may be invited to attend meetings of the Audit Committee, from time to time as appropriate.
Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code Between the IPO and the year end, the Company applied The Audit Committee met once between the date of the IPO the principles of the Combined Code, with the following and the year end, with the Chief Financial Officer, the exceptions: Company Secretary and the external auditor in attendance.
In accordance with the Combined Code, during this meeting Combined Code provisions A2.1, A2.2: the Combined Code the Audit Committee also met with the Groups external requires that the positions of Chairman and Chief Executive auditor without executive management present.
are separate, with an independent Chairman leading the Board.
For the reasons outlined above, the founder of the The committee reviewed the external audit plan for 2005 Group, Mr Samih Darwazah, currently occupies both roles.
and the planned approach for internal audit for 2006.
The committee also reviewed the results of a top-level risk Combined Code provisions A4.1, B2.1, C3.3: the Company assessment along with reviews of internal controls, both at adopted terms of reference for each of the Audit, Group level and for the principal subsidiaries, which had Remuneration and Nomination Committees at the time of been undertaken by Ernst & Young during 2005. its IPO, but for technical reasons these were not displayed on the Companys website until after the year end.
In addition, the Audit Committee Chairman has met with the external auditor at the principal subsidiaries in the United Combined Code provision C. 3.4: Because of the short period States and Jordan and also met with Ernst & Young who of time between the IPO and the year end, arrangements by have been appointed for a three year period to manage and which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible execute the Groups internal audit function.
improprieties in financial reporting or other matters had not been put in place.
The Board plans to introduce such Attendance of members at committee meetings is shown in arrangements in 2006. the Board report on corporate governance.
The Audit Committee has adopted a policy in relation to Going concern the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor.
The Board believes that the Group has adequate resources to Fees paid in respect of audit, audit-related and non-audit continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, services are outlined in Note 4 to the consolidated financial it will adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Audit-related services are services carried out by the external auditor by virtue of its role as auditor and principally include assurance-related work, accounting advice and other procedures associated with the IPO.
In line with best practice the external auditor does not provide services such as information system design and valuation or advocacy work which could be considered to be inconsistent with the audit role.
The committee has reviewed the non-audit services provided by the external auditor and is satisfied that the nature of these services has not compromised the auditors independence.
