Corporate governance Compliance with the Code Each of these Directors has been subject to evaluation, as The Company has complied throughout the year with the indicated below, continues to demonstrate commitment to the provisions set out in Section 1 of the July 2003 FRC Combined role and be an effective member of the Board.
Accordingly the Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
Board believes these Directors should be re-elected.
The following paragraphs, together with the Directors On appointment to the Board, Directors are given a formal Remuneration Report on pages 35 to 42, provide a description induction and thereafter receive further guidance and training of how the Combined Code has been applied.
There are also procedures for the Directors to take independent professional advice at the cost of the Company, if appropriate.
All Directors have access to The Board the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is The Board comprises five Non-Executive Directors, including responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures the Chairman, and three Executive Directors being the Chief and applicable rules and regulations are followed.
Executive Officer, the Chief Operating Officer and the Group The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is Finance Director.
The biographical details of the members of a matter for the Board as a whole.
the Board are set out on pages 30 and 31.
The Board considers that each of Roy Brown, Mark McCafferty, David Kappler and Lesley Knox are independent.
In addition the Board Performance evaluation determined that Robin Miller was independent at the time of During the period under review, the Board established a his appointment as Chairman in February 2004.
Whilst the process for evaluating the individual Directors, the Board as a Board is collectively responsible for the success of the whole and each of the Board Committees.
This evaluation Company, the Chairman manages the Board to ensure that: process involves an objective and comprehensive evaluation of the Company has appropriate objectives and an the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board effective strategy: and any development plans for the Board.
The evaluation there is a Chief Executive Officer with a team to process for the Board as a whole and for each of its Committees implement the strategy: was conducted by means of detailed questionnaires completed there are procedures in place to inform the Board of by all Directors.
The results of the Board evaluation were performance against objectives: and compiled by the Company Secretary for review by an ad hoc the Company is operating in accordance with the committee of the Board, comprising the Chairman, Senior principles of corporate governance.
Independent Director, Chief Executive Officer and attended by the Company Secretary.
This ad hoc committee discussed the The Chairmans other significant commitments are noted on results of the questionnaires and then made recommendations page 31.
The Board considers that these are not a constraint to the Board as a whole.
The results of the evaluation of each of on the Chairmans agreed time commitment to the Company.
the Board Committees were reviewed and discussed by each of The Senior Independent Director, who is also Deputy the relevant Committees and then reported to the Board as a Chairman, acts as a channel of communication for whole.
A number of recommendations were agreed for the shareholders who have concerns if those concerns have not Board and its Committees and these will be implemented been resolved through the usual channels of the Chairman, during 2005.
Chief Executive Officer or Group Finance Director.
He also The Chairman appraises the performance of the oversees senior executives remuneration and remuneration individual Board members through discussion with all policy as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Senior Independent Director is Executive Officer has overall responsibility for running the responsible for the evaluation of the Chairman and the views Companys business.
of the other Directors are canvassed.
The results of the The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved performance evaluation for each of the Directors were reported to it for decision.
These include the following major matters: to the Board.
The development plans for the Board and the the approval of any material investments, capital performance evaluation process will be reviewed annually.
expenditure, acquisitions and disposals by group The Non-Executive Directors met once without the companies: Executive Directors being present, during the year under substantial alteration in the general nature of the review and met once without the presence of the Chairman.
business: approval of the operating plan and the three year Board Committees strategic plan: There are three principal Board Committees, each of which setting of financial and dividend policies: regularly reports to the Board and each of which has clear consideration of interim and final dividends: terms of reference which can be found on the Companys change of auditors, accounting policies and practices: website www.
The terms of reference of each of changes to the share capital of the Company: the Board Committees were reviewed and amended in 2004. appointment and removal of all Directors and senior Each Committee has and will keep under review its terms of management: and reference and its effectiveness and make recommendations corporate governance and corporate social responsibility to the Board of any appropriate changes.
The chairman of of the Company.
each of the Board Committees will be available to answer In accordance with the Combined Code at least half the Board, shareholders questions at the forthcoming Annual excluding the Chairman, comprise independent Non-Executive General Meeting.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years and the Articles of Association include a Audit Committee requirement that all Directors submit themselves for re-election The Audit Committee, which is required to meet a minimum by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting of three times a year, comprised David Kappler Chairman, following appointment and thereafter every third calendar year.
Roy Brown, Lesley Knox and Mark McCafferty, all of whom During the period under review the period of appointment for were appointed to the Committee on 23 April 2002. each of the Non-Executive Directors except the Chairman was The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Group Finance Director, extended by a further period of three years to 22 April 2008. the Head of Internal Audit, the Chief Operating Officer and Details of those Directors who will stand for re-election at the the external auditors were invited and attended meetings forthcoming Annual General Meeting can be found on page 42. of the Audit Committee.
32 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance continued David Kappler, Chairman of the Committee, has recent relevant and to remain as a Director of the Company.
The second financial experience, having been Chief Financial Officer of occasion was to evaluate the Committees own performance.
Cadbury Schweppes plc for nine years until his retirement Members attendance at meetings of the Committee from that Board in April 2004.
The Board believes that the during the period under review is set out below.
The Committee other Committee members have relevant experience to serve is responsible for identifying and nominating executive and on this Committee.
non-executive candidates for approval by the Board to fill Members attendance at the Committee can be found below.
vacancies as and when they arise and to put in place Both the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors have succession plans for Directors and other senior managers.
direct access to the Chairman of the Committee outside the The Committee has access to such information and advice formal Committee meetings.
both from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the The main duties of the Committee are as follows: Company, as it deems appropriate.
External consultants are i monitoring the integrity of and reviewing the financial used to assist in identifying suitable external candidates statements: based on a written specification for each appointment.
ii the appointment of and the review of the effectiveness The Chairman, together with other Committee members, and independence of the external auditors: prepares a shortlist of candidates for consideration by the iii approval of the scope of the Companys risk management Board.
The final candidate is then subject to formal nomination programme and review of the risk management process: by the Committee and approval by the Board.
In addition the iv reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the internal Committee will review the Board structure, size and audit function: and composition and from time to time make any relevant v to oversee the establishment and maintenance of good recommendations to the Board.
business practices throughout the Group.
Remuneration Committee During the period under review the Committee met on three The Remuneration Committee comprised Roy Brown occasions in order to review a wide range of financial matters, Chairman, David Kappler, Lesley Knox and Mark McCafferty, including annual and half year profit figures, financial all of whom were appointed to the Committee on 23 April statements, trading statements and other regulatory 2002.
No person other than the members of the Committee is information disclosed to the public and to conduct a review of entitled to be present at meetings but others may be invited the internal audit function and to receive regular reports from by the Committee to attend.
No Director is present when the internal audit, before making appropriate recommendations to Committee considers matters relating to him or acts in matters the Board.
The Committee is responsible for approving the terms of Nomination Committee service and setting the remuneration for the Executive Directors The Nomination Committee, which meets as and when and other senior managers of the Group in accordance with a required, comprised Robin Miller, who was appointed remuneration policy which is approved by the Board.
It is also Chairman of the Committee on 28 June 2004, Roy Brown, responsible for determining the fees of the Chairman and the David Kappler, Lesley Knox and Mark McCafferty all of terms upon which the service of Executive Directors is whom were appointed to the Committee on 23 April 2002. terminated having regard to a severance policy adopted by the The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
It also prepares for approval by the Board the annual During the period under review the Committee met on two report on Directors remuneration set out on pages 35 to 42. occasions.
The first was to consider and approve the request of The Committee is required to meet at least twice a year Brian McLaughlin, who had indicated his intention to retire as a and a record of members attendance at the Board and other Director of the Company, to withdraw that retirement intention Committee meetings is given below.
Board attendance chart Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Roy Brown 11 11 3 3 4 4 1 2 Neil Bright 11 11 3 2 1 Alan Giles 11 11 3 4 1 David Kappler 10 11 3 3 3 4 2 2 Lesley Knox 10 11 3 3 3 4 2 2 Mark McCafferty 11 11 3 3 4 4 1 2 Brian McLaughlin 11 11 3 2 1 Robin Miller 11 11 3 4 2 2 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that each Director could have attended.
Not Committee members but invited to attend all or part of the number of meetings indicated.
All instances of non-attendances were in respect of additional meetings arranged at short notice.
Internal control The Board attaches considerable importance to, and management process and significant risk issues are referred acknowledges its responsibility for, the Groups system of to the Board for consideration.
The Board confirms it has internal control and risk management and carries out regular reviewed the Groups system of internal controls including reviews of their effectiveness.
A system of internal control is financial, operational and compliance controls as well as risk designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to management, and that these accord with the guidance on achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable internal controls set out in the Turnbull Report and that such and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or controls have been in place during the year under review and loss.
The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the risk up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts 33 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance continued and that there are satisfactory ongoing processes for In addition the Directors welcome the opportunity to meet identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks with private investors at the Companys general meetings faced by the Group.
The systems of internal control and the where shareholders are invited to ask questions and express processes used by the Board to review the effectiveness of views on the Companys business.
The views of shareholders those systems include: are reported to the Board as and when appropriate.
Group Accountability and audit an internal audit function which carries out a programme The Board is aware of its responsibility to present a clear and of audits covering the management of significant balanced assessment of the Groups financial position and corporate risks and reports directly to the Audit prospects.
This assessment is provided in the statements of Committee and the Board on the effectiveness of key the Chairman and the Chief Executive and in the Operating internal controls: Review and Financial Review on pages 4 and 16 to 29. detailed risk registers which describe the significant risks The Audit Committee reviews the independence and and control strategies in each area of the business and objectivity of the external auditors with a view to confirming which are reviewed annually: that, in its view, the maintenance of objectivity on the one a comprehensive system of financial reporting which hand and the value for money on the other has been kept includes an annual budget process, monthly reporting appropriately in balance.
The external auditors have in place with rolling forecasts, and half year and annual reporting processes to ensure their independence is maintained to enable the Group to meet its public financial reporting including safeguards to ensure that where they provide requirements: non-audit services their independence is not threatened.
regular performance monitoring with remedial action In this context, the Audit Committee considers that it is taken where necessary: appropriate for the external auditors to provide to the Group regular Board meetings with a formal schedule of tax advice and other accounting services, including those in matters reserved to the Board for decision: connection with supporting and reporting on financial established procedures for planning, approving and representations in public documentation.
During the year monitoring major projects: under review the auditors were used for tax advice work and a policies and procedures manual which sets out, the Company foresees using the auditors for this advice in inter alia, authority limits and guidelines for capital the future.
The provision of other services is considered on expenditure, which include annual budgets and appraisal an ad hoc case-by-case basis.
Details of the fees paid to the and review procedures.
All operating businesses have to auditors in the year, for audit and non-audit services, are confirm compliance with the manual on an annual basis: given on page 56. certain centralised functions that are staffed by appropriately qualified individuals who draw on external Statement of Directors responsibility professional advice.
These functions include finance, tax, The Directors are required by company law to prepare financial treasury, management information systems, legal, statements for each financial year which give a true and fair company secretarial and internal audit: and view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and clearly defined organisational structures and appropriate of the profit and loss of the Group for that period.
those financial statements, the Directors are required to: i select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Audit Committee consistently: approving the scope of the annual Group risk ii make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and management programme: prudent: and reviewing the results of the risk identification process: iii state whether applicable accounting standards have providing input on risks and internal controls into the been followed, subject to any material departures annual Board strategy discussions: disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
reviewing the effectiveness of the risk management The Directors confirm that they have complied with these process and discussing significant risk issues with the requirements in preparing the financial statements on Board: pages 48 to 73. considering reports from internal and external audit on The Directors are responsible for maintaining adequate the system of internal control and any material control accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at weaknesses: any time, the financial position of the Group and which enable reviewing the internal audit and external audit work them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the plans: and Companies Act 1985.
They also have a general responsibility at the year end, before producing the statement in the for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to Annual Report and Accounts, the Board, through the safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect Audit Committee, considers reports generated from the fraud and other irregularities.
internal and external auditors on any major problems that have occurred during the year.
Going concern The Directors believe, after making inquiries that they consider Relations with shareholders to be appropriate, that the Group has adequate resources to The Board places high importance on maintaining good continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
relationships with both institutional and private investors and For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis ensures, through its investor relations programme, that in preparing the financial statements.
shareholders are kept informed of significant Group developments.
Shareholders can access further information on By Order of the Board the Group via the Companys website at www.
Elaine Marriner Company Secretary The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet 27 June 2005 regularly with institutional shareholders and analysts.
Major institutional shareholders are given the opportunity to meet with the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director.
34 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005
