Corporate Governance Introduction During the year, the Board was led by Brian Whitty, the Executive Chairman.
He also served as a member of the Boards Nomination The Company complied throughout the year with the provisions set Committee.
out in the Combined Code published by the UK Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code except where indicated on page 38.
The Chairmans responsibilities are clearly fide ned in a written speci cation agreed by the Board during the year and which makes The manner in which the Group applies the principles of good clear the division of responsibilities between the Executive Chairman governance contained in the Code is described in the appropriate parts and the Chief Executive.
They include the smooth running of the of this Report and Accounts.
Thus the application by the Company of Board, effective communication between executive and non-executive the Codes principles to remuneration matters at pages 42 to 49 should directors and the general progress and long-term development of be read in conjunction with the statement below.
His executive responsibilities include major strategic Groups position and prospects is set out in the Chairmans Statement, acquisitions, relations with shareholders and those relating to property, the Chief Executives Review and Financial Review on pages 2 to 25. legal and governance matters.
The Board has established a formal procedure for directors wishing to seek independent legal and other professional advice and all members of the Board have access to the The Board advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Board of directors leads and controls the Company by holding The day-to-day running of the Companys business is delegated to an at least eight meetings a year at which its current and forecast Executive Board, also led by Brian Whitty, and which includes Richard performance is monitored and reviewed.
Regular reports on monthly Harpin, Chief Executive, Andrew Belk, Group Finance Director, and Ian performance and other matters of importance to the Company ensure Carlisle, Chief Executive of Homeserve Emergency Services, who was that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with the information appointed as a director in November 2004.
Other members of the necessary to make an informed judgement.
In addition, the Board Executive Board, together with autobiographical details, are listed on holds regular meetings to discuss and devise the Companys medium pages 30 to 33. and long-term strategic focus and management development strategy.
Regular informal presentations are given and meetings held in order to Richard Harpin, the Chief Executive, is responsible for leading business apprise directors of issues of importance affecting the Group.
development, operational issues and marketing.
He is also responsible for all operational public relations and tactical acquisitions.
In accordance with the provisions of its Articles of Association and with the Code, each director is subject to election by the Companys During the year, three independent non-executive directors with shareholders at the Annual General Meeting immediately following extensive business, finance and marketing backgrounds provided the appointment and subject to re-election at least every three years Board with a breadth of experience and with independent judgement.
John Maxwell and Barry Gibson were appointed as independent The Board has a Schedule of Matters speci cally reserved to it for non-executive directors on 6 April 2004.
Justin Jewitt served as an decision and has approved the written terms of reference for the independent non-executive director throughout the year.
various committees to which it has delegated its authority in certain matters.
Matters reserved to the Board include the recommendation John Maxwell served as the Companys independent senior nonor approval of dividends, the approval of final and interim financial executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee from the statements, major financial commitments, the acquisition of companies date of his appointment.
or businesses, appointments to the Board and its committees, the Groups future strategy and the Groups internal controls.
It also provides that the Board receive regular reports from chairmen of its committees.
The Schedule is kept under regular review.
Homeserve plc 37 24539 HS Report 2005 p ges 34-83 2 col. indd 37 1 6 05 5:06:21 pm Corporate Governance From 30 November 2004, the date of Ian Carlisles appointment to Committees the Board until 24 March 2005, the date of Robert Harleys resignation as a director, the composition of the Board was not compliant with The Board operates a number of committees to which it has delegated the Code, since it comprised four executive directors and three certain speci c responsibilities and each of which has formally adopted independent non-executive directors.
From 1 April until 6 April 2004, terms of reference.
These comprise the Nomination, Audit and the date of the demerger of the Companys Water Supply operation, Remuneration Committees.
the Board did not have a senior independent director, as it had an experienced independent non-executive Chairman.
During the same period, the composition of the Remuneration Committee was not Nomination Committee compliant with the Code, since John Harris, who resigned on 6 April The Nomination Committee, which makes recommendations to the 2004, was not considered by the Board to be independent.
The Board on the appointment of directors, is chaired by Brian Whitty and also constitution of the Board and its committees is now fully compliant and comprises Barry Gibson, Justin Jewitt and John Maxwell.
The Committee it is the Boards intention that they remain so.
draws on the advice of such professional advisers as it considers necessary and, during the year, met to consider the appointment of Ian Carlisle as a The Board actively encourages all directors to deepen their knowledge further executive director to the Board.
of their roles and responsibilities and to gain a clear understanding of the Company and the environment in which it operates: and has recently The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Committee, which were adopted a formal policy on the induction and training of directors.
Newly reviewed and updated by the Board during the year, are available on the appointed Board members have undergone an induction programme and Companys website.
have received the opportunity to receive formal training.
During the year, the Groups non-executive directors have met with various members of the Groups management teams and have visited several of the operating Audit Committee businesses.
Further training for directors is available and offered as The Audit Committee is chaired by John Maxwell, a chartered accountant appropriate.
and the senior independent non-executive director.
It comprises only independent non-executive directors: Barry Gibson and Justin Jewitt being During the year, the Board adopted a formal process for reviewing its other members.
its own effectiveness and that of its individual members.
In addition, it continued to ensure that regular meetings of the non-executive directors The Committee meets regularly to review the preliminary and interim were held without the executive directors, and at least once a year, results before they are presented to the Board, to receive reports without the Chairman present, in order to evaluate his performance.
from the Companys internal and external auditors and to make The evaluation process, which was facilitated by external advisers, was recommendations to the Board on accounting policies.
Its primary duties completed during the year, comprising one-on-one meetings to discuss include the monitoring, on behalf of the Board, of compliance with and the the existing and future needs of the Board, its composition and the skills effectiveness of the Companys accounting and internal control systems.
The results of the process were reviewed by the whole The Committees duties also include agreeing audit strategy, monitoring the Board in April 2005. scope and results of the Companys annual audit and the independence and objectivity of its auditors.
The external auditors and the Group Finance Director are invited but are not entitled to attend all meetings.
The Committee has implemented a policy relating to the use of the external auditors for non-audit services and monitors fees paid in respect of such services.
The external and internal auditors are provided with the opportunity to raise any matters or concerns that they may have, in the absence of the executive directors.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee, which were reviewed and updated during the year by the Board are available on the Companys website.
The Committee has also agreed and implemented a procedure for reviewing and assessing its own effectiveness and that of the external audit process.
38 Report & Accounts 2005 24539 HS Report 2005 p ges 34-83 2 col. indd 38 1 6 05 5:06:21 pm Remuneration Committee The remuneration of non-executive directors is a matter for the The Remuneration Committees responsibilities include determining the Companys Board.
Groups overall remuneration strategy and the remuneration packages of the executive directors and other senior executives, after having Short biographies of each of the directors, including their membership consulted with the Chairman and Chief Executive and having received of the Boards Committees outlined above, may be found on pages 30 professional advice from remuneration consultants.
The Committee to 33. is also responsible for approving the grant and exercise of executive long-term incentive arrangements.
In determining remuneration policy, the Committee is free to obtain such professional advice as it sees t, Attendance at Meetings and regularly monitors both the policies of comparator companies and current market practice, in order to ensure that the packages provided The table below sets out the attendance at meetings of the Board and are suf cient to attract and retain executive directors of the necessary its Committees by each member during the year.
The Committees Terms of Reference, which were reviewed and updated during the year, are available on the Companys website.
Messrs Bury, Harris, Sankey and Corbett resigned on 6 April 2004, before the date of the first meeting in the year.
From his appointment as a director on 6 April 2004 until 13 August 2004 John Maxwell acted as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee has been chaired by Justin Jewitt since 13 August 2004.
Barry Gibson and John Maxwell also serve as members of the Committee.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Number of meetings held 9 4 7 Meetings attended B H Whitty 9 R D Harpin 8 A J Belk 9 R I Harley 8 I Carlisle 2 J H Maxwell 8 4 6 J A S Jewitt 9 4 7 J M B Gibson 8 4 6 Mr Carlisle was appointed on 30 November 2004, between this date and the year end only two Board meetings were held.
Homeserve plc 39 24539 HS Report 2005 p ges 34-83 2 col. indd 39 3 6 05 10:46:36 m Corporate Governance Relationships with Shareholders Internal Controls The Board, on the Companys behalf, recognises the need to maintain an As required by the UK Listing Authority, the Company has complied active dialogue with its shareholders.
The Chairman and Group Finance throughout the year with the provisions of the Code relating to internal Director meet regularly with institutional investors and analysts to discuss controls, having implemented the procedures necessary to comply the Companys performance and all shareholders have access to the with the guidance issued in September 1999 the Turnbull Committee senior independent non-executive director, who is available to discuss Report and to report in line with that guidance.
any questions which investors may have in relation to the running of the Company.
The Board encourages shareholders to attend the Annual The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control General Meeting and is always willing to answer questions, either in the and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage meeting itself or, more informally, afterwards.
In addition, shareholders may rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives contact the Company direct, either through its website or by telephoning and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against its of ces.
The Board also recognises the need to ensure that all directors are There is an established internal control framework in place, which is fully aware of the views of major shareholders about the Company.
continually reviewed and updated taking into account the changing nature Copies of all analysts research relating to the Company are circulated of the Groups operations.
This process has been in place for the whole to all directors upon publication, monthly analyses of the Companys of the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and shareholder register are made available to the Board and written Accounts.
feedback from shareholders and analysts, prepared by the Companys brokers and public relations advisers is provided to all directors after The key elements of the system operated by the Group to identify, every signi cant corporate event and at least twice a year.
evaluate and manage signi cant risks include the following: The Groups management operates a formal process for identifying, Going Concern managing and reporting on operational and financial risks faced by each of the Groups businesses, whereby each of the risks identi ed The directors con rm that, after reviewing the Groups budget for is reviewed in detail by the executive directors on a regular basis.
2005 6, the three year operating plan and projected cash ows, they Executive Board meetings are held on a monthly basis at which the have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources Groups senior managers report on the progress of the companies to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this or discipline for which they are responsible and share best practice.
reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
A clearly fide ned organisation structure is in place with clear lines of accountability and appropriate division of duties.
The Groups financial regulations specify authorisation limits for individual managers, with all material transactions being approved by the Board.
40 Report & Accounts 2005 24539 HS Report 2005 p ges 34-83 2 col. indd 40 1 6 05 5:06:22 pm Three year business plans, annual budgets and investment proposals As required by the Turnbull Guidance, the Board has carried out an for each business are formally prepared, reviewed and approved by annual assessment of the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
The processes applied by the Board include: The Group has a dedicated Internal Audit function which reports At the end of the year, the executive directors compile a report directly to the Audit Committee and a formal audit plan is in place identifying the key risks faced by the Group.
This report is considered to address the key risks across the Group.
by the Audit Committee and the Board before the Annual Report and Accounts is approved.
Financial results and cash ows, including a comparison with budgets and forecasts, are reported to the Board on a monthly basis, with The Group has an independent Internal Audit function which variances being identi ed to initiate action to mitigate them.
reviews the overall effectiveness of the risk management process for the key risks and reports independently to the Audit Committee.
Appropriate treasury policies are in place.
At each meeting the Audit Committee reviews reports of the During the year, the Committee adopted a formal whistleblowing executive directors and the internal and external auditors, on any policy for employees who wish to raise any issues of concern relating issues identi ed as having a potentially substantial impact on the to the Companys activities on a con dential basis.
results of the Group, or areas of control weakness.
A mechanism exists to extend the Groups formal risk management The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Groups processes to any signi cant new business acquired or begun by system of managing financial risk and refers any risks it considers the Company immediately upon acquisition or start-up.
In this way, signi cant to the Board for its consideration.
the Board is able to con rm that the necessary process has been operated by the Group for the whole of the year.
At least twice a year, the Audit Committee reviews the work plans and results of each of the internal and external auditors.
At least twice a year, the Audit Committee reviews a register summarising the signi cant risks faced by the businesses or the The Audit Committee Chairman reports the outcome of all Audit Group as a whole, the likelihood of those risks occurring and the Committee meetings to the Board, which also receives minutes of all steps being taken to minimise or otherwise manage those risks.
