Corporate governance report STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and supports the principles of the Combined Code and, except where explained in this report, complies with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE The Board reviews as part of its continuing evaluation procedures the appropriateness of its organisational structure.
The structure is required for planning, executing, controlling and monitoring the business in a manner which seeks to achieve the Groups objectives taking into account the interests of all stakeholders.
The primary purpose of the Board is to ensure that the needs and aspirations of all stakeholders are satisfied.
The Board seeks to achieve this through the development of a balanced strategy which serves the interests of the stakeholders.
The Boards role is then to set the context for the businesses, create suitable structures for implementing the strategies and to ensure the co-ordination, alignment and motivation of resource.
The Board then assesses the results of these actions and sets revised priorities where appropriate to service the needs of the stakeholders.
The Board reviews annually the schedule of matters reserved for its decision.
The current schedule is available on the Companys website.
During 2005, the Board met 12 times.
The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, Ian Peacock, three executive directors and five independent non-executive directors.
The Chief executive officer is Matthew Ingle who took over that position from John Hancock in October 2005.
Mark Robson joined the Board as Chief financial officer in April 2005.
Tony fide Nunzio is the Deputy chairman and Senior independent director.
Ian Peacocks other commitments during the year included his position as Chairman of Mothercare plc.
The Nominations Committee will during 2006 review further the Boards composition to ensure that it will provide the balance of skills and experience that will be appropriate to achieve the satisfactory execution of the Companys current strategy and the size, complexity and geographical spread of the business.
Following the changes during 2005, the composition of the Board has been altered so that at least half the Board comprised independent non-executive directors, bringing the balance of executives and non-executives into conformity with provision A.
The Board has identified the following non-executive directors as independent in accordance with the definition of independence contained in the Combined Code: Tony fide Nunzio Deputy chairman and Senior independent director Paul Cheng Lesley Knox Ian Smith Peter Wallis Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, subject to re-appointment by shareholders.
Their letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting and on request.
A Committee appointed by the Board, comprising the Chairman and Chief executive officer, agrees the fees of the non-executive directors.
The Remuneration Committee determines the Chairmans fee.
All directors are subject to re-appointment by shareholders at the first annual general meeting following their appointment by the Board and thereafter at intervals of no more than every three years by rotation under the articles of association.......................................................................................................................................................................... MFI Annual Report 2005 49 The separate roles of the Chairman and Chief executive officer are clearly defined.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda, and the Chief executive officer for the satisfactory execution of the strategy agreed by the Board working with his fellow executive directors and other executive committee members.
Appropriate training is available to all directors.
Biographical details of the directors are given on pages 31 to 32.
The Board holds regular meetings and receives accurate and timely information.
The Board conducts its procedures for evaluation of its performance, including its committees, through a continuous programme that extends over more than one period.
In the first year of the programme, as reported last year, a report was provided to the Board that summarised the feedback given by all directors to an experienced external facilitator on the effectiveness of the Board in the period.
The Board identified areas for improvement and incorporated them into its programme for 2005 and subsequent years.
In addition, the external facilitator reviewed feedback from discussions with the members of the Board on the performance of the Chairman with the senior independent director.
The Board believes that committed relationships are the essential element of an effective Board.
During 2005, the programme was scheduled to focus specifically on the effectiveness of committees.
In view of the significant changes to the composition of the Board during the year and its heavy additional commitments as a result of the difficult circumstances of the Company, the completion of this stage of the programme has been deferred and will be reported on next year.
The Board met on 12 occasions during the year and has since the year-end met weekly, on many occasions with external advisers, for the purposes of monitoring the progress of the Company in developing its strategic review, the securing of the new Bank facility and the achievement of the planned disposals.
This intense activity is believed to have assisted the Board in enhancing its effectiveness.
There is a procedure for all directors to take independent external advice, at the Companys expense, in the course of their duties via the Company secretary.
Working with the Chairman, the Company secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and all directors have access to his advice and services.
The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees each with defined terms of reference.
The terms of reference of these committees are reviewed regularly.
Membership of these committees, which is reviewed annually, is shown on page 96.
The terms of reference for each committee are available on the Companys website.
AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee consists of four independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Tony fide Nunzio.
The biographies of the independent directors include details of their qualification for their membership of the Committee.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate and up-to-date information on its financial position and that the Groups published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection of this position.
It also assists the Board in ensuring that appropriate accounting policies, internal controls and compliance procedures are in place and monitors the management of risk and the effectiveness of the internal audit function by reviewing its work schedule and reports.
During the year, the Committee has monitored the implementation, under the supervision of the Risk Committee as described below, of a number of enhancements to the Groups Risk Management Process, introduced following issues arising on the introduction of new supply chain systems.
These enhancements included a new assessment process for risks and an improved Risk Mitigation Plan.
Details of Deloitte and Touches fees for audit and non-audit work during 2005 are on page 68.
The Committee reviews the appropriateness of all non-audit work.
The Audit Committee met three times during 2005.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee consists of four independent non-executive directors and is chaired by Lesley Knox.
It is responsible for advising on the remuneration packages needed to attract, retain and motivate executive directors of the required quality.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing strategy and policy on executive remuneration, deciding on the remuneration packages of individual executive directors and reviewing the remuneration and policy of certain other senior executives who are not on the Board.
Full details on the committees work are contained in the remuneration report on pages 35 to 48.
This report includes details on remuneration policy, terms of appointment and the remuneration of executive directors.
The Committees policy on service contracts had previously been to offer a notice period for termination by the Company or director of 12 months with liquidated damages of 12 months base salary applied to any payment of compensation on termination.
On change of control of the Company, liquidated damages of 18 months base salary would have become payable.
This policy, which did not comply with provision B.
1.6 of the Code was changed by the Committee last year and service contracts of executive directors, including Mark Robsons appointed as a director in April 2005 now provide that liquidated damages of 12 months base salary may become payable on a change of control.
During 2005 the Committee met four times.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE The Nominations Committee consists of the Chairman and four independent non-executive directors.
The Committee keeps under review the composition of the Board, including succession, and makes recommendations to the Board for all new appointments and re-appointments.
During 2005 the Nominations Committee met four times.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company considers its relationship with both institutional and private investors to be important and readily enters into dialogue with investors.
The Company has consulted regularly with its principal shareholders in the course of the last year, both where the Board considered it appropriate, in relation to developments affecting the Company and also in relation to its executive incentive proposals for the coming year.
The Senior independent director makes himself available for meetings with shareholders as required.
An investor relations website, www.
co. uk provides an ideal channel for communication with existing and potential investors.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for shareholders to put their questions to the directors.
The Board receives regular reports from the Chief financial officer on relations with the major shareholders and developments and changes in their shareholdings.
At the Annual General Meeting the Company proposes separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue and the numbers of proxy votes cast for and against each resolution are made available to shareholders when voting has been completed.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
RISK AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role of management is to implement Board policies on risk and control.
Such a system is, however, designed to manage rather than eliminate the risks of failure to achieve business objectives.
In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can only provide reasonable assurance against mis-statement or loss.
The Combined Code recommends that the Board at least annually reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Subsequently the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales produced further guidance on the wider aspects of internal control in September 1999 the Turnbull Guidance.
Risk Following the introduction of the Turnbull Guidance the Board enhanced the Groups existing risk management procedures.
The Board can confirm that, for the 2005 financial year and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements, there has been an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, that is reviewed regularly by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.......................................................................................................................................................................... MFI Annual Report 2005 51 The Risk Committee is chaired by the Chief financial officer and is comprised of nine senior executives from the key areas of the business.
It is the responsibility of the Risk Committee to review the effectiveness of the risk management process and internal controls, on behalf of the Board.
The Risk Committee regularly reports to the Board on how risks are being managed.
In addition, there is a mechanism in place to report significant control breakdowns or risk occurrences to the Executive Committee.
An ongoing process for the effective management of risk has been defined by the Risk Committee and is operated in the following stages: Risks raised by all areas of the business, through the adoption of both a bottom-up and top-down process are regularly reviewed.
The key risks to each business areas objectives are identified and scored for probability and impact.
The key controls to manage the risks to the desired level are identified.
A database of all risks and controls is utilised, and the information filtered to produce a number of generic risk areas, forming a key risk register for the Group.
The Risk Committee reviews the risks to assess the effectiveness of the risk management strategies.
Key management are nominated in each business area, and are responsible for reviewing their functions risk register.
Regular reporting on internal and external changes that affect the risks or their importance to the business, and any risk occurrences, are received from these managers.
The generic risks and their management are regularly reported to and discussed at the Executive Committee.
Internal Control The Group has an established framework of internal controls, which includes the following key elements: Members of the Board have responsibility for monitoring the conduct and operations of individual businesses within the Group.
The Group reviews the strategies of the individual businesses and the executive management of each business is accountable for their conduct and performance within the agreed strategies.
The Group and its subsidiaries operate control procedures designed to ensure complete and accurate accounting of financial transactions, and to limit exposure to loss of assets or fraud.
Measures taken include physical controls, segregation of duties in key areas and periodic Internal Audit reviews.
The Audit Committee meets regularly and its responsibilities are set out above.
It receives reports from the Internal Audit function on the results of work carried out under a semi-annually agreed audit programme.
The Audit Committee has independent access to the internal and external auditors.
Internal Audit facilitates a process whereby businesses provide certified statements of compliance with internal financial controls, which are supported by the operation of key controls during the period.
GOING CONCERN After reviewing current performance and detailed forecasts, taking into account available bank facilities and making further enquiries as considered appropriate, the directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to enable it to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the Board believes it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE COMBINED CODE The Group has complied, except where explained in this report, with the requirements of the Financial Services Authority relating to the provisions of the Combined Code and with the Turnbull Guidance throughout the period ended on 24 December 2005 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.......................................................................................................................................................................... 52 MFI Annual Report 2005 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the period and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control, safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking responsible steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS The following table shows the number of meetings individual directors could have attended taking account of appointment and retirement dates during the year and their actual attendance.
