AR6868 ICI Report 35-55 13 3 06 8:31 pm Page 35 Corporate governance Corporate governance The Non-Executive Directors NEDs have a particular responsibility to ICI is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Group challenge constructively the strategy proposed by the Chief Executive has applied the principles contained in Section I of the Combined Code and Executive Directors: to scrutinise and challenge performance: on Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council to assess risk and the integrity of financial information and controls: in July 2003 referred to below as the Combined Code and has and to ensure appropriate remuneration and succession planning complied throughout 2005, and to the date of this Annual Report, arrangements are in place in relation to Executive Directors and other with the provisions set out therein as they apply to the Group.
Each NED continues to demonstrate that he or she has sufficient time to devote to the Companys business.
The Board Lord Butler, the Senior Independent Director, leads any Board Within the overall strategy and objectives for the Group agreed by discussions impacting on the Chairman from which the latter absents the Board, day to day management is delegated to the Chief himself, in particular in relation to performance and succession.
He Executive and Executive Management Team EMT, with individual is also available to the Chairman as a source of advice on matters chief executive officers being responsible for the performance of each affecting the operation of the Board generally.
Currently, the Board comprises eleven Directors: the Chairman, The Board reviews the operational performance of the Group on Mr P B Ellwood: the Chief Executive, Dr J D G McAdam: four a regular basis and also exercises a number of reserved powers Executive Directors and five independent NEDs, including the Senior which include: Independent Director.
Biographical details of the Directors are set responsibility for setting the strategic direction of the Group and out on pages 31 to 33.
These individuals demonstrate a range of agreeing the Group Strategic Plan: business, financial and global experience and expertise from a variety of commercial sectors and public life, which is vital to the successful approving the annual budget and Group Finance Plan: direction of a multi-national company.
The Board is balanced, both appointment and dismissal of the Chief Executive and any member numerically and in experience, so that no individual or small group of the Board or EMT, and succession planning for these roles: of individuals can dominate the Boards decision making.
establishing, via the Remuneration Committee, the remuneration The Board has assessed the independence of the NEDs against policy for Executive Directors and members of the EMT: the criteria set out in the Combined Code and the New York Stock approving the Groups Sustainability policy and targets including Exchange corporate governance rules, save that in the case of those for safety, health and the environment: the latter, the Board has not sought to enquire into the interests of Directors family members other than their spouse.
On this basis, the approving and monitoring compliance with the ICIs Code of Board has concluded that all the NEDs are independent in character Conduct the Group ethics policy and associated whistle-blowing and judgement.
On the same basis, Mr Ellwood was also independent procedures: when appointed Chairman.
authorisation of material borrowings and any issue of equity In 2005, Mr Ellwood became a Non-Executive Director of the US securities: Company, First Data Corporation, Inc. but is not otherwise a director committing to major capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments: of any other company, and his agreement with ICI prohibits him from becoming chairman of another company without ICIs consent.
He agreeing treasury policy including the agreement of foreign currency does perform a number of pro-bono roles, but these commitments and interest risk parameters: and did not change materially in 2005 and the Board remains satisfied dividend policy.
that they are not such as to interfere with the performance of his duties The Board is also responsible for satisfying itself as to the integrity of as Chairman of ICI, which are based around a commitment financial information and the effectiveness of the Groups system of of approximately 150 days per annum.
internal control and risk management processes.
One Director was appointed in 2005.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Following the death of Mr Scott, Mr Brown was appointed Chief Executive, which is set out in writing, has been approved by the Board.
Financial Officer on 14 November 2005, after an externally facilitated In overall terms: search.
He brings considerable depth of commercial and international the Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for ensuring its experience to the Board, which is described more fully on page 31. effectiveness: and All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least every the Chief Executive has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day three years.
Subject to satisfactory performance, NEDs are normally basis and is accountable to the Board for its financial and expected to serve two three-year terms, commencing with the first operational performance.
Annual General Meeting after the date of their appointment and they have no entitlement to compensation except in relation to fees and All Directors are equally accountable under the law for the proper expenses due at the date of termination if the appointment terminates stewardship of the Companys affairs and share a responsibility for prior to the end of the three-year term for any reason.
There may be setting and ensuring the highest standards of ethics and integrity circumstances where NEDs are invited to remain on the Board after across the Group.
the expiry of their second three-year term for a further period of up to three years.
Any such invitation will be subject to the Director in question standing for annual re-election by shareholders.
Corporate governance ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 35 AR6868 ICI Report 35-55 13 3 06 8:31 pm Page 36 Attendance at scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings held in 2005 Full Nomination Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in 2005 Eligible Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Attended to attend to attend to attend to attend P B Ellwood 8 8 2 2 Dr J D G McAdam 8 8 A Baan 8 8225544 A J Brown 11 Lord Butler 8 8225544 J T Gorman 8 822554 4 D C M Hamill 8 8 R N Haythornthwaite 8 8225 544 C F Knott 8 8 Baroness Noakes 8 8225544 W H Powell 8 8 T A Scott 5 5 Committee Chairman In accordance with this policy, Lord Butler will retire and stand for The Nomination Committee comprises the NonExecutive Directors, re-election at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
under the chairmanship of Mr Ellwood.
Mr Herlihy retired as Company Secretary on 30 June 2005 and was In 2005, the Committee dealt with the appointment of a new Chief replaced by Mr Ransom.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary Financial Officer, as described above.
It also agreed the processes to to the Board and to the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit be followed in relation to future Board appointments and discussed Committees.
He assists the Chairman in ensuring that all Directors succession planning arrangements for NEDs.
have full and timely access to all relevant information.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the correct Board procedures Remuneration Committee are followed and advises the Board on all corporate governance The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the Board, matters.
He also administers the procedure under which Directors can, the Companys policy on the remuneration of the Chairman, Executive where appropriate, obtain independent professional advice at the Directors and the most senior management of the Company.
The appointment or removal of the Company Committee determines the total remuneration packages for these Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
individuals, including any compensation on termination of office.
It met on five occasions in 2005.
In accordance with ICIs Articles of Association, the Directors and Officers of the Company are all indemnified out of the assets of The Committee comprises the NEDs under the chairmanship of the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities Mr Haythornthwaite.
The Chairman of the Committee normally invites the incurred as a result of their office.
In addition to the general indemnity Chairman, Chief Executive, Executive Vice President Human Resources contained in the Articles, the Company has also put in place a specific and Vice President Performance & Reward to attend meetings, to deed of indemnity a copy of which may be viewed upon request at the respond to specific questions raised by the Committee.
This specifically Companys registered office setting out in greater detail the terms and excludes any matter concerning their own personal remuneration.
conditions of the Companys indemnity.
The Company also purchases The work of the Remuneration Committee during 2005 has included and maintains a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
The consideration of the following matters: Board believes that these arrangements are in the best interests of the Company, to enable it to attract and retain high quality Directors and reviewing the peer group companies for the Total Shareholder Officers.
Neither the Companys indemnities, nor insurance, provide Return TSR element of the Performance Growth Plan PGP 2005- cover in the event that a Director or Officer has acted fraudulently.
2007 cycle: testing performance conditions for share option grants: Board Committees approving the 2004 Remuneration Report: The principal Board Committees, which report to the Board, are the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit reviewing and approving the restated annual incentive plan targets Committee.
The Remuneration and Audit Committees meet at least for the Chief Executive and EMT, following the 2005 IFRS quarterly and the Nomination Committee meets as and when required.
restatement process: Summary remits of the Committees are set out below and full terms reviewing and revising the Companys policy on Executive rewards: of reference are available via the Investor Relations section of ICIs conducting a review of the effectiveness of the Remuneration corporate website www.
com and in paper form from the Company Committee: Secretariat on request.
Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Board Committee meetings during 2005 is set out in the table above.
reviewing and approving the death in service benefits to be paid to the estate of Mr Scott: Nomination Committee approving the remuneration package of the new Chief Financial Officer: The Nomination Committee is responsible for proposing new appointments of Directors to the Board and reviews succession plans reviewing and approving revised fee and base salaries for the and arrangements for the Board and EMT.
It met on two occasions Chairman, Chief Executive and the EMT: and in 2005. approving annual grants and awards under the Annual Incentive Plan, the Executive Share Option Scheme and the PGP for the Chief Executive and the EMT.
Corporate governance 36 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 AR6868 ICI Report 35-55 13 3 06 8:31 pm Page 37 The Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 52 includes details of The Audit Committee has established a policy which is intended to remuneration policy and practices, and the remuneration of Directors.
preserve the independence of KPMG Audit Plc, when acting as auditor of the Group Accounts.
This policy governs the provision of audit Audit Committee and non-audit services by the auditor and its associates.
It identifies The Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its certain non-audit services which the auditor is prohibited from responsibilities for corporate governance, financial reporting and providing.
Certain defined categories of permitted service are approved corporate control.
It met on four occasions in 2005.
The Committee by the Audit Committee on an annual basis and the Chairman of the comprises the NEDs under the chairmanship of Mr Gorman.
The dates Audit Committee may approve additional categories, subsequently on which these individuals were first appointed to the Committee are ratifying these with the Audit Committee at its next meeting.
Audit and as follows: non-audit engagements are also subject to formal authorisation procedures based on the level of fees involved, with major J T Gorman September 2000 engagements requiring authorisation by the Committee.
A Baan June 2001 Lord Butler July 1998 Audit and internal control R N Haythornthwaite February 2001 In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, the Baroness Noakes March 2004 Board confirms that there is a process for identifying, evaluating The Board has determined that Mr Gorman and Baroness Noakes and managing the significant risks to the achievement of the Groups are the Audit Committees financial experts.
The process has been in place throughout 2005 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, Audit Committee Report and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The effectiveness of this The work of the Audit Committee during 2005 included consideration process has been reviewed by the Audit Committee, which reports of the following matters: its findings for consideration by the Board.
in respect of the 2004 year end: the full year results release, the The processes used by the Audit Committee to review the Annual Report and Accounts, and the annual report from the effectiveness of the system of internal control include: external auditor: discussions with management on risk areas identified by the 2004 full year report on internal audit and the effectiveness management and or the audit process: of internal control: the review of internal and external audit plans: the quarterly financial results and the Interim Report 2005: the review of significant issues arising from internal and the recommendation to the Board of the reappointment of KPMG external audits: Audit Plc as the external auditor and approval of the 2005 external the review of management processes for significant Group risks audit plan and fee proposal: defined by the full Board on the basis of proposals from the Group the progress of the internal audit programme and matters arising Risk Committee GRC : and therefrom: annual compliance statements from each business and major the policy on auditor independence and provision of audit and nonfunction.
audit services by the auditor: Normally, the Audit Committee reports to the Board the results of its reviewing the Groups plans for achieving compliance in 2006 with review of the risk management process for the full Group risk register.
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, regarding internal The full Board then reviews the Group risk register and draws its control over financial reporting: collective conclusions as to the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
However, in 2005 the risk management process and the Groups risk management processes: performance was reviewed by the full Board, allowing Directors the material litigation affecting the Company: opportunity to review the appropriateness of the Groups approach developments in accounting standards and the Groups responses, to risk.
including the adoption of International Financial Reporting The GRC consolidates, reviews and prioritises input from the Standards: businesses and management and reports its conclusions to the Audit the Groups compliance with the Combined Code and the Committee and the Board.
The GRC comprises the heads of major New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance rules: and corporate functions, the Chief Internal Auditor and the Deputy General Counsel.
the Terms of Reference and the effectiveness of the Audit Committee.
The Internal Audit function reviews internal controls in all key financial activities of the Group, typically over a three-year cycle.
It acts as The Audit Committee also monitors the Groups whistle-blowing a service to the businesses by assisting with the continuous procedures, ensuring that appropriate arrangements are in place improvement of controls and procedures.
Actions are agreed in for employees to be able to raise, in confidence, matters of possible response to its recommendations and these are followed up to impropriety, with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
ensure that satisfactory control is maintained.
Quarterly reviews are Subsequent to the 2005 year end, the Committee has completed a also conducted between internal audit management and the senior review of the Internal Audit function and has confirmed that it is management of the businesses to assess their current control status satisfied with the functions operational effectiveness.
and to identify and address any areas of concern.
Regular attendees at Audit Committee meetings, at the invitation of the During 2005, as part of the Groups programme to meet the Chairman of the Committee, include: the Chairman, Chief Executive, requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, Chief Financial Officer, General Counsel, Chief Internal Auditor and the Internal Audit function has focused principally on developing and Group Financial Controller.
The Committee meets regularly with the implementing the plan to identify, document and test key controls over external and internal auditors without the presence of management.
Corporate governance ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 37 AR6868 ICI Report 35-55 13 3 06 8:31 pm Page 38 The Board is responsible for maintaining and reviewing the In addition, in 2005, a comprehensive review took place of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
The internal effectiveness of the Board and its principal Committees.
The Directors control systems are designed to meet the Groups particular needs and were asked to complete questionnaires and to provide comments on the risks to which it is exposed.
They are designed to manage, rather Board and Committee procedures and effectiveness.
The results of the than eliminate, the risks to the achievement of business objectives, and evaluations were reviewed by the Chairman and the Company Secretary, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against prior to being presented to the Board as a whole.
The collective view misstatement or loss.
of Directors was that the Board was operating effectively.
The Groups strategic direction is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Discussions, during and following the review, focused on a number of Annual plans and performance targets for each business are set by the detailed areas including the following: Chief Executive and are reviewed in total by the Board in the light of Strategy the Groups overall objectives.
During 2005, the Board has made significant progress in developing The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the success and agreeing the Groups future strategic direction.
However, the Board of the Group are an integral part of the internal control environment.
recognises the need for continuing additional focus on evaluating Such processes include strategic planning, the appointment of senior growth strategies and opportunities, both organic and by acquisition, managers, the regular monitoring of performance, control over capital whilst at the same time maintaining the pressure on delivering optimum expenditure and investments and the setting of high standards and cost management.
targets for safety, health and environmental performance.
Businesses Board composition are responsible for meeting the defined reporting timetables and In reviewing the skills, attributes and experiences of those Directors compliance with Group accounting manuals, which set out accounting currently in office, the Board has identified possible specific areas of policies, controls and definitions.
detailed knowledge and expertise that it will look for in future NED The Chief Executive receives a monthly summary of financial results appointments.
from each business, and the Groups published quarterly financial Risk Management information is based on a standardised and timely reporting process.
In 2005, the Board reviewed and confirmed its long established Responsibility for monitoring compliance with Group policies and processes for assessing and managing key risks.
guidelines rests with the chief executive officers of the businesses and In addition, the following points were made in the evaluation: with senior managers at the Corporate Centre.
Annual statements of compliance are provided to the Board, and these statements are the Boards remit reflects what is required of an effective Board reviewed by the relevant functional leader for each policy area.
In and its meetings, agendas and activities address all the elements turn, there is an annual report to the Audit Committee, on behalf contained within this remit: of the Board, on the degree of compliance with Group policies and the Board has robust policies and processes in place, particularly guidelines.
Corrections to any weaknesses found are monitored in the areas of governance and financial control: and and controls are developed to match changing circumstances.
the Board operates in an open and constructive manner, with valuable and effective contributions made by all Directors.
Board effectiveness Induction and continuing development US corporate governance compliance On appointment all new Directors receive a formal induction, tailored As a consequence of its US listing, the Company is required to comply to their particular needs, which includes, as appropriate, visits to key with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, as it applies locations and meetings with senior executives.
Throughout their period to foreign issuers.
The Company continues to monitor its legal and in office, Directors are continually updated on the Groups business regulatory obligations arising from Sarbanes-Oxley.
The Company and the competitive and regulatory environment in which it operates.
has taken action to be compliant with those rules that have already Directors are advised on appointment of their legal and other duties become effective, and has plans to address rules with effective dates and obligations as a director of a listed company and are periodically in 2006 and beyond.
In particular, the Group has developed and updated on these as part of their continuing development.
progressed its plans to meet the requirements of Section 404 of Evaluation the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
All Directors, including the Chairman, receive a formal performance In accordance with recommendations issued by the SEC, the evaluation to which all other members of the Board have an Company has established a Disclosure Committee comprising opportunity to contribute.
The reviews are led as indicated below.
appropriate senior executives from the ICI Corporate Centre: the Board Member Review led by: General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Chief Financial Officer, Chairman Senior Independent Director the Vice President, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications, and the Chief Internal Auditor and Group Financial Controller.
Senior Independent Director other Non-Executive Directors Chairman The Disclosure Committees responsibilities include: Chief Executive Chairman designing, maintaining and evaluating the Companys disclosure Executive Directors Chief Executive controls and procedures and reporting its evaluation to the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer: The NEDs meet twice a year with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
These discussions include evaluation of Board and individual Director reviewing the Companys Annual Reports, interim results performance and succession plans.
The Chief Executive and Chairman announcements and other materials disseminated to shareholders each absent themselves when their own performance is being before they are released: assessed.
Discussions are led by the Chairman except in relation to satisfying itself as to the verification processes for all announcements his own performance and succession when the Senior Independent and the formal sign-off of related documents: and Director takes the chair and feedback is provided.
Corporate governance 38 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 AR6868 ICI Report 35-55 13 3 06 8:31 pm Page 39 recommending appropriate employee training in respect of the Adoption and disclosure of corporate governance guidelines handling of inside information and the ICI Disclosure Policy.
US companies listed on the NYSE are required to adopt and disclose corporate governance guidelines.
The Listing Rules of the UK Financial In accordance with the ICI Disclosure Policy, the Committee provides a Services Authority require each listed company incorporated in the formal report to the Board on an annual basis, through the Company United Kingdom to include in its Annual Report and Accounts a Secretary, stating how the Committee has performed its duties in narrative statement of how it has applied the principles of the respect of monitoring inside information.
Combined Code and a statement as to whether or not it has complied In November 2003, the SEC approved new NYSE corporate with the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the accounting governance rules for listed companies.
Under these rules, as a NYSEperiod covered by the Annual Report and Accounts.
listed foreign private issuer, ICI must disclose any significant ways in As stated on page 35, ICI has applied the principles contained which its corporate governance practices differ from those required to in Section I of the Combined Code and has complied throughout be followed by US companies under NYSE listing standards.
We 2005, and to the date of this Annual Report and Accounts, with believe the following to be the significant differences between our the provisions set out therein as they apply to the Company.
The corporate governance practices and NYSE corporate governance rules Combined Code does not require ICI to disclose the full range of applicable to US companies.
corporate governance guidelines with which it complies.
Independent Directors In August 2005, in compliance with the governance rules of the Under NYSE listing rules applicable to US companies, independent NYSE and Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, it directors must comprise a majority of the board of directors.
was determined that each member of the ICI Audit Committee satisfied The NYSE rules include detailed tests for determining director the SEC independence requirements.
As part of this determination it independence while the Combined Code prescribes a more general was confirmed that no compensation from the ICI Group had been standard for determining director independence.
The Combined received by any child or stepchild sharing a home with an Audit Code requires a companys board to assess director independence Committee member.
Subsequent to this determination, the Company by affirmatively concluding that the director is independent of filed with the NYSE a written affirmation that the Audit Committee management and free from any business or other relationship that complied with Section 303A of the NYSEs Listed Company Manual.
could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
The ICI Board does not have a majority of independent Directors.
Principles of business conduct However, the Board includes a balance of Executive Directors and As a leading international company, ICIs reputation for high ethical independent Non-Executive Directors such that no individual or group standards is central to its business success.
ICIs Code of Conduct can dominate the Boards decision making and the Company complies the Code provides guidance in this area and has been communicated with the Combined Code.
It applies to all ICI employees, including Directors and Officers.
A confidential, independently operated, The Board of ICI has assessed the independence of the NEDs against whistle-blowing service is also provided to enable staff to report any the criteria set out in the Combined Code and the NYSE corporate suspected non-compliance.
The Code is published on ICIs corporate governance rules, save that in the case of the latter, the Board has website www.
com and is available in paper form from the not sought to enquire into interests of Directors family members Company Secretariat on request.
other than their spouse and has concluded that all the NEDs are independent and that ICI complies with the requirements of the Shareholder communications Combined Code.
Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The Nominating Corporate Governance Committee Annual Review is sent to all shareholders and a full Annual Report and US companies listed on the NYSE are required to have a Accounts is available by election or on request.
In addition, at the half Nominating Corporate Governance Committee composed entirely of year, an interim report is produced and sent to shareholders and the independent directors with a charter that addresses the Committees quarterly results are published via the London Stock Exchange and purpose including the responsibility to develop and recommend to the by press release.
The Companys financial reports are available to Board a set of corporate governance principles.
shareholders in paper and electronic form.
com provides financial and other information about ICI and ICI does not have a Nomination Corporate Governance Committee.
contains an archive of past announcements and Annual Reports.
ICIs Nomination Committee comprises the Companys independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman who was deemed, Shareholders have the opportunity to receive documents such as under the Combined Code, to be independent on appointment.
the Notice of Meeting, form of proxy, the Annual Report and Annual The responsibility for developing the Companys corporate governance Review in electronic form via the Internet rather than in paper form principles rests with the Board.
Shareholders choosing this option will receive a notification by e-mail each time the Company publishes such Non-management directors meetings documentation on its website.
Shareholders may also appoint Pursuant to NYSE listing standards for US companies, nonproxies electronically.
management directors must meet on a regular basis without management present and independent directors must meet separately Overall responsibility for ensuring that there is effective communication at least once per year.
ICIs NEDs meet twice a year with the Chairman with investors and that the Board understands the views of major and Chief Executive.
These meetings include evaluation of Board and shareholders on matters such as governance and strategy rests with individual Director performance and succession plans.
The Chairman the Chairman, who makes himself available to meet shareholders for and Chief Executive both absent themselves when their own this purpose.
On a day-to-day basis the Boards primary contact performance is being assessed.
Discussions are led by the Chairman, with major shareholders is via the Chief Executive and Chief Financial except when his own performance and succession is discussed, when Officer, who have regular dialogue with individual institutional the Senior Independent Director takes the chair.
shareholders and deliver presentations to analysts after the quarterly results.
The Senior Independent Director and other members of the Board, however, are also available to meet major investors on request.
Corporate governance ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 39 AR6868 ICI Report 35-55 13 3 06 8:31 pm Page 40 The Senior Independent Director has a specific responsibility to be available to shareholders who have concerns, for whom contact with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial Officer have either failed to resolve their concerns, or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
The Board commissions an independent survey of investor views covering both the UK and US on a biennial basis which provides valuable feedback from investors.
The survey includes a specific opportunity for investors to comment on the quality of the communication they receive in their contact with the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
Individual shareholders have the opportunity at the Annual General Meeting to question the Chairman and, through him, the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
As an alternative, shareholders can leave written questions for response by the Company.
After the Annual General Meeting, shareholders can meet informally with the Directors.
To ensure transparency, and in accordance with the principle that every share should be entitled to a vote, all votes at shareholder meetings, other than on procedural issues, are taken by way of a poll.
Annual General Meeting The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting, to be held on Wednesday 24 May 2006, is contained in a separate letter from the Chairman accompanying this Annual Report and Accounts.
In line with Combined Code recommended best practice, at least 20 working days notice of the AGM is provided by the Company.
The following Directors will seek re-election at the AGM: Lord Butler, Mr Ellwood, Mr Haythornthwaite and Dr McAdam.
In addition, Mr Brown will seek election at the AGM.
Further details on the business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting are contained in the Notice.
Corporate Governance Rating In a report issued in July 2005 by Governance Metrics International, a global corporate governance ratings agency, ICI was ranked among the top UK companies, with an overall global corporate governance rating of 9.5 out of a possible 10.
In addition, in February 2006, the Company received the Best of European Business award, a competition jointly sponsored by Roland Berger Strategy Consultants and the Financial Times, in the category of Best Corporate Governance.
Corporate governance 40 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005
