TOBACCO-RELATED LITIGATION In the UK, the Tobacco Advertising and Promotion Point In Scotland, on 31 May 2005 we received a favourable of Sale Regulations 2004 took effect in December 2004 judgment in the case of McTear v. Imperial Tobacco Limited.
in England, Wales and Northern Ireland, limiting advertising The judgment found in favour of the Company on all counts inside tobacco retailers to a total surface area equivalent to and has not been appealed.
Abandonment has been agreed one A5 sheet of paper including text health warning and in respect of ten other cases brought against us in Scotland quit line telephone number.
Scotland has introduced almost in which individual claimants were seeking damages for identical legislation.
The one remaining case In March 2004 the Irish Government passed the Public against us in Scotland is inactive.
Health Tobacco Act, which bans product displays and in-store advertising whilst conferring major search and seize In the Republic of Ireland, the number of claims against the powers on the Office of Tobacco Control.
The Act is being Company has fallen from 307 in 1997, to 13 two of which challenged in court by a number of tobacco companies have been dismissed subject to appeals and one whose including ourselves.
statement of claim was served out of time and has been returned : 294 cases have been dismissed, discontinued or We have stringent, self-imposed policies and standards in are not proceeding.
No case has gone beyond service of a place that cover our advertising and promotional activities statement of claim and replies to notices of particulars.
worldwide, and we do not believe that advertising bans In Poland, an individual claimant has served proceedings on are necessary.
Our International Code of Practice for the us.
There have been several preliminary hearings and we Marketing of Tobacco Products is available on our website anticipate judgment in late 2005 early 2006.
a further individual filed a claim against us which the court In the context of increasing regulation and a challenging rejected on the basis that it failed to comply with legal global environment we continue to build constructive formalities.
On 4 February 2005 a Health Association filed relationships with governments and regulatory bodies proceedings against us and other tobacco companies.
Our objective remains to ensure that regulation These proceedings have not been formally served on of tobacco products is sound, proportionate and workable.
Imperial Tobacco or any of the other tobacco companies.
We do not accept without challenge, regulation that is flawed, unreasonable or disproportionate: nor do we engage In the Netherlands, we have received claim letters on behalf lightly in legal challenges.
However, we will do so where we of 44 individuals, although 15 of those individuals have now believe it is necessary to protect our business interests.
Testimony has been taken from the majority of the remaining potential claimants at preliminary hearings.
No proceedings have been commenced.
In Australia, an individual claimant has served proceedings TOBACCO DUTY on seven tobacco companies, including our Company.
Significant duty increases took place this year in several A statement of claim has been served.
Western Europe countries, most notably in Germany and in the Member States that joined the EU in May 2004.
We To date, no judgment has been entered against Imperial remain concerned that substantial duty increases encourage Tobacco and no action has been settled in favour of a the growth of smuggling, illegal cross-border trading and claimant in any tobacco-related litigation involving Imperial counterfeiting and we are totally opposed to such activities.
Tobacco or any of its subsidiaries.
Imperial Tobacco has We continue to work with Customs Authorities in a number been advised by its lawyers that it has meritorious defences of countries to counter this illegal trade.
We have signed to the legal proceedings in which damages are sought for Memoranda of Understanding MoU in seven countries to alleged smoking-related health effects and to threatened date.
Discussions are progressing in a further twelve actions of a similar nature.
We will continue to contest all countries.
The recent signing of the updated MoU in China such speculative litigation against the Group.
between local authorities and a coalition of tobacco companies including Imperial is the result of continuing activities to tackle counterfeit products.
Note: This is not an operating and financial review pursuant to Section 234AA of the Companies Act 1985.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 29 OUR PEOPLE Our success in 2005 was as much about our people as our products and markets.
We aim to provide an environment where our employees can maximise their potential.
Our employees are focused on delivering results for the benefit of our shareholders.
It is their commitment that turns our strategy into reality.
Kathryn Brown Group Human Resources Director FIDISON ANDRIAMIHAJA ANTJE SCHLICHTING THOMAS VEIT JACQUELINE OKSAS Factory Manager SOCIGA Group Corporate Intelligence Manager Marketing Manager Operator Libreville Gabon Bristol Germany Austria Berlin Factory Managing a factory in Africa presents I joined Imperial Tobacco from I head up the Marketing function for I have worked in our Berlin factory for me with opportunities and challenges Reemtsma, working in Industry Imperial Tobacco in Germany Austria.
16 years as an operator in the Secondary as my responsibilities not only include Affairs since 2000.
As Head of the Together with my team, we are Department.
I survey the production production but also the maintenance Intelligence Team I work on a wide responsible for strategy and programme machines, specifically packing machines, and logistics which ensure the smooth range of regulatory issues, developing development in consumer and trade along with the quality control of our running of the factory.
The challenge the forecasting of long-term trends in marketing, as well as the hospitality products.
Working at high-speed was made even more exciting for me the external environment.
My job is a challenging but an machines requires concentration and by breaking up borders: thats how contributing to projects that are not exciting mix of people management technical understanding.
Efficiency as someone born in Madagascar, who directly linked to my area of work, as and issues solving, both strategic and well as compliance of international grew up in Europe, can today be in well as working and communicating operational, in an ever-changing regulations is key.
It is a demanding charge of a factory in Central Africa.
role but I enjoy being presented with Who knows whats next a challenge.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 30 We continue to strengthen and develop our employment practices to reflect the international nature of our business.
We have revised and applied a continuous improvement methodology to our integrated performance management system, providing a route to highlight the development and communication of the behaviours, which drive personal performance in the business.
The promotion of good working relations with employees through trade unions, works councils and other organisations continued throughout the year.
Where reorganisation has impacted on employment, we have ensured that affected employees are treated fairly and responsibly.
What is it like to work for Imperial Tobacco NICK PEARSON BRENDA CHU EMRE GEN LAURA POWNALL Corporate Responsibility Specialist HR Manager Sales Representative Customer Service Support Bristol Taiwan Turkey Nottingham My role allows me to create extensive I became HR Manager, responsible I joined Imperial Tobacco Turkey as a I joined Imperial Tobacco in November networks throughout the Group, both for our Taiwan office, in 2003.
During sales representative in March 2005, 2003 and work in our Customer Service hierarchically and geographically.
This this time our office has grown more and find my job challenging and Department as a Support Clerk.
relationship building is not only critical than two-fold, with employees being exciting.
I know that I am at the right My tasks include processing customer to achieving my objectives within the recruited from all over the world, place to further my career, and fulfilling and representatives orders and dealing Corporate Responsibility department, including Taiwan, Hong Kong, my duties gives me great satisfaction.
I enjoy contact with such as management of the Group Singapore, Australia, UK and Ireland.
My colleagues and I feel we have customers and I continually strive to Policy process, but is also one of the The last two years have been fun and made great progress, but continue to build professional business relationships most enjoyable aspects of my job.
I have enjoyed the sense work hard to make each day better on behalf of the company.
also gives me a good overview of the of achievement which has made the than the last.
business as a whole and keeps my effort worthwhile.
role extremely varied and interesting.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 31 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Our objective is to operate a sustainable and profitable business whilst behaving as a good corporate citizen, integrating Corporate Responsibility into every aspect of the Group.
We recognise that in the ever-changing and competitive results in this area has been highlighted by three scientific market place Corporate Responsibility has an increasingly advisory committees to the UK government.
We will discuss strategic role and as such are pleased with the advances their findings and our own approach to product stewardship we have made during the year.
and health in our 2005 Corporate Responsibility Review.
We have now achieved over 75 per cent of the two-year objectives we set in our first Corporate Responsibility Review OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH, SAFETY AND THE in 2003.
We have incorporated the remainder which remain ENVIRONMENT relevant into a new set of two-year objectives, which will be We have continued our successful record of achieving published in our 2005 Review in December.
ISO certification in our manufacturing facilities worldwide, We believe there is a real need for informed debate on with four more attaining ISO 14001 certification this year.
significant issues of public interest and so in our 2005 This brings our total of certified manufacturing facilities to 17 Corporate Responsibility Review we will provide more including our first in both Eastern Europe and Africa.
information on issues such as product stewardship, social We have carried out an extensive analysis of our direct and performance, occupational health and safety and indirect carbon emissions as part of our climate change environmental management.
This has led to the reframing of our energy We have increased our interaction and engagement with reduction targets in terms of carbon dioxide emissions and stakeholders and a number of regional employee workshops a greater focus on the management options which may have focused on enhancing our expertise in effective deliver significant reductions and energy savings.
regard, we continue our successful collaboration with the UK Carbon Trust and the Carbon Disclosure Project.
Over the last year we have reviewed and revised our Group policies, which guide and direct how we do business We continue to improve our occupational health and safety, throughout the world, together with our more detailed Group fire and security risk control processes by providing standards which amplify and quantify our performance professional support and management at both a Group requirements world-wide.
Additionally, we have updated our and functional level.
No fatal injuries occurred throughout Corporate Manual for Directors.
our global workforce and our accidents rates were stable.
We are increasing our focus on improving our safety performance concentrating on the underlying causes of lost-time accidents.
PRODUCT STEWARDSHIP AND HEALTH This year we have made submissions to 39 competent Frank Rogerson, our Corporate Affairs Director, is the authorities on our product ingredients, for example as nominated member of the Board with responsibility for required under the EU Tobacco Product Directive, and Occupational Health, Safety and the Environment.
included data concerning our knowledge of their toxicology.
We continued to consult medical and scientific experts who inform us of their views on scientific developments related to our products.
Our own views are based on their advice.
Our laboratories continue the routine testing of product ingredients as well as finished products, using internationally standardised tests whenever possible.
We continued to commission academic research and further experimental work at accredited contract laboratories using cell-based systems.
The scientific difficulty of obtaining meaningful IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY HIGHLIGHTS 2004 Our ranking in the 2004 BITC Environment Index was 78 168.
Over the last four years, our performance has shown steady improvement.
We are pleased that our score has increased from 79 per cent in 2003 to 83 per cent in 2004.
We participated in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index process for the first time this year.
Our overall score was 66 per cent compared with an industry average of 44 per cent.
We are board members of the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco Foundation.
Projects are underway in Malawi, Uganda, Tanzania, The Philippines and Kyrgyzstan.
We have formed partnerships with NGOs engaged in both reforestation and deforestation mitigation programmes in Malawi, Madagascar and Mozambique.
Our local community investment programmes cover Asia and Australasia, Africa, the UK and Germany.
We have achieved 41 of the 54 targets we set in the financial period 2003 to 2005 and reassessed and carried over the remainder.
Our factory in Wilrijk, Belgium, has won the 2005 Rene fide Jongh national safety award through committed leadership and workforce co-operation.
Our factory in Wellington, New Zealand, has achieved the tertiary level requirements for the Governments ACC Workplace Safety Management Practices Programme, for continuous improvement and best practice.
Stakeholder engagement training workshops were completed for more than 100 managers worldwide.
SOCIAL PERFORMANCE We are committed to behaving as a responsible corporate Our human rights policy requires that we have rigorous citizen in the communities in which we work and in society and systematic practices in place.
We are setting up audit as a whole.
To this end, we have continued to expand our mechanisms for our compliance with the International community investment activities, committing a total of Labour Organisation ILO core conventions to which we 1.26m.
We are now partnering a number of nonare committed.
As part of a rolling four-year programme, governmental organisations NGOs in projects such we have now completed 13 audits of facilities using SA 8000 as providing clean water sources in Madagascar and as guidance.
reforestation and deforestation mitigation programmes in Malawi, Madagascar and Mozambique.
We are also Board Our self assessment programme for our suppliers of members of the Eliminating Child Labour in Tobacco tobacco materials has again shown improvements in Foundation, www.
org, which runs many successful social and environmental performance.
programme for non-tobacco suppliers shows generally high levels of performance.
These programmes have created a platform for further constructive dialogue with suppliers.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 33 BOARD OF DIRECTORS DEREK BONHAM FRANK ROGERSON IAIN NAPIER ANTHONY ALEXANDER SIMON DUFFY PIERRE JUNGELS GARETH DAVIS DAVID THURSFIELD COLIN DAY ROBERT DYRBUS SIPKO HUISMANS MATTHEW PHILLIPS DAVID CRESSWELL SUSAN MURRAY IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 34 DEREK BONHAM FCA, AGED 62 FRANK ROGERSON BSC, PHD, AGED 52 IAIN NAPIER ACMA, AGED 56 Chairman and a Member of the Corporate Affairs Director Joint Vice Chairman, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee and a Member of the Appointed to the Board in June 2003, having Audit Committee Appointed Non-Executive Chairman on our joined Imperial Tobacco in 1977, he has held London Stock Exchange Listing in 1996. a number of senior management positions Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2000.
He has a wide range of managerial and including Managing Director of Cigar and He is currently Group Chief Executive of financial experience gained as a former Roll Your Own Tobacco.
Appointed Business Taylor Woodrow plc.
As a former main board Executive Chairman of The Energy Group Development Director in 2000, he was Director of Bass PLC, he was Chief PLC, a former Non-Executive Chairman of instrumental in negotiations for the Executive of Bass Leisure and then Chief Cadbury Schweppes plc, Marconi plc, acquisition of Reemtsma.
Executive of Bass Brewers and Bass CamAxys Group plc and Songbird Estates International Brewers.
Following the sale of plc and a former Deputy Chairman of the Bass beer business in 2000, he became SIMON DUFFY MA, MBA, AGED 55 Hanson PLC, having previously held a Vice President UK and Ireland for Interbrew Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the number of senior management and financial SA until August 2001.
He is also a former Audit Committee positions.
He is also a former Non-Executive Non-Executive Director of BOC Group plc.
Appointed to the Board in 1996 as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the PIERRE JUNGELS CBE HON ING GEOL, PHD, Audit Committee.
Currently Chief Executive ANTHONY ALEXANDER FCA, AGED 67 C ENG, FELLOW EL, AGED 61 Officer of ntl Inc, he was formerly Chief Joint Vice Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and a Member of the Executive Officer of End2End Holdings Limited Director and a Member of the Audit Committee Remuneration Committee and the Audit and of World Online International BV and Chief Committee.
Appointed Vice Chairman on demerger and Financial Officer of Orange SA and of EMI acts as senior independent Non-Executive Group plc, where he was also Deputy Appointed to the Board in August 2002.
He also serves as a Non-Executive Chairman.
Previously Operations Director of He has held numerous senior international Director of Misys plc and Platinum United Distillers, he is a former Non-Executive positions within the oil industry with Shell Investment Trust plc.
He is a former Director of GWR Group plc.
International, Petrofina SA and British Gas Executive Director of Hanson PLC and as PLC.
He became CEO of Enterprise Oil in Chief Operating Officer he had responsibility 1996, leading the business to substantial DAVID THURSFIELD AGED 60 for all their UK operating companies.
geographic and financial growth until his Non-Executive Director and Member of the retirement in November 2001.
He is NonRemuneration Committee resigned 28 10 05 Executive Chairman of Offshore Hydrocarbon GARETH DAVIS BA, AGED 55 Appointed a Non-Executive Director in Mapping plc and Rockhopper Exploration Chief Executive November 2003.
He joined Ford Motor PLC and a Non-Executive Director of Appointed Chief Executive in 1996 and led Company in 1979, from British Leyland, and Woodside Petroleum Ltd and Offshore the successful demerger of the Company was Executive Vice President, Ford Motor Logistics Inc. from Hanson PLC and its listings on the Company and President, International London and New York Stock Exchanges.
Operations and Global Purchasing responsible COLIN DAY MBA, FCCA, AGED 50 With wide experience across all aspects of for the Premier Automotive Group, Mazda Non-Executive Director Imperial Tobaccos business gained from Motor Company, Ford of Europe, Ford Asia over 30 years with the Company, he has Pacific operations and Global Purchasing Appointed a Non-Executive Director in July played a key role in the development of both organisations until his retirement in May 2004.
He is Group Finance Director of Reckitt general strategy and the ongoing expansion He remains a consultant to Ford.
Benckiser plc, having been appointed to its programme.
In 2003 he was appointed as a Board in September 2000.
Prior to joining Non-Executive Director of Wolseley plc.
Reckitt Benckiser he was Group Finance SIPKO HUISMANS BA, AGED 64 Director of Aegis Group plc and previously Non-Executive Director and a Member of the held a number of senior finance positions ROBERT DYRBUS BSC, FCA, AGED 52 Remuneration Committee with ABB Group plc and fide La Rue Group Finance Director Appointed a Non-Executive Director in 1996. plc.
He is a Non-Executive Director of WPP Appointed Finance Director of Imperial He joined Courtaulds in Southern Africa in Group PLC and until 30 September 2005 Tobacco Limited in 1989 and was one of 1961 and moved to the UK in 1968.
the three-man Hanson team involved in the became a Director of Courtaulds in 1984 strategic reorganisation of the Group.
He and was responsible for the Chemical and became Finance Director of the Group on Industrial business from 1986 until the demerger in 1996 and has since played an COMPANY SECRETARY demerger of Courtaulds Textiles in 1990, integral part in shaping the strategic direction when he became Managing Director.
He was MATTHEW PHILLIPS LLB, AGED 35 of the Group.
Previously he was financial appointed Chief Executive of Courtaulds controller with Hanson PLC, responsible for Appointed Company Secretary in October from 1991 until his retirement in 1996.
Imperial Tobacco and Ever Ready.
2004, he joined Imperial Tobaccos legal department in 2000 having previously SUSAN MURRAY AGED 48 worked for the law firms Linklaters and DAVID CRESSWELL C ENG, MIEE, AGED 60 Non-Executive Director Burges Salmon.
He was closely involved Manufacturing Director in negotiations for Imperial Tobaccos Appointed a Non-Executive Director in Joined Imperial Tobacco in 1961 and was acquisitions of Tobaccor and Reemtsma.
She was a member of the appointed to the Board in June 2003.
An Board of Littlewoods Limited from October electrical engineer by background, he has 1998 until January 2004, latterly as Chief undertaken a number of senior management Executive of Littlewoods Stores Limited.
roles and has previously held the position of Prior to joining Littlewoods she was Managing Director for each of Imperial Worldwide President and Chief Executive Tobaccos major operating divisions namely of The Pierre Smirnoff Company, part of Cigarette, Rolling Paper and Roll Your Own Diageo plc.
Ms. Murray is a fellow of the Tobacco.
Royal Society of Arts, a council member of the Advertising Standards Authority and a Non-Executive Director of Enterprise Inns Plc, SSL International PLC and Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc.
She has also served as a Non-Executive Director of Aberdeen Asset IMPERIAL TOBACCO Management PLC.
GROUP PLC 2005 35 CHIEF EXECUTIVES COMMITTEE The Chief Executives Committee is the senior management steering group for the Company.
Comprised of the Chief Executive, the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary biographies on page 35, the Director of Finance and Planning, the Group Human Resources Director and the Group Sales and Marketing Director biographies below, the Committee is responsible for implementing Group strategy and monitoring the detailed performance of all aspects of the business.
ALISON COOPER, BSC, ACA, AGED 39 Director of Finance and Planning Alison joined the Group in 1999 from , having worked with Imperial Tobacco over a number of years from both an audit and acquisition perspective.
She is responsible for financial planning and development including the financial evaluation of acquisitions as well as day-to-day Group financial management and control, taxation and investor relations.
KATHRYN BROWN, AGED 50 Group Human Resources Director Kathryn joined Imperial in 2002 from Somerfield PLC, where she was a member of the PLC Board.
She has also held a number of senior operational consulting roles in change management in the FMCG sector.
She is responsible for all aspects of human resource management across the Imperial Tobacco Group.
GRAHAM BLASHILL, BSC, AGED 58 Group Sales and Marketing Director Graham was appointed Sales and Marketing Director in February 2005 and subsequently to the Board in October 2005.
He is responsible for the Groups entire global sales and marketing activities across Europe, Asia Pacific, Africa and the Middle East, and Australia and New Zealand.
He has worked for Imperial Tobacco for 37 years and during that time has held a number of senior sales and marketing positions, including Managing Director UK and Regional Director for Western Europe.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 36 Statutory Report and Financial Statements REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors submit their report together with the audited consolidated financial statements of the Group for the year to 30 September 2005. Review of activities and future developments The Group remains highly focused on its core business: the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco and tobacco related products.
A review of the Groups various activities and future developments in the Groups business is included in the Operating and Financial Review OFR on pages 22 to 27.
Note 1 to the financial statements gives an analysis of turnover, duty in turnover, turnover excluding duty, operating profit and capital employed.
The principal operating subsidiaries within the Group are shown on pages 110 and 111.
Acquisitions On 14 September 2005 the Group acquired 43 per cent of the issued share capital of Skruf Snus AB.
It also entered into an Option Agreement to enable the Group to acquire the remaining issued share capital.
Financial results and dividends The profit attributable to shareholders for the financial year was 570m as shown in the consolidated profit and loss account set out on page 66.
An OFR is included on pages 16 to 29.
The Directors have declared dividends as follows: In s million 2005 2004 Ordinary shares Interim paid, 16.5p per share 2004: 15.0p 120 109 Proposed final, 39.5p per share 2004: 35.0p 278 253 Total ordinary dividends, 56.0p 2004: 50.0p 398 362 The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 17 February 2006 to shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members at the close of business on 20 January 2006.
The associated ex dividend date is 18 January 2006.
The interim dividend was paid on 5 August 2005 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 8 July 2005.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital, are shown in note 17 to the financial statements.
During the year the Company initiated a share buyback programme purchasing 13,515,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for a total cost of 201m inclusive of costs.
The shares, representing 1.9 per cent of issued share capital and having an aggregate nominal value of 1,351,500, have not been cancelled but are held in a treasury shares reserve within the profit and loss account reserve and represent a deduction from equity shareholders funds.
Subsequent to the year end, the Company has purchased a further 3,095,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC for a cost of 49m inclusive of costs.
These shares represent 0.4 per cent of issued share capital and have a nominal value of 309,500.
These shares also have not been cancelled and are being held in the treasury share reserve.
At 28 October 2005 the Company had been notified that the following persons had interests in 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued share capital.
Number of ordinary shares millions Percentage of issued share capital Franklin Resources, Inc 22 3.00 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 29 4.03 The Company has not received notification that any other person holds 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued share capital.
The share interests of the Directors, their families and any connected persons are shown on page 55.
Board of Directors Ms S E Murray and Mr C R Day joined the Board in December 2004 and July 2005 respectively as Non-executive Directors.
Mr I J G Napier was appointed as Joint Vice Chairman in December 2004.
The Directors of the Company for the year to 30 September 2005 are shown on pages 34 and 35.
Mr G L Blashill also joined the Board in October 2005.
Messrs D C Bonham, A G L Alexander, C R Day and Dr P H Jungels retire at the Annual General Meeting and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr G L Blashill who was appointed to the Board subsequent to the year end will also retire and being eligible offer himself for re-election.
Mr B C Davidson resigned from the Board in February 2005 and subsequent to the year end Mr D W Thursfield resigned from the Board in October 2005.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 37 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Employees The Groups employment policies are designed to attract, retain, train and motivate the very best people, recognising that this can be achieved only through offering equal opportunities regardless of gender, race, religion or disability.
To ensure employees can share in our success, the Group offers competitive pay and benefit packages and, wherever possible, links rewards to individual and team performance.
Employees are encouraged to build a stake in the Company through ownership of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC shares.
A further opportunity to join the Sharesave Scheme was offered during the year and 76 per cent of eligible UK employees now participate.
International employees were also offered a further opportunity to join the International Sharesave Plan and 31 per cent of eligible international employees now participate.
The Group is committed to providing an environment that encourages the continuous development of all its employees through skills enhancement and training programmes.
Using their own consultative and communication methods each of the Groups businesses is encouraged to keep their employees informed on Group and individual business developments and to make its employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of their employing company.
To progress this aim further employee representatives are briefed on pan-European issues through a European Employee Forum.
Information concerning employees and their remuneration is given in note 4 to the accounts and in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Charitable and political donations During the year the Group made charitable donations in the UK of 984,000 2004: 667,000, much of which was distributed through the Charities Aid Foundation in accordance with the Groups charities policy.
No political donations or expenditure were made or incurred by the Company or its subsidiaries during the year 2004: Nil.
Creditor payment policy The Companys current policy concerning the payment of the majority of its trade creditors is to follow the CBIs Prompt Payers Code copies are available from the CBI, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London.
For other suppliers, the Companys policy is to: a agree the terms of payment with those suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction: b ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts: and c pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations.
The payment policy applies to all payments to creditors for revenue and capital supplies of goods and services without exception.
Wherever possible UK subsidiaries follow the same policy and international subsidiaries are encouraged to adopt similar policies, by applying local best practices.
The number of days purchases outstanding as at 30 September 2005 for Imperial Tobacco Group PLC was 27 days.
Research and development The Group recognises the importance of investing in research and development, which brings innovative improvements to the Group, both in the products supplied to the consumer and in production and marketing techniques.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting Full details of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 31 January 2006, together with explanations of the resolutions to be proposed at the meeting, appear in the notice of meeting enclosed with this report.
By order of the Board Matthew R Phillips Company Secretary 1 November 2005 IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board of Directors the Board remains committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance, which it sees as a cornerstone in managing the business affairs of the Group and a fundamental part of discharging its stewardship responsibilities.
Applicable Corporate Governance Provisions Throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, the Group has complied with the governance rules and best practice provisions applying to UK listed companies as contained in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code which was introduced in 1998 and further revised during 2003.
Since Imperial Tobacco Group PLC has securities registered with the US Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC, the Group also complies with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 which are applicable to foreign issuers.
In the light of this ongoing obligation, a programme of activity is currently in place to enable the Group to meet the further requirements with regard to section 404 of the SarbanesOxley Act, which will be applicable for our financial year ending 30 September 2006.
Corporate Governance Compliance The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the Groups standard of governance and this report, together with the Remuneration Report, seeks to demonstrate how the principles of good governance, advocated by the Code, have been and continue to be applied in practice within the Group.
During the course of the financial year there has been continued rationalisation in the way the Group manages its activities.
Notwithstanding the ongoing organisational changes resulting from this activity and the challenges arising from investing in developing markets, the Board and its Audit Committee have continued to keep under review the Groups entire system of internal control, encompassing both financial and operational controls, as well as compliance and risk management.
Based on these reviews the Board is satisfied that an appropriate internal control framework is in place across the whole Group.
Throughout the Group, formal procedures, including well established and embedded internal controls, have been and continue to be maintained, reflecting current best practice requirements under the Code in the UK.
Such procedures, together with continued regular formal reporting to the Audit Committee, have ensured the maintenance of a strong procedural framework for the ongoing identification, evaluation and management of the significant areas of risk to achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
As previously reported, certain investigations were initiated by German authorities in January 2003 into alleged foreign trading and related violations by Reemtsma employees during a period prior to its acquisition by the Group, which resulted in a number of such Reemtsma employees being named in search orders.
Elements of these investigations are continuing.
In May 2005, parts of the investigations into certain of the former Reemtsma employees were terminated by the authorities on terms agreed by the individuals with the authorities, and settlement of any duty payable as a result of certain of the activities being investigated was made at no cost to Reemtsma.
The Group confirms that no criminal charges have been brought against such individuals or Reemtsma in relation to the continuing investigations, which could take several years to be concluded.
A Board Committee, under the Chairmanship of Mr A G L Alexander, established in 2003, continues to monitor the progress and conduct of the investigations on a regular basis and the Groups responses on behalf of the Board.
The German authorities investigations are based on alleged activities prior to the Groups acquisition of Reemtsma and the Committee remains satisfied that, since the acquisition, the Group has not been involved in any activities of a nature similar to those alleged by the German authorities.
As previously reported, information was supplied by Imperial Tobacco and a number of other companies to the UK Office of Fair Trading the OFT in October 2003 in relation to an enquiry into the operations of the UK tobacco supply chain.
Further information was supplied in April 2005 but to date no response to any of the information submitted has been received from the OFT.
During the course of the year business reviews of the Groups operations, performed as part of the Group Compliance Functions programme of activity, have also highlighted a number of minor weaknesses and failures in systems of control at the business operations level.
From the resulting investigations into these issues and from reports to the Group Compliance Function by the business operations of any potential instances of fraud or accounting irregularity that may have occurred during the financial year, the Audit Committee concluded that neither individually nor collectively did they have a material impact on the results or performance of the Group for the financial year.
