Inchcape plc 32 Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance report The Board is committed to ensuring that high standards of corporate Information regarding meetings of the Board, and the principal governance are maintained by the Company.
The Board supports the committees during the year, and Directors attendance is main and supporting principles and the provisions of the Combined given below.
Board Scheduled Ad hoc The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority require listed companies to disclose, in relation to Section 1 of the Code, Number of meetings held 83 how they have applied its principles and whether they have Sir John Egan Chairman retired 31 December 2005 7 2 complied with its provisions throughout the accounting period.
Peter Johnson appointed Chairman 1 January 2006 8 3 This statement, together with the report on Directors remuneration on pages 36 to 43, explains how the Company has applied the Raymond Chien 7 1 principles and complied with the provisions set out in the Code.
Alan Ferguson resigned 14 September 2005 6 1 During the year the Board continued to keep corporate governance matters under review, monitoring policies and guidelines Ken Hanna 8 1 issued by the main institutional bodies such as the Association of Andr Lacroix appointed 1 September 2005 2 1 British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds, Graeme Potts 8 2 and adopting appropriate recommendations of relevant bodies such as the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators Simon Robertson retired 12 May 2005 4 0 and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
Will Samuel appointed 26 January 2005 8 2 This process is ongoing.
David Scotland appointed 24 February 2005 6 2 Directors Michael Wemms 8 2 The BoardThe Board recognises its collective responsibility for leading and controlling the Group.
It is responsible for setting the Nomination Committee Scheduled Ad hoc Groups strategic aims, ensuring that sufficient resources are available Number of meetings held 36 for the Group to meet its objectives and monitoring executive management.
It is also responsible for setting the Companys values Sir John Egan Chairman retired 31 December 2005 3 5 and standards in corporate governance matters.
The Directors act Peter Johnson appointed Chairman 1 January 2006 3 6 in the best interests of the Company, cognisant of their duties to Ken Hanna 2 1 shareholders and also with consideration for other stakeholders.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters required to be Simon Robertson retired 12 May 2005 1 1 brought to it for its decision.
Such matters include: strategy and Will Samuel appointed 1 April 2005 2 5 management: major investments, acquisitions and disposals: David Scotland appointed 29 November 2005 0 1 corporate and capital structure: financial budgeting: reporting and controls: monitoring internal controls: approval of major contracts: Michael Wemms 3 6 external corporate communications: Board membership and appointments: corporate governance: and Group policy in Remuneration Committee Scheduled Ad hoc important areas.
Number of meetings held 2 7 There are clear written Terms of Reference for the responsibilities delegated to the principal committees.
Through the Nomination Michael Wemms Chairman 2 7 Committee, the Board fulfils its role in nominating new Directors Ken Hanna 1 3 and succession planning.
The Remuneration Committee determines Simon Robertson retired 12 May 2005 0 1 appropriate levels of remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and senior executives.
Through its Audit Committee, the Will Samuel appointed 26 January 2005 2 6 Board discharges its responsibilities in respect of the integrity of David Scotland appointed 24 February 2005 2 3 financial information, on the financial, operational and compliance controls and on the systems of risk management.
Below Board Audit Committee Scheduled Ad hoc and principal committee level, there are clear limits on the authority that management committees and individuals have to make Number of meetings held 5 0 financial commitments.
Ken Hanna Chairman 5 0 The Board and its principal committees meet regularly during the year.
In setting the timetable the Chairman and, in the case of the Simon Robertson retired 12 May 2005 3 0 committees, the committee chairmen, with the support of the Group Will Samuel appointed 26 January 2005 4 0 Company Secretary, ensure that sufficient regular meetings are David Scotland appointed 24 February 2005 3 0 scheduled and other meetings are held as required in order for the Board and the committees to discharge their respective duties Michael Wemms 40 sufficiently.
The number of meetings held is shown in the adjacent table.
In addition, the Board held a strategy review.
The Chairman meets with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors present as necessary.
One meeting was held The names and biographical details of the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-executive Director, the Group during the year.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director also meets the other Non-executive Directors without the Chairman Chief Executive, and the Chairmen and members of the principal committees can be found on pages 28 and 29.
In the few instances present, as needed, including an annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance.
One meeting was held during the year.
where a Director has not been able to attend a Board or committee meeting, this has been due to a prior commitment or for reason of illness.
In such circumstances it is the normal practice for the Directors comments on the business of the meeting to be relayed to the Chairman of the meeting in advance of the meeting, and for the Chairman to communicate the Directors views at the meeting.
Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2005 33 If any Director were to have any concerns regarding the running of Alan Fergusons resignation on 14 September 2005.
The appointment the Company or a proposed action, these would be recorded in the of Karen Guerra on 1 January 2006 has increased further the balance Board minutes.
If a Director were to resign over an unresolved issue, of the Board in favour of Independent Non-executive Directors.
the Chairman would bring the issue to the attention of the Board.
Appointments to the Board The Code requires that there be a formal, No such concerns or issues arose during the year.
rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new For some years the Company has purchased insurance Directors to the Board, which should be made on merit and against to cover its Directors against legal action taken against them in objective criteria.
The main responsibility for Board appointments is that capacity.
delegated to the Nomination Committee.
The processes and work Chairman During the year Sir John Egan indicated that he intended of the Committee is set out in more detail on page 34.
The processes to retire from the Board by the time of the Companys 2006 AGM.
described were followed in the search and appointment of Andr The Board had also been aware of Peter Johnsons intention not Lacroix as an Executive Director on 1 September 2005, Karen Guerra to continue in a full time role as Group Chief Executive until as a Non-executive Director on 1 January 2006 and Barbara retirement age.
Richmond as an Executive Director with effect from 3 April 2006.
In considering the issue of succession to Sir John as Information and professional development Board and committee Non-executive Chairman, the Board recognised the benefit to papers are generally distributed six days in advance of the meeting the Company and its shareholders of Peter Johnsons ongoing and the Board and its principal committees consider that this timing involvement because of his deep and broad experience of the and the information which has been supplied is sufficient to enable automotive industry as a whole and the contrasting international them to discharge their respective duties.
market in which Inchcape operates.
They also recognised the pivotal In the case of urgent matters the policy adopted by the Board role which he has played in the development and continuity of and its Committees is to hold a telephone or video conference Inchcapes relationships with its major international manufacturer meeting in which as many Directors as possible can participate.
partners, which in many cases are founded upon associations built Papers for such meetings are sent to all Directors as far as possible up over many years.
in advance of the meeting to enable the views of those Directors Accordingly, the Directors came to the conclusion that the who are unable to attend to be relayed to the Chairman of the appointment of Peter Johnson as Chairman was in the best interests meeting so that he can communicate their views at the meeting.
The Board consulted in advance a Newly appointed Directors who have not previously held listed number of its largest institutional shareholders, all of whom gave their company board appointments, receive appropriate external training.
The Board was aware of the provisions of the Code in that An induction process, which includes site visits, has been developed an explanation should be given when someone who has previously for newly appointed Directors to ensure that they are aware of their been Chief Executive of a company is to be appointed as Chairman responsibilities and are properly apprised of the Groups activities of the Board.
Accordingly Sir John Egan wrote to all shareholders and strategic direction.
In addition, the Company has an induction on 22 March 2005 explaining the reasons for Peter Johnsons and ongoing training programme, which covers generic induction proposed appointment.
for new Board members and arrangements for individual coaching The Board also considered the fact that Peter Johnsons tenure and annual best practice updates for all Board and Committee as Group Chief Executive would prevent him from meeting the members where appropriate, including briefings from time to independence criteria of the Code, but the Board is confident that he time from the Auditors, the Companys legal advisers, and the will continue to show the strength of character and independent Remuneration advisers.
These arrangements are designed to ensure judgement that he exhibited as Group Chief Executive.
that Directors skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Company Chairman and Group Chief Executive The role of the Chairman is are kept up to date to enable them to fulfil their role both on the separate from that of the Group Chief Executive.
Their respective Board and on its committees.
Ongoing training is provided by a roles and responsibilities have been set out in writing and agreed combination of internal and external resources.
The Board is given by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for creating the conditions business presentations from the heads of business units and to achieve overall Board and individual Directors effectiveness, Directors make site visits.
The Boards schedule includes at least one whereas the Group Chief Executive is responsible for the operational meeting each year at one of the Groups operational locations where implementation of the strategy and policies agreed by the Board.
the Board is given presentations on the Groups operations and have Matters are referred to the Board as a whole and no one individual the opportunity to meet local management.
or small group of individuals has unfettered powers of decision.
There is a procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense where relevant to the Board balance and independence All Directors bring an independent execution of their duties, although no Director felt it necessary during judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources, the year.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring including key appointments, and standards of conduct.
In addition that Board procedures are complied with and for advising the Board to the Chairman, the Board currently has six Non-executive Directors through the Chairman on all other governance matters.
All members who bring to the Group a wide diversity of experience and expertise.
of the Board have access to his services and advice.
Raymond Chien is not regarded as independent because he The appointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary previously had a service contract with Crown Motors Limited, is a matter for the Board as a whole.
a subsidiary of the Company incorporated in Hong Kong.
The other five Non-executive Directors are considered by the Performance evaluationThe 2005 evaluation was undertaken by all Board to be independent in accordance with the Code as being members of the Board completing a detailed questionnaire which independent in character and judgement and having no was designed to test a range of areas which the Code regards as relationships which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, necessary for good governance.
The evaluation of Board performance the Directors judgement.
is discussed by the Board and by each of the committees in respect Following the appointment of Will Samuel and David Scotland on of their own performance and the results of the evaluation of each 26 January 2005 and 24 February 2005 respectively, half the Board, Director are communicated to them individually by the Chairman.
excluding the Chairman, comprised Independent Non-executive The evaluation process includes an annual review by the Board of Directors, as required by the Code.
This position was maintained the Matters Reserved for its decision and a review by the Board until the appointment of Andr Lacroix as Group Chief Executive and each of the principal committees of each committees Terms Designate on 1 September 2005 when the Board fell below the of Reference.
balance required under the Code but was restored again upon Inchcape plc 34 Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance report continued The 2005 evaluation found that the Board and its committees were Remuneration Committee The membership of the Committee is generally performing effectively but there were ways in which shown on page 29. performance could be improved.
Actions were agreed and are being At all times during the year, the Committee comprised wholly implemented to address the issues which were raised.
The Board Independent Non-executive Directors and continues to do so.
has agreed that it will carry out evaluations annually, with the 2006 No-one, other than the Committee Chairman and the members, is evaluation being facilitated by an independent external advisor.
entitled to be present at meetings of the Committee, although others, The Non-executive Directors are responsible for performance including the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the Group evaluation of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the Human Resources Director, attend by invitation of the Committee.
Role: The Remuneration Committee is responsible for remuneration issues regarding the Chairman, Executive Directors Election and re-election Non-executive Directors are appointed for an and certain senior executives within the framework recommended initial period of three years, which may be extended by agreement by the Committee and approved by the Board.
More details are with the Board.
All Directors currently on the Board have submitted given in the Board report on remuneration on pages 36 to 43. themselves for election or re-election as applicable within the last three years, as required by the Companys Articles of Association.
Audit Committee The membership of the Committee is shown on When considering the election or re-election of a Director, the page 29.
At all times during the year, the Committee comprised Nomination Committee takes into account the review of his or wholly Independent Non-executive Directors and continues to do so.
This is particularly rigorous in the case of a No-one, other than the Committee Chairman and the members, is Non-executive Director for any term beyond six years.
A similar entitled to be present at meetings of the Committee, although others, process is applied when considering the appointment or including the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance reappointment of a Director to each of the principal committees.
Director, the Director of Audit and Risk Management and the external auditors attend by invitation of the Committee.
Board committees In light of Ken Hannas qualifications as a Chartered Accountant The Board has three principal committees, all with written Terms and his experience with Coopers & Lybrand, Compass Partners and of Reference which are available on the Companys website Cadbury Schweppes, and Will Samuels qualifications as a Chartered www.
The Group Company Secretary serves as Accountant and his experience with Lazard, Edinburgh Investment secretary to all three committees.
Trust and Schroders, the Board has determined that they have recent and relevant financial experience.
Nomination Committee The membership of the Committee is The Non-executive Directors on the Committee have the shown on page 29.
At all times the majority of members have been opportunity at each meeting to review any issues with the external Independent Non-executive Directors.
auditors and with the Director of Audit and Risk Management without No-one, other than the Committee Chairman and the members, members of the executive management being present.
is entitled to be present at meetings of the Committee, although Role: The Committee meets at least three times a year.
It is others including the Group Human Resources Director, attend by responsible for monitoring the integrity of the financial statements invitation of the Committee.
of the Company and any formal announcement relating to its financial Role: The Nomination Committee meets at least once a year.
performance, reviewing internal financial controls and internal control In 2005 it met nine times, reflecting the changes to the Board and risk management systems, monitoring and reviewing the which have taken place.
It is responsible for leading the process for effectiveness of the internal audit function, making recommendations Board appointments and making recommendations to the Board.
to the Board in relation to the appointment and removal of the Before the Board makes an appointment, the Committee evaluates external auditor, reviewing the external auditors independence and the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, and for policy in light of this evaluation prepares a description of the role and on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit capabilities required for a particular appointment in consultation services.
It is also responsible for reviewing the Companys with an external search consultant, who is appointed to work with arrangements for employees to raise concerns confidentially about the Committee.
The consultant prepares a list of potential candidates possible improprieties in relation to financial reporting or other which is discussed by the Committee and reduced to a shortlist.
In order to fulfil its duties, the Audit Committee receives The shortlist candidates then meet with a panel of Committee and challenges presentations or reports from the Groups senior members and other Directors also have the opportunity to meet management, consulting as necessary with the external auditors.
Following this, and in the light of feedback received, Part of the Committees responsibility in relation to external the Committee meets to finalise a recommendation to the Board.
auditors is to keep their independence and objectivity and the A Director may be consulted by the Committee in the course of the nature and extent of the non-audit services they provide under process to appoint his successor but it is the policy of the Board that regular review.
The Committee has established policies and he does not participate in the decision on the appointment.
procedures in relation to the provision of non-audit services by During the course of the year, the Committee met to consider the external auditors pursuant to which external auditors services the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the are not permitted on areas such as internal audit, appraisal or skills, knowledge and experience available.
It also undertook its valuation services and financial information systems annual review of development and succession plans.
Financial limits are imposed on recommendations to the Board regarding the appointments of permitted areas of non-audit work, such as tax advice.
Andr Lacroix as Group Chief Executive, Karen Guerras appointment A full statement of the fees paid for audit and non-audit services as an Independent Non-executive Director and Barbara Richmonds is provided in note 3c ii on page 62.
Non-audit fees continue to be appointment as Group Finance Director.
It also made higher than usual mainly due to the significant work undertaken on recommendations to the Board regarding Peter Johnsons the introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards.
appointment as Chairman of the Board.
In addition, the Committee made recommendations for the election and re-election of Directors retiring at the 2006 AGM.
No Directors participated in the meeting when recommendations regarding his or her election or re-election were considered.
Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2005 35 Communication with shareholders In addition, the Group Finance Director provides the Board with The Company encourages two way communication with its monthly financial information, which includes key performance and institutional and private investors and responds promptly to all risk indicators.
The Groups key internal control and monitoring queries received verbally or in writing.
The preliminary and interim procedures include the following.
results are presented publicly to analysts and other meetings with Financial reportingThere is a comprehensive budgeting system shareholders are arranged as appropriate.
with an annual budget approved by the Directors.
Monthly actual The Company has an established Investor Relations programme results are reviewed and reported against the budget and, in the course of which the Group Chief Executive and the Group where appropriate, revised forecasts at each of the Boards Finance Director have regular meetings with major shareholders to scheduled meetings.
update them on the Companys progress and to discuss any issues that investors may have.
During these meetings, shareholders are Monitoring systems Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee reminded of the availability of the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman on its examination and evaluation of the adequacy and effectiveness and Senior Independent Non-executive Director, and the rest of of the Groups systems of internal control.
Internal Audit also works the Board if they wish to meet them.
Any issues arising at such closely with management and the external auditors.
meetings are reported and considered by the Board.
In addition, the Operating unit controlsThe overall control framework for the Group Companys stockbrokers, UBS, obtain shareholder feedback on a is detailed in the Group Finance and Information Systems manuals confidential basis from major investors following the meetings and and is supplemented by risk management policies.
Compliance with this is reported in summary and considered at Board meetings.
Group policies and the effectiveness of internal controls are regularly During the year, the Chairman wrote to the largest fifteen assessed through the audit process and through a process of self shareholders emphasising his availability and that of the Deputy certification, which requires business unit management to assess Chairman and Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the annually the quality of internal controls in their businesses.
rest of the Board, including new Non-executive Directors, should they wish to meet.
Risk managementThe Groups management operates a risk The Company makes constructive use of the AGM in accordance management process, which identifies the key risks facing each with the Code.
Private investors are encouraged to participate in business unit twice a year.
A risk register, which identifies the key the meeting at which the Chairman comments on the performance risks, the impact should they occur and actions being taken to and outlook for the Company and the Group Chief Executive makes manage those risks to the desired level, is produced for each a presentation on operational and strategic issues.
In addition, actions to be taken in the event that Chairman of the Nomination Committee, Ken Hanna, Chairman such risks crystallise and proposed improvements to the way they of the Audit Committee, and Michael Wemms, Chairman of are managed are also included.
This information is passed up the the Remuneration Committee, will be available to answer organisation on a filter basis, culminating in the production of a shareholder questions.
Group Risk Register, which is approved by the Risk Committee and provided to and discussed with the Audit Committee.
In addition, Remuneration report internal audit continuously reviews financial, commercial and systems The Companys policy on executive remuneration with details of the developments in the Groups business units to ensure appropriate Executive Directors salaries, annual bonuses, long term incentives audit focus in the major risk areas.
and pensions, and fees for the Non-executive Directors appears in Investment appraisalThe Group has clearly defined policies for capital the Board report on remuneration on pages 36 to 43. expenditure.
These include annual budgets and detailed appraisal and review procedures.
Internal control The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of internal control The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for establishing key systems in operation during the financial year in accordance with the procedures designed to achieve a sound system of internal control guidance set out in the Turnbull Report, through the processes set and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can provide out above.
only reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material misstatement or loss and cannot eliminate business risk.
It is the Auditors independence responsibility of the Audit Committee to monitor and review internal The Company has an established policy on the provision of controls, with its Chairman reporting the results of such reviews non-audit services by the external auditors.
Through its Audit to the Board.
In addition, the Board has entrusted executive Committee, the Company has reviewed a report from its auditors, management with responsibility for implementing internal  LLP PwC, confirming, in their professional control procedures.
The review included the audit, The Group operates a Risk Committee, which is chaired by the audit related, tax and advisory services provided by PwC, and Group Chief Executive and includes, inter alia, the Group Finance compliance with the Group policy which prescribes the types Director, Group Company Secretary, Treasury Director, Director of engagements for which external auditors may be used.
of Audit and Risk Management and the Group Risk Manager.
The Committee also noted that the audit partner is subject to a The Risk Committee meets quarterly to consider what changes to five year fixed term rotation which has been applied.
Having regard risk management and control processes should be recommended.
to the policy on the engagement of external auditors for non-audit Its review covers matters such as responses to significant risks that services, and the report from the auditors, the Company concluded have been identified, output from monitoring processes, including that there are sufficient controls and processes in place to ensure internal audit reports, and changes to be made to the internal control the continued level of independence.
It also follows up on areas that require improvement and reports back to the Audit Committee every six months, or more Statement of compliance with the Combined Code frequently if required.
Due to minor timing issues in the implementation of the Boards The Group Chief Executive also reports to the Board, on behalf succession planning, the Board was not in compliance with Code of executive management, significant changes in the Groups provision A.
3.2 for parts of January and September 2005, when the business and the external environment in which it operates.
proportion of Independent Non-executive Directors on the Board, excluding the Chairman, was less than half.
Otherwise, the Company was in compliance with the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2005.
