Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2005 the Company was in compliance with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code except for the following matters in respect of the number of Board committee members: Code provision B.
2.1 specifies that the Remuneration Committee of the Board should comprise at least three independent Non-Executive Director members.
Following the resignation of Mr D Cruickshank from the Board, for the period from 25 January to 9 March 2005 the Remuneration Committee comprised two independent Non-Executive Director members.
This was rectified by the appointment of additional members with effect from 10 March 2005.
The membership of the Remuneration Committee during 2005 is shown on page 27.
Code provision C. 3.1 specifies that the Audit Committee of the Board should comprise at least three independent Non-Executive Director members.
Following the resignation of Mr D Cruickshank from the Board, for the period from 25 January to 30 September 2005 the Audit Committee comprised two independent Non-Executive Director members.
This was rectified by the appointment of an additional member with effect from 1 October 2005.
The membership of the Audit Committee during 2005 is shown on page 25.
The paragraphs below and in the Directors Remuneration Report explain how the Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Code.
The Board The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors.
The Boards main roles are to create value for shareholders, to provide leadership of the Group, to approve the Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are made available to enable those objectives to be met.
A schedule which sets out the matters reserved for the Boards approval is reviewed and updated annually.
The specific responsibilities reserved for the Board include: approving the Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy: approving the Groups annual operating and capital expenditure budgets: reviewing operational and financial performance: approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital projects: reviewing the Groups systems of internal controls and risk management: reviewing the environmental, health and safety policies of the Group: approving appointments to and removals from the Board and of the Company Secretary: and approving policies relating to Directors remuneration.
The Board has delegated the following activities to the Executive Directors: the development and recommendation of strategic plans for consideration by the Board that reflect the longer-term objectives and priorities established by the Board: implementation of the strategies and policies of the Group as determined by the Board: monitoring of the operating and financial results against plans and budgets: monitoring the performance of acquisitions and investments against plans and objectives: prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources and developing and implementing risk management systems.
The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive is clearly defined.
The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for organising the business of the Board, setting its agenda and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information and for effective communication with shareholders.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief Executive has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for its operational and financial performance.
The Chief Executive is also primarily responsible for developing and articulating the Companys strategy and for day-to-day dealings with shareholders, particularly following the interim and year-end results announcements.
Senior Independent Director Mr D Mapp has been designated the Senior Independent Director since 10 March 2005: previously Mr R Hooper was the designated Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board is aware of any shareholder concerns not resolved through existing mechanisms for investor communication.
Directors and Directors Independence As of 31 December 2005 the Board comprised the Chairman, four independent Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
The names of the Directors, together with their brief biographical details are given on pages 18 and 19.
The periods served by each Director during 2005 are set out on page 20.
The Board includes independent Non-Executive Directors who constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy and bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The independent Directors are of sufficient calibre and number that their views carry significant weight in the Boards decision-making process.
The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement.
The Board has considered the independence of Mr S Watson with particular care in view of his position as a partner at the law firm of CMS Cameron McKenna, one of several legal advisers used by the Company.
The Board does not consider the relationship between the Company and the law firm to be of a material nature given that the transaction values between the two entities have not exceeded 1% of their respective turnovers during each of the three years ended 31 December 2005.
In addition Mr Watson does not lead any transaction or have any significant role in any work undertaken by the law firm on behalf of the Company.
22 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 There is an agreed procedure in place for the Directors to obtain independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, should they consider it necessary to do so in order to carry out their responsibilities.
The other significant professional commitments of the Chairman, Mr R Hooper, are summarised on page 18.
Professional Development On appointment the Directors receive relevant information about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the principal Board committees and the powers delegated to those committees, the Groups corporate governance policies and procedures and the latest financial information about the Group.
This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with key senior executives.
On appointment Directors are also advised of their legal and other duties and obligations as a Director of a listed company.
Throughout their period in office the Directors are continually updated on the Groups business and the environment in which it operates, by written briefings and by meetings with senior executives, who are invited to attend and present at Board meetings from time to time.
They are also updated on any changes to the legal and governance requirements of the Group and which affect themselves as Directors and are able to obtain training, at the Groups expense, to ensure they are kept up to date on relevant new legislation and changing commercial risks.
Performance Evaluation The Board utilises a formal and rigorous process, led by the Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its principal committees and individual Directors, with particular attention to those who are due for re-appointment.
On appointment the Directors are made aware that their performance will be subject to evaluation.
For 2005 the evaluation was performed by the Chairman who conducted a series of focused interviews with each member of the Board in his or her capacity as a Director and, where applicable, as a member or Chairman of a principal committee.
The findings and recommendations of the review were presented to the Board as a whole, with a view to implementing any recommendations made to improve the overall effectiveness of the Board during 2006.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, also met without the Chairman present to conduct an evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
Re-election Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act and satisfactory performance evaluation, Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial period envisaged to last three years and thereafter subject to annual review.
The Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters and all Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Information Regular reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
These papers are supplemented by any information specifically requested by the Directors from time to time.
The Non-Executive Directors receive monthly management reports from the Chief Executive and the Finance Director which enable them to scrutinise the Groups and managements performance against agreed objectives.
Relations with Shareholders In fulfilment of the Chairmans obligations under the Code, the Chairman provides the Board with feedback on any issues raised with him by shareholders.
In addition, the Executive Directors have frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance.
These include meetings with the Groups largest institutional shareholders on an individual basis following the announcement of the Groups interim and annual results.
In addition the Group responds to individual ad hoc requests for discussions from institutional shareholders.
Following meetings held with shareholders after the interim and annual results announcements, the Board receives feedback from each of the Chief Executive, the Groups brokers and its public relations advisers on investor perceptions.
External analysts reports on the Group are also circulated to all Directors, as are monthly reports of significant changes in the holdings of larger investors.
The Annual General Meeting AGM, for which at least 20 working days notice is given and where shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and are able to meet with the Directors after the meeting, is normally attended by all the Directors.
The number of proxy votes for, against or withheld in respect of each resolution is disclosed at the AGM and a separate resolution is proposed for each item.
The Groups corporate website at www.
com contains a wide range of information of interest to both institutional and private investors, including any announcements made by the Company to the London Stock Exchange as well as video recordings of the interim and annual presentations made to analysts.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 23 Corporate Governance continued Internal Control and Risk Management The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
In accordance with the guidance on internal control published in September 1999 the Turnbull Guidance, the Board regularly reviews this process, which has been in place from the start of the year to the date of approval of this Report.
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of financial and non-financial internal controls, including operational and compliance controls, risk management and the Groups high-level internal control arrangements.
The Boards monitoring is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks have been identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed an assessment for the purpose of this Annual Report.
This assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the Report including the work of internal audit.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
The Directors view the careful management of risk as a key management activity and steps are being taken to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the Group and to deal with any areas of improvement which come to managements and the Boards attention.
For example, at the end of 2005 the Groups Business Risk Management and Internal Audit functions were brought under one unified structure, known as Group Internal Control.
Board Committees The number of scheduled Board meetings and committee meetings attended as a member by each Director during the year was as follows: Scheduled Nomination Remuneration Audit Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings R Hooper 7 8 1 1 2 2 1 1 P Rigby 8 8 D Gilbertson 8 8 A Foye 8 8 D Mapp 8 8 1 1 9 9 3 3 S Watson 8 8 1 1 7 7 2 2 P Kirby 8 8 1 1 7 7 J Davis appointed 1 October 2005 2 2 1 1 D Smith resigned 10 March 2005 2 2 D Cruickshank resigned 24 January 2005 Figures in brackets indicate the number of meetings held in the period in which the Director was a member.
Nomination Committee The Company has established a Nomination Committee whose terms of reference, which were updated by the Board in October 2005, are available on the Companys website.
The membership of the Nomination Committee during 2005 was as follows: Period of membership 2005 R Hooper Chairman of Committee 1 Jan 31 Dec D Mapp 10 Mar 31 Dec S Watson 1 Jan 31 Dec P Kirby 10 Mar 31 Dec J Davis 1 Oct 31 Dec D Smith 1 Jan 10 Mar D Cruickshank 1 Jan 24 Jan Mr R Hooper replaced Mr D Smith as Chairman of the Committee from 10 March 2005.
The Nomination Committee considers the mix of skills and experience that the Board requires and seeks the appointment of Directors who meet those requirements to ensure that the Board is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
The Nomination Committee met during 2005 for the purpose of appointing an additional Non-Executive Director to the Board.
The process began by identifying the core competencies and attributes required of the candidate to fill the role.
An independent professional search firm was then engaged to seek out and identify potential candidates.
Following both a long-listing and shortlisting process, a selection panel, composed of members of the Committee and other Board members, was held at which three short-listed candidates were interviewed.
The selection panel recommended the appointment of Mr J Davis to the Nomination Committee, which in turn recommended Mr Davis appointment to the full Board and he was appointed by the Board with effect from 1 October 2005.
24 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Remuneration Committee The membership of the Remuneration Committee is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 27.
The Committees terms of reference, which were updated by the Board in October 2005, are available on the Companys website.
The Committees principal responsibilities are to: set, review and recommend to the Board for approval the remuneration policy and strategy with respect to the Executive Directors: set, review and approve the individual remuneration packages of the Executive Directors including terms and conditions of employment and any changes to the packages: and approve the introduction and rules of any Group share-based incentive schemes.
Audit Committee The membership of the Audit Committee during 2005 was as follows: Period of membership 2005 D Mapp Chairman of Committee 1 Jan 31 Dec R Hooper 1 Jan 9 Mar S Watson 10 Mar 31 Dec J Davis 1 Oct 31 Dec D Cruickshank 1 Jan 24 Jan The Audit Committee has at least one member possessing recent and relevant experience, as described in the Smith Report appended to the Code.
Mr D Mapp has extensive experience of audit committee procedures, and Mr J Davis is a qualified chartered accountant and the Chief Financial Officer of Yell Group plc, a FTSE 100 company.
It can also be seen from the Directors biographical details appearing on pages 18 and 19 that the other members who served on the Committee during the year possess a wide range of high-level experience.
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Groups performance.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and remuneration of the external auditors.
It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group and the external auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees.
The Committee also reviews annually the Groups system of internal controls and the process for monitoring and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
It reviews the effectiveness of the Group Internal Control function consisting of Business Risk Management and Internal Audit and is responsible for approving, upon the recommendation of the Chief Executive, the appointment and termination of the head of that function.
The Committee meets as appropriate with the Executive Directors and management, as well as privately with both the external and internal auditors.
In 2005 the Committee discharged its responsibilities primarily by: reviewing the Groups draft preliminary and interim results statements prior to Board approval and reviewing the external auditors detailed reports thereon: reviewing the Groups pre-Close Period updates prior to their release: reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: reviewing regularly the impact on the Groups financial statements of matters such as the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: recommending to the full Board, which adopted the recommendation, the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Groups external auditors: reviewing and approving the audit fee and reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Groups external auditors: reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups accounts, which included key areas of scope of work: key risks on the accounts: confirmations of auditor independence and the proposed audit fee and approving the terms of engagement for the audit: reviewing the Groups system of controls and its effectiveness: reviewing the Groups systems to identify and manage risks: reviewing the ongoing reports from Business Risk Management: and reviewing post-acquisition reports on integration and performance of significant recent acquisitions compared to plans.
The Audit Committee also monitors the Groups whistle blowing procedures to ensure that appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise matters of possible impropriety in confidence, with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
The Audit Committees terms of reference, which were updated by the Board in October 2005, are available on the Companys website.
Auditor Independence and Objectivity The Audit Committee regularly monitors the scope of the services and the non-audit services being provided to the Group by its external auditors to review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, taking into consideration the relevant professional and regulatory requirements, so that these are not impaired by the provision of permissible non-audit services.
Any activities that may be perceived to be in conflict with the role of the external auditors must be submitted to the Committee for approval prior to engagement.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 25
