26 UNiqUely placed Statement on Corporate Governance the company is committed to the highest standards of notwithstanding that he received remuneration as an advisor to corporate governance.
the Board has reviewed and is reporting the Board from november 2004 to June 2005 and that he is an on the companys compliance with the requirements of the independent, non-executive director of the lockheed Martin combined code the code published by the Financial corporation lockheed Martin, which is a shareholder of, and Reporting council in July 2003 for the first time for the major supplier to, the company.
the directors have taken into reporting period since the Ipo.
account that: i he was an advisor to the Board for a short period of time: ii the companys contracts with lockheed Martin were since the Ipo, the company has been in compliance with entered into prior to his becoming one of the companys the provisions set out in section 1 of the code save as directors, although one of these contracts was amended and provided below: restated while he was an advisor to the Board: iii he received from the company only approximately us$67,000 in aggregate Andrew sukawaty acts in the dual role of chairman and chief in fees and expenses for his advisory work: iv he has a nonexecutive officer.
Mr sukawaty was appointed chairman in executive role at lockheed Martin: and v he has agreed to december 2003 and was asked by the Board to take on the excuse himself from any discussions regarding lockheed Martin.
additional responsibilities of chief executive officer in March the directors have also considered that Admiral James ellis Jr 2004. the Board believes that Mr sukawatys wide Rtd has at all times during the period he has been an advisor to experience of the telecommunications industry in an the Board displayed independent character and judgement and executive capacity means that he is extremely well qualified that there was no reason why he would not continue to do so to lead the company in the joint role of chairman and chief noting that he is a member of the Board because of the skills he executive officer.
It is the Boards intention that the roles of brings from his years in the u. s. navy and the contacts chairman and chief executive officer will be separated commensurate therewith and not as a result of his role at within approximately two years from the date of the Ipo.
In his capacity as executive chairman of the company, Andrew sukawaty currently acts as the chairman of the the Board meets regularly throughout the year.
the Board is nominations committee.
satisfied that the chairman and each of the non-executive As the current Board has only been in place since the Ipo, directors commit sufficient time to the fulfilment of their duties there has been no annual performance evaluation for the as directors of the company.
the Board delegates management Board, committees of the Board and their individual members.
of the business to the management team listed on page 22, who generally meet on a weekly basis.
The Board upon the Ipo, the composition of the Board and its various the Board believes, in principle, in the benefit of executive committees was reviewed and evaluated so as to reflect the directors accepting non-executive directorships of other Boards and the committees balance of skills, expected time companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the commitment, knowledge and experience.
the Board currently benefit of the company.
executive directors may not take on has seven directors, comprising three executive directors and more than one non-executive directorship of a Ftse 100 four independent, non-executive directors, which is considered company or any chairmanship of such a company.
Mr sukawaty is an effective size and balance for the company.
A list of the currently the only executive director with any external individual directors, their biographies and details of their directorships and he is permitted to retain any directors fees committee membership are provided on pages 21 and 22. from these appointments.
details of his directorships can be John Rennocks, the deputy chairman, is identified as the senior found in his biography on page 21. to avoid potential conflicts of Independent director.
Following the Ipo, Andrew sukawaty interest, non-executive directors are expected to inform the remained chairman and chief executive officer, both executive chairman before taking up any additional external appointments.
there was a commitment that while this did not meet the requirements of the code, there would be a separation of the the chairman and chief executive officer is responsible for the roles within approximately two years of the Ipo.
the Board running of the Board and for implementing Group strategy.
the believed that Mr sukawatys continued involvement in both roles Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for would provide a balanced and stable platform as the company decision but can also delegate specific responsibilities to the moved into the next phase of its development and is in the best Board committees detailed below or to committees convened interests of the company and its shareholders.
the Board also for special purposes.
Among the key matters on which the Board determined that it was appropriate, with the chairman and alone may make decisions are the Groups business strategy, its chief executive officer roles being combined, to appoint John annual budget, dividends, financial reporting and major corporate Rennocks as deputy chairman, in addition to his role as senior activities.
the Board holds a strategy meeting once a year at Independent director.
concerns can be conveyed to Mr Rennocks which it considers the future direction of the Group.
independently of the chairman and chief executive officer, the chief Financial officer or the chief operating officer, by other non-executive directors have been appointed initially for three directors or shareholders.
collectively, the Board believes that it years and all non-executive directors may not, unless exceptionally possesses all of the necessary range of qualities and experience agreed by the Board, remain in office for a period longer than six to lead the company effectively.
years or two terms in office, whichever is the shorter.
the diverse experience and backgrounds of the non-executive directors the Board believes that it is appropriate to consider Admiral ensures that they can debate with, and constructively challenge, James ellis Jr Rtd as an independent, non-executive director, management both in relation to the development of strategy INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005 27 UNiqUely placed and in relation to operational and financial performance.
the the Audit committee has particular responsibility for monitoring non-executive directors will meet annually, without the chairman the adequacy and effectiveness of the operation of internal and chief executive officer in attendance, to assess Board balance controls and risk management and ensuring that the Groups and independence and to monitor whether any one individual has financial statements present a true and fair view of the Groups unfettered powers over decisions.
the senior Independent director financial position.
Its duties include keeping under review the will chair these meetings.
scope and results of the audit and its cost-effectiveness, consideration of managements response to any major external on joining the Board, new directors are given a comprehensive, or internal audit recommendation and the independence and formal and tailored induction programme including the provision objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
of background material on the company and briefings with senior management.
the company secretary supplies during the year to 31 december 2005, the Audit committee all directors with information on relevant legal and best reviewed and endorsed, prior to submission to the Board, practice developments.
half-year and full-year financial statements and results announcements and the quarterly financial reports for two All directors are required by the companys Articles of u. s. reporting subsidiaries.
It considered internal audit reports Association to be elected by shareholders at the first general and risk-management updates, agreed external and internal audit meeting after their appointment.
Appointments to the Board are plans and received updates on management responses to audit made on merit and against objective criteria.
the Audit committee also approved of the directors must retire and, as appropriate, seek re-election recommendations on the review of accounting policies and by the shareholders at each Annual General Meeting.
monitored progress on two significant projects affecting the Group, namely implementation of International Financial directors receive Board and committee papers in advance of the Reporting standards and preparedness for complying with the relevant meetings.
the company secretary is responsible to the requirements of section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley Act 2002 Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, advising for its u. s. reporting subsidiaries.
the Board, through the chairman and chief executive officer, on all corporate governance matters and minuting any unresolved the company secretary, as chairman of the disclosure concerns expressed by any director.
Were a director to resign committee, reported on matters that affected the quality and over an unresolved issue, the chairman and chief executive timely disclosure of financial and other material information to officer would bring the issue to the attention of the Board.
the Board, to the public markets and to shareholders.
this enabled the Audit committee to review and clarify the the directors have access to the advice and services of the completeness of financial reporting disclosures prior to their company secretary and all directors are able to take release by the Board.
independent advice in the furtherance of their duties if necessary.
the Board considers that, through the Audit committee, it has As the current Board has only been in place since the Ipo, it was an objective and professional relationship with the auditors.
not considered appropriate to undertake an evaluation of the A formal policy is in place in relation to the provision of Boards performance in 2005.
However, a process of formal non-audit services by the auditors to ensure that there is annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its adequate protection of their independence and objectivity.
committees and their members is planned for 2006 and on an the policy identifies three categories of accounting services: ongoing basis thereafter.
the non-executive directors, led by audit-related services, which the companys auditors provide John Rennocks, the senior Independent director, will be such as interim and full year reporting : prohibited services, responsible for the evaluation of the chairman and chief which the companys auditors may never provide such as executive officers performance, taking into account the views of corporate finance consulting or advisory services : and potential individual directors.
services, which the companys auditors may in certain circumstances provide, subject to tender and fee constraints Board committees such as tax advisory services.
during the year, specific approval audit committee had been given by the Audit committee for the companys All members of the Audit committee are independent, auditors to act in a non-audit capacity in relation to the Ipo and non-executive directors and have significant, recent and relevant other connected activities.
However, auditor objectivity and financial experience.
the Board is confident that the collective independence was safeguarded through a variety of mechanisms.
experience of the Audit committee members enables them, as Fees charged by the companys auditors in respect of non-audit a group, to act as an effective Audit committee.
their details are services require the prior approval of the Audit committee, disclosed on page 22.
By invitation, the meetings of the Audit except where the fee does not exceed more than 5% of the committee may be attended by the chairman and chief total revenues paid to the auditors in that financial year.
executive officer, chief Financial officer and the internal and A breakdown of the fees paid to the companys auditors during external auditors.
Between the Ipo and the financial year end, the year is set out in note 6 to the financial statements.
the Audit committee met twice but, on an on-going basis, will meet at least four times each year as detailed in its terms of the Audit committees terms of reference explaining the Audit reference.
the chairman of the Audit committee meets committees role and the authority delegated to it by the Board regularly with the internal and external auditors.
INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005 28 UNiqUely placed Statement on Corporate Governance Remuneration committee 2005 Board and committee meetings since IPO the composition of the Remuneration committee is disclosed Between the date of the Ipo and 31 december 2005, the Board on page 22 and comprises solely independent, non-executive met five times, excluding ad hoc meetings solely to deal with directors.
the Remuneration committee, on behalf of the procedural matters.
the following table shows the attendance of Board, meets as and when necessary to review and approve as directors at meetings of the Board and its main committees: appropriate the remuneration of the executive directors and senior management and major remuneration plans for the Audit Remuneration Group as a whole.
the Remuneration committee appraises the Board committee committee maximum: 5 maximum: 2 maximum:3 chairman and chief executive officer against his written objectives.
similarly, the chairman and chief executive officer Bjarne Aamodt appraises the other executive directors.
the Remuneration resigned on 11 november 2005 3 1 committee approves the setting of objectives for all of the Michael Butler 5 executive directors and authorises their annual bonus payments sir Bryan carsberg 5 2 3 for achievement of objectives.
the Remuneration committee stephen davidson 5 2 3 provides remuneration packages sufficient to attract, retain and Admiral James ellis Jr Rtd 5 3 motivate executive directors required to run the company Rick Medlock 5 2 successfully but does not pay more than is necessary for this John Rennocks 5 2 service.
the Remuneration committee is empowered to Andrew sukawaty 5 2 3 recommend the grant of share options under the existing Attendance by invitation only.
share option plans and to make awards under the long-term the company secretary attended all Board and committee meetings.
the Remuneration committee considers there to be an appropriate balance between fixed and variable Directors remuneration remuneration and between shortand long-term variable details of the companys remuneration policy and directors components of remuneration.
All of the decisions of the remuneration are contained in the directors Remuneration Remuneration committee on remuneration matters in 2005 Report on pages 31 to 38. were reported to and endorsed by the Board.
Relations with shareholders the Remuneration committees terms of reference explaining the company recognises the importance of communicating with the Remuneration committees role and the authority delegated its shareholders to ensure that its strategy and performance is to it by the Board are publicly available.
understood and that it remains accountable to shareholders.
the Board as a whole is responsible for ensuring that a satisfactory Nominations committee dialogue with shareholders takes place, while the chairman and the composition of the nominations committee is disclosed on chief executive officer ensures that the views of shareholders page 22 and comprises a majority of independent, non-executive are communicated to the Board as a whole.
the nominations committee did not meet during that the companys strategic plans have been carefully reviewed 2005 but, on an ongoing basis, will meet as and when necessary in terms of their ability to deliver long-term shareholder value.
the nominations committee has An interim statement and a fully audited Annual Report are sent responsibility for nominating to the Board, candidates for to shareholders and posted on the companys website.
appointment as directors, bearing in mind the need for a broad presentations made to institutional investors are also available on representation of skills across the Board.
the nominations the companys website.
committee will also make recommendations to the Board concerning the reappointment of any independent, nonIn connection with and following its listing, the company has executive director by the Board at the conclusion of his or her given investor roadshows in the uK and overseas and specified term: the reappointment of any director by shareholders presentations were made after publication of the interim results.
under the retirement provisions of the companys Articles of the chairman and chief executive officer meets shareholders Association: and changes to senior management.
regularly with the chief Financial officer and the senior Independent director, John Rennocks, is available to the nominations committees terms of reference explaining the shareholders if they have concerns which cannot be resolved nominations committees role and the authority delegated to it through the normal channels or such concerns have not been by the Board are publicly available.
the Board is aware that institutional shareholders may be in more regular contact with the company than other For the non-executive directors who joined the Board on Ipo, shareholders, but care is exercised to ensure that any an external search firm was used for the appointments of sir price-sensitive information is released to all shareholders, Bryan carsberg and stephen davidson.
Admiral James ellis Jr Rtd institutional and private, at the same time in accordance was known to the company through previous consultancy work with the Financial services Authority requirements.
INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005 29 UNiqUely placed shareholders are welcome at the companys Annual General Management structure: there is a clearly defined organisational Meeting AGM where they will have an opportunity to meet structure throughout the Group with established lines of the Board.
the chairmen of the Audit committee and the reporting and delegation of authority based on job Remuneration committee, together with as many directors responsibilities and experience.
A process of self-certification as possible, will attend the AGM and be available to answer is used in the Group where directors and senior managers shareholders questions.
Voting may be by form of proxy, by are required to detail and certify controls in operation to poll, by show of hands or a combination of all three.
the voting mitigate risk in key process areas.
they also confirm annually, results will be notified to the uK listing Authority through a in writing, that risk management processes are in place and are Regulatory Information service immediately after the meeting operating effectively.
and will be published on the companys website.
Financial reporting: monthly management accounts provide Following the financial year-end, the company has appointed relevant, reliable, up-to-date financial and non-financial lehman Brothers International as its joint corporate broker and information to management and the Board.
Annual plans, they will work closely with the companys existing broker, forecasts and performance targets allow management to JpMorgan cazenove limited monitor the key business and financial activities and the progress towards achieving the financial objectives.
the annual budget is the Group obtains feedback from its brokers on the views of approved by the Board.
the Group reports half-yearly to institutional investors on a non-attributed and attributed basis shareholders based on a standardised reporting process.
and any concerns of major shareholders would be communicated Quarterly reports for u. s. reporting purposes are issued for to the Board by the chief Financial officer.
As a matter of two of the companys subsidiaries.
routine, the Board receives regular reports on issues relating to share price, trading activity and details of movements in Monitoring of controls: the Audit committee receives regular institutional investor shareholdings.
the Board is also provided reports from the internal and external auditors and assures itself with an overview of shareholder sentiment and current analyst that the internal control environment of the Group is operating opinions and forecasts.
there are formal policies and procedures in place to ensure the integrity and accuracy of the accounting records and Internal controls to safeguard the Groups assets.
significant capital projects and the Board confirms that the procedures necessary to implement acquisitions and disposals require Board approval.
the company the guidance set out in the Internal control: Guidance for has in place a formal procedure by which staff can, in confidence, directors on the combined code produced by the turnbull raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial and other working party have been established.
the Board acknowledges matters including pensions administration often referred to as its responsibility for establishing and maintaining the Groups whistleblowing procedures.
Arrangements are in place for system of internal controls and it receives regular reports from proportionate and independent investigation and appropriate management identifying, evaluating and managing the risks within follow-up action.
the system of internal controls is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the Board recognises its obligations as a result of two of the business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not Groups wholly-owned subsidiaries being foreign registrants absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
under the u. s. securities and exchange commission, including the requirement to comply with the sarbanes-oxley Act of the Board and the Audit committee have carried out a review 2002.
A disclosure committee was established in April 2005 to of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls evaluate the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and during the year ended 31 december 2005 and for the period procedures.
up to the date of approval of the financial statements.
Any necessary action has been or is being taken to remedy any Going concern significant failings or weaknesses identified from the review.
After due consideration, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company has adequate resources to the key elements of the Groups system of internal controls, continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
which have been in place throughout the year under review and For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis up to the date of this report, include: in preparing the accounts.
Risk management: the Groups management operates a risk management process to identify, evaluate and report significant risks within the business and to report to the Board on how those risks are being managed.
Risks are highlighted through a number of different reviews and culminate in a risk register, monitored by the internal risk management team, which identifies the risk area, the probability of the risk occurring, the impact if it does occur and the actions being taken to manage the risk to the desired level.
the risk register is provided monthly to the management team and quarterly to the Board and to the Audit committee.
INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005
