20 InterContinental Hotels Group 2005 corporate governance COMBINED CODE COMPLIANCE assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, The Board is committed to compliance with the principles set out in the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code and, in system was ineffective or unsatisfactory.
the opinion of the Board, the Company has complied with the Code To comply with the Groups US obligations, arising from the requirements as they apply for the year ended 31 December 2005 Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, a project is well under way to identify, with the exception only of the item highlighted in this report the evaluate and test critical internal financial controls across all our temporary combined role of Chairman and Chief Executive.
This should enable representations to be made As InterContinental Hotels Group PLCs shares are listed on the regarding the effectiveness of internal financial controls when the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, the Company is subject to Group is required to report in compliance with these US obligations the rules of the NYSE, US securities laws and the rules of the for the December 2006 year end.
Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
A statement outlining With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure the differences between the Companys corporate governance against every risk to the fullest extent.
The insurance market practices and those followed by US companies may be found on remains difficult both as to breadth and cost of coverage and in the Companys website at www.
com investors as required some cases external insurance is not available at all or not at an by the SEC.
The Group regularly reviews both the type and The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control amount of external insurance that it buys, bearing in mind the and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order availability of such cover, its price and the likelihood and to discharge that responsibility, the Board has established the magnitude of the risks involved.
procedures necessary to apply the Code, including clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
BOARD AND COMMITTEE STRUCTURE To support the principles of good corporate governance, the Board Business performance is managed closely and, in particular, the and Committee structure operates as set out below.
Board, the Executive Committee and the Regional Executive Committees have established processes, as part of the normal THE BOARD good management of the business, to monitor: The Boards current composition of the Non-Executive Chairman, strategic plan achievement, through a comprehensive series four Executive and seven Non-Executive Directors meets the of Group and regional strategic reviews: requirement of the Combined Code for at least half the Board, financial performance, within a comprehensive financial excluding the Chairman, to be independent Non-Executive planning and accounting framework: Directors.
In the Boards view, all of the current Non-Executive Directors satisfy the tests set out in the Code for independence.
capital investment performance, with detailed appraisal and authorisation processes: and The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategic risk management, through an ongoing process, which has been direction, development and control of the Group.
It therefore in place up to the date of the accounts providing assurance approves strategic plans and capital and revenue budgets.
It through reports from both the Head of Risk Management and reviews significant investment proposals and the performance the Head of Internal Audit that the significant risks faced by the of past investments and maintains an overview and control of Group are being identified, evaluated and appropriately managed, the Groups operating and financial performance.
It monitors having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
the Groups overall system of internal controls, governance and compliance.
The Board ensures that the necessary financial and In addition, the Audit Committee receives: human resources are in place for the Group to meet its objectives.
reports from the Head of Internal Audit on the work carried out The Board has established a schedule of matters which are under the annual internal audit plan, including an annual report reserved for its attention and decision.
These may be found on on the operation of the monitoring processes set out above to the Companys website.
support the Boards annual statement on internal control: and The Board adopts objective criteria for the appointment of reports from the external auditor.
Directors, and the roles of the Chairman and of the Chief Executive The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the have been defined in writing and approved by the Board.
system of internal control during the year ended 31 December 2005, The Board has responsibility for the planned and progressive taking account of any material developments which have taken refreshing of the Board and its Committees.
It establishes and place since the year end.
regularly reviews its policy in both of these areas and it is the The review was carried out through the monitoring process set out Nomination Committees responsibility to evaluate formally the above, which accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The system of required skills, knowledge and experience of the Board, in a internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, structured way.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and it must be recognised that it can only provide reasonable and not absolute InterContinental Hotels Group 2005 21 Seven regular Board meetings are scheduled each year and further The following were Directors of the Company during the year: meetings are held as needed.
The regular Board meetings were Position Date of original appointment held, as planned, during 2005.
These were attended by all Directors David Webster Non-Executive Chairman 15.4.
03 with the exception that Sir David Prosser, Robert C Larson and Jonathan Linen could not attend one meeting each.
Sir Howard Andrew Cosslett Chief Executive 3.2.
05 Stringer was unable to attend three meetings.
Despite being unable Richard Solomons Finance Director 10.2.
03 to attend meetings, these Directors were provided with all the Richard Hartman President, Europe, Middle East papers and information relating to each meeting and were able to and Africa 15.4.
03 discuss matters arising with the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Stevan Porter President, The Americas 15.4.
03 In addition to the regular meetings, one Board meeting was held David Kappler Non-Executive Director and at relatively short notice following completion of the capital Senior Independent Director 21.6.
04 reorganisation of the Group to deal with a number of formal and Ralph Kugler Non-Executive Director 15.4.
03 technical matters arising from the reorganisation.
All Directors Jennifer Laing Non-Executive Director 25.8.
05 were provided with background information for this meeting, but only David Webster, Andrew Cosslett and Richard Solomons were Robert C Larson Non-Executive Director 15.4.
Jonathan Linen Non-Executive Director 1.12.05 There have therefore been occasions when individual Non-Executive Sir David Prosser Non-Executive Director 15.4.
03 Directors have been unable to attend a Board meeting.
This is Sir Howard Stringer Non-Executive Director 15.4.
03 unavoidable from time to time, particularly given the other Note: the capital reorganisation of the Group in June 2005 entailed the insertion of corporate and international responsibilities of the very experienced a new parent company of the Group.
The dates shown above represent the original individuals concerned.
They also spend significant time outside dates of appointment of each of the Directors to the Groups parent company.
these formal meetings on Group business, reviewing proposals Directors biographical details are set out on pages 28 and 29 and projects, and generally overseeing Group affairs.
Any such of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005. non-attendance is occasional and the Board is satisfied that all These include their main external commitments.
Directors remain committed to their roles and responsibilities.
The Non-Executive Directors who were appointed during the All Directors are briefed by means of comprehensive papers in year, Jennifer Laing and Jonathan Linen, are participating in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at meetings.
induction programmes designed to meet their individual needs Their understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by and to introduce them to, and familiarise them with, the principal regular business presentations outside Board meetings and visits activities of the Group and with central and regional management.
At least two Board meetings a year are held overseas.
A comprehensive induction programme was also designed for A formal performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees Andrew Cosslett, Chief Executive, who joined the Group in and Directors was undertaken shortly after the year end.
These induction programmes accord with the evaluation was conducted in accordance with the suggestions for guidelines referred to in the Combined Code.
The updating of good practice contained in the Higgs Report, with the assistance all Directors skills and knowledge is a progressive exercise.
of a third-party facilitator, having regard to the potential for This is accomplished at Board and strategy meetings, through performance improvement.
The Chairmans performance was also presentations and visits to hotels and other business premises, reviewed in consultation with the other Non-Executive Directors.
and through contact with employees at all levels.
Evaluation of the Board as a whole was conducted by the facilitator CHAIRMAN in consultation with all the Directors.
Board Committees were David Webster was Non-Executive Chairman throughout the year.
evaluated by the facilitator in consultation with the Chairman At the start of the year he was also fulfilling the role of interim and members of each Committee.
Chief Executive pending the appointment of Andrew Cosslett as Feedback was provided to the Board through a formal report.
Chief Executive on 3 February 2005, following which David Webster The evaluation concluded that the range of experience and skills stood down as interim Chief Executive.
Therefore, for a short period of the current Directors provides a sound basis for an effective and in 2005, the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive were not fulfilled unified Board.
Also, all the main Committees are ably led by their by separate individuals, as required by the Combined Code.
David respective Chairmen and all have addressed the issues and Webster is Non-Executive Chairman of Makinson Cowell Limited.
business matters requiring their attention and decisions during the The Board is satisfied that this additional commitment has no adverse year, diligently and robustly.
The conclusion was that all individual impact on the successful fulfilment of his duties to IHG.
Directors continue to perform effectively.
Attention will be given to The Chairman carries responsibility for ensuring the efficient any matters arising from the evaluation process.
It is intended that operation of the Board and its Committees, for seeing that a comprehensive evaluation will take place annually.
corporate governance matters are addressed, and for representing the Group externally and communicating particularly with 22 InterContinental Hotels Group 2005 corporate governance shareholders.
He also ensures that Directors receive a full, formal premises including hotels across the brand portfolio were and tailored induction to the Group and its businesses and that all undertaken.
In addition, the training requirements of the Directors are fully informed of relevant matters, working closely Non-Executive Directors are kept under review.
with the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
The Chairman also meets with the Non-Executive Directors, without Executive COMPANY SECRETARY Directors present.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Richard Winter.
His responsibilities include ensuring good CHIEF EXECUTIVE information flows to the Board and its Committees and between Andrew Cosslett was appointed Chief Executive on 3 February 2005. senior management and the Non-Executive Directors.
He facilitates He has responsibility to recommend to the Board and to implement the induction of Directors, the regular updating and refreshing of the Groups strategic objectives.
He is responsible for the executive their skills and knowledge, and he assists them in fulfilling their management of the Group.
Andrew Cosslett is Non-Executive duties and responsibilities.
Through the Chairman, he is responsible Chairman of Duchy Originals Foods Limited.
He receives no for advising the Board on corporate governance and generally for remuneration for this role.
The Board is satisfied that this keeping the Board up to date on all legal, regulatory and other additional commitment has no adverse impact on the successful developments.
He also has responsibility for developing the Groups fulfilment of his duties to IHG.
position on Corporate Social Responsibility.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of the main Board Committees.
SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR David Kappler is the Senior Independent Director.
His responsibilities COMMITTEES include being available to liaise with shareholders who have issues Each Committee of the Board has written terms of reference which to raise.
have been approved by the Board.
Executive Committee This Committee is chaired by the NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Chief Executive.
It consists of the Executive Directors and senior A team of experienced independent Non-Executive Directors executives from the Group and the regions and usually meets represents a strong source of advice and judgement.
Its role is to consider and manage a range of important seven such Directors, in addition to the Non-Executive Chairman, strategic and business issues facing the Group.
It is responsible for each of whom has significant external commercial experience.
monitoring the performance of the regional Hotels businesses and, The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, meet during until its flotation as an independent company in December 2005, the year to consider the Groups business and management.
It is authorised to approve capital and revenue investment within levels agreed by the Board.
It reviews and Robert C Larson was first appointed to the Board of the Groups recommends to the Board the most significant investment proposals.
predecessor parent company, Bass PLC, in 1996.
Mr Larson may therefore be regarded as having served for over nine years as a Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by David Kappler Director.
The Combined Code requires such Directors to be subject who has significant recent and relevant financial experience and to rigorous performance review, and to be subject to election is the Committees financial expert.
The formal performance evaluation referred to above has Committee members were Sir David Prosser, Ralph Kugler and, confirmed Mr Larsons ongoing valuable contribution and he is now from 25 August 2005, Jennifer Laing.
The Committee is scheduled subject to annual election by shareholders.
The transformed to meet at least four times a year.
The Committee met five times structure of the Group, and of the parent company Board, since in the year.
All Committee members attended every meeting.
The 1996 have also ensured that the length of Mr Larsons service has Audit Committees role is described on page 24. no bearing on his independence.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, chaired Sir David Prosser was, until his retirement on 31 December 2005, by Sir David Prosser, also comprises the following Non-Executive Group Chief Executive of Legal & General Group Plc L&G, a major Directors: David Kappler, Robert C Larson, Jonathan Linen and shareholder in the Company.
In the Boards view, Sir David Prosser Sir Howard Stringer.
It meets at least three times a year.
Its role met the criteria for independence as set out in the Combined Code, is described on page 25.
The Committee met six times during the notwithstanding this role.
The Combined Code requires that, for year.
Jonathan Linen was unable to attend one meeting and independence, an individual should be independent in character and Sir Howard Stringer was unable to attend two meetings.
judgement and free from any business or other relationship which Nomination Committee The Nomination Committees quorum could materially interfere with the exercise of his her independent comprises any three Non-Executive Directors although, where judgement.
Sir David Prossers appointment as a Board member was possible, all Non-Executive Directors are present.
It is chaired by not linked in any way to L&Gs share interest in the Company and the Chairman of the Company.
Its terms of reference reflect the he took no part in L&Gs decision-making on specific investments.
principal duties of a Nomination Committee proposed as good Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity of continuing practice and referred to in the Combined Code.
The Committee is professional development during the year and of gaining further responsible for nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates insight into the Groups business.
During 2005, visits to operating for appointment to the Board, and also for succession planning.
InterContinental Hotels Group 2005 23 The Committee generally engages external consultants to advise INDEPENDENT ADVICE on candidates for Board appointments, and did so in connection There is an agreed procedure by which members of the Board may with the appointments of Jennifer Laing and Jonathan Linen.
take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their Candidate profiles and objective selection criteria were prepared duties and they have access to the advice and services of the in advance of these engagements.
The Committee also assists the Company Secretary.
Board in identifying and developing the role of the Senior Independent Director.
The Committee met twice during the year.
THIRD-PARTY INDEMNITIES Sir Howard Stringer was unable to attend these meetings.
The Group has provided to all of its Directors, limited indemnities in respect of costs of defending claims against them, and Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee, chaired by the third-party liabilities.
These are all qualifying third-party indemnity Groups Financial Controller, and comprising the Company Secretary provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 1985 and are all and other senior executives, reports to the Chief Executive and the currently in force.
Finance Director, and to the Audit Committee.
Its duties include ensuring that information required to be disclosed in reports SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS pursuant to UK and US accounting, statutory or listing requirements, The Group reports formally to shareholders twice a year when its fairly represent the Groups position in all material respects.
half-year and full-year results are announced.
The Chief Executive General Purposes Committee The General Purposes Committee and the Finance Director give presentations on these results to comprises any two Executive Directors or any one Executive institutional investors, analysts and the media.
Telephone dial-in Director together with a senior officer from an agreed and facilities and live audio webcasts enable access to these restricted list of senior executives.
It is always chaired by a presentations for all shareholders.
In addition, there are telephone Director.
It attends to business of a routine nature and to the conferences after the release of the first and third quarter results.
administration of matters, the principles of which have been The data used in these presentations and conferences is placed on agreed previously by the Board or an appropriate Committee.
com IHG also has a programme of meetings throughout the year with its RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS major institutional shareholders, which provides an opportunity to Jennifer Laing and Jonathan Linen, having been appointed as discuss, using publicly available information, the progress of the Directors since the last Annual General Meeting, will retire and business, its performance, plans and objectives.
The Chairman, stand for election at the Annual General Meeting on 1 June 2006. the Senior Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors In addition, Robert C Larson, having attained the age of 70, is now are available to meet with major shareholders to understand their subject to annual retirement and re-election, if he wishes to issues and concerns and to discuss governance and strategy.
Any continue to serve as a Director.
Special notice has been duly given new Director is available for meetings with major shareholders as to the Company in connection with a resolution to propose his a matter of course.
re-election to the Annual General Meeting.
Additionally, the Annual General Meeting provides a useful The Association of British Insurers no longer recommends the interface with private shareholders, many of whom are also annual retirement by rotation of a proportion of the Board of customers.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Directors, and the Companys Articles now provide that only those Nomination Committees are available at those meetings to answer Directors who have not been subject to election by shareholders questions.
The availability to shareholders of information about the within the last three years, need retire and stand for re-election at Group is maintained through the website.
the next Annual General Meeting.
Therefore, no additional A formal external review of shareholder opinion is presented to the Directors are required to retire and stand for re-election at the Board on an annual basis and both the Executive Committee and the Annual General Meeting in 2006.
Board receive regular updates on shareholder relations activities.
However, in the spirit of good governance the Board has decided that shareholders should have the opportunity to vote on the FURTHER INFORMATION appointment of one-third of the full Board, and therefore that The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Executive, an additional Director should voluntarily put himself forward Nomination and Disclosure Committees are available on the for re-election in 2006.
Stevan Porter will therefore retire and Companys website www.
com or from the Company Secretarys stand for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are also available on request.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting, sent to shareholders with this Richard Winter Report, provides further information about the Directors standing for election and re-election.
Details of the Executive Directors Company Secretary 1 March 2006 service contracts are set out on page 28.
The Non-Executive Chairman and the seven independent Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment.
