48 International Power Annual Report 2005 Corporate governance Hazelwood, Australia The Board has responsibility for We are committed to high standards defining the strategy of the of corporate governance and in this business and reviewing the risk section set out how we comply with policies and profiles of the Group the principles in the Combined Code, and explain our reasons for any areas The Board has established of non-compliance.
business values and standards for the Company The Board The Board has responsibility for the In 2005 the effectiveness of the Board was underpinned by a balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Groups system of internal control The Board believes that it has the skills and experience and for monitoring and reviewing necessary to provide effective leadership and control of the Company.
its effectiveness Bruce Levy joined the Board on 1 June 2005 as an Executive Director with responsibility for the North American business.
The Board appointed an external There were no other changes during the year.
At the end of the facilitator to carry out the 2005 year the Board comprised of the Chairman Sir Neville Simms, Executive Directors Philip Cox, Mark Williamson, Tony Concannon, Board assessment Steve Riley and Bruce Levy and four Non-Executive Directors Tony Isaac, Jack Taylor, Adri Baan and Struan Robertson.
The Company has an organisational Sir Neville Simms was considered independent on his appointment as Chairman and the four Non-Executive Directors are considered structure with clear lines of to be independent.
Tony Isaac is the Senior Independent Director.
accountability and authority The structure of the Board is not in strict compliance with the across its worldwide operations Combined Code in that the number of Non-Executive Directors is less than the number of Executive Directors.
However, the Directors consider that the Board currently works effectively to carry out its duties and that the Non-Executive Directors have a strong independent presence at Board meetings to provide an effective counter balance to the Executive Directors.
The size and structure of the Board is kept under review.
Corporate governance 49 Board Audit Committee Remuneration Appointments 1 seven meetings eight meetings Committee Committee four meetings one meeting Sir Neville Simms 7641 Philip Cox 7 n a n a n a Adri Baan 7541 Tony Concannon 7 n a n a n a Tony Isaac 7841 2 Bruce Levy 4 n a n a n a Steve Riley 7 n a n a n a Struan Robertson 7741 Jack Taylor 7841 Mark Williamson 7 n a n a n a 1.
The Audit Committee held three main meetings relating to the preliminary statement, the interim statement and audit planning.
All members of the Committee attended these meetings.
The remainder of the meetings related to quarterly results and US reporting issues.
Bruce Levy joined the Board of Directors on 1 June 2005 and attended all Board meetings held since his appointment.
The full Board met seven times during 2005.
Attendance by Directors at these and the Board committee meetings held during the year are detailed in the table above.
In addition to the above meetings, a meeting of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors was held without the Executive Directors being present.
The Non-Executive Directors also met without the Chairman being present.
This meeting was chaired by Tony Isaac, the Senior Independent Director, and included a review of the Chairmans performance.
Board membership Board training In accordance with the Combined Code and the Companys Arrangements are in place to ensure that newly appointed Articles of Association, all Directors submit themselves for Directors receive a comprehensive briefing on the Company, and training is provided for Directors on their roles and their re-election every three years and newly appointed Directors legal obligations to ensure that they are fully conversant with are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after their responsibilities as Directors.
In accordance with this policy, their appointment.
In addition, the Board seeks to maintain Bruce Levy received training on his role and responsibilities as a a balance between continuity and new blood amongst the Director following his appointment to the Board.
of continuous training is also provided for the Directors.
In accordance with this policy, Jack Taylor is due to step down Periodically the Board meets at the site of one of the Groups as a Non-Executive Director at the 2006 AGM.
The Board is assets and briefings are also given at Board meetings on currently seeking a replacement, using an external agency to particular parts of the business, including regional and functional find suitable candidates.
Bruce Levy, who was appointed to the reviews.
During 2005 the Board visited the Groups business in Board on 1 June 2005, will submit himself for re-election at North America where it met the regional management team this years AGM.
In addition, Tony Isaac will submit himself for and received a briefing about the local business operations.
re-election for a further term of up to three years.
Tony Isaac At other times the Board has also received a presentation on has been a Non-Executive Director of the Company for nearly health, safety and environmental management from the head six years and the Board has therefore assessed whether it is of operations, and a presentation on investor relations from appropriate for him to be re-elected as a Director.
Following a the head of corporate communications.
Directors are also kept review of his performance and contribution to the Board, the informed of changes to the regulatory regime such as the commitment to the role demonstrated by him, the need for revised UK Listing Rules, new institutional investor guidelines Board continuity following the retirement of Jack Taylor at this and the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
All of the Directors have years AGM and his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee, access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and also to external independent advice should they so wish.
the Board has decided that it is appropriate for Tony Isaac to seek re-election for a further term as a Director of the Company.
50 International Power Annual Report 2005 Insurance Non-Executive Directors and their function The Company has in place appropriate insurance cover Through membership of the Board committees, the in respect of legal action against its Directors.
Non-Executive Directors have responsibilities for: overseeing that systems of internal control and risk management are appropriate and effective: managing the relationship with the Operation of the Board external auditors: evaluating the performance of management The Board has responsibility for defining strategy, ensuring the in meeting targets and objectives: setting the remuneration successful implementation of approved projects proposals and of Executive Directors: appointing Executive Directors: and for the financial policies of the Group.
It also reviews the risk planning senior management succession.
policies and profile of the Group.
It maintains a schedule of all matters requiring specific Board approval.
Throughout 2005 this Board committees included all strategy decisions and significant capital investment The Company has established the following committees: proposals and acquisitions.
The Board receives information on the Audit Committee: the Remuneration Committee: and capital expenditure projects and investment proposals in advance the Appointments Committee.
No person other than a of Board meetings, as well as management reports on the committee member is entitled to attend the meetings of operational and financial performance of the business.
Financial these committees, except at the invitation of the Committee.
performance is monitored on a monthly basis and the overall The full terms of reference for each Committee are available performance of the Group is reviewed against approved budgets.
on the Companys website: www.
At least once a year, the Chief Executive Officer CEO presents a corporate strategy plan to the Board for review and approval.
Audit Committee Each investment decision is made in the context of this plan.
The Committee selects and fixes the remuneration of the external auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the external The Board has established business values and standards for audit process.
The Committee also ensures policies and the Company, which provide a framework for the Company procedures are in place to ensure that the external auditors to balance the interests of all its stakeholders in the conduct of remain independent.
In addition to reviewing the Groups its business.
The business values FIRST are set out in the CSR accounts, results announcements, risk management and section of this Annual Report.
The Companys Code of Business accounting policies, the Committee monitors the effectiveness Conduct has been formally adopted by the Board and is set of internal control systems for the Board.
The Committee out on the Companys website.
This code includes a whistle monitors the work of the internal audit function and its blowing procedure.
progress against the Groups annual internal audit plan, and also reviews reports from the external auditors.
In respect of Board performance for 2005, the Board During 2005 the Audit Committee was comprised of appointed an external facilitator to carry out the assessment.
all the independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company The assessment was in two parts.
The first took the form of and the Chairman.
At the end of 2005 the Chairman, a questionnaire completed by each Director relating to the role Sir Neville Simms, resigned from his membership of the and performance of the Board, including its committees, and Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee Chairman is Tony Isaac, Board priority tasks including strategy and safety.
The results of who is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management this assessment were reviewed by the whole Board.
The second Accountants and, before becoming Chief Executive of part of the assessment took the form of a questionnaire The BOC Group plc, was its Group Finance Director.
completed by each Director relating to the effectiveness of The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The results of this part were reviewed by the Chairman in respect of the whole Board and by each Director Time was set aside for the Committee to meet each of the for his own performance.
The results of the review demonstrated external auditors and the head of internal audit without that the Board members were extremely satisfied with the executive management present.
In addition to the members of the Committee, regular attendees at the Audit Committee operation of the Board.
The contribution by individual Directors meetings included representatives of the external auditors, to Board and Committee meetings was considered to be high.
the CEO, the Chief Financial Officer CFO, other Executive Directors, the head of financial reporting and the head of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer internal audit.
There is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Company between the roles of the Chairman and the CEO.
Remuneration Committee The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effective operation of the Board, in terms of its agenda, decision making The Remuneration Committee is responsible for monitoring and the utilisation of the skills and experience of the Directors.
the performance of the Executive Directors of the Company He monitors, with the assistance of the Company Secretary, the against targets, and making recommendations to the Board information provided to the Board to ensure that it is sufficient, on remuneration.
The Chairman is also responsible for The Committee comprises all of the independent Non-Executive ensuring that there is effective engagement and communication Directors of the Company and the Chairman.
The Chairman of with shareholders.
The CEO is responsible for the running of the the Committee is Adri Baan.
The Company Secretary acts as Company, and leading the executive and operational teams in secretary to the Committee and the head of human resources implementing the strategies approved by the Board.
at International Power acts as adviser to the Committee.
Philip Cox is also a Non-Executive Director of Wincanton plc.
Towers Perrin acts as external adviser to the Committee.
His remuneration from this role is retained by him.
His remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2005 was 28,000.
Corporate governance 51 Appointments Committee The Appointments Committee is responsible for matters of management succession and the identification and appointment of Directors.
The Committee comprises of the Chairman and all of the independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Chairman of the Committee is Sir Neville Simms.
The head of human resources acts as secretary to the Committee.
Relations with shareholders The Board is accountable to shareholders for the performance and activities of the Group.
International Power ensures that its AGM provides shareholders with an opportunity to receive comprehensive information on all aspects of the Groups business activities and to question senior management about business issues and prospects.
All proxy votes are counted and the level of proxy votes lodged for each resolution is reported at the AGM and on the Malakoff, Malaysia Companys website.
In line with best practice, the Company aims to ensure that the notice of AGM and the Annual Report are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM.
Audit Committee terms of reference International Power also runs, within the terms of the regulatory framework, frequent contact programmes with industry analysts and institutional investors to discuss matters Relationship with external auditors of strategy and financial performance.
Contact is made includes fixing the level of principally by the CEO and the CFO.
On issues of major importance the Chairman communicates with major remuneration, the scope and shareholders.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director adequacy of their audit, their Tony Isaac is also available as an alternative point of contact if shareholders have concerns over the Chairmans performance performance and independence or where contact with the Chairman or other communication channels would be inappropriate.
At each Board meeting an Financial reporting reviews update is given on movements in major shareholdings and on contact programmes between the Executive Directors and all financial reports including institutional shareholders.
Reports issued by financial analysts consideration of the Groups on the Company are circulated to Board members.
These summaries and reports enable the Directors to gain an accounting policies, major understanding of the views and opinions of those with an judgemental areas and the interest in the Company.
All results presentations and stock exchange announcements are available to shareholders on effectiveness of internal control the Companys website www.
Internal audit reviews the scope Accountability and audit including the annual plan of the The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment of International Powers internal audit function and satisfies financial position and prospects, both to investors and itself of its adequacy, particularly regulatory authorities.
The Annual Report, preliminary, interim and quarterly results announcements are the principal means in terms of resource of achieving this objective.
An explanation of the respective responsibilities of the Risk management review Directors and external auditors in connection with the financial reviews reports prepared by the statements is set out on pages 77 and 78.
The Directors confirm on page 76 their view that the Group is a going concern.
Risk Committee to ensure all The Audit Committee has a process in place to approve all relevant risks are addressed in the non-audit services provided by the external auditor to ensure external and internal audit process that the objectivity and independence of the external auditor is not compromised.
In line with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, our procedures specify the services from Compliance ensures there are which the external auditor is excluded and the approval proper procedures in place to process for all other services.
review legislation and regulatory compliance activities 52 International Power Annual Report 2005 Internal control The Board has responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for monitoring and reviewing its effectiveness.
Systems are in place to meet the requirements of the Combined Code and Turnbull Guidance and procedures and systems are being implemented to ensure compliance with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Any system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The system can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
The principal features of the Groups systems of internal control are: Control environment The Board encourages a culture of integrity and openness.
The Company has an organisation structure with clear lines of accountability and authority across its worldwide operations, Synergen, Australia supported by appropriate reporting procedures.
Each of the regional businesses is accountable to the CEO and is managed within the strategic guidelines and delegated authorities adopted by the Board.
An executive management team, chaired by the CEO and comprising the Executive Directors, regional directors and Remuneration Committee functional heads, meets regularly to discuss issues facing the Group.
terms of reference Control procedures Control procedures have been established in each of the Ensures that the remuneration Companys operations to safeguard the Groups assets from loss or misuse and to ensure appropriate authorisation and package of Executive Directors recording of financial transactions.
All acquisition and investment is maintained on a sensible, decisions are subject to disciplined investment appraisal processes.
Risk management procedures are in place for the Companys comparative and defensible basis and operations, including its energy marketing and trading activities, enables the Company to compete which are overseen by the Global Commodities Risk Committee, which comprises executive and senior management, and is effectively for good calibre executives chaired by the global risk manager.
The Group treasury function operates under defined policies and the oversight of the Reviews the remuneration levels Treasury Committee, chaired by the CFO.
and other conditions of service of Performance reporting and information senior executives immediately Corporate plan: Executive management submits an annual corporate plan to the Board for approval.
The plan for each below Board level business unit is the quantified assessment of its planned operating and financial performance for the next financial year, Appointments Committee together with strategic reviews for the following four years.
Group management reviews the plans with each operational terms of reference team.
The individual plans are based on key economic and financial assumptions and incorporate an assessment of the risk and sensitivities underlying the projections.
Board structure and appointments Performance monitoring: Monthly performance and financial reviews the Board structure, reports are produced for each business unit, with comparisons size and composition and makes to budget.
Reports are consolidated for overall review by executive management, together with forecasts for the income recommendations to the Board statement and cash flow.
Detailed reports are presented to the with regard to any changes that Board on a regular basis.
are deemed desirable Performance review: Each business unit is subject to performance reviews with Group management regularly during the year.
Actual results and forecasts for the year are compared Succession responsible for to budget.
Key operational and financial results are reviewed putting in place plans for succession together with the risk profile and business environment of the reporting unit.
in relation to key posts immediately below Board level Corporate governance 53 Investment projects: These are subject to formal review and Monitoring authorisation procedures with designated levels of authority, The Board reviews the effectiveness of established internal including a review by an Investment Committee chaired by the controls through the Audit Committee which receives reports CEO and comprising the Executive Directors and senior managers.
from management, the Risk Committee, the Groups internal Major projects are subject to Board review and approval.
audit function and the external auditors on the systems of internal control and risk management arrangements.
Corporate reporting: The Company has a Disclosure Committee which is chaired by the Company Secretary and Internal audit reviews the effectiveness of internal controls and risk is comprised of members from the internal audit, corporate management through a work programme which is based on the communications, human resources, operations and engineering, Companys objectives and risk profile and is agreed with the Audit company secretariat and financial reporting departments.
Findings are reported to operational and executive reviews the Annual Report, the Summary Annual Report and management, with periodic reporting to the Audit Committee.
20F, and also monitors compliance with disclosures required Business unit managers provide annual self-certification under UK and US reporting regulations.
statements of compliance with procedures.
These statements Risk identification and management give assurance that controls are in operation and confirm that There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and programmes are in place to address any weaknesses in internal managing the key risks faced by the Company.
The certification process embraces all areas of material co-ordinated by the Risk Committee, which is chaired by the risk.
Internal audit reviews the statements and reports any CFO, and has responsibility, on behalf of the Board, for ensuring significant issues to the Audit Committee.
the adequacy of systems for identifying and assessing significant risks, that appropriate control systems and other mitigating Compliance with the Combined Code actions are in place, and that residual exposures are consistent There were three areas where the Board was not fully with the Companys strategy and objectives.
Assessments compliant with the requirements of the revised Combined are conducted for all material entities.
After 1 June 2005, following the As part of the annual business planning process, the key appointment of Bruce Levy as an Executive Director, there risks associated with achievement of the business principal was a majority of Executive Directors over the Non-Executive objectives are identified and their impact quantified.
The Board has reviewed the structure of the Board the year, significant changes in the risk profile are highlighted and has concluded there is no need at this time to appoint through the business performance reports.
The principal risks another Non-Executive Director, other than as a replacement are reviewed by the Risk Committee, which provides reports for Jack Taylor.
to the Board and the Audit Committee.
Throughout 2005, the Chairman of the Board, Sir Neville Simms, Our risk identification processes enable us to identify risks was a member of both the Audit and Remuneration committees.
which can be partly or entirely mitigated through use of The Code requires that the Chairman of the Company should insurance, or which we can self-insure.
We negotiate best not be a member of either of the Audit Committee or the available premium rates with insurance providers on the basis Remuneration Committee.
At the end of 2005 Sir Neville of our extensive risk management procedures.
Risks to which Simms involvement in both the Audit and Remuneration we pay particular attention include business interruption, committees was reviewed by the Board.
Following the review, Directors and officers liability and property damage.
and taking into account the views of institutional investors, Sir Neville Simms agreed to resign from the Audit Committee, Energy marketing and trading but retains his membership of the Remuneration Committee.
The objective of the Groups energy marketing and trading The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Adri Baan, operations is to maximise the return from the purchase of is an independent Non-Executive Director and there are three fuel and the sale of the associated output.
other independent Non-Executive Directors as members For each of the businesses that operate in merchant energy of the Committee.
Therefore Sir Neville Simms was not markets, local risk committees have been established to in a position to exert any control over the affairs of the oversee the management of the market, operational and Remuneration Committee.
credit risks arising from the marketing and trading activities.
The Senior Independent Director does not have a contact The committees are made up of the trading manager, global programme to communicate with institutional investors, and local risk managers, Directors and senior managers.
primarily to avoid potential confusion over channels of The Group hedges its physical generating capacity by selling communication.
During 2005 no institutional shareholder has forward its electrical output, and purchasing its fuel input, requested such communication.
as and when commercially appropriate and within approved In all other respects, the Company has complied with the provisions control limits.
This is accomplished through a range of of the Combined Code throughout the period of the review.
Our limited proprietary trading operations use similar methods.
US corporate governance compliance Energy market risk on our asset and proprietary portfolios The Company has securities registered in the US and, as is measured using various techniques including Value-at-Risk a result, it is required to comply with those provisions of VaR.
VaR is used where appropriate and provides a fair the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 the Act as it applies to foreign estimate of the net losses or gains which could be recognised private issuers.
The Board continues to monitor the new on our portfolios over a certain period and given a certain rules arising from the Act and arrangements are also being probability: it does not provide an indication of actual results.
developed to ensure that the Company will be able to report Scenario analyses are used to estimate the economic impact on its systems of internal controls over financial reporting of sudden market movements on the value of our portfolios.
as required as at 31 December 2006.
This supplements the other techniques and methodologies and captures additional market risks.
