Corporate governance for the year ended 31 December 2005 The Company is committed to achieving and maintaining high standards of committees with defined terms of reference to deal with a specific issue which corporate governance throughout the Group and to integrity and high ethical the Board has approved, such as the acquisition or disposal of a business.
standards in all its business dealings.
Below the Board is the Executive Committee, comprising the executive The Company is required to comply with the Listing Rules of the Financial directors, the senior executives Mr S Dance, Mr B Melizan and the Company Services Authority which require the Company, amongst other things, to make Secretary.
a statement on whether it has complied throughout the accounting period with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate The Board normally meets monthly throughout the year and on an ad hoc Governance, published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the basis to consider any matters which are time-critical.
Attendance at Board Combined Code.
The Company must also provide an explanation of how it and committee meetings by individual directors during the year is set out in has applied the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code to enable the table below.
its shareholders to evaluate how the principles have been applied.
Where the Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Company has not complied with the Combined Code provisions it must specify which it has not complied with and where relevant for what part of the Number of Meetings 14 6 9 5 accounting period such non-compliance continued, giving reasons for any nonG P Balfour 13 6 9 5 compliance.
1 Lord Blackwell 5 2 M C Bottjer 13 5 The directors consider that the Company has complied with the provisions of 3 L G Cullen 31 the Combined Code throughout the accounting period ended 31 December 2005 S B Hagerty 14 with the following minor exceptions: T C Jones 14 N F Keegan 13 6 8 5 In view of the appointment of Lord Blackwell and Mr Cullen in September 4 J M F Padovan 10 5 6 4 and October 2005, respectively, and Mr Bottjers retirement as Group A M Ringrose 14 5 Chairman at the end of December 2005 and Mr Padovans retirement in D A Trapnell 13 6 9 5 September 2005, it was considered inappropriate that their performance J H Vyse 13 be appraised during the period under review Code Principle A.
6 : and 1 Lord Blackwell was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2005 2 Mr Bottjer chaired the Nomination Committee during the recruitment Mr Bottjer retired from the Board on 31 December 2005 3 Mr Cullen was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2005 and to the Audit, Remuneration and process of the new Group Chairman and additional non-executive director.
Nomination Committees on 14 November 2005 In view of the two recruitment processes being conducted in parallel and 4 Mr Padovan retired from the Board on 30 September 2005 the delegation by the Nomination Committee of the day-to-day management of this process to the Chief Executive and the Group The Group Chairman held two meetings with the non-executive directors Chairman, this was considered by the Nomination Committee to be during the course of the year, without the executive directors being present.
appropriate in the circumstances Code Provision A.
The non-executive directors also met once during the year, under the chairmanship of Mr Padovan, without either the Group Chairman or the Directors executive directors being present.
The Board The Board is responsible for overall Group strategy and core values including: The Company maintains an appropriate level of directors and officers the creation, acquisition or disposal of corporate entities or the disposal of insurance in respect of legal actions against the directors.
The insurance does material assets: financial reporting: approval of annual budgets and major not provide cover where the director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
capital expenditure projects: the Groups finance, banking and capital arrangements: Stock Exchange Listing Rule Companies Act matters: material Chairman and Chief Executive contracts and contracts otherwise than in the normal course of business of the The roles of the Group Chairman and Chief Executive are split and clearly Company and its subsidiaries: matters which could affect the Groups defined.
The Group Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board reputation: employee issues and key appointments: risk management strategy and creating the conditions for overall Board and individual director including internal controls and Group insurances: health and safety: defence effectiveness, both inside and outside the boardroom.
The Chief Executive is and settlement of material litigation: and social, environmental and ethical responsible for running the Groups business.
It also has oversight of the Groups operations.
These responsibilities are set out in a schedule of matters reserved for the approval of the Board.
The Group Chairman Mr Bottjer to 31 December 2005, Lord Blackwell from 1 January 2006, assisted by the Company Secretary, sets the agenda for Board In order to facilitate the efficient use of its time the Board has delegated meetings.
The Group Chairman also ensures that Board members, especially certain of its powers to Board committees, details of which are set out later in the non-executive directors, receive timely information and are briefed on this report.
From time to time the Board also establishes certain other 34 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate governance continued for the year ended 31 December 2005 issues arising at Board meetings to assist them in making an effective who worked with the Committee in framing candidate profiles and person contribution.
The Company Secretary is responsible for disseminating Board specifications, drawing-up long lists of candidates, conducting interviews with papers, which are normally circulated in advance of each meeting, presenting the candidates short-listed by the Committee and co-ordinating meetings certain papers to the Board and its committees, advising on Board procedures between the preferred candidates and the Committee members prior to any and ensuring the Board follows them.
candidates recommendation to the Board.
In order to facilitate the recruitment process the day-to-day conduct of the process was delegated to The Board has concluded that Lord Blackwell was independent upon the Group Chairman and Chief Executive, both of whom reported back to and appointment on the basis of the criteria specified in paragraph A.
3.1 of the sought guidance from the Committee on a regular basis.
The terms and conditions of appointment of all the non-executive directors Board balance and independence and those of the Group Chairman are available for inspection at the The Board, which operates as a single team, comprises four executive Companys registered office during normal business hours and for at least directors, four non-executive directors and the Group Chairman.
The 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting AGM.
Each individual directors have different skills, experience and qualifications with letter of appointment specifies the anticipated level of time commitment certain of their number presently or previously working in other sectors of the including, where relevant, additional responsibilities derived from economy, and are able to bring independent judgement to bear on matters for involvement with the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Non-executive directors and the Group Chairman are required to confirm, on appointment, that they have sufficient time to meet what is expected of The Board considers each non-executive director to be independent, on the them and to seek the Committee Chairmans agreement, or in the case of the basis of the criteria specified in paragraph A.
3.1 of the Combined Code and Group Chairman the Senior Independent Directors agreement, before generally, and free from any relationships or circumstances which are likely to accepting additional commitments that might impact upon the time they are affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
Furthermore, the Board able to devote to their role as a non-executive director of the Company.
considers its non-executive directors to be of sufficient calibre and number that their views may be expected to be of sufficient weight that no individual Information and professional development or small group can dominate the Boards decision-making processes.
The Board papers include information from management on financial, business and corporate issues to enable the directors to be properly briefed on issues Mr Balfour, as Senior Independent Director, is available to shareholders should to be considered at Board meetings.
Matters requiring Board and committee they have any concerns which contact through other channels has failed to approval are generally the subject of a proposal formulated by the executive resolve or for which such contact may be inappropriate.
directors and circulated, together with supporting information, as part of the Board papers.
Appointments to the Board Nominations for appointments to the Board are made by the Nomination The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results, cash Committee, which comprises the Group Chairman, who is chairman of the flows and projections to the Board on a monthly basis.
These are compared Committee, the Chief Executive and all the non-executive directors.
The with budgets approved by the Board prior to the commencement of each Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
The Committee has its own financial year.
The financial summaries are accompanied by a written report terms of reference which deal clearly with its authority and duties, and which explaining operating and financial performance, the cause and effect of are available on the Companys website at www.
co. uk and on variance from the agreed budgets and other information that may be relevant request.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to consider and review the from time to time.
Monthly written reports on the performance of each structure, size, composition and balance of skills, knowledge and experience division are provided as part of the Board papers.
Those members of the of the Board and to make recommendations to the Board with regard to any Executive Committee who are not Board directors attend that part of each changes.
The Committee is responsible for the supervision of the recruitment Board meeting dedicated to management and financial reporting, during process of potential Board appointees, considering any candidates who are put which health, safety and environmental matters are discussed, to present forward by the directors and external consultants and recommending to the their reports and respond to any matters concerning their division raised by Board the appointment of all directors after having interviewed short-listed the Board.
They also attend the relevant part of the Board meeting at which candidates.
It is also responsible for making recommendations to the Board the annual budget and plans are presented for approval and adoption.
concerning the re-appointment of any director retiring by rotation.
The Board also receives monthly reports from the Group Health, Safety and During the period under review the Nomination Committee made Environmental Manager covering the Groups health and safety performance, recommendations to the Board in respect of candidates for the role of Group periodic environmental reports and an annual presentation covering both Chairman and an additional non-executive director after ensuring that upon performance during the past year and targets for the forthcoming year.
The appointment each individual would have sufficient time to meet what is Board also receives quarterly written reports from the Group Insurance expected of them.
To assist it in the recruitment process the Nomination Manager and Group General Counsel covering any matters of significance.
Committee engaged the services of KPMG LLP, Executive Search and Selection, Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 35 Corporate governance continued for the year ended 31 December 2005 On appointment, the directors take part in an induction programme given by Remuneration the Company Secretary during which they receive information about the The level and make-up of remuneration Company, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the The Remuneration Committee, composed entirely of independent terms of reference and membership of the Board and its committees, the non-executive directors, was chaired by Mr Balfour until 30 September 2005 powers delegated to those committees, the Companys corporate governance and is now chaired by Mr Trapnell.
The names of the Committee members are practices and procedures, including the power reserved to the Groups most set out in the table on page 34.
The responsibilities of the Committee, senior executives, and the latest financial information.
In addition to this, together with an explanation of how it applies the directors remuneration visits to certain of the Groups operations are undertaken in order for the new principles of the Combined Code, are set out in the Directors remuneration directors to gain an appreciation of, and familiarise themselves with, the report on pages 39 to 48. business of the Group.
There is also in place an ongoing programme providing Accountability and audit opportunities for non-executive directors to visit various of the Groups operations.
Financial reporting The Board aims to provide a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
It uses the Chairmans statement, the The Company Secretary also keeps the directors informed of appropriate briefings, seminars and training courses and makes the necessary arrangements detailed reviews of the performance and financial position of the Companys operations included in the Chief Executives review, the Finance Directors for their attendance.
Most non-executive directors attended one or more briefings or seminars relevant to their role during the year under review.
report, and the Directors report to assist with this.
The directors responsibility for the preparation of the accounts and notes and the statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities are described on Throughout their period in office the directors are updated on the Companys business and the competitive and regulatory environments in which it page 49, and pages 50 to 51, respectively, of this Report and Accounts.
Going-concern basis After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the time Directors may, after consultation with the Chairman, take independent legal of approving the accounts and notes, that there is a reasonable expectation advice in furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense up to a limit that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence of 10,000 in relation to any one event.
All directors have access to the for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the goingadvice and services of the Company Secretary, whose appointment or removal concern basis in preparing the accounts and notes.
is a matter reserved for the approval of the Board or any duly delegated committee thereof.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for internal control, including risk Performance evaluation management, and sets appropriate policies having regard to the objectives of During 2005, the performance of the directors excluding Lord Blackwell and the Group.
Messrs Bottjer, Cullen and Padovan was appraised by Mr Bottjer, Group Chairman, and the Chief Executive and, in the case of the Chief Executive, by The Executive Committee is responsible for the identification and evaluation Mr Bottjer, with feedback being provided as appropriate.
The Board also for consideration by the Board of risks faced by the Group and for designing, conducted an evaluation of its own performance, that of its committees, and operating and monitoring a suitable system of internal control embracing the reviewed its procedures.
As a result of this review an annual major strategy policies adopted by the Board.
meeting, away from the boardroom, has been instigated.
The principal features of the system of internal control are: The Audit Committee also conducted a review of its terms of reference and effectiveness for the year under review.
An established management structure comprising the Board with its various committees and an Executive Committee.
The Executive Re-election Committee is responsible for the operational management and delivery All directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association to be against budget and forecast of the Group, implementing resolutions of the elected by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment, if Board, formulation of strategy, annual budgets and other proposals for appointed by the Board.
Directors must subsequently retire by rotation and consideration by the Board and devising and implementing suitable may offer themselves for re-election at the AGM at intervals of not more than policies and procedures for health and safety, environmental, social and three years.
The Board typically expects non-executive directors to serve two ethical, treasury, human resources and information technology.
three-year terms, although a non-executive director may be invited to serve The Board receives comprehensive monthly reports against that budget.
Should this be the case the non-executive Each division prepares monthly trading reports except January with a director concerned would be expected to retire annually and offer himself for comparison against budget or forecast, together with certain key re-election.
Biographical details of all the directors, including those subject to performance indicators.
The Board reviews these for the Group as a whole re-election, are set out on pages 4 and 5 of this Report and Accounts to and determines appropriate action.
enable shareholders to take an informed decision on any re-election.
36 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate governance continued for the year ended 31 December 2005 All proposals for capital expenditure above 10,000 and below 1 million One or more members of the Executive Committee attend each of the are submitted for approval to the Executive Committee.
Larger value monthly divisional board meetings.
proposals and business acquisitions and disposals are controlled by the Board.
During the course of each year members of the Executive Committee or other senior operational and financial management visit all trading A PFI Committee, comprising any two executive directors one of whom companies, including those located overseas, to discuss and monitor shall be the Chief Executive, whose main areas of responsibility are to performance of those businesses.
review, approve and authorise the execution and delivery of contractual documentation for PFI projects where prior approval of the Board has The Group has in place a whistleblowing policy which is reviewed and been given to participation in a particular PFI project, and to report to publicised from time to time.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant A Risk Committee, comprising the Chief Executive, Group Finance risks faced by all companies within the Group has been in place for the period Director, Group Internal Audit Manager, Group Health, Safety and under review and until the date of approval of this Report and Accounts.
Environmental Manager, Group Insurance Manager, the Company Secretary There is also an ongoing process to embed internal control and risk who is its secretary and a representative from each of the Groups management further into the operations of the businesses, to deal with areas operating divisions.
The Risk Committee meets at least four times a year, of improvement which are identified from time to time and to derive the has written terms of reference and provides copies of its meeting minutes maximum benefit to the business through the use of risk management to the Board.
A General Purposes Committee, comprising any two executive directors Internal controls are reviewed in September and March by the Board, which one of whom shall be the Chief Executive or, in his absence, the Group accords with the Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Finance Director, with written terms of reference, which exercises produced by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
The Board has certain powers of the Board delegated to it and reports upon its actions to reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for the the Board.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or An Inside Information Committee, comprising the Group Chairman, Chief weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore a Executive and Group Finance Director, with written terms of reference, confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not been considered which is empowered to assess quickly if information is inside information, appropriate.
release inside information to the regulatory information service in the event that it is not possible to convene a Board meeting at very short Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of internal control, notice and is responsible for setting up and monitoring the systems and the Groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather than controls with regard to insider information.
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material Manuals setting out Group policy and financial and operating procedures, misstatement or loss.
with which all Group companies must comply.
These manuals set out the necessary levels of authorisation applicable for different transactions.
Audit Committee and auditors The primary role of the Audit Committee is to review the integrity of the A risk management policy document including the Boards own risk financial reporting and audit process and to provide an independent overview management matrix.
of risk management and internal control processes and make recommendations to the Board.
In fulfilling this role the Committee oversees The Group has certain key areas which are subject to central management relations with the external auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the or control, which include health, safety and environmental, legal, internal audit function.
insurance, treasury and company secretarial.
These functions report to executive directors and operate within defined limits and levels of The Audit Committee, composed entirely of independent non-executive authority.
directors, was chaired by Mr Padovan until his retirement from the Board on 30 September 2005 and is now chaired by Mr Keegan.
The names and tenure An internal audit function whose responsibility is to provide an objective in office of the Committee members are set out in the table on page 34.
The appraisal to the Board, through the Audit Committee, of the adequacy and Board is satisfied that the Committee includes members with recent and effectiveness of the processes established to control the business to assist relevant financial experience.
The Committee has written terms of reference, the Board in meeting its objectives and discharging its responsibilities.
dealing clearly with its authority and duties, which are available on the Companys website at www.
Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 37 Corporate governance continued for the year ended 31 December 2005 The Committee met six times during 2005, to coincide with the key dates in Relations with shareholders the Companys reporting cycle, with the external auditors and the Group Dialogue with institutional shareholders Internal Audit Manager present at three and four of the meetings, The Company encourages two-way communication with both institutional and respectively.
The Group Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Group Finance private investors.
The Chief Executive, accompanied by the Group Finance Director also attended the meetings by invitation.
The Company Secretary is Director, attended 65 meetings with analysts and institutional investors during secretary to the Committee.
The Committee has taken the opportunity to the year ended 31 December 2005.
In addition, the Chief Executive and Group seek the views of the external and internal auditors in private and both the Finance Director attended a further three and nine meetings, respectively, external and internal auditors have the opportunity to address the Committee accompanied by another member of staff.
in private at any time should they so wish.
The Chief Executive arranges for the Companys brokers to produce a note of In fulfilling its responsibility of monitoring the integrity of the Companys the feedback from institutional investors which is reported upon at the next financial reports to its shareholders, the Committee has evaluated whether meeting of the Board.
All directors and the members of the Executive they provide a true and fair view, reviewed the appropriateness and Committee also have, and indeed take, the opportunity to attend analyst consistency of application of accounting policies adopted in their preparation briefings.
and assessed the basis of any major judgements and estimates.
The Committee also reviewed the audit findings, audit management letter and Shareholders are also kept up to date with Company affairs through the audit representation letter before signature on behalf of the Board.
Annual and Interim Reports, trading updates and, increasingly, the Companys website.
The Committee evaluated the external auditors performance, reviewed and approved the external auditors terms of engagement, the audit scope and Constructive use of AGM fees and made a recommendation to the Board as regards their All shareholders are given at least 20 working days notice of the AGM, at re-appointment.
It also reviewed auditor independence and objectivity and which all directors and committee chairmen are introduced and are available the effectiveness of the audit process at the end of the audit cycle.
its review of auditor independence, the Committee has a policy for the award of non-audit work to the auditors comprising a set of authority limits in relation to various categories of work.
After reviewing the actual fees for nonaudit work for the Group during 2005, the Committee concluded that the nature and extent of non-audit fees did not compromise auditor independence.
Further details of the auditors fees are included in note 4 to the accounts on page 66.
The Committee monitored the role and effectiveness of the internal audit function, in the context of the Company and the Groups overall risk management system, and received periodic reports against an annually agreed work plan, which included an assessment of managements responses to the internal auditors findings and recommendations.
The Committee also commissioned an independent report by  LLP on the effectiveness of the internal audit function, with the key objectives of supporting the Committee in discharging its responsibility to monitor and review internal audits effectiveness and to assist in further improving or developing the Companys internal audit function.
The Committee has, during the 2005 financial year, reviewed its terms of reference as part of its annual review of its own effectiveness.
The Committee Chairman reports to the Board on the work carried out, including any improvement actions required.
Copies of the minutes of Committee meetings are also circulated to the Board.
