8185 Intertek AR p34 39 KM 02 03. qxp 3 3 06 12:00 pm Page 34 Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance Each Director will ensure that if he she has any concerns which and this report outlines where the Company has complied with the cannot be resolved about the Company or a proposed action, that provisions of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance such concerns are recorded in the Board minutes.
Appropriate insurance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code.
cover is in place in respect of legal action against the Directors.
During 2005, the Company complied with almost all the provisions of the Code.
Those areas of non-compliance are described in this There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and report.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for the Chief Executive Officer and they have been set out in writing and good corporate governance and this statement describes how the approved by the Board.
The Chairman met the independence criteria relevant principles of governance have been applied to the Company.
set out in the Code on appointment to the Board in May 2002.
The Board The Chairman leads the Board in the determination of its strategy An effective Board is in place, which provides entrepreneurial and in the achievement of its objectives.
The Chairman is responsible leadership and controls the Group.
The Boards main roles are to create for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness value for shareholders, to lead the Group, to approve the Groups and setting its agenda.
The Chairman has no involvement in the day strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and other to day business of the Group.
The Chairman facilitates the effective resources are made available to enable them to meet those objectives.
contribution of the Non-Executive Directors, and constructive relations The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of between Executive and Non-Executive Directors, ensures Directors the Group.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities in respect of receive accurate, timely and clear information and effective the Annual Report and financial statements Annual Report is set out communication with shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer has on page 25.
All Directors have a wide range of experience, bringing direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable independent judgment to bear in the interests of the Company on to the Board for the financial and operational performance of issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, the Group.
and the Board has the appropriate wide range of skills, which is vital to the success of the Group.
The Board comprises a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors who bring a wide range of skills and experience to the There were nine scheduled Board meetings held in 2005.
Outside deliberations of the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors fulfil a vital these, there was frequent contact between Directors to discuss the role in corporate accountability.
Companys affairs and develop its business.
Directors attendance at Board meetings is shown in the table on page 35.
Also, on more than The Non-Executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure one occasion, the Chairman met with the Non-Executive Directors that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully without the Executive Directors being present.
discussed and critically examined, not only in the best long-term interests of shareholders, but also to ensure that they take proper The Group has identified a number of key areas that are subject to account of the interests of customers and employees.
The Nonregular reporting to the Board and this enables the performance of Executive Directors are all experienced and influential individuals and management to be reviewed and monitored by the Board.
A Board through their mix of skills and business experience they contribute matrix is in place which formally outlines the matters specifically significantly to the effective functioning of the Board and its requiring the consent of the full Board and includes, inter alia, the committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated and that no one approval of Group strategy and operating plans, the annual budget, individual or group dominates the decision making process.
the Annual Report, the Interim Report and related announcements, major divestments and capital expenditure, large acquisitions and The Board considers DP Allvey and D Rade to be independent Nondisposals, the recommendation of dividends and the approval of Executive Directors.
With effect from 1 March 2005, WG Hauser was treasury and risk management policies.
appointed Chief Executive Officer, whilst RC Nelson was appointed Non-Executive Deputy Chairman on 8 April 2005.
Under the provisions The Board matrix also identifies areas where executive management of the Code, RC Nelson is not considered to be independent because can grant approval subject to certain financial limits.
Where any of of his previous service as an executive.
However, the Board believes that the activities involve amounts greater than the limits laid down for during the year ended 31 December 2005, RC Nelson continued to executive management approval they are referred to the Board.
bring valuable expertise to the Board through his extensive knowledge The authorities in the Board matrix are reviewed regularly and any of the business and was also instrumental in ensuring a smooth changes are approved by the Board.
The Board matrix is transition during the change in Chief Executive Officer.
communicated to all senior management to ensure that throughout the Group it is known when Board approval is required.
D Rade was appointed on 1 January 2006, following a review of the Boards composition, and after consulting with advisors as to suitable During the year, the Board consisted of the Chairman five Treves, the candidates.
Despite this appointment, the Board, excluding the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman RC Nelson, the Chief Executive Chairman, does not meet the requirements of the Code, which Officer WG Hauser, two Executive Directors, W Spencer and R Kong, requires the Board to comprise at least half independent Nonand, following the death of RE Sayers on 25 November 2005, one Executive Directors.
However, the Board believes that its current independent Non-Executive Director, DP Allvey, who is also the Senior composition, taking into account the overall balance of skills, Independent Director.
A further independent Non-Executive Director, knowledge and experience, still resulted in an efficient and effective D Rade, was appointed on 1 January 2006.
The Directors board operation, whilst maintaining an appropriate balance between biographies appear on pages 22 and 23.
34 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2005 8185 Intertek AR p34 39 KM 02 03. qxp 3 3 06 12:00 pm Page 35 To enable all the Directors to discharge their duties, they have full and whole.
This comprised a series of questionnaires which provide a timely access to all relevant information.
The Board papers are framework for the evaluation process, and provide the Chairman circulated well before the Board meetings to ensure that Directors with a means of making year-on-year comparisons.
There are five have the necessary time to read and review the papers.
The Nonquestionnaires in total, one for each of the following: the Board: each Executive Directors receive monthly management accounts and individual Director: the Remuneration Committee: the Nomination regular management reports and information which enable them to Committee: and the Audit Committee.
scrutinise the Groups and managements performance against agreed objectives and prior performance.
This annual evaluation process ensures that the performance of each individual Director and the functioning and constitution of the Board A formal induction programme has been established for new and each Committee are properly measured.
The Chairman assessed Directors and this is tailored to suit the individual to ensure that it is the individual performance of each Director, in consultation with the appropriate for their level of previous experience.
The Senior Independent Director, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors, had discussions with the other All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman being present in order Secretary who will assist in arranging any additional information as to appraise the Chairmans performance during the year.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is assessments concluded that the performance of the Board, each a matter for the Board as a whole.
Committee and each Director was and is effective and that all Directors demonstrate full commitment in their respective roles to Each year a conference is held, attended by the Board and senior the Company.
The Board will continue to develop this process as management from each division and geographic area, in order to necessary in order to ensure that it can properly review, on an discuss strategy and policy.
In 2005, the Board also visited annual basis, its performance and that of its Committees and Manchester, UK and Shanghai, China to tour some of the Groups individual Directors.
facilities and meet local management.
These meetings help to ensure that the Directors continue to develop their knowledge of the Board Committees Groups business and get to know its senior management.
The Board has established several Committees, each with clearly defined terms of reference, procedures and powers.
All Committees All Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional advice, operate in accordance with the relevant terms of reference as approved at the Companys expense, in the performance of their duties as by the Board.
Copies of the terms of reference for each of these Directors.
No such advice was sought during the year.
Committees are available on request from the Secretariat Department at the registered office or can be downloaded from www.
During 2004, a performance evaluation process led by the Chairman, The number of full Board meetings and Committee meetings attended was established for each Director, Committee and the Board as a by each Director during the year was as follows: Scheduled Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Name Position meetings meetings meetings meetings five Treves Chairman 9 9 5 5 1 1 6 6 RC Nelson Non-Executive Deputy Chairman 9 9 n a n a n a WG Hauser Chief Executive Officer 9 9 n a n a n a W Spencer Chief Financial Officer 9 9 n a n a n a R Kong Executive Director 8 9 n a n a n a DP Allvey Senior Independent Director 9 9 5 5 1 1 6 6 RE Sayers Independent Non-Executive Director 8 8 4 4 1 1 6 6 Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings in the period during which the relevant individual was a Director or Committee member.
Membership of the three relevant Board Committees is set out below.
Board agreed that membership of the Committee was appropriate As reported earlier, sadly RE Sayers, who was a member of all Board and effective and also deemed that five Treves exercised independent Committees, died on 25 November 2005. judgment on all remuneration matters referred to that Committee.
The Remuneration Committee The Committee has responsibility for making recommendations to This Committee currently comprises two Non-Executive Directors, the Board on the Groups policy for the remuneration of the Executive DP Allvey Chairman and five Treves.
Prior to his death on 25 November Directors and senior executives and for the determination, within 2005, RE Sayers was also a member of the Committee.
Under the Code, agreed terms of reference, of additional benefits for each of the five Treves is not viewed as independent as he is Chairman of the Executive Directors, including pension rights and any compensation Company, therefore the Company was not in full compliance with the for loss of office.
The Committee is also responsible for the Code, which requires the Remuneration Committee to have at least implementation and operation of employee share incentive three independent Non-Executive Directors.
The composition of this arrangements.
During 2005, the Remuneration Committee Committee is being reviewed following the death of RE Sayers, however, met six times.
during 2005, the Remuneration Committee was evaluated and the Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2005 35 8185 Intertek AR p34 39 KM 02 03. qxp 3 3 06 12:48 pm Page 36 Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance continued The Nomination Committee the internal audit function and is responsible for approving This Committee currently comprises two Non-Executive Directors, the appointment and termination of the head of that function.
five Treves Chairman and DP Allvey.
Prior to his death on 25 November The Committee meets with Senior Compliance and Internal Audit 2005, RE Sayers was also a member of the Committee.
Under the members at least once a year without management present.
Code, five Treves is not viewed as independent as he is Chairman of the Company, therefore after 25 November 2005, the Company was The Groups auditors, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, not in full compliance with the Code, which requires a Nomination Vice President Financial Control, Vice President Compliance and the Committee to have a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Head of Internal Audit, usually attend Committee meetings.
The The composition of this Committee is being reviewed following the Groups auditors meet with the members of the Audit Committee death of RE Sayers, however, during 2005, this Committee was alone at least once a year.
evaluated and the Board agreed that membership of the Committee was appropriate and effective and also deemed that five Treves exercised The Audit Committee seeks to ensure the continued independence independent judgment on the issues presented to that Committee.
and objectivity of the Groups auditors and in this regard, monitors the level of non-audit work undertaken for the Group.
In 2004, This Committee, which met once during the year, nominates a policy on the provision of non-audit work by the external auditor candidates to fill Board vacancies, reviews succession planning and was approved by the Board to ensure that auditor objectivity and makes recommendations to the Board on the balance and composition independence is safeguarded.
The policy highlights those areas of the Board in order to ensure that the Board is effective in discharging where the external auditor cannot provide services to the Group and its responsibilities.
Bearing in mind the balance of skills, knowledge they include inter alia, the provision of Group management functions, and experience on the Board, a job description is prepared for any internal audit outsourcing, provision of legal advice and recruitment new Board position and when a NonExecutive Director is appointed, and remuneration advice.
A breakdown of the audit and non-audit the Committee will ensure that he or she has confirmed that they can fees paid to the Groups auditors during the year is set out in note 4 devote sufficient time to fulfil the commitments of the role.
The terms to the financial statements.
and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the Annual office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Report and the Interim Report remains with the Board.
During 2005, Meeting for 15 minutes prior to the meeting and during the meeting.
the Audit Committee met five times.
The Chairman and other All new Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Committee members when available, also attend meetings held with AGM after their appointment and then are subject to re-election by the external auditor and management to discuss any accounting shareholders once every three years.
issues associated with the full-year audit and half-year review.
The policy on Directors service contracts is set out in the Internal Control Remuneration Report.
Many of Interteks primary business objectives relate to compliance: we ensure that we conform to local, national and international laws The Audit Committee and we require our employees to show integrity and honesty in This Committee currently comprises two Non-Executive Directors, all business dealings.
Risk management and internal controls are DP Allvey Chairman and five Treves.
Prior to his death on 25 November therefore embedded in the running of each division, assuring the 2005, RE Sayers was also a member of the Committee.
Under the accuracy and validity of reports and certificates that we provide to Code, five Treves is not viewed as independent as he is Chairman of customers.
Although the Directors are ultimately responsible for the Company, therefore the Company was not in full compliance establishing and maintaining the Groups system of internal control with the Code, which requires an Audit Committee to have at least and for reviewing its effectiveness, such a system is designed to three independent Non-Executive Directors.
The composition of this manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business Committee is being reviewed following the death of RE Sayers, objectives and can only provide reasonable assurance against however, during 2005, the Audit Committee was evaluated and the material mis-statement or loss.
Board agreed that membership of the Committee was appropriate and effective and also deemed that five Treves exercised independent The Board can confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, judgment on all issues presented to that Committee.
DP Allvey has evaluating and managing the significant risks to the Groups short and recent and relevant financial experience as detailed in his biography long-term value, including those arising from social, environmental on page 23. and ethical matters.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report is regularly The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial reviewed by the Board, and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
statements and any formal announcements relating to the Groups No material breaches of any internal controls were identified during performance.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the the year.
In carrying out the risk review the Board is satisfied that it effectiveness of the external audit process and making recommendations received adequate information from the operations around the world.
to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and Training is provided to Directors on these matters where necessary.
remuneration of the external auditor.
It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group and the external The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system auditors is maintained.
It also reviews annually the Groups systems of of financial and non-financial internal control.
In particular, it has internal control and the processes for monitoring and evaluating the reviewed and continues to seek to improve the process for identifying risks facing the Group.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of and evaluating the significant risks affecting the business and the 36 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2005 8185 Intertek AR p34 39 KM 02 03. qxp 3 3 06 12:49 pm Page 37 policies and procedures by which these risks are managed.
This has and it monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit been reinforced by the adoption of a Code of Ethical Business Conduct, function.
The international internal audit department was awarded approved by the Board, which provides practical guidance ISO 9001: 2000 accreditation in 2004, one of the few internal audit and instruction for staff.
A copy of this Code is available on teams in the UK to have achieved this standard.
The Group has implemented internal audit systems to facilitate The Group operates a zero tolerance policy in regard to breaches of compliance with applicable requirements of the US Foreign Corrupt ethics and employees are required to sign a certificate confirming their Practices Act, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, the Organisation understanding that any breaches of the Groups code of ethics will result for Economic Co-operation and Development and similar laws and in disciplinary action that may include dismissal of the employee regulations affecting the conduct of its business.
To support Group policies and raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting and other matters there The Group will, from time to time, be required by its customers to is an independent e-mail and telephone hotline so that staff may report operate in countries where there is potential political and economic risk.
anonymously any inaccurate or unethical working practices.
The telephone In doing so, the Group maintains a policy of facilitating international hotline is managed by an independent third party.
trade inspection and audit services that help to prevent corruption and assist with humanitarian aid.
Where there are no laws in place that In carrying out its review, the Audit Committee endeavours to ensure prohibit business dealings in certain countries, the Group will consider that the Group has in place the most appropriate and effective controls, operating in those countries, but only in strict accordance with its checks, systems and risk management techniques so as to be in line stringent Code of Ethics and Compliance.
with best practice on such matters.
The Audit Committee reviews the assurance procedures, ensuring that Each operating division is responsible for the identification and an appropriate mix of techniques is used to attain the level of assurance evaluation of significant risks applicable to that area of business required by the Board.
together with the design and operation of suitable internal controls.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated The Chief Executive Officer also reports to the Board on significant with a variety of internal or external sources including control changes in the business and the external environment, which could breakdowns, disruption of information systems, competition, natural impact on risk.
The Chief Financial Officer provides the Board with catastrophe and regulatory requirements.
monthly financial information, which includes the comparison of key performance figures against budget and forecasts, risk indicators and A process of control using self-assessment and hierarchical reporting has compliance with covenants.
Where areas for improvement in the been established which provides a documented trail of accountability.
system are identified, the Board considers the recommendations made These procedures are applied across Group operations and provide by management and the Audit Committee.
The Board approves the for continuing assurances to be given at increasingly higher levels of treasury policy and that departments activities are also subject to management and finally, to the Board.
This process is facilitated by internal audit.
internal audit which also provides assurance as to the operation and validity of the system of internal control.
Planned corrective actions are Relations with Shareholders independently monitored for timely completion.
Full details are disclosed in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
Each division reports annually to the Audit Committee via the Chief Going Concern Financial Officer on its review of risks and how they are managed.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation Each year senior managers throughout the Group confirm the adequacy that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for of their systems of internal controls, compliance with Group policies, the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going local laws and regulations and report any control weaknesses identified concern basis in preparing the Groups financial statements.
The Audit Committees main role is to review, on behalf of the Board, the key risks inherent in the business and the system of Corporate Social Responsibilty controls necessary to ensure such risks are properly managed.
The Board recognises that the Group has a responsibility to act ethically in relation to the physical and social environment in which it operates The Chief Financial Officer heads a central compliance team, which and that failure to do so could adversely impact on the Groups long co-ordinates the quality assurance function and claims management.
and short-term value, as a result of financial penalty and loss of Quality assurance audits are carried out by the divisions and the customer support.
It takes such responsibilities seriously paying due findings reported to divisional management and to centrally controlled regard to international and local laws in all its dealings.
Further details compliance officers who report to the Chief Financial Officer.
Each are disclosed in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
division has at least one dedicated compliance officer who undertakes investigations of issues that arise either from quality assurance audits Environmental Matters or by other means such as the employee hotline.
Reports of significant Full details are disclosed in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
findings are presented to the Audit Committee.
Each geographic region has an internal auditor who is independent of the divisions.
The main reporting sites are reviewed annually.
The other sites are reviewed regularly on a schedule based on materiality and risk.
Reports of significant findings are presented to the Audit Committee Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2005 37
