Corporate governance Combined Code Principles and compliance directors, including the Chairman.
Committee effectiveness is The Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate reviewed both by the Board as a whole and by each Committee governance.
Throughout the year under review, Invensys has been itself.
The evaluation review includes separate meetings of the in full compliance with the provisions of the new Code on independent directors including one led by the Senior Independent Corporate Governance 2003 issue the new Code applicable Director, who is responsible for the performance evaluation of the under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, except in relation Chairman and a series of structured private interviews.
The to the short period between the retirement of the Senior evaluation process involves assessment by reference to the relevant Independent Director and the appointment of his successor as roles and responsibilities under review, current terms of reference of described below.
The following report, together with the Committees and best practice.
The results of the evaluation provide Remuneration report, describes in full how the Principles set out in the basis for continuous improvement in the Boards procedures the new Code have been applied.
and the Boards action plans and objectives for the following year.
Individual appraisal feedback is provided by the Chairman to each The Board Balance and independence of the directors and by the Senior Independent Director to the The Board currently has eight members, comprising five nonChairman.
Expected time commitment is dealt with in the executive directors, including the Chairman, and three executive appointment letters of new independent directors and the directors.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the evaluations of all non-executive directors.
Chairman and the Chief Executive formulated in their terms of appointment and in the delegation of authorities prescribed by the Senior Independent Director Board, which ensures that there is a balance of power and authority.
Andrew Macfarlane became the Senior Independent Director on Biographies of all the directors are presented on page 22.
As can be 21 April 2004 in place of Rolf Brjesson who retired on 19 December seen, they have a wide range of international business and financial 2003.
During the interim period, the Company and its advisers were experience relevant to the direction of a company with worldwide engaged in extensive dialogue with leading shareholders related to operations.
All the non-executive directors are regarded as the refinancing plan announced in February 2004 and completed independent and further description of Larry Farmers position is set in March 2004.
The Board considers that the principle underlying out below.
the Code requirement in relation to the availability of channels of communication was substantially met during the period.
It is Directors Role and procedures intended that Bay Green will, following election as a director by Although all the directors have an equal responsibility for the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, become operations of Invensys, the role of the non-executive directors is the Senior Independent Director and Mr Macfarlane will continue as particularly important in ensuring that the strategy and business Chairman of the Audit Committee.
proposals of the executive management team are fully discussed and examined to ensure that they meet the long-term interests of Additional responsibilities of Mr Farmer shareholders and also take account of issues affecting employees, During the first quarter of the year, as described in last years report, customers, suppliers and the many communities in which Invensys Mr Farmer undertook, at the special request of the Board and for a conducts its business.
At least one full days meeting every year is limited period, additional non-executive oversight and advisory devoted to the overall strategic planning of the Group.
The Boards responsibilities in relation to a review of the Process Systems business programme includes meetings of the non-executives without the PS.
The performance of PS was expected to be significant in executives being present.
The Board meets at least eight times achieving the business plan that was integral to the refinancing put during the course of a year with additional meetings convened as to shareholders in early 2004.
As part of its due diligence in relation necessary: in the financial year under review, the Board met on to the refinancing, the Board wished to ensure that it could have 13 occasions.
Individual attendance is set out in the table on full confidence in the budgeting process related to that business, page 25.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the which had previously experienced forecasting and performance decision of the Board that includes all major strategic and financial difficulties.
The Board had initiated a performance improvement decisions, including the quarterly reporting of results and the programme for the PS business and appointed Mr Farmer as formulation of strategic and budget plans: other decision-making independent non-executive chairman of the committee charged is delegated through structured procedures to committees and, for with strategic oversight of this project, with the execution being operational matters, to senior management.
To enable the Board to carried out by PS management.
The Board considered it valuable perform its duties, all directors have full and timely access to all to have a member of the Audit Committee carry out this role and relevant information and to the services of the Company Secretary.
Mr Farmers own business experience was believed by the Board to Independent financial and professional advice is available to the be particularly relevant.
The Board reviewed his independence both directors, collectively and individually, as circumstances require.
before and after the project and subsequently in the course of the Boards annual evaluation of his performance as an independent Board induction and evaluation non-executive director.
The Board determined and has subsequently An induction programme appropriate to the individuals experience re-affirmed that Mr Farmers independence was not affected, having is established on the appointment of a new director.
The continuing adjudged that his integrity and character are beyond doubt.
development of directors, collectively and individually, is mainly He received fees in addition to his basic non-executive fees in respect effected through the provision to them by relevant external and of the time devoted to these responsibilities, which were set as internal advisers of in-depth briefings on matters of current described on page 30.
Although the assignment extended longer significance to the Group, sometimes taking place at additional than originally contemplated thus increasing the anticipated fees, Board or Committee meetings held for that purpose: examples in the the Board determined, having regard to the personal circumstances year under review have included in-depth briefings on International and means of Mr Farmer, that the amount of these additional Financial Reporting Standards, remuneration best practice and one-off fees could not be taken to affect the independence of his pensions.
The Board has a formal review process with discrete judgement.
Mr Farmers additional responsibilities were temporary components covering the evaluation of the Boards collective and did not extend beyond the first quarter of the year: the performance and the appraisal of the performance of individual PS project and the refinancing were both successfully completed.
Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 23 Corporate governance continued The Board Committees follows: first, audit and assurance assignments, including work that in The Board has three standing committees, whose full terms of their role as auditor they are best placed to undertake such as reference are available on the Groups website or on request from formal reporting and other work related to borrowings, shareholder the Company Secretary.
and other circulars, various regulatory reports and work in respect of acquisitions and disposals: and secondly, taxation in cases where The Nominating Committee is responsible for making the auditors are best suited, such as tax provision and statutory recommendations to the Board for the appointment or rework.
Other significant tax advisory projects are put out to appointment and retirement of directors and monitoring the competitive tender.
performance of directors and, in support of the Chairman, advising on evaluation processes and induction and training requirements.
It The Audit Committee also reviews the work undertaken by the Risk met formally on three occasions during the period and its individual Committee and by the internal audit function as described in more members, in addition to the scheduled meetings, undertook further detail in the section of this report dealing with internal control.
responsibilities including the interviewing of candidates for In addition, it reviews the Groups arrangements under which staff appointment to the Board and assisting the Chairman with can raise on a confidential basis concerns about potential evaluation processes.
Its current members are Martin Jay, who is irregularities and arrangements for follow-up actions.
Chairman of the Committee, and two further independent nonexecutive directors, Jean-Claude Guez and Mr Green appointed The Remuneration Committees constitution and role are on 1 January 2005, replacing Simon Robertson who retired on described in the Boards Remuneration report on page 26.
During 2004, the Committee was responsible, with external recruitment advisers, for the defining of the Boards Communication with shareholders requirements for the selection and appointment of the new Chief Communication with all shareholders is at all times given a high Operating Officer, Ulf Henriksson, and the selection and appointment priority and a number of means are used to promote greater of Mr Green as a new independent non-executive director.
understanding and dialogue with investment audiences.
In order to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders, The Nominating Committee has also evaluated those directors who the Board receives regular reports from the Chief Executive and are to be proposed for election or re-election at the Annual General the investor relations department.
The Chairman and Senior Meeting no individual director participating in any matter relating Independent Director and, where appropriate, other non-executive to himself.
All directors are required to retire by rotation no later directors are available for discussion with major shareholders and than the third annual general meeting following their appointment a number of such meetings have taken place during the year.
No director is proposed for election for a Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Senior Independent further term of three years unless the Nominating Committee has, Director met with principal institutional investors and with their following evaluation, recommended re-appointment to the Board.
representative bodies prior to the publication of this report to In recent years, the Board has implemented a progressive refreshing discuss the changes to the Companys policy for long-term incentives.
of its membership and at the present time, none of its members has served more than one term of three years.
The recommendations of During the course of the year, shareholders are kept informed of the Committee on election and re-election of directors are the progress of the Group through trading statements and other described in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
announcements of significant developments that are released through the London Stock Exchange and other news services.
There The Audit Committee comprises three independent non-executive is regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and participation directors: Mr Macfarlane who is Chairman of the Committee, in sector conferences.
Shareholders can also raise questions directly Mr Farmer and Mr Green, who was appointed on 1 January 2005 with the Company at any time of the year through a facility on the and replaced Mr Robertson on the Committee.
Quarterly results announcements are published by release meets at least four times a year and met during the year under to the London Stock Exchange and other news services.
At the half review on eight occasions to review the published financial year, the Interim report is published by advertisement in the information, the effectiveness of both external and internal audit Financial Times.
The Summary financial statement provides and of the Groups internal controls and risk management shareholders with the material information concerning Invensys procedures.
One of the meetings was held to receive a detailed in a form more readily assimilated than the full Annual report and development briefing on the requirements of the International accounts.
Shareholders can also request the full report.
All of these Financial Reporting Standards and to consider their application by documents are available online through the Invensys website the Group to its accounts when these standards are implemented www.
com, together with details of all announcements, during the forthcoming financial year.
The external auditors normally investor presentations and share price information, and are available attend all the meetings and there is a meeting at least once a year on request.
Additionally, there is an opportunity at the Annual between the Committee and the external auditors at which General Meeting for shareholders to question the Chairman and the management is not present.
At the invitation of the Committee, chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominating Committees.
the executive directors normally attend meetings of the Committee: The report and accounts are sent to shareholders at least 20 the other non-executive directors also regularly attend meetings of working days prior to the Annual General Meeting.
Voting on the Committee to obtain a fuller briefing on significant accounting resolutions proposed separately is conducted by polls at general and internal control issues and this forum is particularly valuable in meetings and voting results are announced through the London providing a direct line of communication between the external Stock Exchange and other news services: the results and proxy levels auditors and the non-executive directors.
are available on the website and on request.
The Audit Committee reviews the work undertaken by the external Main Board review of Internal Control auditors going beyond the scope of the audit itself in order to In accordance with the Guidance for Directors on Internal Control, ensure that the independence of the auditors is not impaired.
This the following is the Boards report on its annual and continuing review covers the nature of the work, the method of appointment reviews of internal control, which include consideration of the and the fees paid.
This work generally falls into two categories as effectiveness of identification, evaluation and management of all 24 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 significant risks affecting Invensys.
To facilitate the Boards reviews, The internal audit function has a direct reporting line to the the Audit Committee receives reports from internal and external Chairman of the Audit Committee and its responsibilities include the auditors and from executive management in relation to the control examination and evaluation of the scope and effectiveness of the procedures that are in place and the methods by which assurance is Groups system of internal control.
During the year, it reports obtained concerning the levels of adherence to controls.
Following a regularly to the Audit Committee on its assessment of internal detailed review, the Committee then reports on its findings to the control issues arising in the course of its internal audit reviews of Board.
The Board is satisfied that the information that it has the Groups operations.
Each year it provides a consolidated review received throughout the year and for its annual review, together to assist the Board to undertake its own annual review of internal with the procedural review framework that has been established, control.
Key internal controls are set out in formal procedures, are sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the Groups instructions and manuals.
Compliance is verified by the Groups system of internal control.
internal auditors and, to the extent necessary to form their opinion on the truth and fairness of the annual accounts, by the external The Board has ultimate responsibility for the system of internal auditors.
Senior managers are required annually to certify control.
Each of the Groups five businesses is currently individually compliance with the Groups financial and operational procedures accountable through the Chief Operating Officer to the Chief and controls, including environmental and health and safety matters, Executive and is managed by a President who, with his senior and compliance with the Groups legal and ethical conduct policy.
management team, provides day-to-day control over the businesses operations within the strategic guidelines and delegated authorities Sustainability and social, environmental determined by the Board.
The internal control system is designed to and ethical matters meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is The Board attaches high importance to sustainable development exposed but it should be appreciated that, however effective a and to its corporate social responsibility as described on page 20. system of internal control is, it can provide only reasonable and not The risks inherent in these matters are assessed as part of the Groups absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Following overall risk management processes described above.
Accordingly, the the significant restructuring that has affected the Group over recent Board, through the Audit and Risk Committees, receives regular periods, management continues to identify areas where internal information and reports to enable it to make appropriate assessments controls might be further improved and actions are in place to in these areas.
Performance management, incentivisation and ensure that identified weaknesses are addressed.
In the following training procedures are being continuously developed so as to paragraphs the directors consider the key components of the reflect more fully the management of those risks.
Further details of Groups system of internal control and the process by which they our sustainable development initiatives are available on the website.
have reviewed the effectiveness of such controls.
Directors indemnity and insurance The Groups risk management strategy is determined by the Board.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Company has The Risk Committee reports to the Board through the Audit provided to the directors an indemnity to the extent permitted by Committee and continuously reviews and monitors the risk the new provisions of the Companies Acts that came into force on management strategy.
The Risk Committee comprises the Chief 6 April 2005 in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their Financial Officer Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief office and the Company has taken out an insurance policy in respect Operating Officer, the General Counsel, the Group Financial of those liabilities for which directors may not be indemnified.
Controller, the Group Treasurer, the Vice President Risk Neither the indemnity nor insurance provides cover in the event Management, the Director of Internal Audit and the Company that the director is proved to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
During the year, its activities have included reviewing the Groups risk framework and its monitoring functions and assessing Individual attendance at meetings during the year ended all major risks together with their related risk management 31 March 2005 responses and, where appropriate, corrective programmes.
The table shows the number of meetings possible for an individual to The internal risk management function reports to the Chief Financial have attended taking account of his appointment or retirement Officer and is responsible for assessing the Groups exposure to risk date in the course of the year and his actual attendance.
in areas such as product liability, for making appropriate policy Attendance at committee meetings shows the members of the recommendations to the Risk Committee and the Board and for committee only, although other directors, where relevant, have monitoring compliance with policies adopted by the Board.
often also attended at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominating Committee Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Martin Jay 13 13 3 3 Richard Haythornthwaite 13 13 Ulf Henriksson 10 10 Adrian Hennah 13 13 Larry Farmer 13 13 8 8 7 7 Jean-Claude Guez 12 13 7 7 3 3 Bay Green 2 3 2 3 Andrew Macfarlane 12 13 8 8 7 7 Simon Robertson 8 11 5 5 2 3 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 25
