Investor relations report Overview On the days the preliminary and interim results were announced, AMECs chairman, chief executive and finance director made AMEC investor relations is committed to improving the understanding of AMEC and its business activities in the financial presentations to analysts, institutional investors and banks in London, with their slides and speaking remarks being published community, enabling financial markets to place an appropriate valuation on the company.
at the time of delivery on AMECs website.
Interviews were also given to journalists from leading newswires and the national and This report provides an overview of AMECs investor relations regional press.
strategy, the investor relations programme in 2005 and other information of interest to shareholders.
Following both the preliminary and interim results announcements, major shareholders were offered one-on-one meetings with AMECs investor relations strategy reflects the companys guiding management, with other institutional shareholders being principles available at www.
com and its responsibilities offered the opportunity to attend group meetings hosted by to shareholders, which are: the companys brokers.
to seek to achieve the best returns on investment that markets During the course of 2005, AMEC met with a total of 85 2004: 72 will allow and provide accurate and timely information on the institutions from the UK, Europe and the US.
companys performance: and Analysts and investors value opportunities to meet operational to manage the affairs of the company through responsible and management and to undertake site visits.
In May 2005, analysts effective corporate governance, identifying and managing the risks and institutional investors visited Toulouse, where they received inherent in our activities on an ongoing basis.
presentations on the AMEC SPIE Multitechnical Services business and visited Airbus.
The event was announced in advance to the The strategy is focused on three key areas which are: London Stock Exchange, with all slides being published on www.
Compliance with all regulations relating to the conduct of companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
This includes In June 2005, AMECs leading banks received presentations on ensuring that all market sensitive information is issued first through its activities at London Heathrow Airports Terminal 5, followed the London Stock Exchange and as soon as possible thereafter is by a visit to the site.
Feedback from both events was positive.
made available to the financial community through various channels including AMECs corporate website at www.
com: AMEC recognises the importance of the internet in financial communications and closely follows developments in best practice Understanding the shareholder base and market sentiment in investor communications on the internet.
During 2005, the sites towards AMEC.
This is achieved through close working relationships e-mail alerting service, which is a quick and efficient way to be with advisers, regular share register analysis and non-attributable kept appraised of company announcements, was enhanced to feedback from analysts and investors: and provide improved access to news headlines for users of mobile communications devices.
New AMEC at a glance pages were also Delivery of a comprehensive programme of investor relations added to the investors pages of the site.
Following a major survey of activity involving effective communication and consultation with user needs carried out across all stakeholder groups during 2005, current and potential investors and analysts.
further enhancements to the site are planned for 2006.
AMEC investor relations controls and coordinates the companys During 2005, usage of the investors pages of www.
com programme of investor relations activity in line with this strategy.
increased by 30 per cent, continuing the strong growth trend In support of its objectives, AMEC has put in place a management seen in recent years.
and policy framework for investor relations together with best practice notes on contact with the financial community, stock exchange announcements and published information.
These documents are available to employees on the companys intranet.
Review of 2005 Key events in AMECs investor relations programme are the companys preliminary and interim results announcements, annual general meeting and related trading updates.
In the year ended 15 March 2006, these events took place on the following dates: Annual general meeting trading update 18 May 2005 Trading update 30 June 2005 Interim results announcement 1 September 2005 Trading update 12 January 2006 Preliminary results announcement 15 March 2006 118 AMEC plc annual report 2005
