CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2005 The Board of directors is committed to the highest levels of business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all its activities.
Corporate Governance philosophy There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for and approach the Board.
These include strategy, approval of 21 The Board of iSOFT Group plc is committed to the annual budgets, significant investments and risk highest levels of business integrity, high ethical management.
Prior to the merger with Torex, the values and professionalism in all its activities.
As an Board considered what matters should be reserved essential part of this commitment, the Board to it annually as part of the annual business supports the highest standards in corporate planning process.
Following the merger with Torex, governance and seeks to apply recommended best the Board no longer believes this approach to be practice where this is appropriate for the Group.
appropriate and has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for the Board that reflects the increased The Board acknowledges that the Group operates size and complexity of the Group.
in a rapidly developing business environment.
Changes to the risk profiles in the business Statement of directors roles environment arise as a result of both external With the objective of ensuring successful creation of challenges, in a highly competitive and politically shareholder value within a framework of acceptable driven market place, and through internal risk, the Board sees its role to include: challenges including the growth in the size of the assisting value creation through entrepreneurial business and the development of new products, leadership and by the controlled and measured management systems and procedures.
These management of a wide range of business risks: challenges also manifest themselves in greater detail as risks to the success of the Groups financial, deciding the strategic direction and providing operational and compliance activities.
As a result, the resources required to fulfil the future needs the Board is diligent in evaluating and prioritising of the business: each risk and in determining appropriate systems representing the interests of shareholders and and controls to detect and address them on an satisfying all statutory duties due to them: on-going basis.
By doing so, the Board believes that an effective mechanism for continual ensuring appropriate behaviour with respect to improvement in risk mitigation and opportunity the various codes of corporate governance and management is being adopted.
good business practices and by providing an audit trail of accountability: The Board of directors The Group is controlled by the Board which, at overseeing good corporate citizenship and 30 April 2005 comprised the Non-executive ethical behaviour by the Group and its Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, two further employees with regard to all its internal and executive directors and six experienced non-executive external stakeholders: directors, five of whom were independent during providing a challenging confidential forum, free the year.
Biographical details of each director are set from conflicts, in which the Chief Executive out on pages 15 to 17.
Each non-executive director Officer can test strategic thinking with an is encouraged to contribute to both the full Board informed group having broad continuity and its committees as appropriate.
over time: The directors are encouraged to bring an requiring the Chief Executive Officer to report independent judgement to bear on both strategic openly on the operational performance of all and operational matters.
Any director may parts of the Group: challenge company policy and decisions are taken democratically after discussion.
monitoring the effectiveness of the Chief Executive All shareholders are welcomed to the Annual Officer and his executive team against a series of General Meeting where the Non-executive Chairman 22 performance objectives and benchmarks: provides an overview of the Groups business performance and future prospects.
Shareholders are setting a control framework within which the Chief encouraged to raise questions and express their Executive Officer can operate and authorising his views.
The Non-executive Chairman aims to ensure decisions on major issues and investments: that all directors including the chairs of the committees are available at the meeting to answer constituting subcommittees of the Board to relevant questions.
address the issues of remuneration, appointments and audit: and The Group has established an investor relations facility on its website where up to date financial and other providing open disclosure in respect of the information can be found.
In addition, the directors remuneration of executive directors and senior are currently looking to invest in resources to further members of staff in order to incentivise other staff.
enhance the Groups investor relation services.
The directors confirm that they have complied with Statement of directors' responsibilities for the above requirements in performing their roles.
the financial statements The Board believes that its style of involvement with Company law in the United Kingdom requires management through the Chief Executive Officer the directors to prepare financial statements for and the executive directors is the most effective way each financial year which give a true and fair view to provide confidence in the control environment of of the state of affairs of the Company and the the Group.
Through openness, the provision of Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for well-defined information and discussion, the Board that period.
endeavours to understand and provide leadership as In preparing those financial statements, to the willingness of the Group to take appropriate the directors are required to: risks in the interests of the shareholders.
select suitable accounting policies and then Shareholder communication apply them consistently: The Board is committed to good communication with its shareholders and maintaining an open and make judgments and estimates that are proactive dialogue with its institutional investors.
reasonable and prudent: The Board values the views of shareholders and state whether applicable United Kingdom recognises their interests in the Groups strategy and accounting standards have been followed, performance.
A regular dialogue is maintained with subject to any material departures disclosed investment fund managers, other investors and and explained in the financial statements: and equity analysts to ensure that the investing community receives a balanced and consistent view prepare the financial statements on the going of the Groups performance.
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director normally attend investor meetings and The directors are responsible for keeping proper briefings and the Non-executive Chairman attends accounting records which disclose with reasonable as required and, in particular, at the interim and full accuracy at any time the financial position of the year results announcements.
Company and enable them to ensure that the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2005 financial statements comply with the Companies Information and professional development Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding The directors have implemented appropriate 23 the assets of the Company and hence for taking reporting procedures to ensure that they are reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of supplied with timely, accurate and comprehensive fraud and other irregularities.
information to enable the Board to discharge its duties in full.
Existing Board members have many The directors confirm that they have complied years of relevant experience, all are responsible for with the above requirements in preparing the ensuring continuing professional development to financial statements.
maintain up to date and effective skills and knowledge.
The directors have access to seek The Annual Report is available on the Groups independent advice, at the Groups expense, if website www.
The maintenance and necessary for the proper performance of their integrity of the Group's website is the responsibility duties.
The directors also have access to the of the directors.
The work carried out by the Company Secretary for his advice and services.
auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no Performance evaluation responsibility for any changes that may have The Board monitors performance against the occurred to the information contained in the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives.
financial statements since they were initially Each Executive director has defined responsibilities presented on the website.
for performance and measurement of achievement.
These include a mix of financial and non-financial, Legislation in the United Kingdom governing predictive and historic indicators.
the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements and other information included Board committees in annual reports may differ from legislation The Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee in other jurisdictions.
and the Remuneration Committee deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs in accordance with Appointments to the Board their written terms of reference.
During the year, Each member of the Board brings different experience each committee reviewed its respective terms of and skills to the operation of the Board and its reference and amended them to reflect changes to various committees.
The Board composition is kept the size and structure of the Group.
The memberships under review and when a new appointment is to be of each committee were changed on 6 January 2005. made, consideration is given to the particular skills, Each are comprised of only independent nonknowledge and experience that a potential new executive directors.
The non-executive directors met member could add to the existing board composition.
twice during the period without the executive Comprehensive, formal and tailored induction is directors being present.
provided to new Board members.
The Group has long recognised the vital role that non-executive directors have in ensuring high governance standards and maintains a significant, high calibre, non-executive representation on the Board.
All directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals and at least every three years.
Table of directors attendance at meetings Board Nomination Remuneration Audit Non- 4 4 4 Meeting Committee Committee Committee executive meetings Patrick Cryne 8 1 Tim Whiston 9 24 Steve Graham 8 1 Ravi Kumar ---- 5 Geoff White 9 2 -- 2 -2 2 Sir Digby Jones 6 1 2 -1 2 Eurfyl ap Gwilym 9 4 3 2 Colin Wall 9 4 3 2 David Thorpe 8 2 -- 1 2 2 Rene Kern 8 1 2 John Whelan 4 3 Mark Woodbridge ----- 1 Present Not present - Not applicable 1 Ravi Kumar was appointed as a director on 7 October 2004 3 Mark Woodbridge resigned as a director on 7 October 2004 2 John Whelan resigned as a director on 27 April 2005 4 The composition of the committee changed on 6 January 2005 The Nomination Committee who each did not attend one meeting.
The report Geoff White chairs the Nomination Committee.
Its of the Audit Committee is set out on page 41. terms of reference include the authority to review Internal control and make recommendations to the Board about The Board retains full responsibility for the Groups Board appointments.
Members of the committee system of internal controls, which operate on a are Sir Digby Jones and David Thorpe.
The global basis, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
committee met twice during the year.
All members However, such a system is designed to manage were present at each meeting with the exception of rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Sir Digby Jones who did not attend one meeting.
business objectives and can, therefore, provide The Remuneration Committee only reasonable and not absolute assurance against The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Colin material misstatement or loss.
Sir Digby Jones and Eurfyl ap Gwilym are with the Combined Code, the directors have members of the committee.
The committee met reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system four times during the year.
All members of the of internal controls during the year, including committee were present at all meetings except Sir financial, operational, compliance and risk Digby Jones who did not attend two meetings and management controls.
David Thorpe who did not attend one meeting.
The Key elements of the Groups internal controls are: Remuneration Report is set out on page 31. a clearly defined management structure and The Audit Committee delegation of authority to committees of the The Audit Committee is chaired by Eurfyl ap Gwilym.
Board, heads of departments and individual It met three times during the year.
David Thorpe business units: and Colin Wall are members of the committee with other directors and the external auditors invited as clearly documented internal procedures set out appropriate.
All members were present at each in the Groups ISO 9001:2000 accredited quality meeting except David Thorpe and Sir Digby Jones management system: 11 May 2004 9 Jun 2004 22 Jul 2004 9 Sep 2004 19 Nov 2004 6 Jan 2005 11 Feb 2005 14 Mar 2005 21 Apr 2005 Total 14 May 2005 20 Apr 2005 Total 9 Jun 2004 19 Nov 2004 8 Feb 2005 12 Apr 2005 Total 15 Jun 2004 6 Dec 2004 8 Feb 2005 Total 5 Jan 2005 13 Apr 2005 Total CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2005 regular internal quality audits of key processes During the year, the Board reviewed the role and and procedures under the Groups ISO 9001:2000 performance of the Board, its committees and 25 accredited quality management system: individual directors.
This review resulted in revised terms of reference for the Board and its committees, an internal quality management function: changes to the membership of the committees and the appointment of a non-executive deputy chairman.
high recruitment standards together with formal career development and training to ensure the During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the integrity and competence of staff: arrangements for employees to raise concerns about possible improprieties to ensure compliance with the regular and comprehensive information provided Combined Code.
The committee has issued an to management, covering financial performance open door policy applicable to all employees.
and key performance indicators, including non-financial measures: Going concern The directors are satisfied that the Group has a detailed budgeting process and rolling three adequate resources to continue in operational year strategic plans: existence for the foreseeable future, a period of procedures for the approval of capital expenditure not less than twelve months from the date of and investment and acquisition projects: this report.
on-going review of contractual agreements with For this reason, they continue to adopt the going existing and new customers: and concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The directors have satisfied themselves that the monthly monitoring and re-forecasting of results Group is in a sound financial position and that against budget, with investigation and action sufficient cash resources will be available to meet taken in response to variances.
foreseeable investment opportunities or other In addition, during the year the Group introduced cash requirements.
an internal audit function dedicated to testing Approval internal financial controls.
Further detail is provided This report was approved by the Board on in the Audit Committee report on page 41.
21 June 2005 and signed on its behalf by: Compliance with Combined Code provisions During the year, the Company undertook a full and detailed review of its compliance with the Combined Code issued in July 2003 as annexed to the Listing Rules.
Where the Company was not in compliance it has taken steps to comply and at the end of the Geoff White year believes that the only provisions where it does Non-executive Deputy Chairman not comply are: A.
2.2 Patrick Cryne is not independent as he does not satisfy the independence criteria set out in provision A.
4.6 The work of the Nomination Committee is not set out in a separate section of the Annual Report.
Youre our partner in the delivery of effective care.
