AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT 2005 Role of the Audit Committee The committee must authorise all non-audit work The Audit Committee is responsible for making above 5,000 commissioned from the external recommendations on the appointment of external auditors in advance of such work being undertaken.
auditors, the level of the audit fee and for ensuring The committee has reviewed the non-audit fees paid their independence.
The committee reviews to the external auditors which, in aggregate, totalled proposed results publications and the effectiveness 32,000 and has deemed that in the year ended of internal controls.
In addition, it also responsible 30 April 2005 they do not affect independence.
Internal audit function Audit Committee membership and meetings During the year, the Group introduced an internal The Audit Committee is chaired by Eurfyl ap Gwilym.
financial audit function, outsourced to Ernst & The other members of the committee are David Young LLP, to further enhance the existing internal Thorpe and Colin Wall both from 11 May 2004. control framework.
Work performed to date has Geoff White and Sir Digby Jones were members included the documentation of a risk assessment of the committee until 6 January 2005.
All and controls review for all Group entities together members of the committee are independent with verification of this documentation within two non-executive directors.
Other directors and the territories.
It is anticipated that all territories will external auditors are invited to Audit Committee be subject to verification over the next 12 months.
The internal auditors report formally to the Audit Committee.
The committee met three times during the year with the Group finance team and were joined by The Group also has an internal quality audit team the external auditors on two occasions.
In which focuses on ensuring that the Group complies addition, the committee also met with the external with rigorous quality processes covering both auditors without the executive directors being operational and financial procedures.
The Groups 41 present on two occasions.
All of the committee quality processes are also subject to annual external meetings were fully attended, save that Sir Digby audits which all received satisfactory results during Jones and David Thorpe were absent from one of the year.
Details of the remuneration of Approval the members of the committee are set out on The report was approved by the Board on page 36 of the Remuneration Report.
21 June 2005 and signed on its behalf by: Financial statements, internal financial controls and risk management systems The Audit Committee meets to review the Groups annual and interim financial statements, internal management arrangements, accounting policies and internal financial controls.
Eurfyl ap Gwilym Chair of the Audit Committee The committee continues to review the risk management processes and the internal control framework in place throughout the organisation.
The key elements of this framework are summarised in the Corporate Governance report included within this annual report.
External auditors The Audit Committee also reviews annually the performance of the Groups external auditors to ensure that an objective, professional and cost-effective relationship is maintained.
The committee is also responsible for monitoring non-audit fees paid to the external auditors to ensure that no conflicts of interest arise.
It was agreed by the Board and the committee that it would be appropriate to review the choice of external auditors during the year.
The committee followed a structured process that involved meetings with candidate firms, receipt of written proposals and oral presentations.
The committee decided that the strongest candidate firm was Deloitte LLP.
The Company will propose at the Annual General Meeting that Deloitte LLP be appointed as the Companys external auditor.
