77 Corporate governance The Board of ITV plc is committed to business integrity and high The directors who will be seeking re-election at the Annual General ethical values across the Groups operations.
As an essential part of Meeting on 10 May 2006 are set out in the Directors report on page 34. this commitment, the Board supports high standards of corporate The reasons why the Board believes they should be re-elected are set governance and has a policy of seeking to comply with the out in the explanatory notes to the notice of the Annual General recommendations of the Combined Code and voting guidelines of Meeting sent with this document.
External directorships: With the specic approval of the Board in each case, executive directors may accept external appointments as Compliance non-executive directors of other companies and retain any related fees As required by the Listing Rules issued by the UK Listing Authority, this paid to them.
Charles Allen served as a non-executive director of Tesco report describes how the Company has applied the principles set out in plc throughout the year and Henry Staunton served as a non-executive Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
It also director of Legal & General Group plc throughout the year and of discloses the extent to which the Company has complied with the Standard Bank plc from 1 December 2005.
They both retained the fees Codes provisions.
Details of the amounts retained are set out The Board considers that, throughout the year and subsequently in the Remuneration report on page 85. up to the date of this report, the Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The non-executive directors The non-executive directors constructively challenge and help The Board develop proposals on strategy.
They bring strong, independent Composition: The Board currently comprises eleven members, the judgement, knowledge, and experience to the Boards deliberations.
Chairman, seven non-executive and three executive directors.
The independent directors are of sufficient calibre and number that Biographical details for each of the directors are set out on pages their views carry significant weight in the Boards decision making.
Independence: The Combined Code recommends that at least half Chairman: Sir Peter Burt is Chairman and is responsible for leadership of of the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The ITV Board considers each of its current his professional commitments are included in his biography on page 32. non-executive directors to be independent.
The Board is satisfied that these are not such as to interfere with the performance of his duties for the Company.
The Chairman is committed Meetings of non-executives: The non-executive directors meet regularly as a group.
to working for the Company for approximately 52 days per annum.
Terms of appointment: Subject to the Companys articles of association, Senior Independent Director: Sir George Russell is Deputy Chairman and the senior independent non-executive director.
He acts as a conduit the Companies Act and satisfactory performance evaluation, nonexecutive directors are appointed for an initial period of three years to the Board for communication of shareholder concerns when other channels of communication are inappropriate and ensures that the from commencement of appointment.
Before the third and sixth anniversary of the non-executive directors first appointment, the performance evaluation of the Chairman is conducted effectively.
Details of his professional commitments are included in his director will discuss with the Board whether it is appropriate for a further three year term to be served.
The re-appointment of directors who biography on page 32.
have served for more than nine years will be subject to annual review.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive His job description is available on the Company website at www.
directors are available on the Corporate Information section of the Company website at www.
Chief Executive: Charles Allen is Chief Executive and has responsibility Time commitment: The Board is satisfied that each of the to the Board for leadership and management of the Company and management of the day-to-day operations of the Company.
non-executive directors commits sufficient time to the business of the Company.
The respective job descriptions of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are set out in writing and have been agreed by the Board.
Company Secretary: The Company Secretary, James Tibbitts, is Copies are available on the Company website at www.
responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The directors have access to the advice and Election and re-election: All directors are required by the Companys articles of association to be elected by shareholders at the first Annual services of the Company Secretary.
The Companys articles of association and the schedule of matters reserved to the Board for General Meeting after their appointment by the Board.
Subsequently, all directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least every decision, provide that the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the full Board.
Directors who reach the age of 70 will retire annually.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Name Board Strategy Committee Committee Committee Number of Meetings in 2005 102 426 Sir Peter Burt 10 2 n a 2 n a 2 Sir George Russell 10 2 2 2 6 David Chance 9 2 n a 2 n a 3 James Crosby 9 2 4 2 3 3 John McGrath 102 423 1, 2 Sir Robert Phillis 82 11 5 2 Sir Brian Pitman 102 226 1, 3 Baroness Usha Prashar 82 21 2 Charles Allen 10 2 n a n a n a Henry Staunton 10 2 n a n a n a Notes: 1 Sir Robert Phillis and Baroness Usha Prashar were appointed as directors on 7 February 2005.
2 Ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 1 May 2005.
3 Ceased to be a member of the Remuneration Committee on 1 May 2005.
Non attendance has been due to ill health and unavoidable commitments.
78 ITV plc 2005 annual report Corporate governance How the Board operates Led by the senior independent director, the non-executive directors Board meetings: The Board is scheduled to meet 10 times in 2006 conducted their annual evaluation of the Chairmans performance: a including two meetings devoted to discussion of strategic matters similar method to that described above was employed.
The views of the and may meet at other times as and when required.
executive directors were also considered.
The outcome of the evaluation was highly positive.
Board Programme: The Board approves annually a schedule of matters The performance of individual executive directors is appraised to be considered at each meeting and at each meeting of the annually by the Chief Executive, to whom they report.
The performance Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
review of the Chief Executive is conducted by the Chairman, taking into Directors attendance: Attendance of directors at Board and Committee account the views of other directors.
meetings during 2005 is set out in the table on page 77.
Induction and continuing professional development: ITV has a policy Board responsibility and delegation: The specic responsibilities are set and programme for induction and continuing professional development, out in a schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
These include: which is reviewed annually.
setting long term objectives and corporate strategy and approving an On appointment, each director takes part in an induction programme annual budget: approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital when he or she receives information about the Group in the form of expenditure: approving Board appointments: reviewing systems of presentations by executives from the business and on the regulatory financial control and risk management: and approving policies relating environment.
They also meet representatives of the Companys key to directors remuneration.
The full schedule of matters reserved to the advisers.
In addition they receive information about the role of the Board is available on the Company website at www.
Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to board and membership of Board Committees, and the powers delegated to committees, the key committees being the Remuneration Committee, those Committees, the Groups corporate governance practices and the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Further procedures and the latest financial information about the Group.
This is information is provided below and copies of the terms of reference supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with key senior for each Committee are on the Company website at www.
executives and meetings with major shareholders.
Throughout their period in ofce, the directors are continually updated on the Groups Information ow: Regular reports and papers are circulated to the businesses, the competitive and regulatory environments in which they directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee operate, corporate social responsibility matters and other changes meetings.
These papers are supplemented by other relevant affecting the Group and the markets in which it operates.
This is information when applicable or if requested.
provided by written briengs and meetings with senior executives across The non-executive directors receive monthly management accounts the Group and from meetings with key advisers.
Directors are also and regular management reports which enable them to scrutinise the advised on appointment of their legal and other duties and obligations Groups and managements performance against agreed objectives.
as a director of a listed company, both in writing and in face-to-face ITV has developed a website for the use of its directors.
The website is meetings with the Company Secretary.
They are briefed regularly on regularly updated with information about the Company and other changes to the legal and governance requirements of the Group and in corporate governance matters.
relation to their own position as directors.
Independent professional advice: Directors are given access to independent professional advice at the Groups expense, when the Board Committees directors deem it necessary in order for them to carry out their The terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and responsibilities.
Details of the process are available on the Company Management Committees are available on the Company website at website at www.
The terms of reference are reviewed annually.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to all of the Board Insurance cover: The Company maintains liability insurance for its Committees and minutes of meetings are circulated to all Board directors and ofcers with a cover limit of 50 million.
Indemnities: The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with its directors.
A copy of the form of deed of indemnity is available on Audit Committee the Company website at www.
Composition: During 2005 the Audit Committee comprised the following members: Board effectiveness John McGrath Chairman of the Committee Performance evaluation: The Board has established a formal process, James Crosby led by the Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the performance Baroness Usha Prashar from 7 February 2005 of the Board, its Committees, and individual directors with particular Sir Robert Phillis from 7 February 2005 until 1 May 2005 attention given to those who are due for re-election.
The directors are Sir Brian Pitman until 1 May 2005 made aware, on appointment, that their performance will be subject Sir George Russell until 1 May 2005 to an annual evaluation.
The first evaluation took place in 2004 and some of the actions Mike Clasper became a member of the Committee on 16 January 2006. taken during 2005 from this evaluation included the establishment The Committee normally meets four times a year.
of an internal communications function, strengthening of the strategic The Combined Code requires the Board to be satisfied that at least planning resource internally, increased communication of business data one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial to directors, implementation of a more detailed induction programme experience.
The Board has considered this requirement, and has and establishment of a defence committee.
concluded that the wide range of business and financial experience of The evaluation for 2005 was undertaken in November.
the Committee members as a whole, gained at the highest level of UK The evaluation process required each director to complete a detailed FTSE 100 companies and other blue-chip organisations, is sufficient to questionnaire designed to provide the Chairman with a means enable the Committee to full its terms of reference in a robust and of making year-to-year comparisons.
The questions covered a range independent manner.
Biographical details of the members of the of issues such as board processes, board roles and responsibilities, Committee are set out on pages 32 and 33. board agendas, committee processes, individual effectiveness, At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Finance training, continuing professional development and effectiveness Director, the Director of Internal Audit and representatives of the of the Chairman.
external auditors regularly attend Audit Committee meetings.
The results were collated and the consolidated results were presented The Committee as a whole has the opportunity to meet privately to the Chairman.
Individual director assessments were discussed by the with the internal and external auditors at any time they consider Chairman with the relevant director together with goals for the appropriate.
In 2005 one private meeting was held with each of the following year.
The results of the evaluation together with internal and external auditors.
recommendations for the year were discussed at Board level.
79 Terms of reference: In accordance with the Committees terms of Auditors independence and objectivity reference the Committees main role and responsibilities include: The Audit Committee regularly monitors the non-audit services being monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the provided to the Group by its external auditors, and has developed a Company: formal policy to ensure this does not impair their independence or reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and objectivity, and that the Group maintains a sufficient choice of risk management systems: appropriately qualied audit rms.
The policy sets out four key principles reviewing the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise which underpin the provision of non-audit services by the external concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial auditors: the auditor should not audit its own rms work, make reporting or other matters: management decisions for the Group, have a mutuality of financial monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys interest with the Group, or be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
internal audit function: and The policy sets a maximum 1:1 ratio for the annual split between considering and making recommendations to the Board in relation audit and non-audit fees charged by the external auditor.
The Audit to the appointment, re-appointment, removal and remuneration of Committee has pre-approved the categories of non-audit services that the Companys external auditor.
may be performed by the external auditors and explicitly set out the categories of work that they may not perform.
The Audit Committee The Committee is authorised by the Board to seek any information believes that these policies accord with governance best practice.
Audit that it requires from any employee and to obtain, at the Companys Committee approval is required for any engagement of the external expense, independent legal or professional advice on any matter within auditors where the fee is likely to be in excess of 0.1 million.
its terms of reference and to call any employee to be questioned at The Audit Committee reviews all services being provided by the a meeting of the Committee as and when required.
external auditors to review the independence and objectivity of the The Committee works to a structured programme of activities external auditors, taking into consideration relevant professional and with agenda items focused to coincide with key events of the annual regulatory requirements, so that these are not impaired by the provision financial reporting cycle, together with standing items that the of permissible non-audit services.
The Audit Committee has also Committee is required to consider at each meeting.
performed a specic evaluation of the performance of the external auditors, through assessment of the results of questionnaires completed Activities in 2005: The Audit Committee met four times and by relevant executive management in addition to Committee members discharged its responsibilities by: own views of auditor performance.
Such evaluations will be carried out reviewing the Groups draft financial statements including detailed annually and the Company will carry out market testing or a form of disclosures prior to Board approval: audit tender every five years from appointment of external auditors.
reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: performing a specic review of the Groups accounting policy in Internal control relation to goodwill, the methodology and assumptions in relation The Combined Code requires that companies review, at least to goodwill impairment testing and the impact of IFRS on annually, all material internal controls including financial, operational, goodwill reporting: compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Turnbull reviewing and approving the annual external audit plan: Report provided guidance to directors in complying with these reviewing the external auditors reports on their work, considering internal control requirements and in the opinion of the Board the the findings of that work and conrming that all significant matters Company has complied with this guidance throughout the year, had been satisfactorily resolved: maintaining an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and monitoring regularly the non-audit services being provided to the minimising risk.
In October 2005, the Financial Reporting Council Group by its external auditors.
The Committee has approved a formal issued revised guidance to directors in complying with the internal policy governing the independence of the Companys external control requirements of the Combined Code for accounting periods auditors and dening those non-audit services that may beginning on or after 1 January 2006.
The Board will apply this be provided to the Group, including those which require the prior revised guidance for the Companys 2006 financial year.
This policy provides for a cap in The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of non-audit fees to be charged by the external auditor.
Details of the internal control and for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of those statutory audit and non-audit services are set out in note 4 of the systems.
The primary responsibility for the operation of these financial statements: systems is delegated to line management.
Such systems can only reviewing and approving the internal audit plan and resources for the provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material internal audit function.
The internal audit plan is constructed taking misstatement or loss.
Key control procedures are designed to manage a risk based approach with the review cycle ensuring that nancially rather than eliminate risk and can be summarised as follows: material operations are reviewed annually and all activities are Strategy and financial reporting: The Group performs a reviewed at least once every three years: comprehensive annual strategy review and budgeting process.
considering internal audit reports and the actions taken to The executive directors review budgets and strategies and the Board implement the recommendations made in those reports: approves the overall Group budget as part of its normal reviewing the results of the annual Group risk assessment process, responsibilities.
The results of operating units are reported monthly, and considering a rolling programme of risk and internal control compared with their individual budgets and forecast gures are presentations made by each operating team and central service reviewed on a month by month basis.
functions: Organisational structure and authorisation procedures: The Group reviewing an annual report on the Groups system of internal control has an established organisational structure with clearly stated lines and its effectiveness and reporting to the Board on the results of of responsibility and reporting.
Authorisation procedures in respect that review: of matters such as purchase commitments, capital expenditure, considering the impact of IFRS on the Companys financial reporting: investment limits and treasury transactions are clearly dened.
and Control environment: Financial controls and procedures are approving the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise considered as part of the Groups ongoing risk assessment process.
concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
80 ITV plc 2005 annual report Corporate governance Risk assessment: Management has responsibility for the Management Committee identication of risks facing each of the Groups businesses and for The Management Committee comprises the executive directors and putting in place controls and procedures to mitigate and monitor meets as required to conduct the Companys business within the clearly those risks.
A formal annual risk assessment process has been dened limits delegated by the Board and subject to those matters established, the results of which are reported to the executive reserved to the Board.
Key risks, mitigating controls and required actions are identied and monitored by the executive directors and Relations with shareholders Audit Committee.
Risks are also reviewed at least annually by the The Board attaches a high priority to communications with executive directors, who meet with the senior management of each shareholders.
In addition to the preliminary and interim results business team and with the heads of significant central service presentations and the Annual General Meeting, a series of meetings functions specically to discuss the risks facing their areas.
between institutional shareholders, the Chairman, the senior In addition, presentations are made to the Audit Committee to independent director and the executive directors is held throughout the enable it to review the risks in these areas at least once a year.
In fullment of the Chairmans obligations under the Combined Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of internal controls: Code, the Chairman gives feedback to the Board on issues raised with Controls are monitored by management review, Internal Audit, the him by major shareholders.
executive directors and the Audit Committee.
Directors of each The Group maintains a corporate website containing a wide range of business team are required to confirm annually compliance with information of interest to institutional and private investors.
The Group internal financial control in their area.
Serious control weaknesses has frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of if any are reported to the Board as appropriate.
The Board has issues affecting its performance.
These include meetings following conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups systems the announcement of the annual results with the Groups largest of internal controls for the period ended 31 December 2005. institutional shareholders on an individual basis.
In addition, the Group responds to individual ad hoc requests for discussions from Remuneration Committee institutional shareholders.
The Remuneration report can be found on pages 81 to 89.
Terms of Save in exceptional circumstances, all members of the Board engagement of the remuneration consultants are available on the will attend the Annual General Meeting and shareholders are invited Company website at www.
to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with directors prior to the formal proceedings.
At the meeting the Chairman reviews the Nomination Committee Groups current trading.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting, together with any related documents, is mailed to shareholders about seven Composition: weeks before the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on During 2005 the Nomination Committee comprised Sir Peter Burt each substantially separate issue.
At the meeting all resolutions are Chairman and all the non-executive directors.
The level of votes lodged on a resolution is announced to the meeting following voting and is made available on a regulatory Terms of reference: The principal responsibilities of the Committee news service the following day and on the Corporate Information include: section of the Company website at www.
com within 48 hours reviewing the structure, size and composition required of the Board: following the meeting.
identifying and nominating for Board approval candidates to ll Board vacancies: evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board: and Contacts for corporate governance considering succession planning for directors and other senior Chairman Sir Peter Burt executives.
Senior independent director Sir George Russell Chief Executive Charles Allen Activities in 2005: The Committee initiated the search for a new Company Secretary James Tibbitts Finance Director.
After consideration of a number of candidates Telephone: 020 7620 1620 John Cresswell was appointed on 16 January 2006.
In addition the Further information is available on the Company website at Committee began the process of identifying suitable additional www.
non-executive candidates, again using a professional search rm.
Mike Clasper was appointed as a director on 3 January 2006.
On appointment he met the independence criteria set out in the Combined Code and is expected to continue to do so.
The Committee considers the composition of the Board on an annual basis to ensure the appropriate balance of skills and experience.
