Statement of corporate governance The following sections explain how the Company applies the previously served as Chief Executive.
In accordance with the Code, the Board had consulted extensively with major shareholders on its principles and supporting principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
succession plans before they were announced.
Both Bob Stack and Gary Hughes are directors of companies which supply products to Sainsburys, but neither the Board, nor Cadbury Schweppes plc nor The Board Emap plc, consider the respective relationships to be material in The Board is chaired by Philip Hampton who was appointed the context of their overall businesses.
At the year-end, the Board consisted of two Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors, The Non-Executive Directors bring wide and varied commercial in addition to the Chairman.
Bob Stack, Chief Human Resources experience to Board and Committee deliberations.
They are Officer at Cadbury Schweppes plc, joined the Board as a Nonappointed for an initial three-year term, subject to election by Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM after their on 1 January 2005.
Gary Hughes, currently Group Finance appointment.
The Non-Executive Directors held several meetings Director of Emap plc, was also appointed as a Non-Executive during the year without the Executive Directors being present, Director on that date.
He joined the Audit Committee and it is and separate meetings without the Chairman being present.
intended that he will become its Chairman towards the end of Since Lord Levenes resignation on 17 September 2004, the the calendar year, succeeding Jamie Dundas in that role.
Nomination Committee has been conducting an extensive search On 5 October 2004 it was announced that Roger Matthews, through Egon Zehnder International, the international search Finance Director, had decided to retire from the Board and he will consultancy, for a new Non-Executive Director who will join the do so on 24 June 2005.
On 14 March 2005 it was announced that Board as its Senior Independent Director.
A number of candidates Darren Shapland had been appointed Chief Financial Officer and have been interviewed but no appointment has yet been made.
he will join the Company and the Board on 1 August 2005.
In this respect the Company is not in compliance with the Code.
The search is continuing with the objective of making an Biographical details of the Directors, including Darren Shapland, appointment as soon as the right candidate is found.
During this are set out on page 20.
The other changes to the composition of period the Board has ensured that the governance responsibilities the Board are described in the Report of the Directors on page 29. of the Senior Independent Director role such as availability to The Board held nine scheduled meetings during the year, including shareholders and leading the Chairmans performance evaluation a strategy conference, and has visited the Newbury store.
The have been adequately fulfilled.
The Chairman has been available to Board held a number of additional meetings as shown below.
all major shareholders since his appointment in July 2004 and has met a significant number of the Companys shareholders as part of his induction process and in the consultation over the new Long Division of responsibilities Term Incentive Plan.
Bob Stack has also met many shareholders as There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman part of that consultation process.
The Chairmans performance has and the Chief Executive which is set out in writing and has been evaluated as described below.
been approved by the Board.
Philip Hampton is responsible for leadership of the Board, setting its agenda and monitoring The Boards role its effectiveness.
He ensures effective communication with The Board supports the executive management team in delivering shareholders and that the Board is aware of the views of major sustainable added value for shareholders.
The Board was fully shareholders.
He facilitates both the contribution of the engaged in testing and developing the Business Review announced Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between on 19 October 2004 and will continue to monitor performance the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
He ensures that the against delivery of the key targets on a regular basis.
The Board Chief Executive develops a strategy which is supported by the approves the corporate plan and the annual budget and reviews Board as a whole.
Justin King is responsible for formulating performance against targets at every meeting.
Through the strategy and for its delivery once agreed by the Board.
He creates Audit Committee, the Directors ensure the integrity of financial a framework of strategy, values, organisation and objectives to information and the effectiveness of the financial controls and ensure the successful delivery of key targets, and allocates the internal control and risk management systems.
The Board has decision making and responsibilities accordingly.
He takes a delegated authority to the Remuneration Committee to set the leading role, with the Chairman, in the relationship with all remuneration policy for Executive Directors and the Operating external agencies and in promoting Sainsburys.
Board members and their individual remuneration arrangements.
The Nomination Committee recommends the appointment of Board Independence Non-Executive Directors Directors and has responsibility for succession planning at Board The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria of the Code level.
These and other key responsibilities, such as the approval of on his appointment and all the Non-Executive Directors who major transactions, are formally reserved powers of the Board.
have served during the year are considered to be independent according to the principles of the Code.
Sir Peter Davis was Chairman of the Company from 27 March 2004 to 30 June 2004.
As disclosed in the two previous annual reports, at the time of his appointment he was not considered to be independent as he had J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 31 Statement of corporate governance continued Attendance All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company During the year the Directors attended the following number of Secretary.
He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures meetings of the Board and its Committees the number of meetings held is shown in brackets : are followed and for governance matters.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee for the Board.
Number of meetings 1 Performance evaluation Philip Hampton 7 7 3 3 During the year the Board has undertaken a formal evaluation June fide Moller 12 12 6 6 5 5 10 10 of its performance and effectiveness, and of its Committees and Jamie Dundas 12 12 6 6 5 5 12 12 2 individual Directors.
Directors were asked to complete an extensive Gary Hughes 2 3 1 1 1 1 questionnaire, to provide comments on Board and Committee Bridget Macaskill 12 12 4 5 4 5 11 12 2 procedures and effectiveness, and to assess their own contributions Bob Stack 3 3 1 1 2 2 to discussions and decision making.
The questionnaires were Justin King 12 12 then reviewed by the Chairman and the Company Secretary and a Roger Matthews 12 12 number of key themes were developed for discussion at a separate 1 Appointed to the Board on 19 July 2004 meeting of the Directors held in February outside the normal 2 Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2005 agenda.
Following the evaluation exercise a number of changes to Board and Committee procedures have been introduced.
Directors who resigned during the year For instance, it was agreed that the Audit and Remuneration Committees should consist of three Non-Executive Directors rather Keith Butler-Wheelhouse 6 6 2 3 2 2 7 7 than all of them, as had previously been the case.
Membership was Sir Peter Davis 4 4 1 1 changed accordingly.
The Board also agreed that additional agenda Lord Levene 5 6 3 3 2 2 7 7 items should be incorporated into the rolling Board schedule, Stuart Mitchell 2 2 particularly to monitor performance against the Business Review Sara Weller 2 2 targets.
The evaluation process will be reviewed and developed over The tables show only those meetings which the Director attended as a member the current year.
The Non-Executive Directors met separately to rather than an invitee.
review the Chairmans performance and provided feedback to him.
The Chairman reviewed the contribution of each of the Directors Information and development in separate individual sessions.
The quality and supply of information provided to the Board was reviewed as part of the Board evaluation exercise and, as a result, Non-Executive Directors now receive copies of Operating Board Operating Board minutes, regular market reports and other information.
The Day-to-day management of the Company is delegated to the Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are properly Operating Board which is chaired by Justin King.
The Operating briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they have full Board holds 12 formal meetings a year and the Company Secretary and timely access to relevant information.
Directors responsibilities and biographies are set out on page 21.
The Operating Board sets the Companys goals There is an agreed procedure by which members of the Board may and values, develops the Companys strategy and brand strategy, take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in agrees the budget for Board approval, establishes and monitors the the furtherance of their duties.
The Company has a programme for change programme and measures financial performance and meeting Directors training and development requirements.
Newly delivery of the targets set out in the Business Review.
It also sets appointed Directors who do not have previous public company human resources, pensions and employment strategies.
The experience at Board level are provided with appropriate training Operating Board has formal terms of reference setting out these on their role and responsibilities.
Gary Hughes and Bob Stack are and other key responsibilities.
Minutes are copied to the Chairman currently taking part in a comprehensive and formal induction and Non-Executive Directors.
It has delegated certain powers to the programme including store and depot visits and meetings with Trading Board, which is responsible for ranging and sourcing members of the Operating Board, senior management and external product, price and promotions, advertising and marketing, and to advisors.
Subsequent training is available on an ongoing basis the Retail Board, which has responsibility for stores, service and to meet particular needs with the emphasis on governance and availability and supply chain operations.
The Trading Board is accounting developments.
During the year the Company Secretary, chaired by Mike Coupe, Trading Director, and the Retail Board is Tim Fallowfield, has provided updates to the Board on relevant chaired by Ken McMeikan, Retail Director.
Operating Board governance matters, whilst the Audit Committee regularly members regularly attend and present at Board meetings as well as considers new accounting developments through presentations the Directors Conference.
from management and the external auditors.
The Board programme includes presentations from management at every meeting which, together with site visits, increase the Non-Executives Directors understanding of the business and the sector.
32 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Statement of corporate governance continued Board Committees The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Audit, The Committee has reviewed the Companys whistleblowing Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
procedures and confirmed that arrangements are in place to enable colleagues to raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting and other matters on a confidential basis.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by Jamie Dundas.
The Committee The Committees terms of reference, which are available on comprised all of the Non-Executive Directors until February, when, the website, at www.
co. uk governance, set out the following the evaluation exercise, it was agreed that membership Committees responsibilities.
should consist of three Non-Executive Directors.
Current members are Jamie Dundas, Gary Hughes and June fide Moller.
It is proposed Nomination Committee that Gary Hughes will take over as Chairman of the Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Philip Hampton and towards the end of the calendar year.
The Board has determined comprises each of the Non-Executive Directors.
Lord Levene that both Jamie Dundas and Gary Hughes have recent and relevant chaired the Committee until Philip Hamptons appointment.
Philip Hampton, Justin King, Roger Matthews, Justin King is not a member of the Committee although he is Richard Chadwick, the Head of Internal Audit, and the external invited to attend meetings.
auditors are invited to attend Committee meetings.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Committee led the recruitment process for each of the Board appointments during the year, which has resulted in Philip During the year the Committee has met on six occasions.
It Hampton, Gary Hughes, Bob Stack and Darren Shapland being monitored the integrity of the financial statements and any formal appointed.
The international search consultants, Egon Zehnder announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, International, were appointed at the start of the year after a and reviewed any significant financial judgments contained in them.
thorough selection process and have been instructed by the It also considered the exceptional costs referred to in the Business Committee on each of the searches.
The Committee considered Review in October 2004 and reviewed the position at the half-year the skills, knowledge, background and experience required for and year-end.
It has received regular updates on the introduction each role, and prepared a job specification for each appointment.
of International Financial Reporting Standards and how they will The Committee also specified the time commitment expected of impact the Company and has monitored progress in meeting the the Chairman and the Non-Executive Director roles.
Following the new reporting requirements.
The Committee has also reviewed resignation of Keith Butler-Wheelhouse and Lord Levene in the effectiveness of the Companys financial controls and the September, it was specifically agreed that one of the new Noninternal control and risk management systems, as set out in more Executive appointees should have relevant experience of dealing detail below.
with executive remuneration and should join the Board as Chairman During the year, the Committee reviewed  of the Remuneration Committee, whilst the other should preferably LLPs PwC overall work plan and approved their remuneration have a financial and accounting background in order to facilitate and terms of engagement and considered in detail the results of the succession planning on the Audit Committee.
Egon Zehnder drew audit, PwCs performance and independence and the effectiveness up a list of possible candidates for each role for initial interviews of the overall audit process.
The Committee recommended PwCs with Philip Hampton and Justin King.
Profiles of a shortlist of re-appointment as auditors to the Board and this resolution will be preferred candidates were prepared for the Committee and the put to shareholders at the AGM.
potential composition and mix of the candidates were considered from a team perspective in order to ensure a complementary The Committee has implemented the Companys policy which combination of competencies and experience.
Prior to each restricts the engagement of PwC in relation to non-audit services.
appointment the Committee considered a full range of references The policy is designed to ensure that the provision of such services and the Non-Executive Directors met the preferred candidate.
does not have an impact on the external auditors independence The Committees extensive search for a Senior Independent and objectivity.
It identifies certain types of engagement that the Director is continuing.
external auditors shall not undertake and others that can only be undertaken with appropriate authority from the Committee The Committees terms of reference are available on the website Chairman or the Committee where non-audit fees will exceed www.
co. uk governance and set out the Committees preset thresholds.
The Committee receives regular reports on responsibilities.
The Committee meets when necessary and in the non-audit services provided by PwC.
All Directors are required to seek re-appointment by shareholders at the first opportunity after their The Committee regularly reviewed the Internal Audit departments appointment and must stand for re-election to the Board every resources, budget, work programme, results and managements three years under the Companys Articles of Association.
implementation of its recommendations, and conducted a formal review of the departments effectiveness during the year.
The Head Remuneration Committee of Internal Audit has direct access to Jamie Dundas and Philip The Committee is chaired by Bob Stack who was appointed Hampton.
Jamie Dundas has held separate meetings with him and PwC, whilst the Committee regularly met with PwC, without a Non-Executive Director of the Company, and Chairman of the management being present, and may meet the Head of Internal Committee, on 1 January 2005.
Previously the Committee was chaired by Keith Butler-Wheelhouse until his resignation from the Audit when it deems necessary.
Philip Hampton chaired three meetings of the Committee until Bob Stack was appointed, but was not a J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 33 Statement of corporate governance continued member of the Committee.
The Board approved this arrangement certification by management that they are responsible for on an interim basis as it was felt appropriate that he should chair managing the risks to their business objectives and that the the meetings at a time when he was meeting shareholders as internal controls are such that they provide reasonable but not part of his induction process and discussing, amongst other absolute assurance that the risks in their areas of responsibility things, remuneration policy and incentivisation for the are appropriately identified, evaluated and managed: management team.
reporting and review by the board of each operating company The Remuneration report is set out on pages 36 to 45. of risk management activities and actions taken to address non-compliance with controls or to improve their effectiveness: Internal control assurance from specialist functions and committees that legal The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal and regulatory, health and safety, and social, ethical and controls, including risk management, and has delegated environmental risks are appropriately identified and managed: responsibility for reviewing its effectiveness to the Audit and Committee.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys independent assurance by Internal Audit as to the existence and effectiveness of the risk management activities described business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not by management.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
It includes all controls including financial, operational and The system of internal control and risk management is embedded compliance controls and risk management.
into the operations of the Company, and the actions taken to The processes used to assess the effectiveness of the internal mitigate any weaknesses are carefully monitored.
control systems are ongoing, enabling a cumulative assessment to be made, and include the following: Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility is an everyday part of how the Company discussion and approval by the Board of the Companys does business and is co-ordinated by the Corporate Responsibility strategic direction, plans and objectives and the risks to Steering Group which reports on a regular basis to the Operating achieving them: Board and annually to the Board.
A separate Corporate review and approval by the Board of budgets and forecasts, Responsibility Report will be published on the website in July.
including both revenue and capital expenditure: The Association of British Insurers recommends that the Board considers material risks and control processes relating to corporate regular operational and financial reviews of performance responsibility.
The Audit Committees review of the system of against budgets and forecasts by management and the Board: internal controls and risk management processes includes regular reviews by management and the Audit Committee corporate responsibility, and the Board would consider any major of the scope and results of internal audit work across the corporate responsibility risks identified by the process, to the Company.
The scope of the work covers all key activities extent any such existed.
of the Group and concentrates on higher risk areas: Investor relations reviews of the scope of the work of the external auditors The Company is committed to maintaining good communications by the Audit Committee and any significant issues arising: with investors.
Normal shareholder contact is the responsibility reviews by the Audit Committee of accounting policies: and of the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Head of Investor Relations.
Following his appointment as Chairman, Philip Hampton consideration by the Board of the major risks facing the Group offered to meet all major shareholders on an individual basis and and by the Audit Committee of the procedures to manage them.
a large number of meetings took place.
He is generally available These include health and safety, legal compliance, litigation, to shareholders.
Bob Stack also met a number of institutional quality assurance, insurance and security and social, ethical investors following his appointment as Chairman of the and environmental risks.
Remuneration Committee as part of the consultation process for There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and the new Long Term Incentive Plan.
Philip Hampton also attended managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
They provided feedback to the Board and has been in place throughout the year under review and up to the Remuneration Committee following the meetings.
date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements There is regular dialogue with institutional investors who, along and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The effectiveness of the with buyside and sellside analysts, are invited to briefings by the process is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee which then Company immediately after the announcement of the Companys reports to the Board.
The process consists of: interim and full year results.
They are also invited to participate formal identification by management at each level of the in conference calls following the announcement of the Companys Company through a self assessment process of the key risks to trading updates.
The content of these briefings and conference calls achieving their business objectives and the controls in place to are posted on the Companys website www.
co. uk investors manage them.
The likelihood and potential impact of each risk so as to be available to all investors.
The Company also made is evaluated: presentations on the Business Review in October 2004 and the anticipated impact of International Financial Reporting Standards in April 2005.
34 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Statement of corporate governance continued Makinson Cowell provide investor relations consultancy services to the Company and report to the Board on the views of institutional investors.
Non-Executive Directors also receive regular market reports and broker updates from the Companys Investor Relations department.
Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and question the Board at the AGM which will be held on 13 July 2005.
There will be a display of various aspects of the Companys activities and Justin King will make a business presentation.
The Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be available to answer questions.
A detailed explanation of each item of special business to be considered at the AGM is included with the Notice of Meeting which will be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All resolutions proposed at the AGM will be taken on a poll vote.
This follows the best practice guidelines and enables the Company to count all votes, not just those of shareholders who attend the meeting.
Information on matters of particular interest to investors is set out on page 82 and on the Companys website www.
Compliance statement During the year, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code with two exceptions.
Firstly, following the resignation of Lord Levene, the Company has not yet appointed a successor to the role of Senior Independent Director.
An extensive search has been underway for several months and is continuing.
Secondly, Philip Hampton chaired three meetings of the Remuneration Committee in the absence of a permanent Chairman until Bob Stacks appointment.
Both these matters are fully explained above.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 35
