Corporate governance Statement of Compliance The board comprises the following members: The company is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance as set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code.
The company has Tim Martin, chairman considered the revisions made to the code by the Financial Reporting John Hutson, chief executive officer Council in July 2003 and the board believes that the company has been Jim Clarke, finance director and company secretary fully compliant throughout the year ended 24 July 2005 with the exception Suzanne Baker, commercial director of the following: John Herring, non-executive deputy chairman and senior director Brian Jervis, non-executive director The board is aware of issues with regard to the perceived nonElizabeth McMeikan, non-executive director independence of two of the non-executive directors owing to their long service and shareholding in the company.
One of those directors considered Tony Lowrie resigned from the board on 23 March 2005 and Elizabeth as not being independent under the Combined Code resigned during the year.
McMeikan was appointed to the board on 1 April 2005.
The other non-executive director considered non-independent under the Combined Code is eligible, but has indicated that he will not be seeking Biographies about all non-executive and executive directors can be viewed on re-election at this years annual general meeting.
The company is actively the companys web site: www.
co. uk seeking a replacement non-executive director.
Following this intended appointment, 50% of the board, excluding the chairman, will be considered There is clear and documented division of responsibilities between the to be independent under the Combined Code.
chairman and the chief executive officer.
The division is set out below.
The board of directors On appointment to the board, every director is provided with a comprehensive The primary responsibility of the board is to ensure that the strategy for induction programme, covering all aspects of the companys operations.
Formal J D Wetherspoons business is appropriate and implemented effectively.
evaluation of the board and individual members, together with appraisals, take The matters which are reserved to the board and the authorities delegated place annually, conducted by the chairman and deputy chairman, with any to management are contained within the matters reserved for the board training and development needs evaluated as part of the process.
The company schedule as well as within the various policies covering such matters as secretary will maintain a record of directors training and development activities treasury management, capital expenditure approvals, legal matters, internal from 2005.
Site visits are arranged regularly to enable non-executive directors to audit and risk management.
see, at first hand, the operations of the business.
Chairmans responsibility Chief-executives responsibility Delegated responsibility of authority from the company to exchange of Developing and maintaining effective management controls, contracts within controlled procedures.
Provide support, advice and feedback to the chief executive.
Maintaining and developing an effective organisational structure.
Support the company strategy and encourage the chief executive with External and internal communications in conjunction with the development of the strategy.
chairman, on any issues facing the company.
Implementation and monitoring of compliance with board policies.
Chairing general meetings, board meetings, operational meetings and Timely and accurate reporting of the above to the board.
Management of chief executive contract, appraisal and remuneration by way Recruiting and managing senior managers within the business.
of making recommendations to the remuneration committee.
Providing support to executive directors and senior managers of the company.
Developing and maintaining effective risk management and.
Providing the ethos and vision of the company.
Maintaining primary relationships with shareholders.
Providing operational presence across the estate.
Chairing the management board responsible for implementing the company strategy.
16 J D WETHERSPOON PLC Corporate governance Information is normally furnished to all board members in the week before a The articles require one-third of the directors retire by rotation, subject to the board meeting to enable the directors to consider the issues for discussion requirement that each director seek re-election every three years.
and to request clarification or additional information.
The board normally meets eight times a year.
During the year ended 24 July 2005 the non-executive directors met without the chairman and provided feedback to the chairman following All directors are provided with, and have full and timely access to, their meetings.
information which enables them to make informed decisions on corporate and business issues, including operational and financial performance.
In In accordance with the Combined Code and corporate governance best particular, the board receives monthly information on the financial trading practice, the board has several established committees as set out below.
performance of the company and a comprehensive Finance Report which The board met eight times during the year ended 24 July 2005 and the includes operational highlights.
All directors receive sales and margin attendance of the directors and non-executives, where appropriate, information for the company weekly by trading unit.
Board Audit  Number of meetings held in the year 8311 Tim Martin 8 n a n a n a John Hutson 7 n a n a n a Jim Clarke 7 3 n a n a Suzanne Baker 6 n a n a n a John Herring 8311 Brian Jervis 8311 Elizabeth McMeikan 2 Tony Lowrie 331 Jim Clarke, in his role of finance director, attends audit committee meetings by invitation, to provide additional detail on any relevant financial matters.
Resigned from the board: 23 March 2005 Appointed to the board: 1 April 2005 Matters reserved for the board Secretarial The following matters are reserved for the board: Call of all shareholder meetings Delegation of board powers Board and management Disclosure of directors interests Structure and senior management responsibilities General Nomination of directors Board framework of executive remuneration and costs Appointment of chairman and company secretary Any other matters not within the terms of reference of any Strategic matters committee of the board Strategic, financing or adoption of new business plans, Any other matter as determined from time to time by the board in respect of any material aspect of the company Business control Board committees Agreement of code of ethics and business practice Internal audit Audit committee Authority limits for heads of department The committee is chaired by John Herring and comprises Brian Jervis and Elizabeth McMeikan.
Representatives of the companys external auditors, Operating budgets  LLP attend audit committee meetings at the half The entry into finance and operating leases of a certain capital value year and year end.
Under the terms of the code, two of the three members of Investments and capital projects exceeding set value the committee were not independent at the start of the year.
Following the Changes in major supply contracts appointment of Elizabeth McMeikan, one of the three members is considered Finance not to be independent.
Raising new capital and confirmation of major facilities Specific risk-management policies, including insurance, hedging and In respect of the role of the audit committee, it effectively reviewed borrowing limits the following: Final approval of annual and interim accounts and accounting policies Appointment of external auditors The scope and nature of the work to be performed by the external auditors before audit commenced.
Legal matters A full review of the half-year and annual financial statements.
Consideration of regular reports on material issues relating to any litigation Compliance with accounting standards.
affecting the company Compliance with stock exchange, legal and regulatory requirements.
Institution of legal proceedings where costs exceed certain values Monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements and formal announcements relating to the financial performance of the company.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 17 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Considered the findings of the internal audit report and management The annual general meeting is considered to be an important forum for responses at the half year and year end.
shareholders to raise questions with the board.
Kept under review the effectiveness of internal control systems.
Regular feedback from the companys stockbrokers.
Final review of the companys statement on internal control systems, Interim, full and ongoing announcements are circulated to shareholders.
before endorsement by the board.
Any significant changes in shareholder movement are notified to the board Review of any aspect of the accounts or the companys control and audit by the company secretary on an ad hoc basis.
procedures, the interim and final audits and any other matters which auditors The company secretary maintains procedures and agreements in place for may consider.
all announcements to the City.
Ensured that all matters, if appropriate, were raised and brought to the There is a programme of regular meetings between investors and directors attention of the board.
of the company, including the senior independent director, as appropriate.
Review of all risk-management systems adopted and implemented by the company.
Risk management The board is responsible for the companys risk-management process.
The The minutes of all meetings of the committee are circulated by the secretary finance director, Jim Clarke, chairs the companys risk management of the committee to all members of the board.
The audit committee chairman, committee, comprising senior management within the business.
The John Herring, is available to answer questions on financial control and committee meets four times a year and reports twice yearly to the audit reporting at the annual general meeting of the company.
The key function of the committee is set out below.
The audit committee is aware of the companys process with regard to To review on behalf of the company and the board the key risks impact on whistleblowing and has reviewed its effectiveness.
the business and systems of control necessary to manage such risks.
Maintain a risk register for each area of the business and review quarterly.
Particular attention is paid to the engagement of the companys auditors on Review the effectiveness of the companys risk management process.
For several years, the company has separated the provision Report to the board twice yearly and as necessary any identified risk and of taxation compliance from the provision of audit services.
In the current mitigation plans implemented.
year, additional fees were paid to the companys auditors with regard to a review of the companys distribution arrangements and forensic accounting Internal control work.
This work involved a modest level of fee income of 50,000 and is not, During the year, the company and the board continued to support and invest therefore, considered to raise any issues regarding the auditors objectivity or in resource to provide an internal audit and risk-management function.
system of internal control and risk mitigation is deeply embedded in the operations and the culture of the company.
The board is responsible for Remuneration committee maintaining a sound system of internal control and reviewing its The remuneration committee is chaired by John Herring and comprises effectiveness.
The function can only manage, rather than eliminate entirely, Brian Jervis and Elizabeth McMeikan.
The directors report on remuneration and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material is set out on pages 11 to 14.
Under the terms of the code, two of the three misstatement or loss.
Ongoing reviews and assessments took place members of the committee were not independent at the start of the year.
Following the appointment of Elizabeth McMeikan, one of the three members is considered not to be independent.
The company has an internal audit function which is discharged as follows: Nomination committee Adequate regular audits of the company stock.
A formal nomination committee has been established, comprising John Herring Unannounced visits to the retail units.
chairman, Brian Jervis and Elizabeth McMeikan.
The nomination committee Monitoring systems which control the company cash.
meets as appropriate and considers all possible board appointments and also the re-election of directors, both executive and non-executive.
No director is The company has key procedures in place, as follows: involved in any decision about his or her own re-appointment.
Under the terms of the code, two of the three members of the committee were not independent Clearly defined authority limits and controls over cash-handling, at the start of the year.
Following the appointment of Elizabeth McMeikan, one purchasing commitments and capital expenditure.
of the three members is considered not to be independent.
Comprehensive budgeting process in place, with a detailed operating plan for twelve months and a mid-term financial plan, both approved by the board.
The process which led to the appointment of Elizabeth McMeikan as a nonBusiness results are reported weekly for key times, with a monthly executive director was led by the chairman of the nomination committee and comprehensive report in full, and compared with budget.
involved the use of an external search consultancy.
Forecasts are prepared regularly throughout the year, for review by the board.
Company secretary Complex treasury instruments are not used.
Decisions on treasury matters All directors have access to the advice of the company secretary, who is are reserved by the board.
responsible to the board for ensuring that procedures are followed.
The The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the appointment and removal of the company secretary is reserved for the system of internal control.
consideration of the board as a whole.
Procedures are in place for seeking independent professional advice at the companys expense.
Relations with shareholders The board takes considerable measures to ensure that all board members are kept aware of both the views of major shareholders and changes in the major shareholdings of the company.
Efforts made to accomplish effective communication include: 18 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
