Corporate governance report further Director should retire.
All Directors are subject to re-election by the Introduction shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their JJB is fully committed to high standards of corporate governance and appointment by the Board.
sets out below its report on how it complies with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the July 2003 Financial Reporting Councils Revised The Board of Directors of JJB note the principle of Non-executive Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2003 FRC Code.
Directors normally not serving on a Board for more than 9 years, as set out in the 2003 FRC Code.
Compliance The Company has, during the 53 weeks ended 30 January 2005, The Board recognises that A. G. Thomas, who has served on the Board complied with Section 1 of the 2003 FRC Code.
since October 1994, brings to the Board a wide range of experience both as a practicing accountant and as the former Executive Chairman of a The Board of Directors PLC operating in the same part of the leisure industry in which JJBs The Board, which is ultimately responsible for the direction, management Leisure Division operates.
The Board of JJB do not believe that the length and performance of the company, met seven times during the accounting of time during which A. G. Thomas has served on the Board affects the period ended 30 January 2005.
Throughout this accounting period, the independence which he brings to his position as a Non-executive Director.
Board of Directors comprised four Executive and three Non-executive Directors.
Short biographies of the Directors are set out on pages 16 to Details of the notice periods in the service contracts of Executive and 17 of this Annual report.
There is a clear division of responsibilities at the Non-executive Directors are set out in the Directors remuneration report head of the Company between the roles of D. Whelan Chairman who is on page 29 of this Annual report.
responsible for the operation of the Board and T. W. Knight Chief Executive who is responsible for implementing strategy.
There is an established procedure whereby any Director may, in the furtherance of their duties, have access to independent professional The Board determines corporate strategy and reviews both financial and advice and services at the Groups expense.
The Finance Director also operational performance against plans.
Full and timely access to all acts as the Company Secretary and as such is responsible for ensuring relevant information is provided to all Board members, via comprehensive that Board procedures are followed and that the Board seeks independent information packs, in order that it can discharge its duties effectively.
Where considered appropriate, relevant information packs are produced in advance of such meetings and include training is made available to any Director and the need for such training up to date management accounts and detailed trading information.
is assessed on a regular basis.
A. G. Thomas is the nominated senior independent Non-executive Director.
In order to assist in the discharge of corporate governance responsibilities, the Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board All of the Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board to be Committees, which operate within clearly defined terms of reference.
independent of Management and of the Companys major shareholders.
These committees are described below.
Although one of the Non-executive Directors, R. Lane-Smith was Senior Partner at DLA Piper Rudnick Gray Cary UK LLP DLA from 1998 to Audit Committee 2005, a firm of solicitors used by JJB, it is not the belief of the Executive The Audit Committee, which meets twice a year, is chaired by A. G. Thomas, Directors, that the fees paid to DLA are such as to interfere with his who has recent and relevant financial experience, and also comprises of independent character, judgment and integrity: during the accounting the other two Non-executive Directors with the Finance Director and the period ended 30 January 2005, 361,000 was paid to DLA for legal Groups external auditors in attendance.
The Audit Committees work incurred during the ordinary course of business 2004: responsibilities include making a recommendation on the appointment, 479,000.
Included in the fees paid to DLA during the accounting retirement and removal of the external auditors.
This Committee consults period ended 30 January 2005 was 261,000 2004: 253,000 of with the external auditors on the Groups financial statements, accounting costs in respect of defending the action bought against JJB by the policies, internal controls and the risk management process as well as any Office of Fair Trading.
The amount paid by the Group to DLA during the other matters raised by the auditors.
The Committee subsequently makes accounting period ended 30 January 2005, represented only 0.1 per recommendations to the Board when necessary.
The Committee also cent of DLAs UK fee income.
considers the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the services they provide, and the scope of their audit work and related fees All Directors are subject to retirement by rotation and re-election, subject along with a review of their reported findings.
to continued satisfactory performance, by the Companys shareholders in accordance with the Articles of Association, whereby a number of The Groups Risk Control Internal Audit Manager has direct access to the Directors closest to but not exceeding one third of the Directors retire by Chairman and to members of the Audit Committee.
rotation each year or, if this gives a number less than three, then one 21 Corporate governance report continued Remuneration Committee Internal control and risk management The Remuneration Committee comprises all the independent Non-executive The Company has established an Internal control framework Directors and is chaired by R. Lane-Smith.
The Committee reviews the encompassing both its financial and non-financial controls, the contractual and remuneration arrangements of the Executive Directors and effectiveness of which is regularly reviewed by the Board and senior the senior executives, based upon their performance during the accounting executives.
Full details of the remuneration arrangements for the Directors are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 28 to 31 of this The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining the effectiveness of Annual report.
the Groups risk management processes and the system of internal control, whilst it is the role of management to implement Board policies Nominations Committee on risk and control.
The Board is assisted in discharging its duties by the The Nominations Committee is also chaired by R. Lane-Smith and comprises Audit Committee, which provides a direct link to both internal and external the other Non-executive Directors.
The Committee is responsible for making auditors through regular meetings.
Such a system is designed to recommendations on the appointment of new Directors to the Board and in effectively manage, rather than eliminate, the risks that are significant to respect of the Boards balance and structure.
The Nominations Committee the fulfilment of the Groups business objectives of long-term growth of has not met during the accounting period ended 30 January 2005. shareholder value via the maximisation of future earnings, and the safeguarding of the Groups assets.
Attendance at Board Committee Meetings The following table shows the number of Board and Committee meetings In accordance with the requirements of the 2003 FRC Code, the Group held during the 53 weeks ended 30 January 2005 and the attendance has operated a risk management process throughout the 53 weeks record of the individual Directors.
The process is designed to ensure that all significant risks to the achievement of the Groups objectives are Board Audit  of Directors Committee Committee Committee identified on a timely basis, assessed and managed effectively.
of meetings 7 2 5 0 Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable and not D. Whelan 5 - - - T. W. Knight 7 - - - absolute assurance that all significant business risks will be fully J. D. Greenwood 7 - - - mitigated.
However, by ensuring that the system of internal control B. J. K. Dunn 6 - - - reflects the risk environment in which the Group operates, the system A. G. Thomas 7 2 5 0 should provide adequate assurance that the key risks facing the Group R. Lane-Smith 7 2 5 0 are properly managed.
D. M. M. Beever 7 2 5 0 Associate Board of Directors The Board sets the overall strategy and policy of the Group and has put Individual Executive Directors are responsible for the control of operational in place a well-defined organisational structure, with clearly understood matters.
In order to effect day to day control of the Group, a second tier lines of responsibility and delegation of authority to help ensure that Board was created in 1998 known as the Associate Board which currently strategies and policies are effectively implemented and adhered to.
comprises the Chairman and Executive Directors, together with 14 Associate Directors who are senior executives of the Group responsible Detailed operational procedures are adopted and followed by the Groups for all key disciplines within the business.
principal functional activities and are designed to incorporate key controls.
These key controls are subject to periodic internal audit review Whilst the Associate Directors have not been appointed to the office of to ensure that they are being operated effectively and that they are Companies Act Director, their experience and knowledge ensure a strong suitable to manage any significant business risks faced by the Group.
link between the Groups strategy which is set by the Board and its Reports of internal audit reviews which have been performed, are made implementation across the business available to the Board and the Audit Committee.
Performance evaluation The risk management processes and internal controls are continuously The performance of the Board, its Non-executive Directors and Board reviewed for effectiveness and assessed by the Board, as part of their Committees has been monitored during the year.
The senior independent Executive responsibilities.
The Board considers all significant aspects of Non-executive Director appraises the performance of the Chairman internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls, through discussions with all the Directors individually, and together with as well as the risk management process adopted by the Group, and the Chairman appraises the performance of the Chief Executive.
The believes this will provide the ability to promptly identify and appropriately performance of the other Executive Directors is monitored throughout the respond to areas of material concern.
The review process is based on the year by the Chief Executive and the Chairman.
reports made to the Board by the Risk Control Internal Audit Manager and 22 the Associate Director of Retail Audit, as well as other ad hoc reports from All retail store and health club managers have now undergone a basic Management.
The Board also takes into consideration any matters raised health and safety training course covering the most common health and by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee has reviewed both the safety issues in the workplace.
The course is approved by the Chartered effectiveness and level of internal audit resources available within the Institute of Environmental Health.
A rolling programme is in place to Group and believes that it is appropriate for the size and nature of the ensure that this training is kept up to date.
Further training is currently risks facing the Group.
being considered for more senior retail and leisure management and is demonstrative of the Groups ongoing commitment to health and safety.
Auditor independence Deloitte & Touche LLP have reported to the Audit Committee that, in their Distribution centre managers have undertaken Managing Safely professional judgement, they are independent and that the objectivity of courses organised by the Institute of Occupational Safety and Health, in the audit partner and audit staff is not impaired.
The Audit Committee order to ensure the competence of those managers in contributing to the have reviewed this report and agrees with its conclusion and is satisfied overall safety of the Distribution centre environment.
that Deloitte & Touche LLP has adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is maintained.
The Directors responsibilities Audit Committee are aware that providing audit and non-audit advice United Kingdom company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial could lead to a potential conflict of interest.
In order to ensure the statements for each accounting period which give a true and fair view of continued independence and objectivity of the external auditors there are the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss established policies regarding the provision of non-audit services.
of the Group for that period.
Relations with shareholders In preparing those Financial statements, the Directors are required to: The Group is committed to maintaining an active dialogue with shareholders Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: in order to build a mutual understanding of its objectives.
The Board invites institutional shareholders and analysts to briefings after the announcement Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and of the Companys Interim and Annual results.
There is also regular dialogue with individual institutional investors, fund managers and analysts.
State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the The Board encourages communication with private shareholders through Financial statements.
publication of the Interim and Annual results as well as the trading updates at the time its Annual General Meeting and after Christmas.
The The Directors confirm that these Financial statements comply with the Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to gather the views of above requirements.
shareholders and to answer the questions of both private and institutional investors on all issues relevant to the Group.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining adequate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial The Groups website, www.
co. uk, also includes an area dedicated to position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that corporate information, including Annual and Interim reports, press releases, the Financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are share price histories, Group news and certain Group policy documents.
also responsible for the maintenance of an appropriate system of internal controls and for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group Health and safety and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Operating in a safe manner, with due consideration to the health, safety and other irregularities.
and welfare of all employees and others who may be affected by the Groups work activities, is vital to the success of the business and is The Groups website contains up to date information on the Group something to which the Group is fully committed.
activities and its published financial results.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of this website Overall responsibility for health and safety strategy rests with the Board of Directors.
In order to effect day to day control of health and safety, JJB Going concern has an Associate Director of Group Health, Safety and Insurance, Lesley After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable Lindley.
Lesley is an associate of the Institute of Occupational Safety and expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in Health, the Institute of Risk Management and the Chartered Insurance operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they Institute and reports directly to the Board of Directors on all health and continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups safety issues together with all insurance matters.
