Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the growth and development of the Group.
M Johnston was unable to attend the principles of Corporate Governance This is reviewed and discussed as January and June meetings, Mr S J contained in the Combined Code on appropriate at the other Board meetings Waugh the January meeting and Lord Corporate Governance which is appended held during the year.
Gordon of Strathblane the April meeting.
to the Listing Rules of the Financial In advance of the formal Board meeting in Services Authority and for which the In addition to the normal agenda at Board September, led by the Senior Independent Board is accountable to shareholders.
meetings, which is described below, the Director, the Non-Executive Directors met directors consider one operational or and, as part of the agenda of that Statement of Compliance with special topic at each meeting.
During the meeting, appraised the performance of the The Code of Best Practice last twelve months this has included Chairman.
The Board has also met during The Company has complied throughout circulation of daily newspapers, future the year without the Executive Directors the year with the Provisions of The Code printing press requirements, editorial being present.
set out in Section 1 of the Combined policy, national sales, digital publishing Code on Corporate Governance issued and human resource trends and issues.
The meetings of the Remuneration, Audit by the Financial Reporting Council in and Nomination Committees were July 2003.
The Board believes it is Board Meeting Agenda attended by all members either personally already compliant with the Revised The Board receives a formal schedule of or by telephone other than Mrs M A King Turnbull Guidance which is due to be matters specifically reserved to it for who was unable to attend one effective from 1 January 2006. decision, such as future strategy, Remuneration Committee meeting.
acquisitions and disposals, dividend Statement of Application of The policy, approval of the Annual Report Board Balance Principles of Good Governance and Accounts, capital expenditure, trading Of the Companys current eleven The Company has applied The Principles and capital budgets and Group borrowing Directors, three are Executive and the of Good Governance set out in Section 1 facilities.
The Board considers monthly remainder Non-Executive, of whom five of the Combined Code as reported above.
reports from the Chief Executive Officer, are regarded as independent, excluding Further explanation of how the Principles Chief Financial Officer and Chief Operating the Chairman.
have been applied is set out below and, in Officer and Minutes of the Board are connection with directors remuneration, in circulated to all Board members.
It has also Other than the Chairman, those who are the Directors Remuneration Report.
made the Company Secretary responsible regarded as non-independent are Mr F P to the Board for the timeliness and quality M Johnston and Mr H C M Johnston, who Board Effectiveness of information.
have significant shareholdings in the The Board considers that it has shown its Company and have previously served the commitment to leading and controlling the Board Responsibilities Group in an executive role.
It is the view of Company by meeting nine times in the The Board acknowledges the division of the Board that such circumstances do not year, but can meet when necessary for any responsibilities for running the Board and lessen the value of the contributions made matters which may arise.
The managing the Companys business with by these two Non-Executive Directors.
Remuneration Committee met on six Mr R G Parry as Non-Executive Chairman, occasions, the Audit Committee three times Mr P E B Cawdron as Senior Independent The Board determines that Lord Gordon and the Nomination Committee twice.
Director and Mr T J Bowdler as the of Strathblane is independent despite Companys Chief Executive Officer.
serving on the Board for more than nine The Board sets the strategic aims and years.
He is highly respected for his objectives of the Group, ensuring that the Mr P E B Cawdron is available to address wealth of media experience and his Group has sufficient financial and human any concerns that shareholders may have, totally impartial and professional resources to meet its objectives.
The Board which have not been resolved through the approach to his role.
He plans to retire also sets the Groups values and standards normal communication channels of the from the Board at the 2007 Annual and ensures that its obligations to its Chairman or Executive Directors.
General Meeting when he will be 70. shareholders and others are understood and met.
Management are responsible for The Chairman of the Remuneration Mr R G Parry will have served nine years the application of the aims and objectives Committee is Mr S J Waugh.
He on the Board in September 2006.
The on a day-to-day basis, monitoring the succeeded Lord Gordon of Strathblane board are unanimously of the view that he financial achievements of the business.
The who stepped down as Chairman at the should continue to serve as a Director and Board reviews the performance of Annual General Meeting in April 2005.
The recent Board evaluation management in meeting the agreed regard to the Audit and Nomination process concluded that Mr R G Parry has objectives and goals, plans the succession Committees, these are chaired by all the appropriate skills and credentials to of key executives, and determines Mr P E B Cawdron, who is a chartered continue to lead the Company as Chairman.
accountant, and Mr R G Parry respectively.
At least half the Board, excluding the At least one Board meeting each year is Board Attendance Chairman, comprises Non-Executive wholly devoted to strategy and to the During 2005, every director attended all Directors determined by the Board to be consideration of a plan for the long term meetings with the exception that Mr H C independent.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 33 Corporate Governance continued Nomination Committee beginning to consider the question of least one Board meeting is held at one of The Nomination Committee is chaired succession for the Chief Executive Officer the Groups centres where the Board by Mr R G Parry, and also comprises who is due to retire in 2009. receives a presentation from the local Mr P E B Cawdron, Lord Gordon of Managing Director and a tour of the Strathblane and Mr L F Hinton.
Reporting Information and Professional business.
Individual directors attend a to the Board, its duty is to seek suitably Development range of seminars presented by skilled and experienced candidates, with The Chairman arranged a detailed professionals throughout the year.
sufficient time to devote to the role, as induction process for the two new Non-Executive Directors and to oversee all Directors, including meetings and Board Re-election Board appointments.
Once the role of a discussions with advisers and senior It is the policy of the Board that all vacancy has been determined, the management where appropriate, together directors are subject to re-election at the Committee appoints external recruitment with the preparation of a full induction first Annual General Meeting after their consultants to assist with the search.
A similar appointment and thereafter every three process will be undertaken when a new years.
All independent directors who have The terms of reference of the Committee Non-Executive Director is appointed.
served nine years or more retire annually.
are displayed on the Companys website in the Investor Relations section.
All Board members have access to The Chairman has, following the formal independent advice on any matters evaluation process described above, During the early part of 2005, the relating to their responsibilities as directors considered the performance of the appointment of two new Directors was and as members of the various directors subject to re-election at the 2006 overseen by the Committee.
This followed Committees of the Board.
The Company Annual General Meeting and is satisfied its own deliberations and feedback from Secretary is available to all directors and that the individuals performance the Board Evaluation process in 2004. he is responsible for ensuring that all continues to be effective and that they Mr L F Hinton was appointed as a NonBoard procedures are complied with.
have demonstrated a clear commitment to Executive Director on 16 March 2005. the role.
He has an immense knowledge of the Board Performance Evaluation publishing sector as Chairman of News During the last year, the Board has Financial Reporting International Ltd.
This appointment filled conducted a rigorous evaluation of its own The Board has shown its commitment to the sector experience gap that was performance.
This involved the completion presenting appropriate information about highlighted in the Board Evaluation of an assessment questionnaire by all the Companys financial position by process last year following the retirement directors covering the performance of the complying with the 2006 reporting of Sir Harry Roche in June 2004.
Also on Board, individual directors, the Company standards issued by the International and 16 March 2005, Mr D Cammiade was Secretary and Board Committees.
Other UK Accounting Standards Board relating appointed as an Executive Director in the topics included all meetings, the provision to the disclosures which are included in role of Chief Operating Officer.
He has of information, training and the overall this Annual Report.
worked for the Group for many years and effectiveness of the Board.
There was a has extensive operational experience from particular emphasis this year on a scoring Statement of Directors Responsibilities a variety of senior roles in the Group.
system for assessing individual, Committee The Directors are responsible for preparing and Board performance together with a the Annual Report and the financial The Committee is currently considering a focus on the future strategy of the Group statements.
The Directors are required to replacement for Lord Gordon of especially in the area of digital publishing.
prepare financial statements for the group Strathblane who retires from the Board in The questionnaires were submitted to the in accordance with International Financial April 2007.
Again, the Board Evaluation Company Secretary who prepared a Reporting Standards IFRS.
Company law process in 2005 highlighted the summary of the conclusions which was requires the Directors to prepare such unanimous view of the Board that Lord presented to the Board meeting in January financial statements in accordance with Gordon should be replaced on his 2006.
Separately, the Secretary produced a IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article retirement.
The Committee is currently report summarising any individual 4 of the IAS Regulation.
preparing a detailed brief and will start the recommendations for the consideration of recruitment in the near future.
It is planned the Chairman.
This was followed up by International Accounting Standard 1 that there will be an overlap period to meetings as appropriate with individual requires that financial statements present ensure a smooth and efficient handover.
fairly, for each financial year, the Companys financial position, financial Other areas that the Committee is Training is undertaken as required during performance and cash flows.
This requires reviewing is the position of Mr P E B the year.
The feedback from the recent the faithful representation of the effects of Cawdron, who will have completed 9 questionnaires will assist in the training transactions, other events and conditions years service in 2007.
The unanimous plan for the forthcoming year.
The Board in accordance with the definitions and view of the Board is that his experience arranges for its Non-Executive Directors to recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, and professional knowledge is invaluable visit the Groups principal locations at income and expenses set out in the to the Board, and that he continues to be certain intervals to discuss the operations International Accounting Standards independent.
In addition, the Committee is with local management.
In addition, at Boards Framework for the Preparation 34 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 and Presentation of Financial Statements.
reasonable and not absolute assurance Committee IFCC based on a In virtually all circumstances, a fair against material misstatement or loss.
programme of work agreed in advance.
presentation will be achieved by The system of internal control has been The IFCC is chaired by the Company compliance with all applicable designed to meet the Groups particular Secretary who is responsible for the International Financial Reporting needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
conduct of control reviews in selected Standards.
Directors are also required to: locations by members of the Committee There is an ongoing continuous process who are independent of the location Properly select and apply accounting of identifying, evaluating and managing visited.
The IFCC is also responsible for policies: the significant risks faced by the Group, the review of detailed financial control which has been in place throughout the checklists submitted by each operation Present information, including year under review and up to the date of to head office monthly.
This work is accounting policies, in a manner that approval of the Annual Report and strongly supported by the Groups provides relevant, reliable, comparable Accounts.
This process is well financial accounting centre which and understandable information: and documented and regularly reviewed by the ensures a consistent and compliant Board.
The key elements of the process approach to the processing of Provide additional disclosures when during the period under review have been: transactions and ensures a uniform compliance with the specific control process across the Groups requirements in IFRS is insufficient to Formal Board reporting on a monthly operations.
enable users to understand the impact basis by the Chief Executive Officer, of particular transactions, other events Chief Financial Officer and Chief Review by the Audit Committee of the and conditions on the entitys financial Operating Officer on the Groups conclusions of the Groups external position and financial performance.
performance and on any emerging risks auditors in their annual audit and review and issues.
The monthly management of the half-year results.
These reviews The Directors are responsible for keeping accounts break down the results of include discussion of any control proper accounting records which disclose the Groups operations by individual weaknesses or issues identified by with reasonable accuracy at any time the business performance and all significant the auditors.
financial position of the company, for variations against budget and the safeguarding the assets, for taking previous year are fully examined.
The The conduct of risk assessment reasonable steps for the prevention and day-to-day responsibility for managing involving all senior managers of the detection of fraud and other regularities each of the Groups operations rests Groups businesses in addition to the and for the preparation of a Directors with local experienced Senior Executive Directors.
A risk matrix is Report and Directors Remuneration Executives and the Group has a clear reviewed on a regular basis both in the Report which comply with the organisational structure which includes local operations and by the Group requirements of the Companies Act 1985. appropriate delegation of authority.
One risk is Executive Directors ensure that regular discussed at every monthly executive The Directors are responsible for the contact is maintained with all Senior meeting both locally and at Group level.
maintenance and integrity of the company Executives.
The Group Management The results of these assessments are website.
Legislation in the United Board, comprising the Executive summarised and reported to the entire Kingdom governing the preparation and Directors, the Company Secretary, the Board.
These risk assessment sessions dissemination of financial statements may Director of Human Resources and the will continue at each operation and will differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Business Development Manager, meets evaluate and address the risks identified.
every month to review financial and During 2005, the Group Management Going Concern operational issues as well as the risks Board has focused particularly on job After making enquiries, the Directors have facing the Group.
and property advertising trends: an formed a judgement, at the time of economic downturn: disaster recovery approving the financial statements, that Formal Board approval for capital plans: management succession: digital there is a reasonable expectation that the expenditure over 250K and for other strategy: health and safety audits: and Group has adequate resources to investment decisions.
continue in operational existence for the granted for all acquisitions and foreseeable future.
For this reason, they disposals submitted.
Steps are being taken to embed internal continue to adopt the going concern basis control and risk management further into in preparing the financial statements.
Formal Board approval of the annual the operations of the business and to deal budget for the forthcoming financial with areas of improvement which come to Internal Control year.
This includes detailed and managements and the Boards attention.
The Directors are responsible for the comprehensive budgets, covering each Groups system of internal control and for operating business.
In addition, the Group Management Board regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
Such has the ongoing responsibility to set a system is designed to manage rather Review by the Audit Committee on a policies, procedures and standards as than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve six-monthly basis of the work performed detailed in the Groups policy guidelines, business objectives, and can only provide by the Internal Financial Control which have been updated as appropriate Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 35
