Annual Report & Accounts 2005 42 Kazakhmys PLC Corporate Governance Report Introduction Kazakhmys PLC listed its shares on the London Stock Exchange in October 2005 and was the first company with its major operations in Kazakhstan to do so.
Its listing in London has enabled Kazakhmys to access the leading centre for financial capital for mining in the world and it is anticipated that this will enable the Company to consolidate its position as a major international mining company and further develop its presence in Central Asia.
In the period leading up to Listing, the Board implemented a number of changes to the corporate governance of the Company.
These changes were designed to give confidence to shareholders and others associated with the Company that it seeks to be well managed in a manner comparable to other international mining companies listed on the London Stock Exchange, whilst taking cognisance of the unique circumstances behind the growth and development of the Group.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and this report outlines how the provisions of the Combined Code have been applied by the Company since Listing, thus demonstrating its commitment to adhere to the Combined Code on the same basis as all other UK listed companies.
Statement of Compliance Since Listing, the Company has complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code, save in the following respects: The Chairman was not independent at the time of his appointment.
Mr Kim joined the Group in 1995 and has made a major contribution to its development into an international FTSE 100 company.
He has been responsible for leading the Group to strong profitability and cash flows.
The Board considers that Mr Kims continued involvement in an executive capacity is vitally important to the Company at the present stage of its development.
The number of non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent is less than half of the Board.
The Company has four non-executive Directors, three of whom are judged by the Board to be independent.
It intends to appoint a further UK-based independent non-executive Director as soon as possible.
The Audit Committee has only two members.
Only two non-executive Directors were initially appointed as members of the Audit Committee because the Board wanted to ensure that the Audit Committee was fully independent and consisted of the most appropriate Directors for its role.
With the appointment of a further independent UK-based non-executive Director, the Company intends to appoint a third member to the Audit Committee.
Board evaluation has not yet been undertaken.
Most of the Directors were only appointed between September and December 2005 and, in view of this, the Board believes that a meaningful evaluation can only take place once the new Board has had a reasonable amount of time to work together.
An evaluation process will be developed and implemented before the end of 2006.
The Board did not initially appoint a senior independent Director.
The Board stated at the time of Listing that it intended to appoint a senior independent Director and Mr James Rutland, an independent non-executive Director, has now been appointed to that role.
The Board The Board is responsible for approving and implementing Group strategy.
It is also responsible for providing leadership and support to the executive management team in achieving sustainable added value for shareholders, together with delivering the expected shareholder returns.
It is also responsible for ensuring the appropriate allocation of financial resources.
To this end, the knowledge and experience of the non-executive Directors in the UK quoted company environment means that they are able to make a significant contribution to the Board by providing assistance and guidance to the executive Directors in developing Group policies and strategy.
The Board has also delegated authority to: the Audit Committee, to oversee the development of an appropriate system of financial control and to monitor the integrity of the financial reporting by the Company, to oversee the establishment and development of the Groups internal audit function including internal control and risk management, and to oversee the relationship with the external auditor: the Remuneration Committee, to set the remuneration policy for executive Directors and senior management: the Nomination Committee, to consider and recommend to the Board potential Board appointments and to assess the development of Directors including induction, training and succession planning: and the Health, Safety and Environment HSE Committee, to formulate and recommend to the Board the Groups policy for HSE and to ensure that an effective system of HSE standards, procedures and practices is in place at each of the Groups operational sites.
The membership of each of these committees is as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination HSE James Rutland Ch Lord Renwick Ch Vladimir Kim Ch David Munro Ch David Munro David Munro Lord Renwick Yong Keu Cha James Rutland David Munro James Rutland Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Kazakhmys PLC 43 Between Listing and 31 December 2005, the Board met three times, the Audit Committee twice and the Remuneration Committee once.
The Nomination Committee did not meet during this period but has met twice since then.
Attendance of members at Board and committee meetings is set out below.
1 Current Directors Board Audit Remuneration Vladimir Kim 3 3 Yong Keu Cha 3 3 Oleg Novachuk 3 3 2 David Munro 3 3 2 2 2 Vladimir Ni 1 3 1 1 2 James Rutland 3 3 2 2 1 1 3 Lord Renwick 1 1 1 1 1 Excluding Board committee meetings associated with the Listing.
There is an agreed schedule of matters reserved to the Board and all Board committees have approved terms of reference.
Board operating procedures are currently being developed.
Directors receive a full Board pack of papers for consideration in advance of each Board meeting, together with monthly reports on the Groups operations, to ensure that they remain briefed on the latest developments to allow them to make fully informed decisions in the best interests of the Company.
There is an agreed procedure by which members of the Board, if they require to do so in the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary may only be appointed and removed by the Board and he is responsible for the provision of administration and other services to the Board.
He is also available to the Directors for consultation on matters relating to company law and Directors responsibilities.
Board membership The Board consists of three executive Directors the Executive Chairman, Mr Kim: the Chief Executive, Mr Cha and the Finance Director, Mr Novachuk: and four non-executive Directors.
Mr Rutland is the senior independent Director.
The other non-executive Directors are Messrs Munro, Ni and Lord Renwick.
Board balance and independence Of the non-executive Directors, Mr Vladimir Ni was appointed as Chairman of Kazakhmys LLC the Companys main operating company in Kazakhstan with effect from 1 January 2006.
He is therefore no longer considered by the Board to be independent under the provisions of the Combined Code.
The independent non-executive Directors are: Mr David Munro was an executive director of Billiton plc, Chief Development Officer of BHPBilliton plc and Chief Executive of RMC Group plc and has strong credentials within the international mining industry.
Mr Munro received a fee of 400,000 for his assistance in helping to prepare the Company for the IPO on the London Stock Exchange which he immediately invested after tax in shares of Kazakhmys PLC.
This was a payment relating to services prior to joining the Board.
Lord Renwick of Clifton serves on the boards of SABMiller plc, Fluor Corporation and Compagnie Financire Richemont.
He served previously on the boards of British Airways plc, BHPBilliton plc and Liberty International plc.
Lord Renwick is Vice-Chairman of JPMorgan Cazenove, who are brokers and financial advisers to the Company.
Lord Renwick has no involvement in the provision of broking or financial services to the Company.
Mr James Rutland has held a number of positions in Investors in Industry plc and in banking with James Capels corporate finance group and Hongkong Banks resource lending group in London.
He has served as Finance Director of Energy Africa Limited and now acts as a consultant.
Mr Rutland also received payment for his services as Chairman designate of the Audit Committee during the months immediately prior to the Listing.
This payment related solely to services prior to joining the Board and is not linked to any additional duties as a non-executive Director.
As required by the Combined Code, the Board has considered the independence of these three Directors and has concluded that they are independent in character and judgement.
As a newly listed company, the Company has sought to recruit to its Board experienced non-executive Directors who are well known to, and highly regarded by, the market.
The Directors believe that the presence of all three independent non-executive Directors will add considerably to the Boards ability to oversee and grow the Groups operations.
The Board has announced its intention to recruit a further UK-based independent non-executive Director and anticipates being able to announce that appointment as soon as possible.
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 44 Kazakhmys PLC Corporate Governance Report continued The non-executive Directors have held informal discussions with the Chairman from time to time without the other executive Directors being present.
Mr James Rutland has been appointed as senior independent Director and his principal duty in this capacity is to be available to talk to major shareholders if their concerns have not been resolved by the Chairman or executive Directors.
Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly divided and their responsibilities have been set out in writing, agreed by the Board as follows: The Chairman, Mr Kim, is responsible for the strategic direction of the Company, overseeing operational management and running the activities of the Board The Chief Executive, Mr Cha, is responsible for sales and marketing, the operation of the London office, the recruitment of staff and establishment of processes to enable the Company to fulfil the obligations arising from its status as a FTSE 100 company, for example, investor relations and financial reporting.
Board appointments The Board appointed Mr David Munro, Mr James Rutland and Mr Vladimir Ni as non-executive Directors on 23 September 2005 and Lord Renwick as a non-executive Director on 1 December 2005.
These appointments were made following consultations with the Companys advisers and display a blend of skill and experience which allows them to work well together and with the executive Directors.
Letters of appointment have been entered into with all of the non-executive Directors and are available for inspection at both the registered office of the Company and at the offices of Linklaters at One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, United Kingdom during usual business hours on any weekday public holidays excluded and will also be placed on the Companys website shortly.
As indicated in the Directors Report on pages 48 to 53, the executive Directors and the Company have entered into a relationship agreement to regulate the ongoing relationship between them.
Under the terms of that agreement, the executive Directors have undertaken to use their voting rights, where necessary, to ensure that the Board and the Nomination Committee will at all times comprise a majority of independent non-executive Directors and that the Remuneration and Audit Committees shall at all times consist only of non-executive Directors.
Professional development of the Board The Board intends to establish formal induction training for new Directors based on recommendations prepared by the Company Secretary.
The Board has only recently been established with its current membership and it would be premature to conduct any evaluation of the Board until it has been in place for one year.
It is therefore intended that the Board will undergo a formal evaluation of performance and effectiveness of the Board as a whole and of its committees and individual Directors towards the end of 2006.
The senior independent Director, Mr Rutland, together with the other non-executive Directors, will undertake an evaluation of the Chairman.
Since Listing the Directors have been guided and instructed by advisers where necessary.
The Board undertook a tour of some of the Groups operations in Kazakhstan in October 2005.
All of the Directors were briefed on their responsibilities as directors of a UK quoted company by the Companys legal advisers as part of the Listing process.
Re-election of Directors The Board can appoint Directors either to fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
The articles of association of the Company require that any Director so appointed shall retire at the annual general meeting following his appointment and may offer himself for election by shareholders.
In addition, under the current articles of association, one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year.
This ensures that each Director is re-elected at least every three years.
All Directors were re-elected pursuant to the Companys articles of association at the annual general meeting of the Company held on 16 December 2005 and, in accordance with the current articles of association of the Company, one third of the Directors are now standing for re-election.
Directors retiring and standing for re-election at this years annual general meeting are Messrs Cha and Rutland.
Biographical details of these Directors are set out on page 41.
The Board remains satisfied that each Director proposed for re-election continues to be fully competent to carry out his responsibilities as a member of the Board.
Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the integrity of financial reporting by the Company, to review the Groups internal control and risk management systems, to monitor the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and to oversee the relationship with the external auditor.
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Kazakhmys PLC 45 The Audit Committee was established on 23 September 2005.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr James Rutland who, as indicated above, has gained relevant financial experience whilst holding positions with James Capel, Hongkong Bank and Energy Africa Limited.
Only two members of the Audit Committee were initially appointed because the Board wanted to ensure that the Audit Committee was comprised only of independent Directors who were the most appropriate Directors for that role.
Following the appointment of a further UK-based independent non-executive Director, it is intended to appoint a third member to the Audit Committee.
The lead partner of the external auditor, the Finance Director and the Head of Internal Audit attend each Audit Committee meeting by invitation.
At least twice a year, the Audit Committee meets with the external auditor without executive management being present.
The Audit Committee also meets in private session with the Head of Internal Audit.
Under its terms of reference the Audit Committee is required to meet at least three times a year at appropriate times in the reporting and audit cycle.
Given the systems and controls being put in place by the Group, the Audit Committee has met more frequently than this and intends to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
The Audit Committee reports on its activities to the next Board meeting following its meetings.
Messrs Rutland and Munro met as the prospective Audit Committee prior to Listing.
The Audit Committee has since met on four occasions.
During that time the Audit Committee has carried out, inter alia, the activities described below in accordance with the responsibilities set out in its terms of reference a copy of which is available on the Companys website : Financial reporting: The Audit Committee reviewed both the 2004 and 2005 Annual Report and Accounts before recommending their respective publication.
As part of these reviews, the Audit Committee reviewed accounting policies, estimates and judgements that had been applied in preparing these reports and accounts, and the transparency and clarity of disclosures contained within them.
The Audit Committee also received reports on specific matters including tax exposures.
Internal control: The Audit Committee reviewed the development of the monthly management accounts process and resourcing within the financial control function.
It also reviewed plans for further development of the internal reporting process, the adequacy of the IT systems within the financial control function and performed an initial review of the Groups treasury and hedging arrangements.
Internal audit and risk management: A high level review of major risks faced by the Group was conducted in October 2005 in order to identify the areas on which risk management and internal audit should be focused.
Processes for more detailed identification, evaluation and management of risks are under review.
The Audit Committee considered alternative proposals for resourcing internal audit.
A Head of Internal Audit was appointed and given the task of establishing the internal audit function within the Group.
The Audit Committee received the first report from the internal audit department in early 2006.
A review of the Groups insurance requirements was also initiated.
External audit: The Audit Committee considered the re-appointment of the Companys external auditor before making a recommendation to the Board to be put to shareholders.
The Audit Committee oversees the relationship with the external auditor.
As part of this responsibility, the Audit Committee has reviewed the findings of the external auditor, reviewed management representation letters, approved audit plans, reviewed and agreed audit fees in respect of the 2005 year-end audit, and reviewed policies on the independence of the external auditor and the provision of non-audit services.
Prior to recommending the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP at the forthcoming AGM to the Board, the Audit Committee conducted a review of the independence of Ernst & Young LLP.
Whistleblowing: The Audit Committee has considered the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
That review has not yet been concluded.
The Audit Committee is committed to putting appropriate arrangements in place in the UK, Kazakhstan and Germany which enable proportionate and independent investigation of any improprieties with suitable follow-up action.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The review should cover all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls as well as risk management systems.
The processes the Board has used to assess the effectiveness of internal control include: Review of budgets and reporting on operational and financial performance against budgets Consideration of the risks likely to be faced by the Group in achieving its strategic plans and objectives Reviews by specialist advisers, for example, on health & safety and environmental matters Audit Committee and management review of internal audit processes across the Group Audit Committee review of accounting and financial reporting processes.
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 46 Kazakhmys PLC Corporate Governance Report continued In October 2005, the Audit Committee reviewed the key risks that were identified by the Board and senior management.
It is anticipated that an embedded risk management process will be developed across the Group during the next 12 months, and the following actions are planned to facilitate that process: Appointment of a risk coordinator within the Internal Audit function who will work alongside financial and operational management in identifying Group level risks that need to be actively managed Identify existing mitigating controls for these identified risks, or where none exist, design and implement internal controls to assist in managing such risks Develop a system of reporting of these identified risks and mitigating controls to the senior management team, and thereafter to the Audit Committee Seek continuous improvement in the risk management processes in the Groups businesses, with particular emphasis on extending and embedding these processes into newly acquired businesses, as and when necessary.
Since Listing, the Audit Committee has also reviewed the internal control environment existing at Group level, particularly relating to financial reporting, health, safety and environment, and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the internal controls in place at the operational level within Kazakhmys LLC are commensurate with, or in places exceed, those found in other large mining businesses located in Kazakhstan, but acknowledges that the Group has yet to develop the more advanced Board-level internal controls that would be typically found in other UK listed companies.
The Board, in conjunction with management, has agreed a number of activities to further develop the internal control environment, and progress on these initiatives, alongside the development of risk management processes, is being made.
Details of initiatives in the area of financial risk management can be found on pages 32 and 33 within the Financial Review, and initiatives in the areas of health & safety and the environment can be found on pages 50 and 51 within the Directors Report.
Overall, the Board acknowledges the measures that have already been implemented to initiate a risk management framework appropriate to the Groups circumstances.
The Board also notes the significant progress that management has achieved since Listing in improving the internal financial control environment from that which met the needs of a business operating exclusively within Kazakhstan to an internal financial control environment expected of UK listed companies that meets shareholder expectations and the more rigorous regulatory environment.
The Board will focus on replicating this across all aspects of internal control over the next 12 months.
The Board is committed to making further progress in these areas with a view to achieving comparable levels of risk management and an internal control environment with other international mining companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Going concern In presenting the annual and interim financial statements and similar significant publications, the Board aims to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects based on the funding plans produced at the time of Listing and subsequently updated as part of the 2006 corporate plan and budget.
The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Board has adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee was established on 23 September 2005.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr Vladimir Kim.
Its other members are Lord Renwick and Mr David Munro who are deemed by the Board to be independent in character and judgement, thus ensuring that the Nomination Committee complies with the recommendation of the Combined Code as to membership.
The Nomination Committee has met twice since the Listing to review the appointments of new non-executive Directors, to recommend to the Board a nomination for senior independent Director and to make recommendations to the Board concerning membership of the Board committees.
The Nomination Committee reports on its activities at the next Board meeting following its meetings.
Remuneration Committee The role of the Remuneration Committee and further details of the Groups remuneration policy are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 57.
