Kingston Communications HULL PLC Annual Report 200405 Corporate governance Good Governance and the Code of Best Practice The Board acknowledges that it has not achieved the Combined Code The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and recommendation that at least half the Board should be independent Nonresponsiveness to stakeholder expectations.
In the 2004 FTSE ISS Corporate Executive Directors.
The Board believes that full compliance with the Codes Governance Index the Company was ranked as out-performing 43.5% of UK requirement for a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors would listed companies and 84.9% of companies in the telecom services group.
make the Board unwieldy, however, the Directors are currently searching for The Company takes full account of the principles of Good Governance and an additional independent Non-Executive member of the Board.
the Code of Best Practice appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and the July 2003 FRC Combined Code.
It has complied Mr J Huth, who was appointed in January 2005, is not independent because with the Combined Code throughout the year with the following exceptions: he was nominated by KKR which owns 23.7% of shares in the Company.
For parts of the year a minority of the Non-Executive Directors were The only directors considered to satisfy the requirements of independence as wholly independent.
defined by the Combined Code are Mr S Christie and Mr J Carrington, ii.
For part of the year independent Non-Executive Directors did not comprise although Mr M Abrahams was independent on appointment.
more than half of the Board.
The Remuneration Committee was not made up of wholly independent The Board of Directors directors, as it included a director nominated by Kingston upon Hull The Board currently comprises the Non-Executive Chairman, Chief Executive City Council.
Officer, Chief Financial Officer, three Executive and five Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are not appointed for specific terms.
The Board During the early part of the year, when the number of Executive Directors considers that Non-Executive Directors should serve only for so long as they was below the current level, senior executives from within the Group actively can make an effective contribution and specifies that all Non-Executive participated in Board Meetings by invitation.
The Board is satisfied that since Directors must stand for re-election at least once every three years.
the end of May 2004 the balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors v. An appropriate balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors was not is appropriate and that no individual or group may dominate its decisions.
maintained in the early part of the year.
The Boards Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and vi.
The Audit Committee had insufficient members but the operation of the have a range of experience covering corporate governance, customer and Committee was carefully monitored and all decisions ratified by the Board.
employee issues, strategy, business operations and finance.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are clearly defined and separate in that Kingston upon Hull City Council, one of the Companys major shareholders, the Chairman is primarily responsible for the proper functioning of the Board.
is entitled to have Board representation proportionate to its shareholding.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for running the business of the The Council is also entitled to appoint a Council-nominated director to the Company and for implementing Board strategy and policy.
As long as the Council holds more than 30% of the Companys shares it can nominate two directors for appointment by the The Company has a policy that no Executive Director should take on more than Company: between 15% and 30% it may only nominate one.
one Non-Executive Directorship of a FTSE 100 company or the chairmanship of such a company.
The Companys other major shareholder, Kohlberg Kravis Roberts KKR, has a corresponding right to nominate one Board director for appointment by the Mr M Abrahams is the Non-Executive Chairman, and has served for a period of Company as long as KKR holds more than 15% of the Companys shares.
Mr Abrahams is also Chairman of the London Clinic and the Prudential staff pension scheme as well as being a director of a number of other companies.
Both Kingston upon Hull City Council and KKR have signed Relationship The only change in Mr Abrahams commitments during the year is that he Agreements with the Company designed to secure its independence and ensure resigned as Chairman of Minorplanet PLC in June 2004.
In addition to Board that their voting power is only exercisable in the Companys best interests.
and committee meetings Mr Abrahams is involved in regular dialogue with The nominees appointment by the Board is subject to the Companys Articles Company executives both during and outside normal working hours and of Association and they are obliged not to vote where there may be a conflict represents the Company at numerous meetings, particularly where his frequent of interest between their nominator and the Company.
Mrs C Page, Mr M Bird presence in London makes this an efficient means of advancing the Companys and Mr J Robinson were, throughout their respective terms of office, serving interests.
The extent to which he is readily contactable and available to act as Councillors nominated by Kingston upon Hull City Council, so were not wholly the Companys Chairman is part of the evaluation of his effectiveness by his independent under corporate governance guidance.
The Council delegates Board colleagues.
The Board is satisfied that Mr Abrahams is able to consistently responsibility for its shareholding to a wholly separate Council Committee on devote a more than adequate proportion of his time to the Company.
which none of the Council-nominated directors sit or report to.
The Board is therefore satisfied that in practice they bring a valuable and independent view Mr M Fallen is the Chief Executive Officer and was appointed to this position to its deliberations.
Mrs J Hughes was not, during her period as a director with in November 2003, having previously been the Chief Financial Officer.
Mr Fallen the Company, wholly independent under the principles of the Combined Code has been employed by the Company since 2001. by virtue of the Companys investment in Spectrum Venture Management Ltd, of which Mrs Hughes was then Non-Executive Chairman.
14 Mr S Christie is the Boards senior independent Non-Executive Director and The Board met on 12 occasions during the year.
The record of directors would be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact attendance at Board meetings is set out in the following table.
through the normal channels has failed to resolve, or for which such contact Number of Out of is inappropriate.
A summary of the responsibilities of the senior independent Directors meetings possible % Non-Executive Director is available on the Company website.
None of the Mr M Abrahams Chairman 12 12 100 current Non-Executive Directors have served for more than six years.
Mr M Fallen CEO 12 12 100 Mrs J Hughes resigned 23 07 04 2 4 50 All directors service contracts are available for inspection at the Companys Mr S Christie Senior NED 10 12 83 registered office.
Mrs C Page appointed 01 01 05 3 3 100 Mr M Bird resigned 31 03 05 6 12 50 The Board meets at least monthly.
All directors receive detailed reports and Mr J Robinson resigned 23 07 04 4 4 100 briefing papers in advance of Board meetings.
The Board has a formal schedule Mr J Carrington 12 12 100 of matters specifically reserved to it to ensure retention of full responsibility for Mr P Simpson CFO appointed 24 05 04 10 10 100 and effective control over Group strategy and policy and setting the Companys Mr N Gower appointed 24 05 04 10 10 100 values.
These matters include strategic plans, annual budgets, review of Mr K Walsh appointed 24 05 04 10 10 100 operating and financial performance, individual appraisal of significant new Mr P Halls appointed 31 12 04 3 3 100 projects, risk management policies, funding, health and safety and environmental Mr J Huth appointed 01 01 05 0 3 0 compliance.
All directors may receive independent professional advice at the Companys expense, and are regularly advised and guided by the Company The Non-Executive Directors have met during the year without the Chairman Secretary on proper corporate governance.
Opportunities for training are and Chief Executive Officer present, including a meeting to evaluate the available to the Board and newly appointed Non-Executive Directors receive performance of the Chairman.
Additionally, the Chairman met with the a comprehensive induction programme.
All directors are responsible equally Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors being present.
for the Companys affairs: Non-Executive Directors have particular responsibility for ensuring that proposed business projects and strategies are discussed and Board committees reviewed fully.
All business units and functions are required to develop formal The Board has established and delegated specific responsibilities to the following succession plans which are reviewed annually by the Board.
committees and takes care to regularly review committee membership to ensure continued effectiveness.
In the previous year the Board adopted a formal procedure of evaluation to review the effectiveness of its own performance, as well as that of its various The Remuneration Committee committees.
An  questionnaire has been completed Committee membership: John Carrington Chairman, Sean Christie, Michael by all the directors and its results collated and assessed against last years Abrahams, Maxwell Bird resigned 31 03 05. results.
Following review by the Board, a prioritised action plan has been drawn up to implement improvements.
The performance of individual directors is The report of the Remuneration Committee and details of its role are given regularly assessed by members of the Nomination Committee, taking into on pages 18 to 23.
During the year the Committee met on six occasions.
account factors such as attendance, integrity, objectivity in decision-making, Out of possible attendances each members participation was: experience and ability to contribute effectively to Board meetings.
Directors are also encouraged during the evaluation process to indicate any training they John Carrington 6 out of 6 Sean Christie 5 out of 6 may require.
In their individual evaluation of Board effectiveness, each director Michael Abrahams 6 out of 6 Maxwell Bird 4 out of 6 is also invited to comment on the performance and effectiveness of his or her colleagues.
The Chairmans performance is evaluated by means of a confidential The Committee has adopted new Terms of Reference in line with questionnaire completed by each of the other directors using criteria derived recommendations in the Combined Code and other best practice.
These are from the Combined Code including leadership skills, ensuring that the Board available on request from the Company Secretary and are also available on the receives correct and sufficient information and the ability to ensure effective Companys website.
The Board is satisfied that the Remuneration Committee communication between Board members and with shareholders.
The results arrangements meet the requirements of the Combined Code, with the are collated by the Company Secretary, discussed with the other directors, and exception of independence of all of its members, as previously mentioned.
any resulting actions initiated by the senior independent Non-Executive Director.
Responsibility for managing the business, implementation of business policy and review of business performance is delegated to the Chief Executive Officer supported by the other Executive Directors.
An Executive Management Board comprising the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, business unit managers and other senior executives met monthly throughout the year.
The extent of the Chief Executive Officers delegated powers has been set by the Main Board.
However, the Board holds in-depth reviews of individual business strategies and performance each year in addition to the annual review of strategy, business plans and budgets.
15 Corporate governance Kingston Communications HULL PLC Annual Report 2004-05 The Audit Committee Mr S Christie and Mr M Fallen will stand for re-election this year.
The Committee Committee membership: Sean Christie Chairman, John Robinson resigned excluding Mr Christie in the case of his own proposed re-appointment has 23 07 04, John Carrington appointed 27 01 05. recommended their appointment.
It is considered that Mr Christie brings considerable experience of the management and financial management of The Audit Committee supports the Board in the execution of its responsibilities other businesses, and is a valuable source of independent guidance.
Mr Fallen to establish and monitor financial reporting and internal control procedures.
has led the programme of acquisitions and disposals, the refocusing of the The Audit Committee aims to meet four times a year with the external auditors Groups strategic objectives and its return to profitability.
He has demonstrated in attendance.
Arrangements are agreed with the Board to allow time for review the ability to lead and inspire, creating confidence in the Companys future of any issues and concerns raised by the Committee.
The Chief Executive Officer, amongst customers, suppliers and employees.
Chief Financial Officer and Chairman attend by invitation when required.
The Committee monitors the Companys relationship with its external auditors.
Out of the possible attendances each members participation was: During the year the Committee met on four occasions.
The Committee has adopted new Terms of Reference in line with recommendations in the Combined Michael Abrahams 4 out of 4 Sean Christie 4 out of 4 Code and other best practice.
These are available on request from the Company John Carrington 4 out of 4 Johannes Huth 0 out of 1 Secretary and are also available on the Companys website.
The Board is aware that the Audit Committee arrangements did not meet the requirements of the Internal control Combined Code because there were insufficient members.
However, the Board Turnbull compliance monitored the operation of the Committee and ratified all its decisions.
John The Board, as required by the Financial Services Authority, discloses that it has Carrington was appointed in January 2005 in order to address the problem.
complied with the provisions of the Combined Code relating to internal control The Company is also engaged in the search for a further independent Nonhaving established the procedures necessary to implement the guidance in the Executive Director who would be expected to become a member of the Turnbull Report and by reporting in accordance with that guidance.
The Board recognises that its limited size precludes regular changes in its Committee membership to avoid reliance on particular The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control individuals.
Nevertheless the Board is satisfied that the calibre of the Committee and for reviewing its effectiveness whilst the role of management is to implement members is such that they can cope with the demands made upon them at Board policies on risk and control.
The system of internal control is designed to the present time.
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Audit Committee meets with the Head of Internal Audit to review work The Companys management operates a risk management process which undertaken by the Internal Audit function and to define and agree the scope identifies and evaluates the key risks faced by each business within the Group of future work.
The Committee also meets informally on other occasions with and reports to the Board on how those risks are being managed.
Each business the internal and external auditors.
maintains a database of its key risks which identifies the probability of each risk occurring, the impact if the risk does occur and the actions being taken to Out of the possible attendances each members participation was: manage each risk to the desired level.
Sean Christie 4 out 4 John Robinson 1 out of 1 The key risks identified are mapped to business objectives and to the controls John Carrington 1 out of 1 in place to manage those risks.
The business risk databases are reviewed and updated quarterly by business management and are reported to the Board and There has been no disagreement between the Audit Committee and the Board.
A Group risk database and map is produced Should there be disagreement on any material issue, the Audit Committee annually which identifies the key risks.
These include failure to develop and would report that issue to the shareholders in the Annual Report.
deliver new services, to meet customer expectations, to maintain brand awareness and to operate appropriate systems and processes.
Key operational risks include The Nomination Committee maintenance of network infrastructure reliability, physical and information Committee membership: Michael Abrahams Chairman, Sean Christie, security and ensuring that appropriate business continuity arrangements are in John Carrington, Johannes Huth appointed 27 01 05. place.
The Company also places a high priority on developing its strategy for advanced technologies and effective management of change.
Measures to The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board regarding address these risks include organisations designed around customer segments appointment of Non-Executive and Executive Directors.
The Committee ensures and focused on exemplary service delivery, development of a Group-wide that any appointments or re-appointments are made on merit and against security culture and continued process re-design and improvement.
All directors are required to stand for re-election every three years.
The re-appointment of Non-Executive Directors is subject to consideration The Board reviews the Group and business risk databases and receives regular by the Nomination Committee, prior to Board approval.
The Committee reports on any material events which affect the Companys rating of its key risks.
has adopted new Terms of Reference in line with recommendations in the Managing Directors of business units report regularly to the Board regarding Combined Code and other best practice.
These are available on request from risks to their businesses.
The risk assessment process is regularly reviewed by the Company Secretary and are also available on the Companys website.
The Board is satisfied that the system of internal control and The Board is satisfied that the Nomination Committee arrangements meet risk management is embedded in the routine of management decision making the requirements of the Combined Code.
The Committee has retained external and reporting, is being appropriately used to direct resources to the areas of advisers to assist and advise it regarding appointments.
The external advisers significant risk and is making a positive contribution to the achievement of the carry out initial interviews and select suitable applicants for consideration.
The Committee also relies on professional assistance from independent specialists and consultants to assist with the selection process.
During the year the Committee met on four occasions.
16 Organisation Statement of Directors responsibilities The Board concentrates on strategic, directional and financial performance.
United Kingdom Company law requires the directors to prepare accounts for It aims to safeguard the Companys assets, ensure proper accounting records each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the are maintained and that the financial information used within the business and Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
There is a clearly defined organisational structure In preparing the accounts, the directors have: with established reporting responsibilities, authorities and reporting lines to the Board.
Selected suitable accounting policies and applied them consistently.
Made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
Financial information and control Stated whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, The Companys businesses budget on an annual basis, and these budgets subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
are updated at least quarterly.
The performance of businesses against these forecasts is monitored by the Board.
Key financial and non-financial information The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which is reviewed by the Board monthly in order to monitor performance against disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the objectives.
There is an established investment evaluation process to ensure Company and enable them to ensure that the accounts comply with the Board approval for all major capital expenditure commitments.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and Monitoring of controls detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Company has an Internal Audit function.
Its work supports the directors in assessing key controls through a structured work programme.
There are Relations with shareholders established procedures for appraisal and authorisation of capital expenditure The Company is committed to establishing constructive relationships with and other transactions and for signature of contracts.
The Head of Internal investors.
Meetings are held from time to time with the Companys principal Audit has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
shareholders to discuss the Companys strategy and performance, and to Any system of internal financial control can, however, only provide reasonable obtain feedback.
The Company also has in place a formal programme of but not absolute assurance against misstatement and loss.
The system of meetings with institutional investors.
The Company has published detailed internal financial control described above was in place for the financial year Group financial and operating data half yearly.
and continues in place in the current financial year.
The Company has an investor relations function which aims to actively encourage Appointment of auditors to non-audit engagements communications between the Company and its shareholders.
Private investors The Board is aware of the need to maintain an appropriate degree may obtain information on the Companys strategy and performance from the of independence on the part of the auditors when engaged on nonCompanys website at www.
com, which includes details of press releases audit assignments.
and copies of presentations given at analysts briefings.
Copies of the Groups financial reports may also be found on the Companys website.
The Audit Committee has adopted a policy to define the Groups engagement with the auditors and other accounting firms on non-audit assignments.
The Board considers that the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM The policy categorises non-audit engagements as follows: represents a forum for communication between the Companys shareholders and its directors.
The Companys Chairman and directors will be available to Auditor preferred services those engagements where there would be answer questions at the AGM.
The Board has sought to encourage shareholder a loss of shareholder value if the auditors did not carry out the work.
participation by inviting questions in advance and referring minority interest Auditor restricted services those engagements which the Audit questions for later detailed response.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed Committee does not consider appropriate for the auditors to undertake.
at the AGM are set out in the separate notice of the AGM sent to all shareholders.
Auditor authorised services those engagements where it may or may not be appropriate to engage the auditors.
In line with developing best practice, the Company provides an opportunity on Proxy Forms for votes to be withheld and will disclose proxy voting totals The policy defines by type and value of assignment where the engagement both at the AGM and subsequently on the Company website.
of the auditors or another accounting firm requires the prior approval of the Audit Committee, where management may exercise their discretion and the The Company welcomes the opportunity for active shareholder participation framework for reporting appointments to the Committee.
The categories and at its AGM and believes that voting on a show of hands encourages this, but criteria adopted include a shareholder value analysis which assesses various will keep under review developing best practice with regard to voting of all criteria such as price and relevant experience.
The framework is reviewed resolutions on a poll.
annually by the Audit Committee.
Going concern Under corporate governance requirements, the directors confirm that, having reviewed the Groups budget and forecasts, they consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
