Corporate governance The board is accountable to the companys All new directors receive an induction on joining the The board has delegated certain authority to the shareholders for maintaining standards of board, including information about the company following committees.
Each committee has formal corporate governance.
The board considers that and their responsibilities, meetings with key terms of reference, which are available on request the company has complied throughout the managers, and visits to the companys operations.
from the company secretary or on the corporate accounting period with the provisions set out in Briefings are provided to directors on relevant governance section of the companys website at Section 1 of the Combined Code.
issues, including legislative, regulatory and financial www.
Training is available to directors The following is an explanation of how the on, and subsequent to, their appointment to meet EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE company applies the Combined Code.
There is an agreed Chaired by the chief executive and comprising the procedure for directors to take independent executive directors and the chairman, it has THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS professional advice at the companys expense in delegated authority to deal with specific matters The board meets at least six times each year and furtherance of their duties in relation to board or remitted to it by the board.
more frequently where considered appropriate or committee matters.
Directors have direct access to where business needs require.
In addition, informal AUDIT COMMITTEE the group company secretary who is responsible for meetings of the non executive directors are held Ken Jackson was chairman of the audit committee ensuring that board procedures are followed.
The board has a schedule of until 1 June 2004, when he stepped down from directors receive full and timely access to all matters reserved for its decision and the the chairmanship, but remained as a member of relevant information, including a monthly board requirement for board approval on these matters the committee.
Christopher Fisher was appointed pack of operational and financial reports.
Direct is communicated widely throughout the senior as chairman of the committee on 1 June 2004. access to key executives is encouraged.
The other member of the committee is Derek Throughout the year ending on 31 March 2005, The board determines the groups strategic Roberts.
All three members of the audit the board comprised the chairman, the chief objectives and key policies, and approves the committee are independent non executive executive, the group finance director, and five non business plans for each group company, interim directors.
The external auditors, the Head of executive directors.
Of the non executive directors and final financial statements, recommendations Internal Audit and the Company Secretary attend Christopher Fisher, Ken Jackson, David Salkeld and of dividends, significant investment and major new all meetings.
The Group Finance Director usually Derek Roberts are considered by the board to be business proposals, as well as significant attends by invitation.
independent of management and free from any organisational matters and corporate governance business or other relationship which could arrangements.
The board is also responsible for The audit committees key tasks include: materially interfere with the exercise of their establishing and reviewing the groups system of to review and monitor the integrity of the independent judgements.
Richard Schmidt was internal control and risk management, and interim and annual financial statements: previously an executive of the company.
The roles of the board, Ed Anderson and Kate Avery were appointed as to review the groups system of internal control, the chairman and the chief executive are formally non executive directors subsequent to the year including financial, operational, compliance and set out and agreed by the board.
Each of them is considered by the board to risk management control: levels of delegated authority, which enable be independent.
Derek Roberts is the senior management to take decisions in the normal to oversee the companys relationship with the independent director.
The roles of chairman and course of business.
external auditors, agree the nature and scope chief executive are separate and held by different of the audit and review the independence and During the year a formal performance evaluation people, John Napier and Kevin Whiteman objectivity of the external auditors: of the board, its committees and its directors was respectively.
John Napier met the independence undertaken.
The process involved the completion criteria of the Combined Code on his to monitor and review the effectiveness of the by each director of both a self evaluation and an appointment, although he subsequently served in internal audit function.
evaluation of the performance and effectiveness an interim executive capacity, which he The company has adopted an auditor of the board as a whole and individual directors, relinquished in September 2002. independence policy which establishes procedures individual discussions between each director and Any director appointed during the year is required, and guidance under which the companys the chairman, and meetings of the board and the under the provisions of the companys articles of relationship with its external auditors is governed non executive directors including meetings association, to retire and seek election by so that the audit committee is able to satisfy itself without the chairman to appraise his performance shareholders at the next annual general meeting.
that there are no factors which may, or may be to consider issues arising from the evaluation The articles of association of the company require seen to, impinge upon the independence and process and to identify and implement appropriate each director to be subject to re-election at objectivity of the audit process.
The evaluation concluded that the board intervals of no more than three years.
and its committees operate effectively, and that each director demonstrated commitment to the role and performed effectively.
36 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 The key features of the policy are: Ed Anderson and Kate Avery have been appointed presentations after the interim and preliminary as non executive directors of the Company with results.
All shareholders have the opportunity to clear accountability of the auditors to the audit effect from 1 June 2005.
The company identified put questions at the companys annual general committee and the chairman of the board of candidates for appointment as non executive meeting and the company will make a the company: directors with the assistance of independent presentation at the meeting to highlight the key the audit committee considers annually its search consultants.
The nomination committee business developments.
The chairmen of the audit recommendation to re-appoint the auditors: met, with all non executive directors in attendance, remuneration and nominations committees and to consider candidates and to develop a the senior non executive director will be available the auditors are required to disclose the recommendation to the board.
The appointments to answer questions at the annual general meeting safeguards and steps taken to ensure were made by the board.
to be held on 27 July 2005. independence and objectivity: The board receives reports from executive rotation of audit partners and appropriate ENVIRONMENT AND COMMUNITY COMMITTEE directors following meetings with investors.
Formal restrictions on appointment of employees John Napier is chairman of the environment and reports of investor feedback are presented to the of the auditors: community committee, and Kevin Whiteman board following the interim and annual results is a member of it.
It recommends to the board specific restrictions and procedures in relation presentations.
An investor relations report is appropriate environmental and corporate social to the allocation of non audit work to the presented to the board each month.
These include categories of work responsible for the publication of the environment which cannot be allocated to the auditors, and INTERNAL CONTROL and community report which is available on the categories of work which may be allocated to The board is responsible for the groups system of internet at www.
com kel csr the auditors, subject to certain provisions as to internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
materiality, nature of the work, or the approval There is an ongoing process for identifying, of the audit committee.
At each of its meetings the audit committee receives a report of the fees paid to the auditor in all capacities.
BOARD AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION NUMBER OF MEETINGS HELD 7 4 1 1 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE JOHN NAPIER 7 1 1 Details of the membership and role of the CHRISTOPHER FISHER 7 4 remuneration committee are included in the KEN JACKSON 7 4 1 1 directors remuneration report on page 39.
DEREK ROBERTS 7 4 1 1 NOMINATION COMMITTEE DAVID SALKELD 7 1 1 Derek Roberts was chairman of the nomination RICHARD SCHMIDT 6 committee until stepping down on 1 June 2004, MARTIN TOWERS 7 but continues to be a member of the committee.
KEVIN WHITEMAN 7 John Napier was appointed as chairman of the nomination committee on 1 June 2004.
The other members are Ken Jackson and David Salkeld.
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced BOARD ATTENDANCE by the group and this has been in place for the The table above shows the number of meetings The main functions of the committee are: year under review and up to the date of approval of the board, audit, remuneration and nomination of the annual report and accounts.
Strategic, to review the structure, size and composition committees held during the year, and the number financial, commercial, operational, and social, of the board, the audit committee and the of meetings attended by each director.
environmental and ethical risks fall within the remuneration committee and make COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS scope of this process.
The process is designed to recommendations to the board with regard Shareholders have direct access to the company manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to to necessary adjustments: via the investor relations section of its website achieve business objectives and can only provide to prepare a role and capability statement for at www.
com and its free shareholder reasonable, not absolute, assurance against the appointment of a chairman and to identify information telephone service.
The website is material misstatement or loss.
During the financial and nominate candidates for the approval of updated with all announcements and year, material joint ventures have been dealt with the board: presentations, and contains investor relations as part of the group for the purposes of applying information which is updated regularly.
to provide advice and recommendations to the board in respect of appointments of There is regular dialogue with individual The group has comprehensive and well defined other directors.
institutional shareholders as well as general control policies with clear structures, delegated KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 37 Corporate governance continued authority levels and accountabilities.
There is a The board confirms that it has reviewed the group procedure governing appraisal and approval effectiveness of the system of internal control.
It of business development and investment has received the reports of the audit committee expenditure.
Post completion reviews are required and has conducted a formal annual review on significant business development projects and covering all controls including financial, operational material investment expenditure.
and compliance controls and risk management, in accordance with the Internal Control: Guidance The groups risk management process aims to be for Directors on the Combined Code issued in comprehensive, systematic and continuous, and September 1999.
Following its review the board based on constant monitoring of business risk.
The determined that it is not aware of any significant key features of the process include the following: deficiency or material weakness in the system of The main risks facing the group are identified internal controls.
and recorded in a strategic risk register together with the control mechanisms applicable to each risk.
These are collated from risk registers maintained by individual businesses.
There is clear allocation of management responsibility for risk identification, recording, analysis and control.
The audit committee generally meets four times each year and reviews the effectiveness of the systems which are in place and reports to the board.
A risk management forum, chaired by the financial controller, has been established with formal terms of reference comprising senior management from key disciplines and operating companies.
It advises and assists operational managing directors and the board in the implementation of the risk management process and monitors risk on behalf of the board.
It reports to the audit committee.
Business units are required to report annually on principal business risks and the operation of control mechanisms.
The internal audit department provides objective assurance and advice on risk management and control, and monitors the risk management process.
38 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005
