0138 21-22 Nomination and#1D265 7 4 05 11:05 am Page 21 Audit Committee report The Audit Committee comprises Phil Bentley, Chairman, plus two other independent Non-Executive Directors, John Nelson and Michael Hepher.
This Committee provides an independent oversight of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems and financial reporting processes.
It receives and considers reports from both the internal and external auditors and approves the annual report and financial statements and the half year results announcement.
To comply with the Combined Code, the Chairman of the Board resigned as a member of the Committee in September 2004.
However, he will continue to be invited to attend as both the Committee and Board believe it is helpful and in the interests of the shareholders.
Each major operating business has its own audit committee, meetings of which are attended by both Kingfishers Director of Risk and Audit and the external auditors.
The role of the Audit Committee within the Companys internal control system and financial reporting processes is described in more detail in the Corporate Governance Report on page 10.
Its terms of reference are available at www.
A fundamental part of the process is a series of Committee meetings across the year, which consider and review: internal and external audit work plans: the Group risk themes: internal audit reports: the letters of representation for confirmation to the Board of their appropriateness and acceptability: and the reports from the external auditors on the principal reporting issues faced by the Group.
During the year the Committee also: made recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and approved the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor: monitored and reviewed the external auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness: approved the policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services: reviewed the whistle blowing arrangements across the Group and confirmed that all the principal businesses have arrangements in place enabling all staff to report fraud and similar matters.
It is planned that all subsidiary companies will have such arrangements in place and available for staff to use by the end of April 2005: and reviewed the structure and reporting lines of internal audit across the Group.
In 2004 05 there were five such meetings including one meeting devoted exclusively to the consideration of the move to International Financial Reporting Standards and the timetable for 2005 06 provides for four meetings, with the range of subjects for review at each meeting having been agreed in principle.
The Audit Committee will also meet on an ad hoc basis should the need arise.
Phil Bentley Chairman, Audit Committee 16 March 2005 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 21
