0138 07-10 Corporate Gov Report 13 4 05 11:12 am Page 7 Corporate governance report Combined code statement Kingfisher recognises the importance of, and is committed to, high standards of corporate governance.
During the year ended 29 January 2005, it became fully compliant with the requirements of the Combined Code published in July 2003, apart from the Chairman not formally holding meetings with the Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors.
The Board considers that, with the evaluation process described in more detail below and with the Chairman conducting individual personal assessments of Directors contributions to the operation of the Board, there are sufficient opportunities for the Non-Executive Directors to raise any concerns.
Board of Directors The primary responsibility of the Board is to ensure that the strategy for Kingfishers businesses is appropriate and implemented effectively.
The matters which are reserved to the Board and the authorities delegated to management are contained within the Matters Reserved for the Board available at www.
com as well as within various policies covering such matters as treasury management, capital expenditure approvals, legal matters, internal audit etc.
These policies and the system of internal controls are also supported by Kingfishers Code of Conduct.
This was updated in 2003, following the completion of the transformation of Kingfisher into a focused home improvement business.
The Code of Conduct is available to all employees in French and English and, to the extent possible, forms part of the employees contract of employment.
Kingfishers Board comprises the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman, four other independent Non-Executive Directors, the Group Chief Executive and two other Executive Directors.
There is clear and documented division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive, which can be obtained at www.
Phil Bentley, an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, is a qualified accountant and currently the executive Finance Director of Centrica plc.
As such he is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
No new Non-Executive Directors were appointed during the year.
Duncan Tatton-Brown was appointed Group Finance Director on 2 February 2004.
Although an internal appointment, Mr. Tatton-Brown was appointed following a process which included external candidates and which was conducted by an executive search agency.
Bill Whiting resigned from the Board on 28 January 2005.
All Directors are provided with, and have full and timely access to, information that enables them to make informed decisions on corporate and business issues, including operational and financial performance, risk management and business plans.
In particular, the Board receives monthly information on the performance and results of the Group and the individual operating businesses.
The Executive Directors receive information on sales and margin for the Group and the individual businesses on a weekly basis and, for the major businesses, sales on a daily basis.
In addition to the schedule of matters reserved for itself, the Board has delegated certain matters to five standing committees with defined terms of reference, which are published on the Companys website at www.
The Board members length of service and their membership of committees is shown in the following table: Name Length of service Age Board Committee membership Francis Mackay 3 years and 6 months 60 Nomination Chairman 1 John Nelson 3 years and 2 months 57 Remuneration Chairman, Audit, Nomination Phil Bentley 2 years and 5 months 46 Audit Chairman, Nomination Hartmut Krmer 2 years and 4 months 58 Nomination Michael Hepher 7 years and 7 months 61 Audit, Remuneration, Nomination Margaret Salmon 7 years and 7 months 57 Remuneration, Nomination, Social Responsibility Chairman Gerry Murphy 2 years and 2 months 49 Nomination, Social Responsibility, Finance Ian Cheshire 4 years and 10 months 45 Social Responsibility Duncan Tatton-Brown 1 year and 2 months 40 Finance 1 Senior Independent Director Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 7 0138 07-10 Corporate Gov Report 6 4 05 9:29 am Page 8 Corporate governance report continued The Directors biographies, which can be found at the front of this document, illustrate the Directors range of experience, which is intended to provide an effective Board to lead and control Kingfisher.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
On appointment, each Director receives a tailored induction programme which includes: store visits: meetings with management of the operating businesses: and external training courses at the Companys expense, if required.
External training at the Companys expense is available on an ongoing basis and the Board visits and meets with at least two operating companies and their management teams annually.
In 2004, the Board visited Castorama France, B&Q UK and Brico Dpt.
In 2005, visits are planned to Castorama Poland, Screwfix Direct and B&Q UK.
The Board has completed the fourth independent evaluation of its performance and, for the first time, separate evaluations of the performance of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
These were conducted by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
These evaluations consider the operation of the Board and each committee in practice, including their corporate governance and the operation and content of their meetings.
If any corporate governance issues are identified, processes are reviewed with a view to improving their effectiveness and appropriate action taken.
In addition, the Chairman conducted an individual review with each Director, considering their contribution and performance as a Director.
No significant issues arose and any matters requiring action will be taken forward by the Chairman with the relevant Director.
The Senior Independent Director led a review, principally through a separate meeting with the other Non-Executive Directors, of the Chairmans performance as Chairman.
During the year to 29 January 2005, the Board met 11 times to deal with regular business and a further five times to approve periodic trading statements.
This is felt to be adequate to enable effective running of the Company.
The attendance record of individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings is detailed below.
Board meetings Committee meetings Monthly Ad hoc Audit Remuneration Nomination Social Finance responsibility Number of meetings in year 11 557139 1 Francis Mackay 11 2361 Gerry Murphy 11 5 1 3 9 John Nelson 11 1571 Phil Bentley 9 5 1 Ian Cheshire 10 3 3 7 Michael Hepher 10 5 5 1 Hartmut Krmer 10 1 Margaret Salmon 11 7 1 3 Duncan Tatton-Brown 11 5 9 Bill Whiting 10 3 1 Resigned from the Audit and Remuneration Committees in September 2004, to comply with the requirements of the Combined Code.
Details of the Audit and Nomination Committees are provided in the individual reports of those committees on pages 21 and 22.
The details of the Remuneration Committee are in the Remuneration Report on pages 11 to 20: the details of the remaining two committees are: Social Responsibility Committee comprises Margaret Salmon Chairman plus the Group Chief Executive, Ian Cheshire and representatives of the operating companies.
This Committee is responsible for developing a general policy for the Group and overseeing the activities of the operating companies relating to environmental, community and equal opportunities matters.
The Board Director with overall responsibility for environmental matters is the Group Chief Executive: Finance Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Finance Director and any one other director, with a quorum of two Directors, one of which has to be either the Group Chief Executive or the Finance Director.
The attendance is also required of either the Chairman or the Group Chief Executive.
The Committee is responsible for the treasury operations of the Group, the approval and authorisation of financing documents and signature authorities on bank accounts, within its terms of reference and the authority limits laid down by the Board.
It reviews borrowing arrangements and other financial transactions.
It also allots new shares in the Company to Kingfisher employees following the exercise of share options.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 08 0138 07-10 Corporate Gov Report 5 4 05 1:37 pm Page 9 Company Secretary All Directors have access to, and the services of, the Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice at Kingfishers expense.
The Company Secretary or the company secretary of B&Q plc acts as secretary to all the above Committees.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for facilitating the induction and professional development of Board members as well as ensuring good information flows within the Board, its Committees and between the Non-Executive Directors and senior management.
Relations with shareholders Kingfisher is committed to an active dialogue with its shareholders through a planned programme of investor relations.
This activity is a key component of its corporate communications programme and is headed by the Group Communications Director, Ian Harding.
The programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim results, quarterly trading statements on three other occasions during the year and regular meetings between institutional investors and senior management.
Shareholders also receive Annual and Interim Reports and, on the Investors section of Kingfishers website www.
com investors, can access copies of these, all trading updates, press announcements and presentations to shareholders.
Following consultation with a number of institutional shareholders, the Board believes there are sufficient opportunities for the necessary dialogue between shareholders and the Board.
These include regular meetings between investors and management, the availability of all the Non-Executive Directors for meetings if so requested by the shareholders, a standing invitation for the Non-Executive Directors to attend any of the meetings between management and institutional investors and the availability to shareholders of John Nelson, as the Senior Independent Director, if there are concerns that cannot be resolved through normal channels of communication.
The Board receives regular reports on institutional shareholder meetings and any significant messages or concerns expressed at those meetings.
One of these reports will include anonymous independently conducted research with the views of analysts and investors on Kingfisher and its management.
This process and reporting allows the Directors to develop the necessary understanding of the views of the shareholders and also enables the Board to judge whether the investors have a sufficient understanding of the Companys objectives.
Both institutional and private shareholders are welcome at the Annual General Meeting AGM, which will include a short presentation on the business.
The AGM also provides an opportunity for shareholders to discuss with Executive and Non-Executive Directors any issues they have concerning the Company and its activities.
Auditor independence Kingfisher has had for a number of years clear rules and authorisation processes for the instruction of the auditors for non-audit work, details of which can be found at www.
The auditors are precluded from engaging in non-audit services that would compromise their independence or violate any laws or regulations affecting their appointment as auditors.
Approval of the Chairman of the Audit Committee is required prior to awarding contracts for non-audit services to the external auditors in excess of a specified amount.
The external auditors report to the Audit Committee annually on their independence from the Company, including periodic rotation of key partners.
Accountability, risk management and internal control Internal control The Board considers risk assessment, identification of mitigating actions and internal control to be fundamental to achieving Kingfishers strategic corporate objectives within an acceptable risk reward profile.
The risk assessment process also identifies mitigating actions.
This system of internal control is: the Boards overall responsibility: regularly, and at least annually, reviewed for its effectiveness by both the Board and the Audit Committee: in compliance with the Turnbull guidance: and supported by Kingfishers policies in such areas as Code of Conduct, legal and secretarial, finance and treasury.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The key elements of this process are: The Board, which: has approved a set of policies, procedures and frameworks for effective internal control.
These include the provision of quality internal and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
They are periodically reviewed and updated: regularly updates the Groups strategy and those of its operating companies: reviews and assesses Kingfishers key risks at least annually: Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 9 0138 07-10 Corporate Gov Report 2 4 05 10:28 am Page 10 Corporate governance report continued reviews performance through a comprehensive system of reporting, based on an annual budget with monthly business reviews against actual results, analysis of variances, key performance indicators and regular forecasting: has well defined policies governing appraisal and approval of capital expenditure and treasury operations: seeks assurance that effective control is being maintained through regular reports from the Audit Committee and various independent monitoring functions.
The Audit Committee, which in respect of the Group: monitors the integrity of the financial statements and any formal announcements relating to financial performance: reviews internal financial controls and systems, and other internal control and risk management systems including reports from Internal Audit on material control weaknesses: reviews risk management systems: monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function and the functions workplans.
The business head of each operating company business area, who: maintains systems that continually identify and evaluate significant risks resulting from their strategies and that apply to their areas of the business: reviews and monitors the effectiveness of internal control systems through an operating company audit committee and reports from internal and external audit functions: has responsibility for identification and evaluation of significant risks to their business area, together with the design of mitigating controls: has responsibility for their local audit committee: self-certifies that internal control processes are in place and that they comply with Group policies: supported by their operating company audit committee, reports on any control weaknesses or breakdowns that could be material to the Group.
The Internal Audit and Risk Management function, which: works with the operating companies to develop, improve and embed risk management tools and processes into their business operations: oversees the operation of the individual operating businesss audit committee: ensures that business risks are identified, managed and regularly reviewed at all levels of the Group and that Directors are periodically appraised of the key risks in accordance with the Turnbull guidance: provides the Board with objective assurance on the control environment across the Group: ensures that the operating companies have appropriate organisation and processes to carry out regular and effective reviews of their internal controls: monitors adherence to the Groups key policies and principles: provides the Group Audit Committee with necessary assurances on the control environment.
Whilst management at each operating business has responsibility for the identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their business and any mitigating actions to be taken, Group executive management reviews, identifies and evaluates the risks which are significant at a Group level as well as the mitigating actions against those risks.
These are then considered by the Board after review by the Audit Committee.
The type of risks identified include strategic risk, external factors such as the competitive environment and regulations change management programmes, health and safety, retention of key management and macro market risks.
The Internal Audit plans are designed to address the controls and actions in relation to each businesss significant identified risks.
Where appropriate the risk management process will include the use of insurance.
The Directors can confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of this system of internal control, and that it accords with the guidance of the Turnbull committee on internal control.
By Order of the Board Helen Jones Company Secretary 16 March 2005 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 10
