0138 21-22 Nomination and#1D265 6 4 05 9:38 am Page 22 Nomination Committee report As a result of the Combined Code introduced in July 2003, the role of the Nomination Committee has been reviewed and updated during the year to include reviewing skills and succession plans for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on our website at www.
The Committee comprises Company Chairman, Sir Francis Mackay, all Non-Executive Directors and, because of the responsibilities in connection with Executive Director appraisal and succession planning for Board and senior executives with Board potential, the Group Chief Executive.
The Committee reviews annually the succession plans for Directors and senior executives and monitors any agreed actions.
When the succession of the Company Chairman is being considered the Company Chairman will not chair any Committee meeting discussing that issue.
The Group Chief Executive will participate in discussions regarding his potential successors except where a replacement is being sought for performance related reasons.
The Committee reviews the composition of the Board from time to time, using suitably qualified external resources where appropriate, with the objective of identifying any gaps in skills or experience so that appropriate training can be arranged as well as informing the succession plan for future appointments to the Board.
Once a review is completed, the Committee agrees, for recommendation to the Board, a plan and a process for ensuring continuity of experience as well as compliance with the requirement that at least half the Board is comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee met once during the year to consider succession plans for the Executive Directors.
It is the current practice for the Board, rather than the Nomination Committee, to consider possible successors to the Executive Directors from senior executives as it is felt important that input is provided from the current Executive Directors, who are generally more aware of the detailed skills and strengths of the senior executive population.
When a new Director is being considered, the Committee meets as necessary.
No new Board appointments were made since the last Annual Report.
However, it has been the general practice in the past, and it is intended in the future, that the process for approaching new Non-Executive Directors will involve the use of external search consultants.
Where the search is for an Executive Director, appropriate external search consultants will be used, who will also review and compare any internal candidates.
Sir Francis Mackay Chairman, Nomination Committee 16 March 2005 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 22 0138 23 SEE Report 6 4 05 9:37 am Page 23 Social, environmental and ethical report The Board recognises and considers social, environmental and ethical SEE matters on a regular basis.
The Board receives timely and regular information concerning any risks that may be posed regarding such matters from the Social Responsibility Committee.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and its members and main responsibilities are detailed in the Corporate Governance report on page 8.
Issues that have been covered over the last financial year include the Operating Companies progression regarding SEE matters and economic and social trends in the countries relevant to the Groups operations.
The Board received presentations from the Groups Director of Social Responsibility and from the Operating Companies throughout the year.
SEE matters have been incorporated into Directors training which is explained further in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 7 to 10.
Consideration of the key SEE issues is embedded into Kingfishers strategic risk management framework and these issues and the associated relevant behaviour are regarded by the Board as fundamental to the operation of the Group.
The significant areas are also covered by Kingfishers Code of Conduct for employees, non-compliance with which is a disciplinary issue.
This, with the oversight exercised by the Social Responsibility Committee, results in the Boards view that it is not appropriate to remunerate specifically for SEE behaviours or targets.
In 2004, Kingfisher adopted a programme of Steps to Responsible Growth which provides a framework for actions to improve the environmental and social performance of Kingfishers businesses.
Central to this framework is a Social Responsibility Policy which sets objectives and targets in the areas of product stewardship, energy management, sustainable operation, respect for the diversity of people, factory working conditions and store neighbourhoods.
These policy commitments are designed to be progressively implemented throughout Kingfisher and they provide an independently verifiable framework which can be used to monitor progress.
Kingfisher is currently involved in a verification process, headed by Kingfishers Director of Social Responsibility and aided by URS Verification Limited.
The process covers assurance on Kingfishers Social Responsibility, an understanding of its response to stakeholders issues and review of non-financial risk management processes.
The process will be in line with the principles of the AA 1000 assurance standard and will be implemented throughout Kingfisher from 2005 onwards.
Fundamental to Kingfishers social responsibility philosophy is that the stores should understand and respond to the needs of the communities in which they operate.
By combining the products sold with the skills of the people in the business, Kingfisher companies have been able to offer a portfolio of support for a vast range of local projects worldwide that help support community initiatives.
This has ranged from supporting local schools and community groups through grants and materials such as the Screwfix Direct Great Neighbours scheme, to B&Q China supporting young people with their education.
Kingfisher also works with partner organisations to provide targeted support and remains committed to diversity.
Kingfisher companies such as Castorama Italy and B&Q UK are committed to community programmes, providing local unemployed people with new DIY training and helping to reduce local crime through crime awareness and prevention seminars held in-store.
Further examples include B&Q Taiwan, which is actively raising awareness of its over 40s employment policy, and B&Q UK, whose diversity programme addresses disability, age, culture and gender.
Kingfisher is also committed to raising awareness of the environmental issues.
Kingfisher companies such as Castorama France and B&Q in Scotland have been, respectively, offering in-store take-back schemes for customers old batteries and running a pilot scheme to reduce the number of plastic bags distributed.
Kingfisher remains committed to increasing the quantity of timber sourced from independently certified well-managed forests.
For example, in Turkey, Kotas has been pr omoting FSC products through in-store promotional material and catalogues during 2004, and Castorama Poland will continue to work with partner organisations and suppliers to increase their range of garden furniture sourced from forests working towards FSC certification.
Within the wider supply chain, in addition to the introduction of a Group-wide consistent code of conduct for suppliers, the Kingfisher sourcing office in South Africa has been working with its factories in their attempt to raise awareness of HIV Aids in the workplace.
In partnership with the local Governments Provincial Aids Action Group, Kingfisher has helped to sponsor a mobile clinic which provides on-site primary health care, testing and supplies to the factory workers and their local communities.
In addition, Kingfisher continues to support the UK-based charity Motivation, in helping it to build and provide wheelchairs for people in developing countries.
Good progress is being made and Motivation intends to ship a total of 1,500 wheelchairs to Sri Lanka, India, South Africa, Nepal and Papua New Guinea by autumn 2005.
Further information relating to the Groups Social Responsibility programme can be found on pages 16 and 17 of the Annual Review or online at www.
com reports and in the publications Kingfishers plan for corporate social responsibility 2001, How green is my kitchen?
2002 and Growth, returns and responsibility 2003, copies of which are available online and on request at the address shown on page 68.
By Order of the Board Helen Jones Company Secretary 16 March 2005 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 23
