LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance P27 Corporate governance The principal corporate governance guidance The board ordinarily meets six times a year and three-year term from 30 December 2005. that applies to companies listed with the UK is available to hold additional meetings when On 1 March 2006, Grards executive position Listing Authority is contained in the 2003 circumstances require.
The number of meetings within Unilog ended and a consultancy Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code is judged to be sufficient to discharge the agreement came into effect.
The terms of this the Code.
The Code, which operates on a boards duties effectively.
To reflect the global agreement can be found within the prospectus comply or explain basis, incorporates, amongst spread of the group, and to provide the board relating to the acquisition of Unilog or can be others, recommendations by the Higgs Review, with a higher level of visibility to the groups obtained from the company secretary.
The regarding the role of non-executive directors, overseas operations, at least one of these company believes that all non-executive and the Smith Review, which refers to audit meetings is normally held outside the UK.
directors bring relevant experience and make committees.
Through their commitment to the valuable contributions to achieving its objectives.
highest standards of corporate governance, the Between meetings, the non-executive directors They do not act with self-interest and their board endorses and supports the essential are regularly updated on appropriate business primary aims are to maximise shareholder wealth elements of the Code and, apart from a few matters and topical issues by the chairman and and develop the company in line with prelimited exceptions as described below, believes group chief executive.
In addition, the chairman determined strategic goals.
the group has fully complied with the Code holds meetings with the non-executive directors, during the year reported on.
Where it has not, an without the executive directors present to During the period under review, the company explanation has been provided.
The Company consider any issues regarding the performance believes neither the chairman, nor any of the has also complied with the listing requirements of the executive team.
Helmut Mamsch, the non-executives, have held significant of the UK Listing Authority, as updated on 1 July senior independent non-executive director and commitments outside of the company, which 2005, and those of Euronext Amsterdam and deputy chairman, also holds at least one would interfere with their ability to effectively the Dutch Authority for the Financial Markets meeting per year with the non-executive execute their responsibilities.
Since the acquisition directors without the chairman present.
of Unilog S. A. on 13 January 2006, the Non-executive directors are appointed for terms company has complied with the requirements of The board, which encompasses the audit, of 3 years and are proposed for re-election in the Autorit des Marchs Financiers AMF, the remuneration and nomination committees, is accordance with the terms of the companys French listing regulator in respect of Unilogs made up of directors from a variety of articles of association.
The appointments of both listing on Euronext Paris.
It is the companys backgrounds who bring together a wide range of Grard Philippot and Didier Herrmann were intention to delist Unilog S. A. from the Euronext skills and experience to benefit the company.
For endorsed by the nominations committee before Paris during 2006. most of 2005, the board comprised the receiving final approval from the board.
As chairman, three executive directors and five mentioned above, both these directors have The Board independent non-executive directors, which been appointed since the last annual general LogicaCMG is led by an effective and objective provided a majority of independent directors on meeting AGM and, therefore, will be proposed board, which is believed to be fundamental to the board.
On 25 October 2005, Grard for election at the forthcoming AGM.
The the success of the group.
The board utilises a Philippot was appointed as a non-independent nominations committee, in accordance with the framework of prudent and effective controls in non-executive director pursuant to the committees terms of reference and the order to determine and manage the groups acquisition of Unilog S. A. Consequently, no companys articles of association has proposed goals and the necessary strategies and policies search consultancy or open advertising was Wim Dik, George Loudon and Angela Knight for to achieve these goals.
On 10 January 2006, Didier re-election at the 2006 AGM.
Directors and standards set by the board, are upheld Herrmann was appointed as an executive submitting themselves for re-election at the AGM throughout the group with the assistance of the director.
The company feels that the size of the have been subject to a more rigorous, formal internal audit, quality assurance and risk board is appropriate considering the recent performance evaluation.
At board meetings, both acquisition of Unilog S. A. which substantially demonstrated their commitment to the company routine and ad hoc matters are considered.
In increased the size of the group.
and have performed effectively during the year.
particular, the board considers and, where Biographical details for those directors seeking necessary, debates the group chief executives The names and biographical details of the election at the 2006 AGM can be found on page report.
This report includes, but is not limited to directors can be seen on page 20.
Copies of the directors terms and conditions the following matters: of appointment are available on request from the budgets and strategy All non-executive directors are considered company secretary.
financial performance and forecasts independent by the Code, with the exception of corporate activities Cor Stutterheim and Grard Philippot, according Communication with shareholders human resources to provisions A.
Both The board gives a high priority to communication shareholder, City and market matters.
Cor Stutterheim and Grard Philippot are with shareholders and takes the opportunities believed to be independent of character and afforded by the AGM and meetings with Any concerns that members of the board judgement by the board but due to their institutional investors to ensure a mutual may have, regarding the running of the previous executive positions in CMG and Unilog understanding of the companys objectives.
company or a proposed action, are recorded respectively, they are not considered so by the All shareholders are welcomed to the AGM in the board minutes.
Cor was re-elected at the 2005 AGM and where developments in the business are has recently assented to the boards request that explained and shareholders have the opportunity he hold the position of chairman for a further to ask questions.
P28 Corporate governance LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 The companys website www.
com the company secretary and, on request, to The board has written terms of reference, which provides access for all shareholders to independent professional advice.
In addition, the are reviewed annually and summarised on the information about the company including results company secretary is also responsible for companys website, as well as a list of identified presentations and all press releases.
Financial ensuring good communication within the board matters reserved entirely for their decision.
reporting is presented in such a way as to and between senior management and the nonMatters reserved for the board include present a balanced and understandable executive directors.
financial matters of a material nature or value assessment of the companys position including operating, budget and strategic and prospects.
Board performance plans, interim and preliminary statements, The board subjects itself to an annual dividend payments, capital investment, The board are made aware of shareholders performance review in order to continually acquisitions or divestments and any value of views through face-to-face meetings, assess the appropriateness of their appointment.
goodwill write-off relating to subsidiary presentations and feedback surveys.
If In 2005, the board was appraised internally company activities shareholders or investors do not wish to follow using a two-stage process, which reflected approval of sales contracts of a material size the usual methods of communication through issues that had surfaced following the 2004 adoption of any significant change in the chairman, group chief executive or chief evaluation.
The first phase involved each director accounting policies financial officer, the boards senior independent completing a comprehensive questionnaire, corporate administrative matters such as the director, Helmut Mamsch, is available and can which covered areas including, but not limited to, size and composition of the board and its be contacted through the company secretarys the following: committees and authorisation levels office.
He and all other non-executive directors board objectives annual report and accounts are regularly updated on shareholder and City board composition the resolutions to be placed before matters through internal briefings and the board committees shareholders at an annual or extraordinary provision of external analysis reports.
information coverage logistics general meeting, including any approval to be communication sought for the report of any sub-committees, Directors roles and training non-executive director assessment and There is a clear division of responsibility between board effectiveness.
all stock exchange circulars and listing the running of the board, by the chairman Cor particulars.
Stutterheim, and the executive responsibility for Following this, interviews were conducted the running of the business held by the group between the non-executive directors and the The board is responsible for a number of group chief executive, Martin Read.
The non-executive chairman with the company secretary.
All policies and practices including, risk chairman liaises with the group chief executive information resulting from the questionnaire and management, ethics and the environment.
on strategic issues and manages the board and interviews will be compiled into a report by the Further detail on the latter two policies can be the AGM.
company secretary, in conjunction with found within the Corporate Social Responsibility the chairman, which will be presented to the Statement on pages 25 and 26.
All executive directors have a set of objectives, board in 2006. which are updated annually or as required.
Matters falling under the terms of reference are, The overall results of the 2004 review were ordinarily, dealt with at regular board meetings.
Upon appointment, all directors undergo an positive.
However, the following actions were Where this is inappropriate the company induction programme, which is specifically taken to enhance the future operation of secretary is responsible for ensuring board designed to their individual requirements.
In the board: members are advised of the matter.
Procedures addition, they receive appropriate training and additional time was devoted to the for dealing with matters between regular board ongoing updates to improve their knowledge long-term strategy of the company as part meetings are detailed within the boards terms of and skills and enable them to discharge their of the decision making process to acquire reference.
Following consideration by the board, duties.
Training requirements remain subject to Unilog S. A. certain matters may be delegated to a continuous review.
In the cases of Didier the agendas of board and committee meetings committee of the board or individual director.
Herrmann and Grard Philippot, both directors were reviewed, this was undertaken to ensure Such matters may include the approval of nonhave also received tutelage on the remit and that they fully reflected the growth and routine stock exchange announcements and the scope of the business and have made a number activities of the business.
grant of employee share options.
Day-to-day of guided site visits.
Independent and external management of the company is delegated to the advice has been obtained, at the expense of the The performance of the chairman was reviewed, executive directors.
company, to instruct them in relation to UK legal in his absence by the non-executives, led by the matters and in particular UK corporate senior independent non-executive director, Committees are able to, and do, invite directors governance, in order that they can discharge Helmut Mamsch.
All directors who have served who are not members of that committee, to their legal responsibilities effectively.
on the board for a period in excess of six years attend particular meetings.
Minutes of committee were subject to a particularly rigorous review.
meetings are sent, at their request, to those The company secretary is responsible for directors who are not a member of the providing regulatory updates to the board Terms of reference committee.
All committees, as well as directors or to specific directors depending upon whether Through the board and relevant committee individually, have the means and resources to they participate in individual board committees.
terms of reference, the role, duties and access independent professional advice at the This information includes trading updates and responsibilities of directors and board companys expense.
The company secretary surveys from investors and analysts.
He is committees are clearly defined.
In keeping with acts as secretary to each board committee.
also responsible for the timely dissemination the principles of the Code, the board implements of reliable and relevant information to help best corporate governance practice through Audit committee ensure directors can discharge their these terms of reference.
The audit committee, which comprises all responsibilities.
All directors have access to independent non-executive directors, is chaired LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance P29 by Roger Payne and includes Angela Knight, consistent with requirements of the Turnbull financial systems, business unit operations and George Loudon and Wim Dik.
The board Committee and the Code.
During the period reported on, the considers Roger Payne, following his role as a audit committee has reviewed the former finance director of a FTSE 100 company, The groups approach to internal control is effectiveness of the system of internal control to have recent and relevant financial experience.
based on the underlying principle of line as described above.
managements accountability for risk and control The audit committees terms of reference include management.
The group has a risk-based Risk management tasks such as overseeing the internal audit approach to internal control, and management The board recognises the need to understand function, which includes reviewing the groups are responsible for implementing, operating and and control the variety of risks to which the accounting and financial reporting procedures: monitoring the system.
It should be understood company is exposed.
In order to combat these the engagement of external auditors, monitoring that no system of internal control can eliminate risks, the board oversees a risk management their independence and effectiveness, and the risk of failure to achieve business objectives strategy committee RMSC chaired by the chief setting their remuneration and reviewing the or provide absolute assurance against material financial officer.
Through this committee the groups annual and interim financial statements.
board exercises a framework for managing risk In addition, the committee receives regular within the group.
Five practice panels support updates from the companys quality assurance, The key elements of the control system in the committee and are, respectively, responsible risk management, treasury and tax functions.
operation are: for the areas of delivery, operations, finance, Regular updates on changes in accounting and The group operates a highly structured, human resource, and sales and marketing.
In reporting practices affecting the company are objectives-driven approach to fulfil its core conjunction with these panels, the RMCSC is also provided to the audit committee.
purpose and goals in respect of sustained responsible for the regular evaluation of inherent profitability and growth.
The strategic risks within the business and the identification of The audit committee has approved and is objectives of the group are captured in a controls to address them.
responsible for approving any non-audit work to strategic plan, developed by the executive be undertaken by the companys auditors.
This committee and approved by the board, which The risk process identifies, evaluates and process is summarised below.
In addition, it is addresses revenue and associated costs and manages significant risks faced by the group.
responsible for the companys internal necessary investment.
This plan then forms the These risks are first, prioritised and then confidential disclosure policy, which allows staff basis of annual revenue and profit targets for procedures and processes are put in place to to raise concerns about possible improprieties.
the operating units in the group.
Risks are assessed with reference Further details regarding the policy can be found The research and development and capital to the achievement of the groups business in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on investment programmes are subject to a objectives and according to current market page 25.
The committee is also responsible for formal review procedure requiring that rigorous issues.
The continuous monitoring of strategic overseeing the operations of the internal audit qualification criteria be met prior to each and operational risks are the responsibilities of and risk management functions.
Evaluation and the board and line management respectively.
post-investment appraisals are performed by The chairman of the audit committee and the reference to detailed business plans.
Clearly defined delegation of responsibilities and committee itself meet at least four times a year The monitoring regime established by the authorisation levels contribute to a with the external auditors.
The group chief board, through which the performance comprehensive system, which exists for executive, chief financial officer, group financial indicators derived from the strategic and controlling these risks and ensuring they are controller, internal auditor and other relevant annual plans are regularly interrogated, ensure adequately addressed.
Core operating executives attend the meetings at the request of that events which pose significant risk to the procedures common to all areas of the group the committee.
attainment of the groups objectives or are clearly documented.
The internal audit and significant control lapses are communicated quality assurance functions perform regular Internal control through a process of rapid escalation to senior audits and are part of the fulfilment of line The board is responsible for the groups management.
Unit performance is evaluated managements risk management responsibilities.
system of internal control and for reviewing on a monthly basis, and this evaluation its effectiveness.
includes the addressing of identified control External auditors weaknesses and ensuring the conclusion of The external auditors provide a supplementary, As such, procedures have been established that previously recommended corrective actions.
independent and autonomous perspective on enable the group to comply with the guidance Business unit management throughout the the overall integrity of those areas of the internal on internal controls issued by the Turnbull group and specific corporate functional control system, which they assess in the course Committee and those that are included in the managers are required annually to complete a of their work.
Their findings are reported regularly Code.
The board has reviewed the effectiveness full self-assessment process.
With the to both the audit committee and the board.
The of the systems of internal control for the completion of this process, management can audit committee assesses the evidence provided accounting year and the period to the approval identify and quantify the risks that face their to them through the various mechanisms and of the financial statements.
This review covered businesses and functions.
This process also seeks to ensure that the risk management all material controls, including financial, provides assurance as to risk and internal process adequately addresses all of the major operational and compliance controls and risk control management, financial controls and risks to the group.
To ensure auditor objectivity management systems and is in accordance with reporting, project control, treasury and independence there is a stringent process in the Turnbull guidance.
The review did not cover management and information management.
place to approve non-audit work.
Proposed the activities of Unilog prior to its acquisition on In addition to this structured self-assessment work must be approved by both the group 13 January 2006.
However, action is being taken process, the audit committee receives reports financial controller and company secretary before to ensure that the company's Unilog business from both internal and external auditors on a being passed to the chief financial officer who has suitable internal controls in place, which are regular basis.
The internal audit department escalates the proposal if appropriate to the audit conducts reviews that include the control of committee where written approval must be P30 Corporate governance LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 obtained.
Details regarding the remuneration of Board attendance required to: the external auditors in terms of audit and nonThe table below shows the attendance of select suitable accounting policies and then audit work can be found on page 54. directors at scheduled meetings of the board apply them consistently and audit, remuneration and nominations make judgements and estimates that are Going concern committees during 2005. reasonable and prudent The directors, having made enquiries, consider state whether applicable accounting standards that the company and the group have adequate In addition to the AGM, which all board have been followed, subject to any material resources to continue in operational existence for members attended, an EGM in relation to the departures disclosed and explained in the the foreseeable future, and therefore it is Unilog transaction was held which was attended financial statements appropriate to maintain the going concern basis by all of the board, except for Martin Read, Jim prepare the financial statements on a going in preparing the financial statements.
McKenna, Wim Dik and George Loudon.
concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and company will Nomination committee External appointments continue in business The nomination committee, which comprises a Executive directors are permitted, by the be responsible for the maintenance and majority of independent non-executives, is company, to accept and maintain up to two integrity of the companys website chaired by Cor Stutterheim and includes Martin non-executive appointments at any one time.
acknowledge that legislation in the UK Read, Helmut Mamsch, Wim Dik and George We are not currently compliant with provision concerning the preparation and dissemination Loudon.
The committee reviews the balance of A.
However, it is the companys of financial statements may differ from skills, knowledge and experience represented on policy that individuals are not normally able to legislation in other jurisdictions.
the board and makes recommendations to the hold a second non-executive appointment with board concerning any adjustments deemed to a UK FTSE 100 company.
Martin Read has The directors confirm that they have complied be appropriate.
two non-executive appointments with FTSE with the above requirements in preparing the 100 companies.
Both of these appointments financial statements.
The directors are Under its terms of reference the nomination were effective prior to the publication of the responsible for keeping proper accounting committee oversees the search and selection revised Code.
records, which disclose with reasonable process of new directors and aims to do so accuracy, at any time, the financial position of within the parameters set by the Code.
In the Fees earned by executive directors are retained the group and company and enable them to event of a vacancy on the board, the committee by the relevant director, which reflects the ensure that the financial statements comply with may engage external independent professional personal risk assumed in such appointments.
They are also advisers to assist in the search for suitable This remuneration is fully disclosed in the responsible for the groups system of internal candidates.
A short list of candidates will be relevant companys annual report and accounts.
control and for safeguarding the assets of the established and selected candidates will be group and company and hence for taking interviewed and recommended for consideration Statement of directors responsibilities reasonable steps for the prevention and by the board.
The nominations committee was The directors are required by UK company detection of fraud and other irregularities.
convened on five occasions during 2005.
Other law to prepare financial statements for each directors are entitled to attend at the invitation of financial year, which give a true and fair view By order of the board the nominations committee.
of the state of affairs of the group and company as at the end of the financial year and of the P Weaver FCIS Remuneration committee profit and cash flows of that year.
In preparing Company secretary The remuneration committees membership is those financial statements, the directors are 29 March 2006 comprised wholly of independent non-executive 1 directors.
It meets at least five times a year, is Board Remuneration Audit Nomination chaired by Angela Knight and its other members committee committee committee are Helmut Mamsch and George Loudon.
The Maximum number of ordinary committees key role is to determine the meetings per director 6645 companys senior executive remuneration policy Cor Stutterheim 6 1 N A 5 and levels of remuneration for the companys Martin Read 6 4 1 5 executive committee, the higher paid senior Jim McKenna 5 N A N A N A management, company secretary and head of Seamus Keating 5 1 4 N A internal audit.
Details of the committee's main Helmut Mamsch 6 6 N A 5 functions and its remuneration policies for Wim Dik 6 N A 2 3 directors and senior management are set out on Angela Knight 664 N A pages 31 to 35.
The group chief executive and George Loudon 5525 the human resources director non-board Roger Payne 5 N A 4 N A 2 member are invited to attend the remuneration Grard Philippot 1 N A N A N A committee meetings at the invitation of the In attendance for specific discussions by invitation of the committee.
Watson Wyatt are the independent In addition, seven further meetings were held at short notice.
2 advisers to the remuneration committee.
Only one board meeting was held in 2005 following the appointment of Grard Philippot.
