com Nomination Committee Report for the year ended 30 September 2005 Role of the nomination committee external executive search firm was employed and a global search The nomination committee is a formal committee of the Board, and undertaken, which resulted in recommendation to the Board for has powers delegated to it under the articles of association.
the appointments of Karen fide Segundo and Sivi Gounden.
Its remit is set out in terms of reference that were formally adopted by the Board in November 2005.
These are available from the The committee also considered whether the offer of a second term Company, and displayed on its website.
The primary purpose of of office for Peter Godsoe should be recommended to the Board, the committee is, in consultation with the chairman, to recommend concluding that he was effective in, and fully committed to, his role any proposed changes to the composition of the Board, and to and that he added to the balance of skills, knowledge and instigate and manage the recruitment process.
Composition of the nomination committee At a meeting in November 2005 the committee assessed its Throughout the year and to the date of this report the committee effectiveness and, in his absence, that of the chairman of the comprised Roger Phillimore chairman and Peter Godsoe, both committee.
The views expressed were summarised to the Board.
of whom are independent non-executive directors.
A quorum for There were no matters arising which the committee or the Board a meeting of the committee is two members.
In the event that one felt necessitated change.
of the members of the committee has a conflict of interests, the chairman will act as an alternate member.
Each member receives The committee met four times during the year.
Attendance at these an annual fee of 5,000 for serving as a member of the committee meetings was as follows: or, in the case of the chairman, 7,500.
These fees are included in Number of the table of directors remuneration on page 18. meetings held Number of during time meetings Director in office attended The committee is supported by the services of the company Sir John Craven 1 1 secretary, who acts as secretary to the committee, and it has full Peter Godsoe 4 3 access to the chief executive and chairman of the Board.
It is also Roger Phillimore 4 4 empowered to appoint search consultants, legal, tax and other professional advisors as it sees fit to assist with its work, and to co-opt such resources as it requires to fulfil its duties.
Sir John Craven attended by invitation since the meeting was required to consider the offer of a further term of office Activities of the nomination committee to Peter Godsoe.
All recommendations for Board appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
A job specification is drawn up which This report was approved by the Board on 15 November 2005. includes, in the case of non-executive appointments, an estimate of the time commitment required.
Generally, the committee will Roger Phillimore engage executive search consultants to ensure objectivity.
Committee Chairman During the year, in addition to other matters, the committee considered the recruitment of two non-executive directors.
