Audit Committee Report Role of the audit committee Composition of the Audit Committee The audit committee is a formal committee of the Board, and has All independent directors, with the exception of the chairman of powers delegated to it under the articles of association.
Its terms the Board, are eligible to become members of the committee.
of reference were reviewed by the Board in May 2004 and are The nomination committee will recommend any appointments or compliant with the provisions of the Combined Code.
A copy of removals to the Board, which is responsible for the composition the terms of reference is available on the Companys website and of the committee.
The committee has at least three members, all sets out the primary purposes of the audit committee, which are: of whom must be financially literate, and any two members form To monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements a quorum.
The committee comprised the following members and announcements relating to its financial performance, during the year and to the date of this report, except where reviewing significant financial reporting judgements.
stated otherwise: To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal Michael Hartnall an independent director and a chartered controls and risk management systems.
accountant, Mr Hartnall was for 16 years until 2003 the finance To monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function and director of Rexam plc, a multinational manufacturer of consumer review its material findings.
packaging where his responsibilities included finance, internal To oversee the relationship with the external auditors, including control, risk management and corporate governance.
He was agreeing their remuneration and terms of engagement, also a member of the Hampel Committee which produced the monitoring their independence, objectivity and effectiveness and first version of the Combined Code in 1998.
The Board has ensuring that policy surrounding their engagement to provide judged that he has the significant, recent and relevant financial non-audit services is appropriately applied.
experience necessary to chair the committee.
Roger Phillimore an independent director and a member of The committee is authorised to investigate any matters within its the Audit Committee since May 1998. terms of reference, access all Group documents and information, Peter Godsoe an independent director and chartered seek information from any director or employee of the Group and accountant who served as an interim member of the audit co-opt any resources including external professional assistance committee from September 2004 until 22 September 2005. it sees fit in order to fulfil its duties.
However, the committee has Karen fide Segundo an independent director and a member no executive function and its primary objective is to review and of the audit committee since 29 April 2005. challenge, rather than assume responsibility for any matters within its remit.
Minutes of all meetings of the committee save those Biographical details of each director are set out on page 22 and 23 recording private discussions with either the internal or external of the annual review which accompanies this document.
Each auditors are circulated to all directors, and supplemented by a member receives an annual fee of 7,500 for serving as a member verbal update from the committee chairman at the next Board of the committee or, in the case of the chairman, 17,500.
In meeting, identifying any matters in respect of which action or addition, Mr Hartnall receives a fee of 7,500 for attending improvement is required, and making recommendations where meetings of the Companys risk and SHEC Committee.
The committee presents a summary of its activities to are included in the table of directors remuneration on page 18 of shareholders and other interested parties by means of this report, this document.
All members of the committee are provided with and the committee chairman attends all general meetings of the appropriate induction into the role of the committee and the Companys shareholders to answer any questions on the operation of its terms of reference on appointment.
training is provided on an ongoing basis to ensure that members are able to discharge their duties.
The committee assessed its effectiveness at a meeting in September 2005.
To do so, members of the committee, the Meetings of the committee are attended by the chief executive, the internal and external auditors and members of the management chief financial officer, the VP-Finance and the company secretary team who assist the audit committee in their work all provided who acts as secretary to the committee, none of whom do so as their opinions on the effectiveness of the committee, the flow of of right.
The external auditors attend all committee meetings and a information, relationships with management and advisors and the private meeting is routinely held with them to afford the opportunity appropriateness of the terms of reference.
All of these views were of discussions without the presence of management.
The internal summarised into a formal report to the Board by the chairman.
The auditors attend all committee meetings held in South Africa and committee separately discussed the effectiveness of the chairman are similarly afforded private meetings with the committee.
of the committee in his absence, which also formed part of the report to the Board.
There were no matters arising which the committee or Board felt necessitated change.
Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2005 28 www.
com Internal audit of the full year accounts: assessment of any material exercises of Throughout the year, Ernst & Young acted as internal auditors to judgement by management: consideration of the going concern Lonmin.
They are also advising the Group on the internal control statement: review of the annual reporting documents including environment that will be implemented when the Group migrates the accounts and consider whether to recommend the same to a new enterprise resource planning system.
The committee to the Board: review of the independence, objectivity and sees this activity as wholly appropriate for the internal auditors to effectiveness of the external auditors and formulation of a perform.
A total of 30 assignments were undertaken during the recommendation to the Board as to whether or not their reyear across a broad cross-section of activities identified by both appointment should be proposed to shareholders: review of the management and the audit committee.
Internal audit reports are effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems agreed with operational management and then delivered to the during the year prepared by management: receive an update on president of Lonmin Platinum and to the chief financial officer, with the work of the risk and SHEC committee and any material material findings and recommendations then summarised to the matters arising: review of matters reported to the external ethics audit committee, who receive regular updates on progress in whistleblowing hotline: private meeting with the external auditors.
addressing the matters raised by internal audits.
The audit committee March in South Africa : review of matters arising from the prior reviews the effectiveness of the internal auditors annually.
year audit: approval of scope of the external auditors proposed review of the interim accounts and the fees to be charged: External audit approval of the scope and fees for the external audit of the full KPMG Audit plc acted as the external auditors to the Lonmin Group year accounts: review of non-audit services to be provided by the throughout the year.
The lead audit partner is based in London and external auditors: approval of the terms of the external auditors supported by a second audit partner based in Johannesburg.
Nonengagement letter: review of the work of the internal auditors in audit fees incurred during the year amounted to $0.5 million 2004 the year to date and their principal findings: receive an update on $0.5 million, equating to approximately 56% 2004 70% of the the work of the risk and SHEC committee and any material total Group audit fee, and relate primarily to the provision of taxation matters arising: review of matters reported to the external ethics advisory services and advice on accounting practice, including the whistleblowing hotline: private meeting with the internal auditors.
transition to international financial reporting standards.
KPMG April: approval of the letter of representation from management supported management during the year by undertaking a significant to the external auditors relating to the interim accounts: receive amount of pre-acquisition due diligence investigation.
They were a report from the external auditors following their review of the selected for this role in view of their familiarity with PGM mining interim accounts: assessment of any material exercises of operations, and more particularly the Groups policies and procedures.
judgement by management: review of the interim report including the accounts and consider whether to recommend The external auditors may not be engaged on any non-audit the same to the board: receive an update on the work of the risk work without the prior approval of the audit committee, who are and SHEC committee and any material matters arising: review of responsible for the annual work plan and fee budget for the the key risks facing the Group following a bottom up risk review: auditors.
The committee is satisfied that the overall level of nonreview of matters reported to the external ethics whistleblowing audit fees is not material relative to the income of the audit offices hotline: private meeting with the external auditors.
and firm as a whole, and that the nature of the services provided September in South Africa : review of the effectiveness of the are appropriate and in line with the Companys policies in this area.
internal auditors: review of the work of the internal auditors and their principal findings: approval of the scope and focus of the The audit committee appraised the qualifications, expertise internal audit programme and internal audit fees for the and resources, independence and objectivity of KPMG and also forthcoming financial year: further review and final confirmation reviewed their effectiveness as external auditors before reaching of the external auditors plan for the year end audit: receive an the recommendation to the Board that their re-election should be update on the work of the risk and SHEC committee and any proposed to shareholders.
material matters arising: review of the key risks facing the Group following a top down risk review: review of the renewal terms Activities of the Audit Committee and scope of cover of the Groups insurance programme: review The committee normally meets four times annually, and reports its of the effectiveness of the audit committee, assessment of the material findings to the next Board meeting.
The principal business relevance of its terms of reference and agreement of any of these meetings is: recommendations for change to the board: review of matters November: approval of the letter of representation from reported to the external ethics whistleblowing hotline: private management to the external auditors relating to the accounts: meeting with the internal auditors.
receive a report from the external auditors following their review 29 Audit Committee Report In addition to the routine business described above, the committee also undertook the following activities during the year and in the period to the date of this report in discharging its responsibilities: Review of an improvement in metallurgical recoveries and the accounting and disclosure treatment.
Review and agreement of the process for independent verification of the Groups ore reserves and resources.
Reviewing arrangements for the proposed sale to employees of housing owned by the Group in South Africa.
Consideration and approval of the Groups capital expenditure control procedures and further review of the capex reporting process.
Reviewing progress in mapping and assessing the Groups internal control environment.
Commissioning an independent review of the policy wordings of the Groups material insurance policies.
Monitoring progress in the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Review of the financial management of the Lonmin Development Trust.
Reviewing the probity of KPMG.
The committee met four times during the year.
Attendance at these meetings was as follows: Number of meetings held Number of during time meetings Director in office attended Karen fide Segundo 1 1 Peter Godsoe 4 4 Michael Hartnall 4 4 Roger Phillimore 4 4 This report was approved by the Board on 15 November 2005.
Michael Hartnall Committee Chairman Lonmin Plc Annual Report 2005 30
