Corporate governance Executive Board which he chairs.
Rob Margetts is the senior independent Combined Code compliance Anglo American is committed to the highest standards of corporate non-executive director.
governance the way in which the Company is directed and controlled The Board has a strong independent element and currently comprises, in and, except as set out below, the Company complied fully with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code throughout the addition to the chairman, four executive and ten non-executive directors, year under review.
eight of whom are independent according to the definition contained in the Code.
The independent directors are indicated within the table below, As highlighted by the chairman in the 2004 Annual Review, the and full biographical details for each director are given in the Annual Company was briefly non-compliant with the Code from June to Review.
The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors are December 2005 in that less than half the Board, excluding the available for inspection at the registered office of the Company.
chairman, were independent non-executive directors.
The Board considers this was fully justified in ensuring continuity and a smooth The Company is conscious of the need to maintain an appropriate mix handover between Tony Lea and Ren Mdori, Anglo Americans of skills and experience on the Board, and to progressively refresh its new finance director.
The Company became compliant again on composition over time.
In this respect, 2005 saw the appointment of 30 December 2005 upon the retirement of Messrs Davison and Lea.
three new executive directors David Hathorn, Ren Mdori and Simon Thompson and the appointment of Ralph Alexander as a new Role of the Board independent non-executive director.
With effect from 1 January 2006, The Board of directors is responsible to shareholders for the Peter Woicke was appointed to the Board as a new independent nonperformance of the Company.
Its role includes the establishment, executive director.
Tony Lea and Barry Davison retired from the Board review and monitoring of strategic objectives, approval of major on 30 December 2005 and Maria Silvia Bastos Marques has indicated acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure and overseeing the her wish to retire from the Board at the AGM in April 2006.
To provide Groups systems of internal control, governance and risk management.
the necessary flexibility to continue the process of progressively A schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision details key refreshing the composition of the Board, authority will be sought from aspects of the Companys affairs that the Board does not delegate shareholders at the AGM to amend the Companys Articles of Association including, among other things, approval of business plans and to increase the maximum number of directors from 16 to 18. budgets, material expenditure and alterations to share capital.
Frequency of meetings Board composition and directors independence The Board met eight times in 2005, the Audit, the Nomination and The Board is chaired by Sir Mark Moody-Stuart.
The chairman is the Safety and Sustainable Development Committees four times and responsible for leading the Board and for its effectiveness.
Tony Trahar the Remuneration Committee three times.
Directors attendance was is the chief executive and is responsible for the execution of strategy as follows: and the day-to-day management of the Group, supported by the Independent in Board Audit S&SD Remuneration Nomination Current directors terms of Code?
eight meetings four meetings four meetings three meetings four meetings Sir Mark Moody-Stuart n a All n a 3 n a All Tony Trahar No All n a All n a n a 1 David Hathorn No 4 n a n a n a n a 2 Rob Margetts Yes 7 All n a All All 1 Ren Mdori No All n a n a n a n a 1 Simon Thompson No All n a n a n a n a 1 Ralph Alexander Yes All n a n a n a n a 3 David Challen Yes 7 All n a All n a Chris Fay Yes All All All All n a Bobby Godsell No All n a 2 n a n a 3 Maria Silvia Bastos Marques Yes 7 n a 2 n a n a 3 Nicky Oppenheimer No 7 n a n a n a All Fred Phaswana Yes All All n a All All 4 Karel Van Miert Yes 6 All n a n a All 5 Peter Woicke Yes n a n a n a n a n a Former directors Tony Lea No All n a n a n a n a Barry Davison No All n a 3 n a n a 6 Gran Lindahl Yes 1 n a All n a n a Sir David Scholey No All n a n a n a All 1 David Hathorn, Ren Mdori, Simon Thompson and Ralph Alexander were appointed during the year and attended all Board meetings following their appointment, save for one meeting which David Hathorn missed owing to a schedule conflict arising from a meeting being called at short notice.
2 Rob Margetts missed one Board meeting owing to a schedule conflict arising from a meeting being called at short notice.
3 David Challen, Maria Silvia Bastos Marques and Nicky Oppenheimer missed one Board meeting each owing to conflicts in schedules.
4 Karel Van Miert missed one Board meeting owing to a technical problem that prevented his attendance by teleconference and one owing to a schedule conflict.
5 Peter Woicke was appointed with effect from 1 January 2006.
6 Gran Lindahl, who retired during the year, was eligible to attend three Board meetings.
20 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005 Directors training to attend Committee meetings.
Each business unit head makes a Anglo Americans directors have a wide range of expertise as well safety and sustainable development presentation to the Committee.
as significant experience in strategic, financial, commercial and mining A separate Report to Society 2005 will be published in April.
Training and briefings are also available to all directors report focuses on the safety, sustainable development, health and on appointment and subsequently, as necessary, taking into account environmental performance of the Groups managed operations, existing qualifications and experience.
Directors also have access to their performance with regard to the Companys Good Citizenship management, and to the advice of the Company Secretary.
Furthermore, principles and the operational dimensions of their social programmes.
all directors are entitled to seek independent professional advice concerning the affairs of Anglo American at its expense, although The S&SD Committee presently comprises: Chris Fay chairman, no such advice was sought during 2005.
Presentations are made to Maria Silvia Bastos Marques, Bobby Godsell, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, the Board by business management on the activities of operations.
Bill Nairn, Tony Redman and Tony Trahar.
Directors undertake regular visits to operations and projects and, in 2005, operations in Brazil, Chile, China and South Africa were visited.
Nomination Committee In addition, during the year directors attended workshops on The Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board corporate governance, taxation, operating and financial reviews and on the appointment of new executive and non-executive directors, the functioning of remuneration committees.
including making recommendations as to the composition of the Board and its committees and the balance between executive and Board effectiveness non-executive directors.
The Nomination Committee meets as and A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees when required and engages external consultants to identify appropriate and individual directors is carried out annually by means of detailed candidates.
During the year, the Committee managed the selection questionnaires and interviews.
For the first time in 2005, the results of and appointment of Peter Woicke as a new independent non-executive the evaluation were collated and analysed by an independent reviewer director with effect from 1 January 2006. from the London Business School and were presented to the Board at its December meeting.
The aim is to ensure continuous improvement in The Board, via the Nomination Committee, has taken steps to ensure the functioning of the Board.
The analysis confirmed that the Board and that the Human Resources function of the Group regularly reviews and its committees were functioning correctly.
It is the Boards current updates the succession plans of directors and senior managers.
intention to engage an external reviewer for this process once every two years, the process being managed internally in the intervening The Nomination Committee presently comprises: Fred Phaswana year.
As in past years, the evaluation process also included a review, chairman, Rob Margetts, Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Nicky Oppenheimer chaired by the senior independent non-executive director without the and Karel Van Miert.
In accordance with the provisions of the Combined chairman present, of the performance of the chairman.
As a result of Code, the majority of members and the chairman of the committee are the evaluation process, certain changes to committee membership are independent non-executive directors.
under consideration and a detailed external study of the internal audit function was commissioned.
This study was completed in early 2006 Audit Committee and its findings are in the process of being implemented.
In addition, The primary role of the Audit Committee is to ensure the integrity changes were made to the strategic planning process.
of financial reporting and the audit process, and that a sound risk management and internal control system is maintained.
In pursuing Committees of the Board these objectives, the Audit Committee oversees relations with the Subject to those matters reserved for its decision, the Board delegates external auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit certain responsibilities to a number of standing committees the Audit, function.
The Committee also monitors developments in corporate Remuneration, Nomination and Safety & Sustainable Development governance to ensure the Group continues to apply high and Committees.
The terms of reference for each of these committees are appropriate standards.
published on the Companys website.
In fulfilling its responsibility of monitoring the integrity of financial Remuneration Committee reports to shareholders, the Audit Committee has reviewed accounting The Remuneration Committee is responsible for establishing and principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of public developing the Groups general policy on executive and senior financial information and has examined documentation relating to management remuneration and determining specific remuneration the Annual Report, Annual Review, Interim Report, preliminary packages for executive directors.
announcements and related public reports.
The clarity of disclosures included in the financial statements was reviewed by the Audit The directors remuneration report, setting out Anglo Americans Committee, as was the basis for significant estimates and judgements.
policy on executive remuneration, is set out on pages 25 to 42 of this In assessing the accounting treatment of major transactions open Annual Report.
A resolution to approve the remuneration report will be to different approaches, the Committee considered written reports proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
by management and the external auditors.
The Committees recommendations are submitted to the Board for approval.
The Remuneration Committee presently comprises: Rob Margetts chairman, David Challen, Chris Fay and Fred Phaswana, all of whom The chief financial officers of all operations have provided confirmation, are independent non-executive directors.
on a six monthly basis, that financial and accounting control frameworks operate satisfactorily.
The Committee considered summaries of the Safety & Sustainable Development Committee S&SD significant risk and control issues arising from these reports.
The The S&SD Committee is responsible for developing framework policies Committee also received regular internal and external audit reports and guidelines for the management of sustainable development issues, on the results of audits at various operations.
Further information on including safety, health and environment matters, and ensuring their risk management processes is provided in the internal control progressive implementation throughout the Group.
The S&SD Committee normally meets three or four times each year, including a visit to an operation, and business unit heads are invited Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005 | 21 Corporate governance continued safeguards and procedures, the Committee has concluded that the External audit Anglo Americans policy on auditors independence, which came into external auditors independence was not impaired.
effect on 1 January 2003, is consistent with the ethical standards The Audit Committee approved the external auditors terms of published by the Auditing Practices Board in December 2004. engagement, scope of work, the process for the 2005 interim review, A key factor that may impair auditors independence is a lack of control the annual audit and the applicable levels of materiality.
Based on over non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
In essence, written reports submitted, the Committee reviewed, with the external the external auditors independence is deemed to be impaired if the auditors, the findings of their work and confirmed that all significant auditors provide a service which: matters had been satisfactorily resolved.
results in auditing of own work by the auditors: The Committees assessment of the external auditors performance and results in the auditors acting as a manager or employee independence underpins its recommendation to the Board to propose to of the Group: shareholders the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors puts the auditors in the role of advocate for the Group: or until the conclusion of the AGM in 2007.
Resolutions to authorise the creates a mutuality of interest between the auditors and the Group.
Board to re-appoint and determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM on 25 April 2006.
Anglo American addresses this issue through three primary measures, namely: Internal audit Internal audit functions operated in all of the Groups principal divisions disclosure of the extent and nature of non-audit services: in the period under review, reporting to local senior management the prohibition of selected services: and with direct access to local audit committees.
Each internal audit prior approval by the Audit Committee chairman of non-audit function at business or listed company level is accountable to services where the cost of the proposed assignment is likely to the Groups head of internal audit for maintaining Group auditing exceed $50,000.
Internal audit functions mandates and annual audit coverage plans were approved by the relevant audit Disclosure entails reporting non-audit services to the Groups audit committees.
Each audit committee considers reports on the results committees and inclusion of prescribed detail, i. e. the breakdown of of internal audit work performed.
fees paid to external auditors for audit and non-audit work in the Annual Reports of listed entities.
The policys definition of prohibited The internal audit activities are performed either by teams of appropriate, non-audit services corresponds with the European Commissions qualified and experienced employees, or through the engagement of recommendations on auditors independence.
external practitioners upon specified and agreed terms.
A summary of audit results and risk-management information was presented to the Other safeguards encapsulated in the policy include: Committee at regular intervals throughout the year.
The Groups head of internal audit reports to the Audit Committee on internal audit the external auditors are required to adhere to a rotation policy functions performance against Group standards.
based on best practice and professional standards in the United Kingdom.
The standard period for rotation of the audit engagement Assurance regarding the accuracy and reliability of mineral resources partner is five years and, for any key audit principal, seven years.
and ore reserves disclosures is provided through a combination of any partner designated as a key audit principal of Anglo American internal technically proficient staff and independent third parties.
will not be employed by Anglo American in a key management position unless a period of at least two years has elapsed since the The Groups internal audit arrangements are independently reviewed conclusion of the last relevant audit.
An independent review was completed in early 2006 the external auditors are required to periodically assess, in their and its findings are in the process of being implemented.
The previous professional judgement, whether they are independent from review was completed during 2002. the Group.
the Audit Committee ensures that the scope of the auditors work Composition is sufficient and that the auditors are fairly remunerated.
The Audit Committee presently comprises: David Challen chairman, the Audit Committee has primary responsibility for making Chris Fay, Rob Margetts, Fred Phaswana and Karel Van Miert, all recommendations to the Board on the appointment, reappointment of whom are independent non-executive directors.
The Board, in and removal of the external auditors.
consultation with the audit committee chairman, makes appointments the Audit Committee has the authority to engage independent to the Committee.
The Board has determined that the Committee counsel and other advisors as they determine necessary in order to members have the skills and experience necessary to contribute resolve issues on auditor independence.
meaningfully to the Committees deliberations.
In addition, the chairman has requisite experience in accounting and financial The Audit Committee has satisfied itself that the United Kingdom management.
professional and regulatory requirements for audit partner rotation and employment of former employees of the external auditors have been The Committee met four times during 2005, and on three of those complied with.
occasions the members held discussions with the external audit partners and the head of internal audit in the absence of management.
The Audit Committee considered information pertaining to the balance between fees for audit and non-audit work for the Group in Effectiveness of internal control and risk management 2005 and concluded that the nature and extent of non-audit fees The Executive Board, as mandated by the Board, has established a do not present a threat to the external auditors independence.
Group-wide system of internal control to manage significant Group Furthermore, after reviewing a report from the external auditors on risks.
This system, which has been operating throughout the year all their relationships with Anglo American that might reasonably and to the date of this report, supports the Board in discharging its have a bearing on the external auditors independence and the audit responsibility for ensuring that the wide range of risks associated with engagement partner and staffs objectivity, and the related the Groups diverse international operations is effectively managed 22 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005 in support of the creation and preservation of shareholder wealth.
In conducting its annual review of the effectiveness of risk Where appropriate, necessary action has been or is being taken to management, the Board considers the key findings from the ongoing remedy any failings or weaknesses identified from review of the monitoring and reporting processes, management assertions and effectiveness of the internal control system.
The Board also takes account of material changes and trends in the risk profile and considers whether Internal control the control system, including reporting, adequately supports the Board The system of internal control, which is embedded in all key operations, in achieving its risk management objectives.
provides reasonable rather than absolute assurance that the Groups business objectives will be achieved within the risk tolerance levels During the course of the year the Board considered the Groups defined by the Board.
Regular management reporting, which responsiveness to changes within its business environment.
The provides a balanced assessment of key risks and controls, is an Board is satisfied that there is an ongoing process, which has been important component of Board assurance.
In addition, certain Board operational during the year, and up to the date of approval of the committees focus on specific risks such as safety and capital Annual Report, for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant investment and provide assurance to the Board on those matters.
risks faced by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull guidelines.
The chief financial officers provide confirmation, on a six monthly This includes social, environmental and ethical risks as highlighted in basis, that financial and accounting control frameworks have the Disclosure Guidelines on Socially Responsible Investment issued operated satisfactorily.
The Board also receives assurance from the by the Association of British Insurers.
A detailed report on social, Audit Committee, which derives its information, in part, from regular environmental and ethical issues will be included in the Companys internal and external audit reports on risk and internal control Report to Society 2005. throughout the Group.
The Groups internal audit functions have a formal collaboration process in place with the external auditors to Accountability and audit ensure efficient coverage of internal controls.
The Anglo American The Board is required to present a balanced and understandable internal audit function is responsible for providing independent assessment of Anglo Americans financial position and prospects.
assurance to the Executive Board and the Board on the effectiveness Such assessment is provided in the chairmans and chief executives of the risk management process throughout the Group.
statements and the financial review set out on pages 2 to 17 of this Annual Report.
The respective responsibilities of the directors and Anglo American seeks to have a sound system of internal control, external auditors are set out on page 88.
As referred to in the based on the Groups policies and guidelines, in all material associates directors report on page 18, the directors have expressed their view and joint ventures.
In those companies that are independently that Anglo Americans business is a going concern.
managed, as well as joint ventures, the directors who are represented on these organisations boards seek assurance that significant risks Whistleblowing programme are being managed.
Following adoption in December 2003 of a whistleblowing policy that is aligned with the Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998, the Group Risk management has implemented a whistleblowing programme in virtually all of the The Boards policy on risk management encompasses all significant managed operations.
The programme, which is monitored by the business risks to the Group, including, financial, operational and Audit Committee, is aimed at enabling employees, customers, compliance risk, which could undermine the achievement of suppliers, managers or other stakeholders, on a confidential basis, business objectives.
This system of risk management is designed to raise concerns in cases where conduct is deemed to be contrary so that the different businesses are able to tailor and adapt their to our values.
It may include: risk management processes to suit their specific circumstances.
This flexible approach has the commitment of the Groups senior actions that may result in danger to the health and or safety of management.
There is clear accountability for risk management, people or damage to the environment: which is a key performance area of line managers throughout the unethical practice in accounting, internal accounting controls, Group.
The requisite risk and control capability is assured through financial reporting and auditing matters: Board challenge and appropriate management selection and skills criminal offences, including money laundering, fraud, bribery development.
Managers are supported in giving effect to their risk and corruption: responsibilities through policies and guidelines on risk and control failure to comply with any legal obligation: management.
Continuous monitoring of risk and control processes, miscarriage of justice: across headline risk areas and other business-specific risk areas, any conduct contrary to the ethical principles embraced in our provides the basis for regular and exception reporting to business Good Citizenship: Our Business Principles or any similar policy: management and boards, the Executive Board and the Board.
any other legal or ethical concern: and concealment of any of the above.
Some of the headline risk areas, which have been elaborated upon in the financial review, set out on page 5 to 17 are: The programme makes available a selection of telephonic, e-mail, web-based and surface mail communication channels to any commodity price risk: person in the world who has information about unethical practice in currency risk: Anglo American and its managed operations.
The multilingual interest rate risk: communication facilities are operated by independent service providers counterparty risk: and who remove all indications from information received as to the identity liquidity and financing risks.
of the callers before submission to designated persons in the Group.
The risk assessment and reporting criteria are designed to provide the During 2005, 247 reports were received via the global Speakup facility, Board with a consistent, Group-wide perspective of the key risks.
The covering a broad spectrum of concerns, including ethical, criminal, reports to the Board, which are submitted at least every six months, supplier relationships, health and safety, and human resource-type include an assessment of the likelihood and impact of risks materialising, issues.
Reports received were kept strictly confidential and were as well as risk mitigation initiatives and their effectiveness.
referred to appropriate line managers within the Group for resolution.
Where appropriate, action was taken to address the issues raised.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005 | 23 Corporate governance continued Relations with shareholders Executive management Executive Board The Company maintains an active dialogue with its key financial The Executive Board is responsible for implementing the strategies and audiences, including institutional shareholders and sell-side analysts.
policies determined by the Board, managing the business and affairs of The Investor and Corporate Affairs department manages the ongoing the Company, prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human dialogue with these audiences and regular presentations take place at resources and establishing best management practices.
The Executive the time of interim and final results as well as during the rest of the year.
Board is also responsible for senior management appointments and An active programme with potential shareholders is also maintained.
monitoring their performance and acts as the Anglo American risk committee for the purpose of reviewing and monitoring Any concerns raised by a shareholder in relation to the Company and its Anglo Americans systems of internal control.
affairs are communicated to the Board as a whole.
The Board is briefed on a regular basis by the Investor and Corporate Affairs Department and The Executive Board presently comprises: Tony Trahar chairman, analysts reports are circulated to the directors.
Philip Baum, David Hathorn, Ren Mdori, Simon Thompson, Russell King, Tony Redman and Lazarus Zim.
During the year there have been regular presentations and meetings with institutional investors in the UK, South Africa, continental Investment Committee Europe, Australia, the USA and Canada to communicate the strategy The role of the Investment Committee, which is a sub-committee of and performance of Anglo American.
Executive directors as well as the Executive Board, is to manage the process of capital allocation by key corporate officers host such presentations and meetings.
The ensuring that investments and divestments increase shareholder value chairman is also available to shareholders to discuss any matter they and meet Anglo Americans financial criteria.
The Committee makes wish to raise.
co. uk recommendations to the Executive Board and or the Board on these provides the latest and historical financial and other information on matters.
The Committee meets as required.
The Investment Committee presently comprises: Ren Mdori Shareholders will have the opportunity at the forthcoming AGM, chairman, David Hathorn, Simon Thompson, Tony Redman notice of which is contained in the booklet enclosed herewith, to and Peter Whitcutt.
put questions to the Board, including the chairmen of the various committees.
Facilities have been put in place to enable shareholders on the UK register to receive Company communications electronically rather than by mail and, for those unable to attend the meeting, to cast their AGM votes by electronic means including those shareholders whose shares are held in the CREST system.
Voting on each resolution to be proposed at the AGM will be conducted on a poll rather than by a show of hands.
The results of the poll will be announced to the press and on the Companys website.
24 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005
