MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 11 Corporate governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate The non-executive directors provide a wide range of skills and governance and supports the Combined Code on Corporate experience to the Group.
They bring an independent judgement Governance the Code, published in July 2003.
The following on issues of strategy, performance, risk and people through their statement is intended to explain our governance policies and contribution at Board and committee meetings.
The Board practices and to provide insight into how the Board and considers that throughout the year each non-executive director management run the business for the benefit of shareholders.
was independent in character and judgement and that they also A detailed account of how we comply with the Code provisions met the independence criteria set out in the Code.
The noncan be found on the Corporate Governance section of the executive directors have ensured that they have sufficient time to Companys website, together with the terms of reference of carry out their duties.
They are expected to serve two three-year the audit, remuneration and nomination committees, at terms, although the Board may invite them to serve an additional www.
As a consequence of changes to the Board described in the Directors report on page 27, less than half the Board were The Board independent non-executive directors for the period from 31 May On 23 May 2005 the Board comprised the Chairman, Chief to 9 November 2004.
Executive, one executive director and four non-executive directors, who are collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
Graham Oakley, Group Secretary, acts as a sounding board to the On 27 June 2005 our new Finance Director will join the Board.
He plays a key role for the A list of directors, with details of their biographies and committee Chairman in ensuring the effective functioning of the Board.
He is membership, is given on page 17 of the Annual Review.
secretary of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
He also heads the Corporate Governance Group, which supports Paul Myners is Chairman and he is responsible for the working the Board and its committees and commercial colleagues on a of the Board, for the balance of its membership subject to Board wide range of issues.
and shareholder approval, and for ensuring that all directors are enabled to play their full part in its activities to deliver value to The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its shareholders.
He ensures effective communication with decision.
It determines the overall Group strategy: creation, shareholders and makes sure that Board members develop an acquisition or disposal of material corporate entities or assets: understanding of the views of major investors.
development and protection of the brand: matters of public interest that could affect the Groups reputation: public announcements Stuart Rose is Chief Executive and he is responsible for all aspects including statutory accounts: significant changes in accounting of the management of the Group and its business, which includes policy: capital structure and dividend policy: operating plans and developing the appropriate business strategy for Board approval key performance indicators: prosecution, defence or settlement of and securing its timely and effective implementation.
He ensures material litigation: Group remuneration policy and Board structure, that, within the strategies agreed by the Board, appropriate composition and succession.
objectives and policies are adopted for each of the businesses of the Company, that appropriate budgets are set for them The Board receives regular updates on performance against the individually, that their performance is effectively monitored and annual operating plan and investment decisions, together with that guidance or direction is given where appropriate.
business reports and presentations from senior management.
During 2004 05 we reviewed all expenditure and put tight controls The Chairman ensures that the directors receive accurate, timely in place.
Stock commitments were reduced by over 35% year on and clear information.
Directors are encouraged to update their year.
We are on course to deliver cost and margin savings and skills, knowledge and familiarity with the Group through their initial have a lower customer-focused capital spend.
We simplied induction, ongoing participation at Board and committee meetings, processes to make us more product and service driven, and and through meeting our people at store locations and elsewhere.
removed 650 roles from head ofce.
We also focused on 10 Views of customers and shareholders are also shared through strategic projects that will add most value.
Board presentations and individual meetings.
The Board is regularly updated on governance and regulatory matters.
There is We renegotiated supplier terms to reduce the cost of goods by an established procedure whereby any director, wishing to do so in 140m by the end of 2006 07 compared to 2003 04.
Overall, we the furtherance of their duties, may take independent professional expect to achieve cost and margin savings of 320m by the end advice through the Group Secretary at the Companys expense.
Additionally, we closed Lifestore, acquired per una, This has been extended to the audit, remuneration and nomination returned 2.3bn to shareholders and sold M&S Money to HSBC.
committees to take their own independent advice.
We reduced the Executive Board to a team of three.
The Business Kevin Lomax is Senior Independent Director and he provides a Unit Directors all now report directly to the Chief Executive and communication channel between the Chairman and the nongive regular presentations to the Board on strategies in their executive directors and to ensure that the views of each nonrelevant areas of the business.
executive director are given due consideration.
He is also an The Board delegates to management, through the Chief Executive, additional contact point for shareholders if they have reason for the overall performance of the Group which is conducted concern which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, principally through the setting of clear objectives and effective Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for performance coaching, building long-term management capability which contact is inappropriate.
Brian Baldock was the Senior and ensuring that the business is managed in a t and proper Independent Director until his retirement on 14 July 2004. manner in keeping with its values and business principles.
12 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Corporate governance continued Under the Companys Articles of Association, all directors seek giving due regard to the financial and commercial health of the election at their first Annual General Meeting following appointment company and to ensure the executive directors and senior and all directors are required to offer themselves for re-election at management are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions least every three years.
In addition, any director who is aged 70 or to the Companys overall performance.
The remuneration of the more is required to retire and seek re-election annually.
non-executive directors is determined by the Chairman and the executive directors.
Committees of the Board The audit committee comprises Kevin Lomax chairman, The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 16 to 25 as required Anthony Habgood, Steven Holliday and Jack Keenan, all of whom by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. are independent, non-executive directors.
Paul Myners was a The nomination committee comprises Paul Myners chairman, member until he was appointed Company Chairman on 31 May Anthony Habgood, Steven Holliday, Jack Keenan and Kevin 2004.
Brian Baldock and Dame Stella Rimington were members Lomax, all of whom are independent non-executive directors, with until they retired on 14 July 2004.
Anthony Habgood and Steven the exception of the Chairman.
Brian Baldock and Dame Stella Holliday joined the committee on their appointment on 15 July Rimington were members until their retirement on 14 July 2004.
Its primary function is to maintain the integrity of the financial Its role is to ensure that appropriate procedures are in place for the statements and other information to shareholders, to review the nomination, selection, training and evaluation of directors and for systems of internal control and risk management: to maintain an successional plans.
It reviews Board structure, size, composition appropriate relationship with the Companys external and internal and successional needs, thereby keeping under review the balance auditors and to review the effectiveness and objectivity of the audit of membership and the required blend of skills, knowledge and process.
Additional items reviewed during the year include: experience of the Board.
international accounting standards, clothing stock and commitment controls, store assurance, business change, Paul Myners was appointed as Chairman in May 2004 on an information security and cash controls.
Private meetings have interim basis until a permanent appointment is made, having been also been held separately with the external auditors and the appointed to the Board in April 2002 as an independent nonChief Internal Auditor.
From 1 May 2005 Stuart Rose and Charles executive director.
He subsequently made more time available so Wilson, supported by the Finance Group, will assume the that he could continue in the role while the search for a permanent responsibilities normally performed by a Finance Director until the Chairman continued.
He is chairman of Aspen Insurance Holdings appointment of Ian Dyson on 27 June 2005.
Ltd and of Guardian Media Group plc.
He is a non-executive director of the Bank of New York and will join the Court of The audit committee keeps under review the independence and Directors of the Bank of England on 1 June 2005.
In 2004 he objectivity of the external auditors,  LLP retired as a non-executive director of mm0 and as a trustee of 2 PwC, including the review of audit fee proposals and non-audit the Charities Aid Foundation.
An engagement and fee approvals process is in place which requires prior committee approval for some engagements and Also in May 2004, Stuart Rose was appointed as Chief Executive excludes others.
In some cases, the nature of the non-audit advice and Charles Wilson as executive director, both with considerable may make it more timely and cost-effective to select PwC, who experience in retail and turnaround situations.
During the year already have a good understanding of the Group.
PwC may also further candidate searches resulted in two non-executives being be appointed for consultancy work, but only after rigorous checks, appointed to the Board in July 2004 and a Finance Director to including competitive tender, to confirm they are the best provider.
be appointed in June 2005, all recruited externally.
In all cases PwC is also subject to professional standards which safeguard the appointments were made on merit and against objective criteria integrity of the auditing role performed on behalf of shareholders.
to ensure that the Board maintains an appropriate balance of skills Details of this years fees are given in note 3 to the financial and experience.
Kevin Lomax, an independent non-executive director, has led the The Board is confident that the collective experience of the audit search for a new Chairman on behalf of the nomination committee.
committee members enables them, as a group, to act as an The committee has also commissioned searches for new noneffective audit committee.
The committee also has access to the executive directors to address successional arrangements and financial expertise of the Group and its auditors and can seek broaden the skills, experience and diversity of the Board.
further professional advice at the Companys expense if required.
In May 2005 we announced that Lord Burns will be joining the Our search for a new non-executive director with recent and Board as Deputy Chairman with effect from 1 October 2005 and relevant financial experience to refresh the skills and experience of will become Chairman from the Annual General Meeting in July the committee as a whole continues, having been interrupted by 2006.
Paul Myners will then step aside from the Board as, under the significant Board restructures in May and November 2004. the Combined Code principles, the Board will not be able to The remuneration committee comprises Jack Keenan consider him as an independent director.
chairman, Anthony Habgood, Steven Holliday and Kevin Lomax, The corporate social responsibility CSR committee all of whom are independent, non-executive directors.
Dame Stella comprises Paul Myners chairman, Jack Keenan, Graham Oakley Rimington was chairman until her retirement on 14 July 2004. and seven members of management.
Mark McKeon and Alison Barbara Cassani and Brian Baldock were members until their Reed were members until their retirement on 9 November 2004 retirement on 30 April and 14 July 2004 respectively.
Kevin Lomax and 30 April 2005 respectively.
It provides the Board with an became a member on 15 July 2004.
Its primary role is to overview of the social, environmental and ethical impacts of the recommend to the Board the remuneration strategy and framework, Groups activities.
Key CSR risks and opportunities are identied in MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 13 areas such as product safety, sustainable raw materials, animal welfare, ethical trading, employment policy, health and safety and community programmes.
We are pleased that we continue to gain recognition for our CSR performance, including being named as Business in the Communitys BitC 2004 Company of the Year.
Further information is given on page 16 of the Annual Review and our CSR report is available on the Companys website.
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its committees during the year and individual attendance by Board members at those meetings: Group Audit Remuneration Nomination CSR Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Meetings held during the year 1549 10 2 2 Paul Myners, Chairman 15 2 10 2 Stuart Rose, Chief Executive appointed 31 May 2004 12 Executive directors Maurice Helfgott retired 9 November 2004 10 Mark McKeon appointed 5 April 2004: retired 9 November 2004 10 1 Laurel Powers-Freeling retired 9 November 2004 10 Vittorio Radice retired 11 June 2004 4 Alison Reed retired 30 April 2005 15 2 Charles Wilson appointed 31 May 2004 12 Non-executive directors Brian Baldock retired 14 July 2004 8 2 4 4 Anthony Habgood appointed 15 July 2004 5 1 5 5 Steven Holliday appointed 15 July 2004 5 1 5 5 Jack Keenan 15 4 9 8 2 3 Kevin Lomax 13459 Dame Stella Rimington retired 14 July 2004 8 2 4 4 1 These gures include a number of meetings held by the Board and its remuneration and nomination committees at short notice to deal with potential bid activity and senior management changes throughout the year.
Members of the Board and respective committees attended the majority of these meetings in person or by telephone.
Occasionally the short notice of such meetings prevented attendance when other xed commitments had been made.
2 Paul Myners retired from the Audit Committee on his appointment as Chairman on 31 May 2004.
3 Kevin Lomax was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 15 July 2004.
Luc Vandevelde attended the two Board meetings and one Nomination Committee, and Roger Holmes attended the two Board meetings, held before they both retired from the Board on 31 May 2004.
Barbara Cassani retired on 30 April 2004 and did not attend any of the above meetings.
Ian Dyson is being appointed to the Board on 27 June 2005.
Lord Burns is being appointed to the Board on 1 October 2005.
Performance evaluation Collective performance: Board and Committees The nomination committee, through the Chairman, agreed our approach to reviewing the collective performance of the Board and its committees, together with individual contributions, through a combination of questionnaire and individual feedback.
The Chairman issued a detailed questionnaire to all directors in March 2005 with specic questions grouped into areas headed processes, roles and responsibilities and committee and individual contributions.
Appreciating that time together as a new Board was relatively short and that the reconstitution of the Board was not yet complete, it was still felt that a rigorous review would be valuable.
Directors were invited to focus specically on areas requiring priority action and to give honest and constructive suggestions comments so that the Board could review its performance in a thorough and thoughtful manner.
The process was extended further this year to include external advice and support together with individual discussions with the Head of Senior Succession and Board Performance allowing greater opportunity to explore issues on an individual basis.
An executive summary focusing on the key themes that emerge will be distributed to directors.
The Chairman will lead a Board discussion based on the results of the evaluation and use the process to improve constructively the effectiveness of the Board by maximising the strengths and tackling any issues of concern.
Individual performance The executive directors continue to have their performance individually reviewed by the Chief Executive against set objectives.
Remuneration and bonus is directly linked to these reviews and determined by the remuneration committee.
Similarly, the Chief Executive and Group Secretarys performance is reviewed by the Chairman.
The performance of the non-executive directors is reviewed individually by the Chairman and that of the Chairman by the non-executive directors led by the Senior Independent Director.
This years questionnaire also allowed each director to comment on the individual performance of themselves, other directors and the Chairman.
14 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Corporate governance continued Accountability and audit Competent people The Groups overriding corporate objective is to maximise longappointment of employees of the necessary calibre to full their term shareholder value whilst exceeding the expectations of our allotted responsibilities: and customers, employees and partners.
In doing so, the directors clear roles and accountabilities with regular performance recognise that creating value is the reward for taking and reviews.
Monitor and control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups approach to review by operating divisions of their plans with the relevant assessing risk and systems of internal control, and for monitoring executive directors prior to submission to the Board for their effectiveness in providing shareholders with a return that is approval, including identication and assessment of risks: consistent with a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
monthly comparison of operating divisions actual financial This includes reviewing financial, operational and compliance performance against budget: and controls and risk management procedures.
The role of executive regular consideration by the Board of year-end forecasts.
management is to implement the Boards policies on risk and Regulatory update control, and present assurance on compliance with these policies.
reporting of accounting and legal developments: and Independent assurance is presented by internal audit, which regular briengs on latest best practice corporate governance operates across the Group, and the external auditors.
employees are accountable for operating within these policies.
Assurance Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of On behalf of the Board, the audit committee examines the internal control, this system is designed to manage, rather than effectiveness of the Groups: eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve corporate objectives.
assessment of risk by reviewing evidence of risk assessment Accordingly, it can only provide reasonable but not absolute activity and a report from internal audit on the process assurance against material misstatement or loss.
undertaken: and Risk assessment systems of internal control, primarily through approving the Every six months the Board reviews the Group Risk Prole the internal audit plan and reviewing its findings, reviews of the tool that drives risk assessment and action planning.
This is annual and interim financial statements and a review of the supported by an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and nature, scope and reports of the external audit.
managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
As an integral Any significant findings or identied risks are closely examined so part of planning and review, managers from each business area that appropriate action can be taken.
Management is called upon and major projects identify the risks to their plans, the probability of to present action plans and give representation.
The audit those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the actions committee has completed its review of the effectiveness of the being taken to manage those risks to the agreed boundaries for Groups systems of internal control during the year.
This information is communicated upwards on a lter basis, culminating in a comparison with the executive directors Internal audits work is focused on areas of priority as identied by assessment of the Groups risks and discussion by the Board.
the Group Risk Prole and in accordance with an annual audit plan approved each year by the audit committee and by the Board.
The This process has been in place for the year under review and up Board receives a full report from the Chief Internal Auditor each to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
It has year on the departments work and findings and regular interim been regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Internal updates on specic issues.
Control Guidance for directors on the Code produced by the Turnbull working party.
The external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the financial statements.
They review and test the systems of internal Internal control financial control and the data contained in the financial statements The Board maintains full control and direction over appropriate to the extent necessary to express their audit opinion.
They strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues.
It has discuss with management the reporting of operational results and delegated to executive management the implementation of the the financial position of the Group and present their findings to the systems of internal control within an established framework.
The Board has put in place an organisational structure with Relations with shareholders formally dened lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
We are committed to ongoing engagement with shareholders and There are also established procedures for planning, capital have a well established cycle of communication based on the expenditure, information and reporting systems, and for monitoring Groups financial reporting calendar.
At times of rapid change it is the Groups businesses and their performance.
These include: even more important to keep all investors properly informed.
We Plans and policies promote the use of electronic communication and relaunched our communication of the Groups strategy, objectives and targets: corporate website in May 2005.
All Company announcements and annual operating and capital plans and future projections: presentations are made available simultaneously on our website, operating policies and procedures: which also contains corporate and customer information updated clearly dened capital investment control guidelines: on a regular basis.
There is a corporate governance section which review of treasury policies by the treasury committee: and includes our full response to the Code and terms of reference for review of social, environmental and ethical matters by the the principal Board committees.
Our registrars have also corporate social responsibility committee.
co. uk an electronic service where MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 15 shareholders can check their shareholding, update their personal At last years Annual General Meeting, the Chairman made a details and elect to receive communications electronically, rather commitment to explore how we could best reward our loyal than through the post.
shareholders who are also customers.
In August 2004 we sent Caf Revive and Spend and Save vouchers to shareholders Our Investor Relations department is the focal point for contact offering Autumn discounts in stores, which proved very popular.
with institutional investors and maintains regular dialogue We will be repeating this in July 2005, extending our offer to those throughout the year.
The Chairman ensures that the Board is who hold shares through nominee accounts.
regularly updated on the views of our major shareholders, following meetings they have with him, the Chief Executive, the Finance We encourage shareholders to make their views known to us Director or Investor Relations.
In June the Board receives a by e-mail at chairman@marks-and-spencer.
com, by telephone presentation from external advisers summarising the opinions on 0845 302 1234 for customer queries and 0845 609 0810 of our principal shareholders following an extensive survey on for shareholder queries as we continue to develop our products their views after the release of our fourth quarter trading statement and services.
Compliance with the combined code We regard the Annual General Meeting as an important forum for For the year ended 2 April 2005 the Company complied with all us to engage with shareholders, particularly our private the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, shareholders, and it is very well attended.
The business except as follows: presentations from the Chairman and Chief Executive are made Board Balance available on our website, together with the questions and answers A.
3.2 At least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should raised at the meeting.
comprise non-executive directors determined by the Board to be The Board has taken the following steps to encourage increased independent.
The Companys position is explained on page 11. shareholder voting and improve the integrity and effectiveness of Audit Committee Membership the voting process: C. 3.1 The Board should satisfy itself that at least one member of campaigned your vote counts and encouraged the greater the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
use of electronic voting: The Companys position is explained on page 11. invited three-way voting on Annual General Meeting resolutions: for, against and vote withheld: and conducted the vote at the Annual General Meeting by poll rather than by show of hands.
The results of our voting are declared at the meeting, announced to the London Stock Exchange and published on our website.
In July 2004 all Annual General Meeting resolutions were passed on a poll conducted electronically.
Approximately 40% of the ordinary share capital was voted with for resolutions ranging from 89.23% to 99.98%.
At this years Annual General Meeting, in addition to routine resolutions, shareholders will be asked to vote on: separate resolutions relating to the Companys auditors,  LLP.
The first relates to their reappointment and the second seeks authority for the audit committee to determine the remuneration of the auditors on behalf of the Board: amendments to the Companys Articles of Association to authorise the Company to indemnify directors and fund legal defence costs as now permitted by the Companies Audit, Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004: the introduction of a new Performance Share Plan and Executive Share Option Plan following a review by the remuneration committee to put in place an effective incentive structure to focus senior executives on driving the Companys recovery whilst taking account of investor views and market practice: and the appointment of Lord Burns as a director with effect from 1 October 2005.
