On 2 September 2005 the Group acquired the Company law requires the Directors to prepare entire share capital of Paver Systems Carluke Group and Parent Company Financial Statements Limited, a concrete products business.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group Fixed Assets Financial Statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare The Group continues to invest in the business the Parent Company Financial Statements in with net capital investment in the year of 20.7 accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
This includes 3.1 The Group Financial Statements are required by million in respect of the Stoke Hall Quarry law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present property, in Derbyshire, a natural stone reserve fairly the financial position and performance of that will form part of Stancliffe Stone, the existing the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in stone walling, cladding and masonry business and relation to such financial statements that is net of 4.4 million proceeds from the sale of references in the relevant part of that Act to surplus properties.
financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In the opinion of the Directors, the market value of the Groups properties is not materially different The Parent Company Financial Statements are from the value included in the Group required by law to give a true and fair view of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
state of affairs of the Parent Company.
Payment to Suppliers In preparing each of the Group and Parent The Group follows the CBIs prompt payment code Company Financial Statements, the Directors are and operates and abides by a clearly defined required to: payment policy which has been agreed with all major suppliers.
select suitable accounting policies and then period at 31 December 2005 was 52 days 2004: 48 apply them consistently: days.. make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Substantial Shareholdings.
for the Group Financial Statements, state As at 10 March 2006, the Company had been whether they have been prepared in notified of the following substantial beneficial accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: interests of 3 per cent or more in its ordinary.
for the Parent Company Financial Statements, issued share capital: state whether applicable UK Accounting % Standards have been followed, subject to any M&G Investment Management Limited 10.52 material departures disclosed and explained AXA S. A.
8.07 in the Parent Company Financial Statements: Legal and General Investment and Management Limited 3.55. prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to Statement of Directors presume that the Group and the Parent Responsibilities in respect of the Company will continue in business.
Annual Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable The Directors are responsible for preparing the accuracy at any time the financial position of the Annual Report and the Group and Parent Parent Company and enable them to ensure that Company Financial Statements, in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 29 Directors Report continued its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Annual General Meeting The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held at Birkby Grange at 12 noon on Wednesday 24 May 2006, together with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed, is contained in a circular to be sent to shareholders with this Report.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors to the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board Elizabeth Blease Company Secretary 10 March 2006 30 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate Governance Marshalls is committed to business integrity, high merit in arranging individual Director ethical values and professionalism in all its evaluations.
The Directors who are retiring by activities.
As an essential part of this commitment, rotation and seeking re-election at the Annual the Group supports the highest standards in General Meeting have undergone corporate governance.
It is committed to the performance reviews.
principles of the Combined Code on Corporate.
The division of responsibilities between the Governance appended to the Listing Rules of the Chairman and Chief Executive have not been Financial Services Authority the Code and for set out in writing and approved by the Board.
which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
They have been drafted and will be put to the Board for approval when finalised during 2006.
Statement of Compliance with the Code The paragraphs below, together with the Throughout the year ended 31 December 2005, Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages the Company has complied with the Code in all 37 to 43 and the Report of the Audit Committee material respects, with the following minor set out on page 44 describe how these principles exceptions: are applied within the Company..
Following a review of the existing Terms of Reference for the Boards Nomination, Audit Directors and Remuneration Committees, updated The Board, balance and independence editions were published on the Companys The Board is scheduled to meet nine times each website in March 2006.
Copies of the Terms of year with additional meetings called if required.
Reference were available during 2005 by The Board has a Schedule of Matters reserved to it.
Medium and long-term strategy is frequently.
For the first two months of the year the discussed and meetings are held with the Company did not comply with the provision Executive team, on a regular basis, to update the requiring that at least half of the Board, Board on business and strategic issues.
In excluding the Chairman, should comprise addition the Board is responsible for risk independent Non-Executive Directors.
The management and for the development of Group Audit and Remuneration Committees did not policies including areas such as health and safety, social, environmental and ethical issues.
comply with the provision requiring these Committees to have at least three members.
On the appointment of Bill Husselby on 7 The Board has formally delegated specific March 2005 as an independent Non-Executive responsibilities to Board Committees, including the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Director and member of the Audit and Committees.
The Board will also appoint Remuneration Committees, the Company Committees to approve specific processes as complied with these provisions for the rest of deemed necessary.
For example, during the year, the year.
Board Committees were established to approve.
The Board did not arrange individual Director bank documentation, dividend payments and evaluation.
There had been many changes to preliminary and interim announcements.
the Board over the previous two years and although the Board did undertake an The Groups structure operates in such a way to evaluation of itself and the Executive and Nonensure that all decisions are made by the most Executive Directors collectively, it did not appropriate people in a timely manner that will believe at this early stage that there would be not unnecessarily delay progress.
The Directors and management teams of each Group business are responsible for those business entities.
They Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 31 Corporate Governance continued are tasked with the delivery of targets approved The Board have appointed a Senior Independent by the Board and for the implementation of Non-Executive Director who is available to Group Strategy and Policy across their businesses.
shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels had failed to resolve The Board, at its meetings, reviews the financial or for which such contact is inappropriate.
A detailed business plan and annual budget is prepared for each operation in At least once a year the Chairman holds a meeting conjunction with local management.
These are with the Non-Executive Directors without the then compared in detail with the monthly Executive Directors being present.
Led by the management accounts.
Executive Directors are Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the required to comment on areas where Non-Executives meet without the Chairman being performance departs from current expectations.
present, at least annually, to appraise the Any significant variances are discussed at Board Chairmans performance.
level and appropriate action taken.
Directors have the right to ensure that any These policies and procedures collectively enable concerns they raise about the running of the the Board to make informed decisions on a range Company or a proposed action will be recorded in of key issues including those relating to strategy the Board minutes.
Further, on resignation, if a and risk management.
Non-Executive Director had any such concerns, the Chairman would invite him to provide a The Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, written statement for circulation to the Board.
three Executive Directors and three independent Non-Executive Directors who are equally The Company maintains an appropriate level of responsible for the proper stewardship and Directors and Officers Insurance in respect of leadership of the Company.
Taking into account legal action against the Directors.
the provisions of the Code, the Board has determined that each of the Non-Executive Directors is independent and free from any relationships which could compromise their independent judgement.
The Biographical details of the Directors are on page 20.
The attendance of the Directors at the Board and principal Board Committee meetings during the year are detailed in the table below: Nomination Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee 9 meetings 1 meeting 4 meetings 3 meetings Mike Davies 9 1 n a n a Andrew Allner 8142 Ian Burrell 9 n a n a n a Graham Holden 9 n a n a n a Bill Husselby 7 n a 3 2 David Sarti 9 n a n a n a Richard Scholes 9143 Notes: Bill Husselby was appointed on 7 March 2005 and he attended all Board and Committee meetings from that date.
32 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 appointing additional persons to the Board and the Chairman and Chief Executive re-election by shareholders of any Director under the The positions of Chairman and Chief Executive are retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys held by separate individuals.
The Chairman is Articles of Association.
primarily responsible for the effective working of the Board and ensuring that each Director, particularly Other significant commitments of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, are able to make an the Non-Executive Directors were disclosed to the effective contribution.
The Chief Executive has Board before appointment and the Board is notified responsibility for all operational matters which of any subsequent changes.
None of the Executive include the implementation of the Group Strategy Directors hold a Non-Executive Directorship.
and policies approved by the Board.
The letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors will continue to be available for inspection The Chairman at the time of his appointment met at the Companys registered office.
These letters of and continues to meet, the independence criteria set appointment set out the expected time commitment out in the Code.
and Non-Executive Directors undertake that they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
Appointments to the Board The Board has an established Nomination Committee to lead the process for Board appointments and to Information and Professional make recommendations to the Board.
The Development Committee meets periodically and at least once each All Directors are supplied in a timely manner, with all year.
The members of the Nomination Committee are relevant documentation and financial information to the Chairman, who chairs the meetings, and the three assist them in the discharge of their duties.
includes information on the Companys operational and financial performance.
At every meeting the The Terms of Reference of the Nomination Board receives a health and safety report.
Committee were reviewed during the year and are available on the Companys website at New appointments to the Board have experience and www.
These Terms of Reference skills to bring to the Company.
Training is offered to all explain the role of the Committee and the authority new Directors.
The Chairman, together with the Chief delegated to it by the Board.
These Terms of Reference Executive and the Company Secretary, ensure that state that the Chairman would not chair the newly appointed Directors receive full, formal and Nomination Committee when it is dealing with the tailored induction on joining the Board.
Newly appointment of a successor to the Chairmanship.
appointed Directors would be available to shareholders if a meeting were requested.
On a regular basis the Nomination Committee undertakes an evaluation of the balance of skills, All Directors have access to the advice and services of knowledge and experience on the Board.
For a the Company Secretary and are entitled to rely on the particular appointment it will use this evaluation to impartial and independent nature of that advice and prepare a description of the role and capabilities those services.
The Company Secretary is responsible required.
This Committee did prepare a job for ensuring that Board procedures are complied specification, including an assessment of the time with.
commitment expected, when it appointed the current Chairman and would adopt this process again The Board has an approved procedure for all Directors in the future.
to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
All Board Committees are The Nomination Committee leads the process for provided with sufficient resources to undertake their Board appointments and makes recommendations duties.
to the Board about filling vacancies on the Board, Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 33 Corporate Governance continued it believes that the Non-Executive Director should Performance Evaluation be re-appointed.
The Chairman will confirm to During the year, the Board conducted an evaluation shareholders when proposing re-appointment of its own performance.
A questionnaire was that, following a formal performance evaluation, completed by each Board member on the the individuals performance continues to be effectiveness of the Board.
Questionnaires were also effective and that they continue to demonstrate completed on the effectiveness of the Non-Executive commitment to the role.
Feedback on the points raised was considered by the Board.
The exercise was Currently none of the Non-Executive Directors has viewed positively by the Directors and it will be served more than three years.
Any Non-Executive undertaken again during the course of the current Directors serving more than six years will be financial year.
Following this evaluation the Board has subject to a particularly rigorous review.
set itself objectives for the year.
The three principal Board Committees have Directors Remuneration undertaken performance evaluations.
During 2006 Details of the Directors remuneration are set out the Board will establish a process of performance in the Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 43. evaluation of its individual Directors.
As set out above The report details the Companys compliance with there is an established process to evaluate the the Codes requirements with regard to performance of the Chairman.
The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee were reviewed during the year and are available on the Re-Election Companys website at www.
The Companys Articles of Association require Directors to retire and seek re-election at the first Annual General Meeting of the Company Accountability and Audit following their appointment.
The Articles of Financial Reporting Association include a provision for one third of the Directors to retire and seek re-election at each In presenting the Annual and Interim Financial Annual General Meeting, ensuring that no Statements the Directors seek to present a Director serves more than three years without balanced and understandable assessment of the retiring and being proposed for re-appointment.
The Directors have adopted the going concern basis in Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specific preparing these Financial Statements.
terms, subject to re-appointment and the Companys Articles of Association, and are subject The respective responsibilities of the Directors to the Companies Acts provisions relating to the and the Auditors in connection with the Financial removal of a Director.
The Nomination Committee Statements are explained in the Statement of has ensured that performance evaluations for Directors Responsibilities and the Independent each Director who is retiring by rotation and Auditors Report on pages 29 and 45 respectively.
being proposed for re-election have been undertaken.
In the circular to shareholders, accompanying the resolution to re-appoint a Non-Executive Director, the Board will explain why 34 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005
