Annual report 2005 Corporate governance Statement of compliance with the provisions of the development of the Group.
The Chief Executive is responsible for Combined Code implementing strategy and running the business in accordance with The Group is committed to achieving high standards of corporate objectives agreed by the Board.
governance and to integrity and high ethical standards in all its business activities.
The Board considers that it has complied with The Executive Committee, comprising the five Executive Directors, Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the period, and to the meets weekly to discuss operational matters.
The Board is briefed on date of the report, except with regard to Code provision A3.2 which the decisions reached by the Committee including those involving risk provides that at least half the Board, excluding the chairman, should management, health and safety issues and property transactions comprise independent Non-executive Directors.
The report sets out below a specified financial authority limit.
below how the principles of the Combined Code have been applied by the Group and the reasoning behind the composition of the Board.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and also to independent legal advice.
On appointment Structure to the Board all Executive Directors receive appropriate training: The Board comprises four Non-executive Directors, one of whom is all Directors receive a full induction programme covering briefings Chairman, and five Executive Directors.
The Non-executive Directors and meetings with divisional directors and senior management.
The all possess a wide range of skills and experience.
All exercise Company maintains insurance cover in respect of legal proceedings independent judgement although David Thompson, the Chairman, and other claims against its directors and officers.
cannot be considered independent under the requirements of the Code, because of his past experience as a long serving Executive All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity Director.
Peter Lipscomb, Deputy Chairman, has been appointed following appointment and to re-election at intervals not exceeding the senior independent Non-executive Director.
His experience and three years.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for terms of business interests ensure his independence from management which three years.
Details of the Directors retiring by rotation and offering is also the case for the other independent Non-executive Directors.
themselves for re-election this year are set out in the Directors The Board consider that the current balance of Executives and Nonreport on page 24. executives is such that no one individual or small group can dominate the Boards decision taking by virtue of the strength of experience and The Board considers that all Directors bring an individual judgement character possessed by the independent Non-executives.
This is to the Boards deliberations in respect of strategy, performance, further strengthened by the process by which matters are disclosed resources, key appointments and standards of conduct.
All Nonto, and decisions are made by, the Board.
executive Directors are considered by the Board to be free from any business or other relationship which could interfere with the exercise The Board met 10 times during the year in the normal course of of their judgement.
During the year the Chairman conducted a review business and additionally as required.
With the exception of Derek of the Board, its Directors and Committees through consultation Andrew, who was unable to attend one Board meeting, all the with each Director and discussion with the senior independent NonDirectors attended all the Board meetings.
It has a formal schedule executive Director.
The Non-executive Directors also met, without the of matters reserved to it for approval ensuring that it considers Chairman being present.
This was to consider the governance of the strategic, financial, organisational and compliance matters with timely Board and the Group, including the performance of the Chairman.
information provided in advance of each meeting.
The Board approves Each of these matters was considered to be satisfactory.
Where major acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure projects, all relevant, and not in respect of their own performance, the Chairman financial statements and the annual budgets.
Specific to this year the and the Chief Executive were involved in evaluating the composition Board met on several additional occasions to receive presentations of the Board and Committees, the meeting process, information explaining the securitisation of part of the Groups assets before giving and training, leadership, effectiveness and compliance with the new approval to the transaction.
All Directors receive within their Board Combined Code.
The results of the review were reported back to the papers details of the Groups performance against budget and Board and a number of action points concerning procedural matters individual reports from the Chief Executive, Finance Director and have been incorporated into next years meetings agenda.
The Board divisional managing directors.
The Board also receives formal is satisfied with its own composition, meeting process and minute presentations from senior managers on a regular basis, which recording, and that of its committees.
In addition, the Chairman provides an opportunity for formal discussions with them.
There met informally with the Non-executive Directors on a number of is a strategy away-day to enable the full Board to focus on each occasions during the year without the Executive Directors division and consider the Groups opportunities, threats and being present.
All Board Committees have agreed terms of reference which have There is a clear division of roles and responsibilities between the been updated to meet the provisions of the new Combined Code Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible and are approved by the Board.
They can be found on the for running an effective Board and concentrating on the strategic Groups website at www.
34 W&DB 2005 Annual report 2005 Corporate governance The structure, size and composition of the Board, together with Board application for the 2006 year end.
Where a potential risk was identified appointments and re-elections are considered by the Nomination the Committee was satisfied that the safeguards that the external Committee which comprises David Thompson Chairman, Miles auditors had put in place were sufficient to prevent a threat to their Emley, Ralph Findlay, Lord Hodgson and Peter Lipscomb.
No Director independence and objectivity.
is involved in any decision regarding his own re-appointment.
The Committee met twice during the year to consider re-elections and Communication the balance of the Board and all Committee members attended all The Group recognises the importance of maintaining a strong of the meetings.
relationship with its shareholders as a key priority with the Annual report and interim statement as the principal media used, as well as On 18 August 2005 the Chairman, David Thompson, was appointed regular institutional presentations, covering reports on trading and executive director of Ragleth Limited Ragleth and, subsequent to its market conditions and strategy.
During the year the Chairman and acquisition by Ragleth, Anglia Maltings Holdings Limited Anglia.
He the senior independent Non-executive Director arranged meetings has no controlling interest in either company and so the transactions with the Companys major shareholders to discuss governance and between the Group and Ragleth or Anglia are not considered to be strategy and develop an understanding of shareholder views.
The Related Party Transactions as defined by UK Generally Accepted matters arising out of those meetings have been fed back to the Accounting Principles GAAP.
David Thompson has accepted these Board and any requests have been acted upon or noted.
appointments on the basis of Ragleth and Anglia allowing him sufficient time to devote to the chairmanship of W&DB.
The Group also maintains a web site, www.
co. uk, to provide up to date information on its operations and brands.
The Companys The Remuneration Committee comprises Peter Lipscomb Chairman, share price and all Company announcements are available on this Miles Emley and Lord Hodgson with Ralph Findlay in attendance if site together with slides for analysts and investor presentations.
It is responsible for agreeing contract terms, remuneration and benefits, including bonuses, for Executive Directors and senior The annual general meeting, which is regularly attended by managers.
It is also responsible for the granting of LTIP awards and approximately 300 shareholders, provides an important forum share options.
It met five times during the year to review pay and for communicating directly with shareholders and the opportunity bonuses and consider the granting of share incentives.
All Committee for shareholders to raise questions with the Board.
At the annual members attended all meetings.
general meeting the Chairman announces the results of proxy voting on each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show The Audit Committee comprises Miles Emley Chairman, Lord of hands.
It monitors the relationship with the external auditors, agrees their scope of work and fees and reviews Internal control the results of the full year audit and the interim results each year.
It also The Group has complied with the Combined Code provisions on assesses annually the cost effectiveness, objectivity and independence internal control.
The Executive Directors examine, and report to the of the external auditors.
The Committee also has responsibility for Board as necessary, the procedures required to implement in full the the Groups whistleblowing policy.
The Board consider that both guidance on internal control produced by the Turnbull Committee.
In Miles Emley and Lord Hodgson have recent and relevant financial addition, the Board has taken account of the Association of British experience in accordance with the requirements of the new Combined Insurers guidelines on socially responsible investment and in this Code.
It met three times during the year to review the results of the full respect the Finance Director chairs a quarterly meeting of the year audit, approve the interim results, consider the risks to the Group, Companys Corporate and Social Responsibility Committee.
review the performance of the external auditors and to consider the need for an internal audit function.
All Committee members attended The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls all meetings.
and for ensuring that information supplied to shareholders presents a balanced assessment of the Groups position.
It has carried out The Group uses the external auditors for non-audit services such as these responsibilities throughout the year.
taxation advice and planning, and corporate activity.
When appointing advisors for non-audit work the Group considers the value for money, There is a weekly review by the Executive Directors, and annually experience and objectivity required and in this respect it has used by the Board, of the risks faced by the Group.
These cover financial, other accounting firms for non-audit work.
The Board are satisfied operational and risk management issues day-to-day control is that where the external auditors are used for non-audit services implemented by divisional management teams which report to their objectivity and independence is not compromised.
In reaching divisional managing directors.
this conclusion the Committee considered a report prepared by the external auditors prior to the year end, reviewing the potential threats Action plans formulated in 2003 continue to provide the basis of the to their objectivity and independence in the light of the new ethical Groups response to all risks to which the Group is exposed and standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board ahead of their these are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
There is a continuous W&DB 2005 35 Annual report 2005 Corporate governance process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks facing the Health & Safety Group at the weekly Executive Directors meetings, the monthly The management of Health and Safety matters is based on the Health divisional management meetings and at the monthly briefing meetings and Safety Executives management system HSG 65.
All areas of the with the senior management group.
Risk and litigation issues are also Group have been risk assessed and appropriate control measures reviewed regularly by the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary.
Regular Safety Committee meetings are held throughout the Group and independent experts such as the Royal Society for the In recognition of the importance and increasing complexity of risk Prevention of Accidents ROSPA and insurers are used.
management the Group has appointed a Director of Risk and Treasury and a Group Risk Manager during the year.
In matters of risk and Auditors internal audit they will report to the Audit Committee and they have  LLP have expressed their willingness to presented the Groups Internal Audit Strategy to the Committee.
be re-appointed as independent Auditors of the Group.
The principal elements of the system of internal control, which is Going concern designed to ensure there is an ongoing process to identify, evaluate The Directors are confident, having reviewed the Groups budget for and manage the risks to which the Group is exposed, include: the 52 weeks to 30 September 2006 and relevant plans beyond that date, that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to a management structure which clearly defines authority levels, continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
This review included responsibility and accountability: an analysis of business operating plans, proposed capital expenditure a detailed formal budgeting process for all Group activities with the and associated cash flow projections.
It also included a comparison annual Group budget being formally approved by the Board: and of results and ratios within the Groups committed borrowing facilities.
a process to ensure Board approval is given to all major investment, It is therefore considered appropriate to adopt the going concern basis divestment and strategic plans including capital expenditure, in preparing the financial statements.
By Order of the Board Significant treasury, cash management and investment matters are received and approved by the Board.
The Groups system of internal controls can only manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can, Anne-Marie Brennan Secretary therefore, only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against 2 December 2005 material mis-statement or loss.
