Corporate Governance Introduction executive directors.
During the period David Shipley retired as a The Board is committed to ensuring that high standards of director when due for re-election, and Lord Harris was appointed a corporate governance are maintained throughout the organisation.
During the year, the Board conducted a full review of all corporate Charles Thompson and John Westwood will retire as directors at governance policies and procedures to reflect the impact of the the conclusion of the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
Geoff Brady new Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in July and Bill Shannon were appointed as non-executive directors on 4th 2003.
As a result of this review, existing Board procedures and May 2005, and Martin Reavley will join the Board as a non-executive policies were strengthened to bring the Company into line with the director during July 2005. new requirements of the Code.
The Board considers that during the period three of the four nonChanges were made to the Board during and since the end of the executive directors are independent based on the guidelines in the period so that the Combined Code will be complied with in all Combined Code.
Charles Thompson does not meet the respects.
independence criteria, as he has been a director for more than nine years.
The Board however values his experience and contribution Compliance with the Code and considers that he always acts independently.
The Board confirms that it has complied throughout the period relating to this report with the provisions of the 2003 Combined Board biographies and details of length of service are found on Code except as follows: page 7.
The Board delegates management of the business to the Executive A.
3.2 Until October 2004 less than half the Board, excluding Committee, which is headed by the Group Chief Executive.
The the Chairman, comprised independent non-executive Executive Committee is responsible for day to day management directors.
Additional independent non-executive directors including business performance, implementing agreed strategy, have been appointed in October 2004 and April 2005 approving budgets and approving capital expenditure up to the and as at 4th May 2005 the Combined Code is Committees authority level.
The other members of the Executive complied with.
The Board believes that all non-executive Committee are the Group Finance Director, Retail Director, Supply directors bring considerable experience and judgement Chain Director, Merchandising Director, Sourcing Director and the and act with the utmost integrity and independence in Business Change Director.
They contribute independent challenge and rigour to the Boards deliberations and the Board values The Board is supported by a number of committees and the terms the stability provided by their continued involvement of reference of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Corporate with the business.
Social Responsibility committees are contained on the Companys website.
A report from the chairmen of these committees is set out B.
2.1 During the period only two members of the Remuneration in this report.
and and Audit Committees were independent non-executive C. 3.1 directors.
Additional independent non-executive directors Chairman and Chief Executive The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief were appointed in October 2004 and May 2005.
Executive has been set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees will in future comprise solely independent non-executive directors The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board, in accordance with this provision of the Combined ensuring its effectiveness, setting its agenda and advising and Code.
Geoff Brady has joined the Remuneration supporting the Chief Executive.
He does not sit on any Board Committee, and both Geoff and Bill Shannon are committees and has no other significant commitments.
The Chief now members of the Audit Committee and have Executive is responsible for managing day to day activities in recent and relevant financial experience.
In addition, accordance with agreed strategy and objectives, preparing budgets Martin Reavley will join the Audit Committee on his and plans and ensuring that risk management and control appointment to the Board in July 2005. procedures are maintained.
The Board Senior independent director Structure Robert Shrager is the Senior Independent Director and his prime The Company is headed by the Board, which, at the year end, responsibility is to provide a communication channel between the comprised the Chairman, four non-executive directors and three Chairman and the non-executive directors and to ensure that the 15 Corporate Governance continued views of each non-executive director are given due consideration.
Attendance at meetings Robert attends formal results presentations and is available to Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee meet shareholders in order to fully understand their issues and No.
He is also an additional point of contact for shareholders if they have reason for concern, which contact through the normal John Hargreaves 6 channels of Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group Finance John King 7 Director has failed to resolve or for which contact is inappropriate.
No shareholder contacted Robert Shrager directly during the Phil Dutton 6 3 period.
David Shipley 2 1 1 2 Director independence Robert Shrager 6 3 3 3 Robert Shrager, John Westwood and Lord Harris are independent Charles Thompson 7 2 3 4 non-executive directors and comply with the guidelines on independence in the Code.
Geoff Brady and Bill Shannon, who John Westwood 7 3 3 4 joined the Board on 4th May 2005, and Martin Reavley, who will join Lord Harris 3 the Board in July 2005, are considered to be independent.
In attendance at the Audit Committee by invitation.
David Shipley, who retired as a director during the year, and Charles All meetings from date of appointment.
To date of retirement Thompson are not deemed independent under the provisions of the Code.
Charles Thompson has served on the Board for more In the very few instances where a director has not been able to attend than nine years, and David Shipley was previously a partner at a meeting his comments on matters to be considered at the meeting  LLP.
were relayed in advance to the Chairman of the relevant meeting.
The Board considers however that all non-executive directors have Senior executives attend Board meetings where appropriate and acted independently at all times in carrying out their responsibilities one meeting solely devoted to strategy was held in respect of the and have brought considerable experience and judgement to the period.
Board agendas and papers are circulated one week before Board.
The directors discharge their duties in a properly independent each meeting.
Directors can request that items be included on manner, constructively and appropriately challenging the executive agendas and are free to raise any other issues at meetings.
The non-executive directors met regularly throughout the period The Chairman does not participate in discussion or decision making including meetings with the Chairman without the presence of other relating to any matter in which he has any potential conflict of interest.
They also held a number of meetings with Board appointments executive directors and senior executives outside of Board meetings In accordance with the Code all directors are appointed for a to gain a fuller understanding of business issues.
specified term, being an initial period to the next Annual General Monthly and weekly reports on performance are circulated to nonMeeting after appointment and then subject to re-appointment at executive directors together with significant additional information that meeting for a further period ending not later than the Annual on an ad hoc basis.
General Meeting held three years later.
The Nomination Committee and Board consider whether it is appropriate that further three year All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company terms are offered at the end of the third and sixth year from initial Secretary, whose removal and appointment is a matter for the Board appointment and consider the results of the annual performance as a whole.
The Company Secretary would minute any unresolved evaluation.
A particularly rigorous review is made at the end of the concerns expressed by a director regarding the running of the sixth year before any further term is offered taking into account the company and the Chairman would notify the Board of any need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
Directors who have unresolved issues which caused any director to resign.
Phil Dutton, served for more than nine years are subject to annual review.
All the Group Finance Director, is temporarily acting as Company subsequent re-appointments are subject to endorsement by the Secretary, until the new Company Secretary joins the business.
Board and the approval of shareholders.
The Company maintained Directors and Officers liability cover throughout the period and annual cover was renewed on 1st March 2005.
16 Decision making and to independent professional advice where needed at the The Directors believe it is essential that the Company should be Companys expense.
both led and controlled by an effective Board.
The Board has Performance evaluation adopted a formal statement of its powers and responsibilities and A formal appraisal process for the Board and its principal has a schedule of matters reserved to it including: committees was initiated during the year.
business objectives and strategy: Self assessment questionnaires have been prepared for the Board major items of capital expenditure: as a whole, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Chairman, non-executive directors as a financial policy: body and each non-executive director individually.
These take into results announcements: account objectives, terms of reference and performance during the share capital and dividends: period.
establishment and terms of reference for Board committees: The non-executive directors together evaluate the Chairmans performance in a review session, which he does not attend, and he corporate governance, health and safety, ethical and subsequently receives feedback from the senior independent environmental policies: director.
This evaluation of Chairman performance takes account of acquisition and disposal of businesses: the views of the executive directors.
appointment, re-election and removal of directors: and The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director are monitoring the financial and operating performance of the subject to an annual appraisal of their performance as executives Group.
that is conducted by the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive respectively.
The Board manages these matters at its regular Board meetings, which are held six times a year and on its strategy day.
It also Results of the questionnaires on the Board, committees, and nonreceives reports on Company performance and presentations executive directors are collated by the Company Secretary and from the Executive Committee on a weekly and monthly basis and reported on to the Chairman and Board as appropriate.
The in advance of Board meetings.
This ensures that all Directors are Chairman discusses performance of non-executive directors with aware of Company operations and current issues and are in a them individually.
position to monitor them effectively.
Shareholder relations Professional development and information The Company is committed to ongoing communication with all All Directors receive any necessary training in their duties and shareholders and has an established cycle of communication.
An induction to the business Institutional investors, fund managers, principal shareholders and including store and site visits and briefings is also arranged and analysts receive formal presentations covering financial certain of the Board meetings take place at Company sites to enable performance, governance and strategy following the announcement the Board to understand the relevant business, view the facilities of annual and interim results.
The Company also holds individual and meet local management.
One meeting took place at the new meetings and discussions with these parties throughout the year Corby Distribution facility during the period.
on a planned and ad hoc basis and visits are arranged to stores so that a better understanding is gained of the Groups business.
Directors are continually updated on financial performance through weekly sales reports and monthly accounts.
Competitive and other The Chairman ensures that the Board is regularly updated on the information relevant to the Companys marketplace is provided views of institutional shareholders following meetings that they have together with monthly reports from all senior executives.
Meetings with him, the Group Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director.
are also held with executive directors and senior executives and In addition to this feedback all directors also receive copies of additional written and verbal information on the Group is considered.
external broker reports on the Company.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that all Board All directors, including non-executive directors and the Chairmen of procedures are observed and advising the Board on legal and all Board Committees, normally attend formal results presentations governance matters and supplies all directors with information on and the annual general meeting.
Questions are invited at these relevant legal and best practice developments.
In addition, all meetings and there is an opportunity for shareholders to meet and directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary talk with directors, including the non-executive directors.
17 Corporate Governance continued The Notice of Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders not All significant capital expenditure is subject to a formal risk less than twenty working days in advance and details of proxy voting assessment and capital authorisation process, which takes into is given after each resolution.
Separate resolutions are proposed account operational, financial and technical risks.
For significant on each separate item for discussion and a further resolution is capital projects, a post-investment analysis is completed to facilitate proposed relating to the Annual Report and Accounts.
continuous improvement in the capital planning process, including risk identification and mitigation.
co. uk, has an investor relations section which gives significant information on the Group The major financial risk areas relating to interest rate and foreign including copies of annual and interim results presentations and currency exposure, debt maturity and liquidity are governed by the announcements immediately following release.
This also links Group Treasury policy.
The Group Treasurer manages hedging shareholders to the Companys share register where details and activities and external cover for net currency transaction exposures.
dividend mandates can be changed, proxy votes made on-line and The Group Treasury policy is monitored for adherence by the Group information obtained on shareholdings and dividend payments.
The Group Treasury policy is discussed further in the Finance Review on pages 5 and 6.
Internal controls and risk management The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Annual budgets and plans are subject to half yearly re-forecasting Groups system of internal controls and is responsible for the in the light of latest information and trading conditions.
The Groups system of internal controls including financial, operational achievement of business objectives both financial and non-financial and compliance controls and risk management.
The Board is also is reviewed monthly using set key performance indicators.
These responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of these controls in are reviewed regularly to ensure that they are the most relevant set accordance with the provisions of the Turnbull Report.
Such a control of indicators for the business.
system can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, and is designed not to Reports from the Board Committees eliminate risk, but to enable the Group to achieve its corporate Nomination Committee objectives within a managed risk profile.
During the period the Nomination Committee comprised John The Board is responsible for determining strategies and policies for Westwood Chairman, Robert Shrager and Charles Thompson.
risk and control, whilst management is responsible for designing, David Shipley was a member until his retirement on 8th July 2004, operating and monitoring risk management and control processes and from 4th May 2005 the Committee includes Bill Shannon.
The to implement Board policies effectively.
The Board confirms that an Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The ongoing process for identifying and evaluating and managing Committee met three times during the period and non-committee significant risks has operated throughout the year and up to the date members were invited to attend where appropriate.
Bill Shannon will of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
become Chairman of the Committee upon the retirement of John Westwood at the Annual General Meeting in July 2005.
The Group Business Risk department monitors the Groups system of internal controls and the Head of Group Business Risk has direct The Committee reviews the size, composition and effectiveness of access to the Audit Committee.
Monthly and quarterly reports are the Board and the time normally required by a non-executive director prepared and circulated to executives and directors and highlight to carry out his duties effectively including serving on Board any breaches of or weaknesses in controls together with resultant committees.
There is a formal and transparent procedure for the corrective action.
appointment of all new directors under the control of the Committee.
It assesses the skills and experience needed for any Board A matrix of all key risks and the level of associated risk has been appointment and identifies and nominates candidates.
This matrix was drawn up in conjunction with senior Committee considers succession plans to ensure an orderly management and functional heads in the period based on the succession of appointments and nominates directors for re-election assessment of each department taking into account cross functional taking into account their effectiveness and performance.
The key risks and mitigation strategies are discussed at least annually with the Audit Committee.
The Board is satisfied that each of the non-executive directors Balance sheet reviews are carried out quarterly, including a review commits sufficient time to their fulfillment of duties as a Director of of the underlying accounting policies and support for the significant the Company.
The Chairmans external commitments have not changed during the financial period.
The findings and management responses are circulated to the Audit Committee, senior management and external auditors.
significant other commitments to the Board prior to appointment.
18 During the period the Committee instructed a professional search Full details of the Groups remuneration policy and advisers are set agency to search for additional non-executive directors after out in the Board Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 10 to reviewing submissions from a number of potential firms.
This policy was submitted to and approved by shareholders at followed an evaluation of requirements and preparation of a the 2004 Annual General Meeting and will be submitted for approval formal briefing document, including a description of the role, again at the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
responsibilities, competencies and characteristics required using Audit Committee the information gathered.
Summary of the role of the Audit Committee Lord Harris was appointed to the Board on 21st October 2004.
The Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity Lord Harris is an Executive Director of Carpetright PLC and has within its written terms of reference that have been approved by many years of experience in listed companies and the retail sector the Board.
The Committee reports regularly to the Board with the and adds significant experience and relevant skills to the Board.
Bill Shannon and Geoff Brady were appointed as non-executive The Committees main responsibilities as set out in the written terms directors on 4th May 2005, and Martin Reavley will be appointed in of reference include reviewing the Companys financial statements, July 2005.
Their appointment followed selection from a list of evaluating the systems of internal control and the management of potential candidates prepared by the agency in accordance with risks and overseeing compliance with laws, regulations and ethical the instructions given.
After initial meetings with the Chairman of the codes of practice.
The Committee is required to address regularly Committee and senior independent director the shortlisted the relationships between management and the internal and external candidates then met the executive and other directors and visited auditors and monitor the reporting relationships and accountability the Companys head office.
A formal letter is given to all new directors on appointment setting The Committee receives regular briefings and training on all new out their responsibilities and time commitment together with developments, such as International Accounting Standards, that information on the Company.
are relevant to its activities.
Letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Composition of the Audit Committee Companys registered office by contacting the Company Secretary.
During the period the Audit Committee comprised Robert Shrager Chairman, John Westwood and Charles Thompson.
David Shipley Remuneration Committee was a member until his retirement as a director on 8th July 2004.
The Remuneration Committee comprised Charles Thompson From 4th May 2005 the Committee also includes Geoff Brady and Chairman, Robert Shrager, John Westwood, and David Shipley William Shannon as members.
In addition, Martin Reavley will join was a member until his retirement on 8th July 2004.
Geoff Brady the Committee on his appointment to the Board in July.
It is intended became a member of the committee on his appointment on 4th May that Martin Reavley will become Chairman of the Audit Committee 2005.
Details of attendance of meetings and independence are set at a future date.
Geoff Brady will become Chairman of the Committee upon the retirement of Charles Thompson at the The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee, Annual General Meeting in July 2005. meetings of which are normally attended by the Group Finance Director and senior members of his department and representatives The Remuneration Committees primary role is to determine and from the external auditors.
External auditors have unrestricted access review the remuneration packages for the executive directors, to members of the Committee and company information and records.
including the setting of performance targets and setting the policy for senior executive remuneration within the Groups overall Robert Shrager was corporate finance director of Dixons Group plc remuneration policy.
In addition the Committee approves grants and until May 1998 and is or has been the chairman of a number of other awards under option and long term incentive plans.
As such the Board considers him to have determines and reviews the terms of employment for executive relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
The other directors and senior executives.
Committee members bring significant experience from their differing In determining remuneration policy and packages the Committee areas of expertise.
takes account of competitors, industry levels, contract terms, Activities undertaken by the Audit Committee commitments and the financial and commercial health of the Group.
During the period the Committee worked to a structured programme The Chairman and executive directors determine the remuneration of activities and met three times.
Part of one meeting was held with for the non-executive directors.
external auditors without other members of management present.
19 Corporate Governance continued At these meetings agenda matters were focused to coincide with Director, Human Resources Director, Company Secretary, Head of key events of the annual financial reporting cycle, together with other Business Risk, Financial Controller and Quality Assurance Manager.
items as set out in the Committees written terms of reference.
The The terms of reference of the Committee are detailed on the Committee is the primary link between the Board and the external Companys website.
The Companys policies regarding employment, and internal auditors, which facilitates the necessary independence equal opportunities and donations are referred to in the Directors from management and encourages each group of auditors to Report on pages 8 and 9. communicate freely and regularly with the Committee.
The Committee reviews Social, Ethical, Environmental and Principal activities in the period included: Reputational issues and where appropriate recommends mitigating recommending to the Board the re-appointment of the external or corrective action.
During the period the Committee agreed to join auditors,  PwC, monitoring their Business in the Community and initiated a Corporate Social performance and independence including the amount of non Responsibility action plan.
audit services work and agreeing their fees and terms of Ethical engagement.
In addition the Committee reviewed the conduct, The Board considers the ethical performance of its suppliers an control and effectiveness of the annual external audit and the important part of the business relationship.
The Groups Socially auditors plan for the audit of the accounts including scope of Responsible Trading Policy is based on the internationally accepted work, key risks and the method of working.
PwC also carried out standards set out in the Ethical Trading Initiatives Base Code of non audit services work, but only after rigorous checks including Labour Standards.
This policy, which is available on the Companys competitive tender to confirm they were the best provider.
PwC website and is displayed on notice boards throughout head office is subject to professional standards, which safeguard the and stores, forms part of the supplier manual, which is issued to all integrity of the auditing role performed on behalf of shareholders: suppliers.
The Group Chief Executive is the director responsible for ethical issues.
review of trading statements prior to release and reviewing draft financial statements, interim results and other formal Suppliers announcements with external auditors and recommending During the period the Company has introduced internal certification them for approval to the Board: for its supply base.
This takes the form of Gold Silver Merit standards, and the certification covers areas such as Raw Material review of the adequacy of the systems of accounting and standards, Product Quality, Health & Safety and Ethical Issues.
internal control, including the annual review of internal controls and recommending approval of the statements on internal During the period 156 suppliers were appraised, 54 child safety control to the Board.
This review also involved ensuring the product audits were performed and collectively 865 corrective maintenance of a control environment directed towards the action points were issued.
Third party audits were performed as proper management of risk and considering other matters required and plans are currently being developed to perform relating to the Groups financial affairs including the Groups reviews of wet processing suppliers regarding dying, garment accounting and treasury policies.
The Committee reviewed the washing and finishing.
internal audit departments terms of reference, programme of The Company policy on Minimum Safety Procedures was briefed work and reports of work during the period and reviewed key to all suppliers and covers issues such as broken needles, metal risk areas relating to the Groups activities and appropriate detection, control and issue of cutting room knives and disposal of action to reduce risk exposure: sharp objects.
In addition to the briefings, a visual Minimum Safety review of the impact on Financial Statements of changes in Procedures poster has been produced and is sited in a prominent Accounting Standards including IFRS: and position for all employees.
monitoring of whistleblowing procedures to ensure that Annual supplier communication events are held to ensure that all confidential arrangements were in place for employees to raise suppliers are aware of Matalans policies.
matters of concern and that there were proper procedures to Environmental ensure follow up of any concerns reported.
The impact of the Groups activities on the environment is monitored Corporate Social Responsibility Committee and the Group is committed to reducing and minimising this impact.
During the period a Corporate Social Responsibility Committee was The Groups environmental policy is available on the Companys website and the Group Finance Director is the director responsible established.
The Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Executive and the other members are the Retail Director, Supply Chain for environmental issues.
20 During the period: year on year reduction in accidents per 100,000 transactions: an initiative was commenced to reduce the amount of product year on year reduction in accidents per 1,000 employees: and packaging used by suppliers: year on year reduction in statutory reportable injuries cardboard balers were installed at stores, and it is envisaged RIDDOR.
that 7,000 tonnes of cardboard will be recycled in the coming Accidents and Incidents financial period: The Companys Executive Committee monitors accident rates and all stores have plastic bailers.
During the period 700 tonnes of trends on a monthly basis and is committed to learning from plastic were recycled, and it is envisaged that 1,000 tonnes accidents and incidents so that it can introduce appropriate will be recycled in the coming period: measures to reduce the likelihood of any recurrence.
The aim is to avoid or eliminate risk in areas such as broken needles, control and a new southern distribution centre was opened that will result issue of cutting room knives and disposal of sharp objects.
Where in a reduction of mileage covered by the fleet: and risk assessments indicate that it is necessary then personal protective equipment is provided.
efforts continued to be made in energy reducing measures.
There were no fatalities or reported dangerous occurrences during Health & Safety the period.
Further details on Company performance in this area The Board collectively takes overall responsibility for health & safety are available on the Companys website.
issues throughout the Group and the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the Board focuses on health & safety Health & Safety plans issues.
On a day to day level, individual directors take responsibility Whilst it is believed that there are no fundamental weaknesses in the for areas under their control based on practical advice from current organisation or arrangements for health & safety, the dedicated health & safety managers covering both Retail and Company has now established a requirement for all Business Units Distribution operations.
The Groups Health & Safety Policy is to prepare an annual safety plan.
The plans are designed to focus available on the Companys website.
attention on those aspects which cause accidents and drive an approach towards a step change in performance.
A full report in The Board is aware of its legal and moral obligations for health & accordance with the Health & Safety Executives recommendations safety at work and is committed to preventing accidents and is available on the Companys website.
During the period the Company used the services of DuPont UK Safety Resources Limited to carry Safety plans will consider the following: out a detailed safety management review to identify any required new legislation: improvements.
The recommendations made as part of that review are currently being implemented and progress is being closely policy and arrangements: monitored.
risk assessment and safe systems of work: The Companys policy supports the philosophy that: health & safety initiatives: and all injuries can be prevented: training.
management and colleagues are responsible for preventing injuries: working safely is a condition of employment: all hazards can be safe guarded: training employees to work safely is essential: prevention of personal injuries is good business: and By order of the Board health & safety encompasses both the physical and mental health of colleagues.
Phil Dutton Company Secretary In addition, the Company has set corporate goals for the coming year: 20th May 2005 21
