McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Corporate Governance The Board recognises its responsibility to the Groups shareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to the Group and the Groups compliance with the new Combined Code published by the Financial Reporting Council on 23 July 2003 the Combined Code.
Statement by the The Group has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year with the exception of the following: Directors on Compliance with the Code of Best Less than half the Board are independent Non-Executive Directors provision A.
Practice The current division of responsibilities and structure of the Group requires an executive team of six directors.
It is the view of the Board that the range and blend of skills of the Board matches the needs of the Group.
The Board continues to keep the matter under review.
K Lovelock has acted as Chairman and Chief Executive of the Group throughout the year provision A.
His appointment as Chairman followed the resignation, in August 2003, of the previous Non-Executive Chairman, J S McCarthy and was considered necessary to provide continuity and stability in the leadership of the Company.
As previously reported, on 1st September 2005, H P S Phillips took over the role of Chief Executive, with K Lovelock continuing in the role of Executive Chairman.
A formal division of responsibilities between the two roles has been agreed.
The Group, therefore, is now compliant with this provision.
S E K Purser has served on the Board as a Non-Executive Director for more than nine years provisions A.
The Board has given specific consideration to the matter of Mr Pursers independence and is satisfied that he remains independent in character and judgement, challenging assumptions and making a valued contribution to debate.
The Board is not aware of any relationship or circumstance likely to affect, or to appear to affect, his judgement on matters pertaining to the affairs of the Company.
Notice or contract periods are not all set at one year or less provision B.
K Lovelock and M W J Thorne have service contracts that are terminable upon 2 years notice from the Company.
These service contract terms are historic and the Remuneration Committee has discussed the issue with the Directors concerned but does not consider it appropriate to change at this time.
No service contract terminable upon notice of more than one year has been entered into for many years and the intention of the committee is to approve future service contracts terminable upon notice of no more than one year, save in exceptional circumstances.
The Board did not complete an evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors principle A6.
The process of evaluation was commenced during the year and concluded shortly thereafter.
Full details of the process used can be found on page 34.
The Audit Committee does not include an independent Non-Executive Director having sufficient recent and relevant financial experience provision C. 3.1.
The Board The Workings of the Board and its During the year the Board comprised 5 Executive Directors and 3 Non-Executive Directors.
Committees On 1 September 2005 H P S Phillips was appointed Chief Executive, with K Lovelock remaining as Executive Chairman.
D A Field was appointed to the Board as Operations Director North with effect from the same date.
D A Field had previously been Regional Managing Director of the Groups South West Region.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
The Board considers each of the Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
It is conscious of the fact that S E K Purser has served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of his first election: however, it is satisfied that he remains independent in character and judgement, as explained above.
The consent of the Board is required for all external appointments, particularly where they may give rise to conflicts of interest.
33 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Corporate Governance Directors are subject to re-election every three years and subject to election at the first opportunity after their appointment.
The names of Directors submitted for re-election can be found in the Directors Report on page 31 and their biographies can be found on pages 18 and 19.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities in respect of the accounts is set out on page 32 and a statement on going concern is given on page 17.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
These include:- Strategic Objectives Personnel and Employment Policies Approval of budgets and group cashflows: The sale disposal purchase of capital assets over 100,000: Funding arrangements and principal terms with banks in all business dealing within the Group: Final Group Report and Accounts for the half and full year: Purchase of capital equipment, repairs and renewals budget: Major agreements or leases for equipment, cars, copiers, computers, commercial premises etc.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, T L Green, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
In addition the Directors may take independent professional advice as required.
The Board normally meets once a month and to enable the Board to discharge its duties all Directors receive appropriate and timely information.
Briefing papers are distributed to all Directors in advance of Board meetings.
In addition to the Board and the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees, an Executive Committee meets regularly to take the key decisions relating to the Groups development activities.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director attend a number of meetings with major shareholders during the year and provide feedback to all members of the Board on the issues discussed and the views expressed by major shareholders.
An induction programme is provided for new directors, which includes the provision of a comprehensive set of background information on the Group, meetings with Directors and key staff, internal and external training courses and site visits tailored to the individual director.
Training is made available to Directors as and when required and the Chairman ensures that Directors continually update and refresh their knowledge and skills appropriate to their role on the Board and on any Board Committees.
During the year under review the directors received regulatory and technical updates, in particular presentations on Corporate Governance and Health and Safety within the Group.
During the year, the alternative methods of Board evaluation were investigated and considered.
The Board decided upon an internal performance evaluation process using a series of questions designed to produce an objective assessment of the Board and individual effectiveness.
Each Director completed a questionnaire with regard to the performance of the Board as a whole and the performance of individual Directors.
The Executive Directors completed a questionnaire with regard to the performance of the Chairman.
Subsequent to the year end the responses were analysed and the results pertaining to the operation of the Board as a whole were considered by the Board.
The responses pertaining to individual Directors were analysed and presented to the Chairman for discussion with the individuals concerned.
The Non-Executive Directors carried out a separate performance evaluation of the Chairman, having reviewed the responses of the Executive Directors, as mentioned above.
The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees during the year is shown in the table below, together with details of attendance by individual Directors.
of Meetings K Lovelock M Thorne M Jennings H Phillips G Day S Purser Sir G Young J Stevenson Board 15 15 14 14 15 14 14 13 14 Audit Committee 9 - - - - - 9 7 8 Remuneration Committee 5 - - - - - 5 5 5 Nomination Committee 3 3- - - -3 3 3 34 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Corporate Governance The following Committees deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs: Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprised J Stevenson Chairman, Sir George Young and S E K Purser.
The Committee reviews senior appointments throughout the Group, determines the terms and conditions of employment of the Executive Directors and monitors the level and structure of remuneration for senior management within the Group.
Further details of the Groups policies on remuneration, service contracts and compensation payments are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 42.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprised S E K Purser Chairman, Sir George Young and J Stevenson.
The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups external and internal auditors.
Meetings are also attended, by invitation, by the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and other Directors where appropriate.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of financial matters, including the half year and annual accounts before their submission to the Board and monitoring the controls that are in force to ensure the integrity of the financial information reported to the shareholders.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration, both for audit and non-audit work, and discusses the nature and scope of the audit with the external auditors.
The Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function, approves the programme of internal audit inspections and reviews all internal audit reports.
The performance and independence of the external auditors and the work they perform is reviewed annually and the Board remains satisfied as to the independence and effectiveness of Ernst & Young LLP.
It is the Groups practice, whenever possible, to put non-audit work out to tender.
During the year ended 31 August 2005 fees for non-audit services provided by our auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, were as follows: VAT advice 9,000 Advice on Homelife House Lease 10,000 Other taxation advice 8,000 Other accounting advice 10,000 The Board is satisfied that whilst Ernst & Young LLP have provided non-audit services to the Group during the year their objectivity and independence as auditors has not been compromised.
They have been used for non-audit work when their historical knowledge of the issues makes it cost-effective to use them.
The level of fee income derived from such work is immaterial to the fee income of Ernst & Young LLP as a whole.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprised K Lovelock Chairman, Sir George Young, S E K Purser and J Stevenson.
The committee is responsible for leading the process for Board appointments, evaluating potential candidates and making recommendations to the Board for consideration.
D A Field was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2005 following an assessment of both internal applicants and external applicants generated by an executive search process involving external recruitment consultants.
35 McCarthy & Stone plc - Annual Report & Accounts Corporate Governance Relations with Shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The operating and financial reviews on pages 7 to 17 include a detailed review of the business and future developments.
Presentations are given to the Groups institutional shareholders after the Groups preliminary announcement of the year end results and after the half year results.
In addition, the Group has established a web-site containing financial and investor information in relation to the Group.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees intend to be available at Annual General Meetings to answer questions.
Internal Controls The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains a system of internal controls, including suitable monitoring procedures and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage business risks and as such can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against misstatement or loss.
Throughout the year, the Group has been, and will continue to be, fully committed to a risk management process and operates by setting business targets within appropriate timeframes.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
These have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of the report and accounts, and include: Business activities governed by comprehensive guidance provided by policies and procedures, which are regularly reviewed by the Board.
Regional day-to-day control and corporate compliance achieved by a thorough process of financial, legal and operational manual documentation for every project from planning through to completion.
This includes specific Executive Committee control and authorisation over key stages of land purchasing, construction and other key phases, as well as regular reporting and review of financial results and non-financial performance.
Development and implementation of computer information systems throughout the Group further enhancing the controlling and monitoring of projects from inception to completion.
An approved annual budget and three year rolling workflow plan.
Detailed monthly reports of trading results, balance sheets and cashflows are produced.
These are subject to regular review and any unexpected variances from budgets are followed up by management.
Key financial risks controlled through the use of clearly laid down authorisation levels and proper segregation of accounting duties.
Business control processes supplemented by documented annual control self-assessment reviews in each Region, as well as an ongoing process of financial and operational internal audits carried out by qualified staff.
Results of these are regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and by the Board.
The Board confirms it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls for the period covered by the accounts, in accordance with provision C. 2.1 and finds that the Group has been in full compliance with principle C2 of the Combined Code and the Turnbull Guidance.
