MICHAEL PAGE INTERNATIONAL CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW I am delighted with our performance in Liverpool and achieved the highest we created a separate management in 2005, particularly as I believe growth rate of the three finance structure to drive growth from our it demonstrates the benefits of businesses.
Michael Page City, which existing offices in Glasgow and our longer term approach to the accounts for less than 10% of UK Edinburgh.
This has proved to be a development of the business.
We have gross profits, recorded the lowest level successful development with gross achieved good levels of growth in all of of growth.
Accountancy Additions, profits in Scotland increasing in 2005 our businesses reflecting the quality of which specialises in lower level finance by over 50%.
our staff and the high levels of service and accounting positions, again Continental Europe they provide to clients and candidates.
expanded its office network from Turnover in Continental Europe for the 30 to 32 locations with new offices A product of our strategy to maintain year increased by 28.0% to 159.2m in Liverpool and Edinburgh.
our infrastructure in a downturn is 2004: 124.3m and gross profit that for a period we may carry spare The combined gross profits of Michael increased by 40.0% to 86.1m 2004: capacity and consequently have high Page Marketing, Michael Page Sales 61.5m.
As a result of the increased operational gearing.
When economic and Michael Page Retail, were 19% revenue and high operational gearing, conditions improve, we believe this higher than in 2004 and represented the region produced an increase approach puts us in a better position 22% of the UK total.
The Marketing of over 370% in operating profit at than the majority of our competitors to and Sales businesses produced strong 19.4m 2004: 4.1m.
grow our business, and at a far faster growth from all industry sectors, with In France, our second largest business rate.
As this spare capacity is utilised growth from temporary placement fees after the UK and representing 48% of through growth, we benefit from this exceeding permanent as we continue the region, gross profit increased by operational gearing as evidenced by to develop the temping business in 18%.
The growth rate in our French the 71.2% increase in operating profit these disciplines.
Retails growth rate, business improved each quarter from a 27.0% growth in gross profit.
while lower, was still over 10% despite throughout the year, exceeding 20% another tough year on the High Street.
Staff and office numbers in the fourth quarter.
The growth The remaining businesses together The investments we have made in in France has come entirely from produced gross profit growth in 2005 new staff, discipline roll outs, office permanent recruitment with temporary of 44% and represent a significant expansion and start ups has resulted recruitment fees flat on 2004 levels.
opportunity for further strong growth in an increase in fee generating and While the market in France has as they are rolled out progressively support staff to 2,926 2004: 2,551, improved during 2005, our rate of across the UK network.
Michael Page operating from 118 2004: 110 offices growth clearly indicates that we are Legal and Michael Page Technology in 18 2004: 16 countries at the end well positioned to benefit and gain both performed well in the year.
Michael Page Human Resources Elsewhere in the region, collectively United Kingdom achieved another year of strong our businesses achieved gross profit growth benefiting from its increased In the UK, turnover increased by growth in excess of 65%.
The separation 14.8% to 269.6m 2004: 234.8m remains considerable scope for these of Michael Page Engineering and and gross profit by 17.8% to 129.5m businesses to grow with numerous Supply Chain Management into 2004: 110.0m.
Operating profits opportunities for expanding teams in Michael Page Engineering and were 31.9m 2004: 22.9m an existing offices and disciplines, rolling Manufacturing, and Michael Page increase of 39.3%.
out the disciplines to existing offices Procurement and Supply Chain at the The gross profits of the finance and and opening new offices.
beginning of 2005 was particularly accounting businesses of Michael In addition to the roll out of disciplines, successful, with both businesses Page Finance, Michael Page City during the year we started a business having significant scope for further and Accountancy Additions, which in Warsaw, Poland, our first expansion expansion.
Michael Page Secretarial generated 57% of UK gross profit, into Central Europe, and have opened which only started at the end of 2003 were 10% higher than in 2004 with a fourth office in the Netherlands in had a successful year with gross profit both permanent and temporary Amersfoort, and a Michael Page office more than doubling.
Page Personnel opened In order to capitalise on the opportunity Page Finance, the largest of the in Nantes, Strasbourg and Rouen in in Scotland, at the beginning of 2005 three businesses, opened an office 1 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 005 France, and Geneva in Switzerland.
rapid expansion opening offices in condition for many more years of Toronto, Canada and in Philadelphia, successful growth and development.
As market conditions in Continental USA.
We now have established a However I believe the time is right for Europe continue to improve, we are network of seven offices in North me to retire from the business and in reaping the benefit of our strategy America, providing only recruitment December 2005 we announced the to maintain and invest in our in Finance and Accounting.
Steve Ingham, businesses during a downturn.
As investments, together with the who joined Michael Page in 1987, will predicted last year, with gross profit continuing development of our other formally take over as Chief Executive growth maintained throughout 2005, offices, incur significant start up costs at the Annual General Meeting in profitability has improved considerably ahead of gross profit growth.
In my opinion he and the senior as spare capacity is utilised.
There management team are second to is still some spare capacity within We are extremely pleased with our none in our sector, and they possess a number of our businesses but in progress in North America and the energy and enthusiasm to continue others we now need to invest to during 2006, we will be investigating the track record of achievement.
the opportunities for further office openings as well as starting other I am sure our shareholders, clients, Asia Pacific recruitment disciplines.
candidates and staff will welcome the Our businesses in Asia Pacific fact that the overall long term strategy In Brazil we achieved another very produced a record set of results for the of the Group will remain absolutely successful year growing headcount region.
Turnover was 22.2% higher at unchanged following the change in in the So Paulo and Rio fide Janeiro 76.7m 2004: 62.8m, gross profit leadership.
The Group intends to stay offices to nearly 100 staff.
We have was 23.8% higher at 39.0m 2004: focused on its core competency of now reached the stage where we have 31.5m and operating profit increased specialist recruitment, will continue a number of experienced and talented 23.3% to 14.1m 2004: 11.4m.
to grow organically by the expansion local staff who will further drive our In Australia gross profit grew a healthy of existing businesses in their local expansion in Brazil and elsewhere in 17.1% despite a disappointing fourth markets, the introduction of new South America.
quarter which was impacted by an disciplines into existing locations and Executive Committee IT implementation.
There continued by entering new geographic markets.
to be strong demand from the In September 2005 the Board There exist numerous opportunities financial services, business services, approved the establishment of an to grow the business in all our regions mining and resources.
During the Executive Committee comprising Chris and expand into new regions.
There year we opened a seventh office, Adams, Regional MD Asia Pacific, is an exceptional pool of ambitious in Chatswood, North Sydney and Andrew Wayland, Chief Information and talented people in the Group completed a large office relocation of Officer, and the four executive Main who are highly motivated to build our business in Melbourne.
The committee, which on our success.
With the short term is headed by the Chief Executive, In Hong Kong, Shanghai, Tokyo and economic outlook set to be relatively is focused on the operational Singapore, we achieved another year favourable, the plan during 2006 is management of the Group and meets of substantial gross profit growth.
In to slightly increase the pace of our formally every quarter.
It was formed to Tokyo we moved into larger offices controlled development.
facilitate greater communication and at the beginning of the year which cooperation between the regions, and provides sufficient accommodation to to ensure that the deployment of our achieve a doubling of our headcount.
resources is considered from a global The Americas perspective.
Turnover for the region was 54.6% Strategy Terry Benson higher at 18.3m 2004: 11.8m, Chief Executive I am delighted with our performance gross profit increased by 68.9% to 1 March 2006 in 2005 as it clearly demonstrates the 12.9m 2004: 7.6m and operating strength of our longer term strategy.
profit increased 161% to 1.0m Having worked for Michael Page for 26 2004: 0.4m.
years, the last 12 as Chief Executive In North America we continued our I believe the business is in excellent 1
