12 Chief Executives Review our sTraTegy Investment in and leverage of the 888 brand Expansion into new geographic markets Development and expansion of software platforms to provide a one stop shop through organic growth and selective acquisitions Leveraging 888s large member database to maximise cross-selling and up-selling opportunities Continued development of efficient payment processing John Anderson, Chief Executive Officer options that suit new target markets and audiences The TWo mosT imPorTaNT Words iN our iNdusTry, TrusT me 888 is an industry-leading brand where consolidation is inevitable which is synonymous with quality, and I intend that 888 will be at fairness and trust.
As a business the heart of this.
Our industry it has delivered a number of has arrived and will be here on consecutive years of growth in a permanent basis.
2005 was no exception, and we are delighted to report Profit The business is in great shape, after tax for the year excluding and the year to 31 December 2005 share benefit charges of US$65 saw us achieve record Net Gaming million, up 59% on 2004, a more Revenue and Profits.
New member than satisfactory increase.
registrations in both Casino and Poker were significantly up at Our flotation in October on the 5.3 million.
London Stock Exchange marked an important step in our goal to The main driver behind our become the market leader in the outstanding growth has been our global online gaming entertainment in-depth knowledge and experience industry.
This will enable us to of the industry built up since our increase further our brand profile, inception in 1997.
We understand recognition and credibility and what our members want and we are will also give us an acquisition continually upgrading our product currency.
This is a key part of offering to retain existing and our strategy and we believe the attract new players.
Most industry has matured to a stage importantly, we continue to provide 888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 13 No business should have an overreliance on any one particular market and those in our industry are no exception.
We dont believe in having all our eggs in the one basket and I personally consider our geographic mix of business to be the widest in the industry.
members with a secure and trusted sponsorships.
We will be repeating experience to enhance their playing environment in which to play.
In the this strategy of awareness throughout environment.
We also plan to add an interests of consumer protection, we mainland Europe in the coming year.
additional language to our Casino in were a founding member of eCOGRA, the first quarter of 2006. the pre-eminent industry benchmark our Product offering and I am a member of its board.
During the year we have succeeded in The online poker market has growing Net Gaming Revenue and new experienced remarkable growth since Whilst member acquisition is key, player sign-ups across all our categories.
2002 and I have no doubt it is fast member retention is paramount.
becoming a mainstream entertainment As well as the products we offer, we In 2004 the total amount wagered in activity.
Poker has always been played have invested in the highest quality the online casino market was estimated in the USA and in fact is part of the infrastructure and systems to ensure at US$53.9 billion source: CCA.
People of all ages, that we sustain our members interest including families, have always played and do not give them a reason to play Since its inception in 1997 our Casino Poker as part of their recreational anywhere else.
We will continue to add product, Casino-on-Net, has continued time.
More and more countries new entertainment options through to be the leading online casino brand throughout the globe are playing the selective acquisition or in-house with member numbers now at a level game and this is resulting in a decline development and we will expand of 4 million real money registered in the dominance of the USA market.
our software platforms to allow for member accounts.
Poker is cool and here to stay.
2005 saw continued growth in Net Our Poker product, Pacific Poker, was geographic spread Gaming Revenue from US$178 million ranked four in 2005 and in the year, No business should have an overto US$271 million, an increase of 52%.
Net Gaming Revenue from our Poker reliance on any one particular market This is mainly attributable to the business exhibited strong growth, and those in our industry are no expansion of our online and offline increasing by 179% to US$109.8 exception.
We dont believe in having marketing programmes and the million 2004: US$39.3 million.
This all our eggs in the one basket and I introduction of new distribution channels result partly reflects an increase in personally consider our geographic mix through our affiliate programmes.
888s marketing efforts but is also a of business to be the widest in the by-product of the exponential growth of industry.
By making our product We also operate an additional Casino the phenomenon that is online poker.
available in up to 11 languages we brand, Reef Club Casino, that we have grown our non-USA business introduced in 2002.
By offering We are continually upgrading our at such a rate so as to reduce our members another Casino brand we proprietary products and have recently dependence on the USA, to 55% optimise their choice which in turn upgraded our Poker offering with a multiof our business without sacrificing underpins our member retention by language format.
It is now operational in volume.
Our second largest revenue keeping players on our sites.
English, German, Italian and Swedish.
stream comes from the UK market, We introduced a new e-wallet focusing representing 20% of our mix.
In the In January 2006, 888 launched an on Spain, Germany, Netherlands, Italy UK, 888 has come from nowhere in entirely new Casino product with a new and France, thereby expanding further 2003 to become the top brand in the graphical user interface, new industry our geographical presence in non-USA industry in 2005.
This success is leading video-slot machines and markets.
888 plans to roll-out a further mainly due to the highly successful promotion features to provide two new languages and a new Jackpot offline advertising campaigns we ran our members with an even more feature for Pacific Poker in the first in the UK and high profile selected sophisticated visual and interactive quarter of 2006.
14 Chief Executives Review Betmate, our betting exchange, is a basis all jurisdictions to ensure white label product in conjunction we understand local regulatory with Betdaq, the second largest positions and are alerted early to betting exchange in the UK.
It has any potential developments.
The been in operation since 2004 and world has still to get to grips with acts as a member retention tool this industry and the laws which do by complementing our Casino exist can change very rapidly.
It offers access to a what we must do as an industry is to betting exchange for non-USA lobby all of the countries of the world members only.
It has performed so that legalisation and licensing of satisfactorily over the period.
Internet gaming becomes the norm rather than the exception.
In order for us to give our members a one stop shopping experience innovative marketing approach we need to offer them a The 888 brand is a core aspect sportsbook.
We are currently of our marketing strategy and is examining our options to achieve key to building and maintaining this.
We will not take sports bets our business.
Strong branding is from US citizens, however we will not only critical in differentiating take bets on American sports our business but a recognisable events from non-US citizens.
brand builds trust which is a key consideration affecting a regulatory developments consumers choice of provider.
Whilst the application of existing laws to online gaming is still to be Our marketing strategy includes both clarified in most jurisdictions, in online advertising, such as search April 2005 the UK Government engine optimisation and offline passed the Gambling Act, which activities.
This includes mass media includes the licensing of online advertising, direct mail, sports gaming.
I believe the UKs position marketing and sponsorship, such as is the first domino in what will that of Middlesbrough Football Club become a legislative network where our shirt sponsorship deal throughout mainland Europe.
Recently we also signed up to be the sponsor We continue to monitor the of the iconic World Snooker legislative position in the USA, Championship.
The event is held where many attempts have been at the Crucible in Sheffield, UK and made in the past to prevent the is the most important event in the instruments for the financial snooker calendar.
Our sponsorship payment of internet gaming to take not only catapults us into emerging place.
It is our view that this will markets such as China and the Far continue to be our main challenge.
East, where snooker has a huge We also monitor on a continual following, but our brand will be fully 888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 15 Payment systems future Prospects There is no doubt that this is an Payment systems are the lifeblood of I have no doubt that this industry industry which is here to stay and our industry.
The number of options we is here to stay and the market will use has increased from four in 2000 continue to grow in line with increasing the market will continue to grow to 22 in 2005.
We must continually Internet penetration throughout the in line with increasing Internet upgrade and seek new systems in order world.
As stated at flotation, our goal penetration.
to give all of our members in different is to become market leader and offer markets local methods enabling them a one stop shop online leisure exposed for hundreds of hours in the to pay and play seamlessly.
This expansion will be UK and Europe.
We consider the deal achieved both organically and through to be a major step in continuing to I cannot emphasise enough the selective acquisition.
spread global awareness of the 888 importance of making available a brand.
As part of this 888 will also be wide variety of payment methods to Our 2005 results confirm we are an associate sponsor of the Masters, support members in different locations heading in the right direction to Grand Prix and UK Championship and with different needs.
We are confident that the snooker events.
shatters the myth that barriers to continued focus on our strategic goals, entry to our industry are low.
The fact through a systematic and evidencemember relationship management is that barriers to successful entry are based approach, will provide the 888 has a first class reputation for extremely high.
opportunities to deliver further positive its member relationship management.
Our member support is as international back-office support as our member base and we currently Our proprietary back-office systems The, albeit early, trends in 2006 provide support in up to 11 languages, are state of the art and form an confirm our confidence in the future.
Our call centres offer excellent base to keep our members This year we will expand into more interactive services and support tollsatisfied.
We spend a lot of money countries with better products and free free-phone numbers, email and to attract new members and it is vital we will continue to pursue excellence web-chat platforms as well as online we create a service environment that in every facet of our business.
Our staff are all highly keeps them.
trained and undergo an ongoing training programme to ensure we remain at the People cutting edge of service excellence.
Our people are totally dedicated and include many of the pioneers of the We have consistently focused on industry.
They are not only good at maintaining and enhancing our what they do and have a tremendous member support services and have track record but are focused on the John Anderson developed a valuable proprietary future success of the Group.
I would Chief Executive Officer member database of over 23 million like to add my personal thanks to each registered members.
We believe there one of our employees worldwide for is significant opportunity in both the what they have achieved in 2005. cross-selling and up-selling of this Our success is their success.
database to maximise member retention and lifetime value.
