Chief Executives Review Overview The business, its markets, values and strategy MITIE has had a good year and I am pleased with the progress that we have made.
The MITIE start-up model MITIE is now 18 years old and has started over 80 companies in accordance with the MITIE model.
As MITIE grows we need to provide However, we still receive many requests to explain our businesses with an increasingly how the model works.
During the In principle the model has not changed since we year we have reinforced the central started, although there have been several refineteam by recruiting a number of ments.
The process normally develops as follows: additional specialists.
We will identify a team that wants the opportunity to run their own business.
Our forward order book has increased with 70% 2.
Provided that their business idea fits with our of budgeted revenue secured for the financial strategy and does not conflict with any of our year 2005 2006. existing businesses, we interview the team.
We have experienced good levels of contract like the team they prepare a business plan which renewals across all businesses.
then follows an approval process and is signed 3.
Cleaning has been successfully restructured.
The recent acquisitions have been successfully 3.
The business plan determines the capital requireintegrated and their financial contribution is ment.
MITIE invests at least 51% of the initial better than we expected.
capital required and the management team 5.
In the final step of the strategy to exit capitalinvests the balance.
intensive activities we sold our entire sharehold- 4.
A limited company is established, placed in the ing in MITIE Generation Ltd Generation to a structure depending on the business activity management buyout team on 30 September 2004. being pursued, sponsored by a PLC Director 6.
During the year we have built a corporate and supported by the Head Office team.
development team focused on acquisitions.
The team grow their business over the next five 7.
We have moved our head office to a more to ten years.
modern building at Emersons Green, north of 6.
Between the fifth year and the tenth year the Bristol, just four miles from Bristol Parkway minority shareholders have an opportunity to station.
As MITIE grows we need to provide our serve a transfer notice on MITIE Group PLC to businesses with an increasingly robust support earn out their minority interest, which MITIE team.
During the year we have reinforced Group PLC may or may not accept.
This must be the central team by recruiting a number of done within seven to 14 days after our AGM.
In order to calculate the value of the minority 8.
We have set up a new department of Corporate stake in the business we use a multiple of ten Responsibility.
times post-tax profits averaged over the previous two years, or three years depending on the type of business.
The consideration is paid in either cash or MITIE Group PLC shares at the Boards option.
If the consideration is paid in MITIE Group PLC shares they cannot be traded for two years post the earn-out, but the owners are entitled to receive dividends.
The management team stays in place after the earn-out and continue to grow the business and progress their career within MITIE.
The model continues to attract entrepreneurial managers who want to run their own business in MITIE.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 05 Our major markets Our values MITIE operates across the UK and has customers in Since MITIE started there has been a set of values all major market sectors.
Currently 40% of our work that has enabled our entrepreneurial and motivated comes from the public sector and 60% from the managers to grow the business successfully.
We believe that this mix of business is have been centred on the three core principles of healthy for the Company and enhances the longFocus, Connect and Achieve: term sustainability of our revenue stream.
We have a relatively low market share in all of these sectors, Focus on our goals and those of our customers: giving us plenty of opportunity for future growth.
Connect with our customers at all levels to fulfil their needs: and Percentage of Group Turnover by Sector Achieve success by consistently delivering Public Sector a quality service.
Defence 3% Education 8% The application of these values has enabled the Government 9% business to grow consistently.
Over the years we Healthcare 5% Local authority 5% have developed the values so that our employees Social housing 7% understand them clearly and are able to apply them Utilities 3% to their daily work.
Private Sector Helping make a great first impression in reception Transport 2% Commercial 21% Finance & Professional 9% Leisure & Entertainment 4% Manufacturing 13% Retail 7% Science & Technology 4% Our structure and services MITIEs operating businesses are structured in two divisions: Support Services and Building Services.
The divisions are supported by a Head Office team, which provides policies, advice and assistance for Health & Safety, Human Resources, IT, Sales & Marketing, Risk Management, Finance, Legal, Insurance and Property matters.
Support Services offers a flexible range of services Our strategy supporting the occupiers of buildings.
These are Our strategy remains: shown on the inside front cover of this report and range from Engineering Maintenance and Facilities 1.
Grow our existing businesses organically and Management to Security.
We listen to our custincrease the amount of bundled services that omers and create solutions that meet their needs we provide: and resources.
Start new companies in accordance with the equity model: Building Services is involved in the construction, 3.
Make acquisitions in our markets when suitable refurbishment and repair of buildings.
Engineering companies are identified: is predominantly a mechanical and electrical services 4.
Invest in market sectors, such as education and specialist installing heating, lighting, air conditsocial housing, where those markets offer good ioning and data cabling.
Property Services act as potential: and a main contractor improving buildings either by 5.
Expand our core skills competency so that we fitting them out, refurbishing or maintaining them.
are able to offer additional services.
06 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Chief Executives Review continued Flexible facilities services at Landflex Service Facilities Management Sector Commercial Client Land Securities We are working with LST to provide facilities management to their fully serviced Landflex buildings in London.
MITIE has significantly developed its relationship MITIE provides a call centre, planned and reactive with property outsourcing specialists Land Securities service management as well as on-site consultancy Trillium LST, part of Land Securities Group plc over on best practice and legislation.
The facilities services contract for the Department for Work and Pensions DWP portIn addition, this has provided fit-out opportunities folio, across Northern England and Scotland, has in London where we have recently completed the been enlarged and now extends to 2018.
We have new media village at the BBC as a follow on from completed four Job Centre Plus refurbishments for last years superstars changing rooms project.
This the DWP and provide a national painting and air in turn has led to two sizeable refurbishment projconditioning service as well.
We are working with LST to provide facilities manThe element of trust and reliability nurtured at agement to their fully serviced Landflex buildings in this stage of the relationship encouraged LST to London.
We deliver services including Reception, select MITIE as a long-term preferred supplier when Maintenance, Cleaning, Security, Landscaping, Postadditional services are required.
room and Courier Management as well as Disaster Recovery and Contingency Planning.
MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005 07 Catering: cooking with the best ingredients Operating Review Performance in the period I am pleased with our performance this year.
We have made good progress.
Support Services Cleaning On 1 November 2004 we received shareholder approval for our second-generation equity plan for the Cleaning business.
We have a young management team within Cleaning, who had previously not had the opportunity to subscribe for equity.
They have invested 600,000 in the new equity of MITIE Cleaning Services Limited.
This is a significant development of the MITIE equity model and Catering will allow the management to share in the additional Catering continues to develop.
A new business value they create.
commenced trading in London that has started well.
Catering has secured contracts with IMS This restructuring of the Cleaning business has Healthcare, Osborne Clarke, GVA Grimley and been successful and the new management team is the National Audit Office.
Catering achieved accredoperating the business on a national basis.
The sales itation to the Hospitality Assured standard in and marketing team has been reinforced with the October 2004.
Hospitality Assured is the world-class appointment of a Sales and Marketing Director standard for service and business excellence in the and a National Accounts Director.
The specialist UK hospitality industry.
businesses that focus on individual market sectors have had a particularly good year gaining signifiSince the year-end we have recruited a dynamic team cant market share.
to set up MITIE Catering in the north of England.
During the year we have secured many notable conThe Catering business will grow through developtract wins including the new Doncaster Airport, ing a food service that delivers high levels of BT Payphones, timetable installation for London customer satisfaction, patronage and daily spend.
Buses, multi-site Co-op retail outlets, Goodrich This will keep client subsidies at a competitive Engine Control Systems, Barclays Capital, Nokia UK level which, allied to client relationships, will in a bundled service contract with Engineering generate high levels of contract retention.
The interMaintenance, West Yorkshire Police and Pfizer UK.
final operating brand ingredients will continue We started the contract for the Scottish Parliament to be developed, acting as a clear differentiator that was awarded to us in the last financial year but in the market.
Catering will continue to invest in had a delayed start.
the food concept function dedicated to driving up operating standards in vendor management, Cleaning has conducted extensive customer commodity selection, kitchen process and food research with the main conclusion that customer offer ranges.
satisfaction is directly linked to staff retention.
To enhance levels of staff retention Cleaning has Landscape launched a major recognition and reward initiative Landscape has made further progress during the for staff that make an outstanding contribution for year.
It has secured a national contract with Lloyds clients and fellow MITIE colleagues.
TSB to maintain grounds and external areas and with Proctor and Gamble in Egham.
Landscape has Mike McCarthy decided to retire this year: Mike was also started to penetrate the public sector and has responsible for our northern Cleaning business.
added a contract with Yorkshire Metropolitan I would like to thank him for the important contriHousing Group to our existing Local Authority and bution he has made to MITIE over the years.
08 MITIE Group PLC Annual Report 2005
