qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 4 Chief Executive Ofcers review perform well, with its active customer base reaching 500,000 shortly after Christmas 2004.
In such a Strong revenue and profit growth competitive market, the cost of customer churn is an issue, but at O2 UK EBITDA rose by 14 per cent to 1,183 million on a 14 per cent increase in service revenues.
Accelerated investment in Germany We plan to deploy significant new resources into the customer-facing areas of our UK operations including Focus on enhanced customer experience the creation of 2,000 new jobs, opening a fourth major UK customer service centre and further expanding our shop network.
By delivering a better customer experience, we aim to improve customer loyalty and Airwave service fully operational develop a sustainable basis for enhanced long-term returns.
The cost of this expansion has been offset by efficiencies in non customer-facing activities, resulting in a reduction of some 500 positions and an Increased take-up of data services exceptional operating charge of 45 million recognised in 2004 05.
O2 Germany In 2004 05, O2 has delivered further strong revenue and profit growth across all our businesses.
In the face The performance of O2 Germany last year was outstanding.
The business is now recognised as the most of determined competition, we had a record year for customer additions and achieved a significant increase dynamic and innovative in the German market.
After what was, by any measure, an extremely strong in earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and exceptional items EBITDA, and operating first half, growth continued over the rest of the year.
Service revenue increased by 28 per cent to profit.
Group revenue from continuing operations grew by over 1 billion and pre-tax profit more than 2,474 million and EBITDA increased to 500 million.
Our momentum in Germany has been driven by a trebled to 309 million.
Underlying earnings per share were 63 per cent ahead of last year and net debt rapid increase in the customer base O2 Germany has a very attractive range of products and services and was reduced by 288 million to 78 million.
We added nearly 2 million new customers, approaching one-third of net new additions in the German marketplace.
O2 Germany has market-leading The uptake of data services accelerated.
These now generate revenues of over 1.4 billion per annum and ARPU thanks largely to our unique O Genion Homezone service.
In October 2004, we launched a new joint 2 account for more than 23 per cent of our gross service revenues.
During the year, we launched our business venture, Tchibo Mobilfunk, which had attracted more than 250,000 pre-pay customers by the end of the and consumer 3G services in the UK and Germany, with Ireland to follow later this year.
Our data offering financial year.
We are now aiming to continue this growth in what is Europes largest telecoms market.
Over will be signicantly enhanced in the second half of 2005 by our agreement with NTT DoCoMo to provide its a five-year period starting in April 2004, we aim to spend between 3billion and 3.5 billion on increasing mobile internet service in all our key markets.
our investment in network quality and population coverage this is 1 billion to 1.5 billion more than previously planned.
By the end of the period, we will be able to offer high-quality mobile services across our O2 UK own 3G network, underpinning further growth and also higher profitability as we reduce our reliance on In a highly competitive market with ten players, O2 UK showed good momentum, adding 1.1 million new roaming agreements with other operators.
customers made up of 785,000 pre-pay and 335,000 contract additions taking its customer base to 14.4 million.
We have reduced the number of pre-pay net additions to allow for an element of double O2 Ireland counting when existing pre-pay customers buy a new handset or SIM card.
Despite the impact of the Innovative and competitive services and tariffs, together with the strength of the O brand, have continued 2 termination rate cut imposed by Ofcom in September 2004, service revenue showed further growth, due to drive growth in customers at O2 Ireland, together with an on-going rise in usage levels.
Customers in to strong voice and increasing data usage.
Texting grew by 34 per cent, reinforcing our market-leading Ireland consistently use their mobile phones over 50 per cent more than in our other territories.
Data is not just about texting more than one-third of customers used a non-text data service in customer numbers, to over 1.5 million, led to another year of strong financial performance with service during the year.
Our Tesco Mobile joint venture, which is reported separately from O2 UK, also continued to revenue increasing by 13 per cent to 816 million and EBITDA 9 per cent higher at 327 million.
qxd 6 1 05 7:59 PM Page 5 market is becoming increasingly competitive.
Four network operators are now active and others are person-to-person messages, texting questions to the Prime Minister or voting off Big Brother contestants.
expressing an interest, following proposed measures to allow mobile virtual network operators access to the We carried a record 50 million texts on Christmas Day 2004 and texting continues to grow in all markets.
Driven by O Active, our award-winning mobile internet portal, we are also starting to see significant growth 2 in non-text data usage, revenues from which have increased by 50 per cent over the past 12 months.
The O2 Airwave mobile sector is poised for even more dramatic growth as we focus on developing The roll-out of our Airwave network for the emergency services was completed, on time and on budget, new mobile data products and value-added services.
Airwave, which makes communities safer by providing communication where and when it matters most, has now been delivered to all police forces in England, Scotland and Wales.
A high-speed network, as provided by 3G, is the key to future mobile data services, enabling customers to Over 150,000 police ofcers will have access to the service, together with more than 78 other public safety migrate to advanced, content-rich applications.
We believe there will be a mass market for these services agencies that have also signed up to Airwave.
The system has already contributed to a reduction in crime, starting in late 2005 and building over the next few years.
improved officer safety and, in the case of Hereford & Worcester Ambulance Trust, saved over 150 lives.
O2 Airwave has been shortlisted for similar contracts to provide nationwide communications for the We are rolling out the 3G network in all of our territories, matching capacity to known mobile data demand.
We see many opportunities to provide secure and reliable communications to We have invested in training and billing systems and we have highly specified and well-functioning devices.
To complete the picture, we signed a long-term agreement with NTT DoCoMo Inc, Japans largest mobile communications provider, to launch a mobile internet service under the i-mode brand in the UK and Ireland Manx Telecom in Autumn 2005.
A similar service will be available in Germany from Spring 2006.
This service, which will Manx Telecom, our subsidiary on the Isle of Man, was the first company in Europe to launch a live 3G complement O Active, has a proven track record in Western Europe of lifting uptake, usage and revenue 2 service, in December 2001, providing O2 with a valuable learning experience and hands-on knowledge from data services, due to its ease of use and huge breadth and depth of tailored internet content.
Building on this success, Manx Telecom is now set to run Europes first super-fast 3G service, using HSDPA technology.
This offers communication speeds up to three times those of current The appeal of these services will be signicantly enhanced through the progressive introduction of HSDPA 3G services.
Once again we expect that this will provide other O2 businesses with vital insights into future technology.
This offers speeds signicantly better than 3G and will, in effect, provide a true mobile mobile services.
The technology will be rolled out across all of our territories from 2006. broadband experience.
In addition, we are engaged in the UKs first trial of multi-channel mobile TV.
Strategy Looking ahead Our strategic framework for the coming year is driven by the same high but realistic aspirations that have In the UK, we are expecting revenues to grow at a mid-single digit rate, reecting the impact of the delivered such strong growth to our business since demerger.
To continue to meet those aspirations we will remaining five months of the call termination rate cut in September 2004 and continuing competition in be addressing some key priorities in 2005 06. a highly penetrated market.
Competitive forces, coupled with O2 UKs substantial investment in customerfacing capabilities to attract and retain long-term customers, are expected to lead to a broadly stable EBITDA Superior revenue and profit growth despite the competitive landscape: O2 UK continues to focus on margin.
We are expecting further strong revenue growth in Germany, driven mainly by a continued rapid winning and retaining more high-value customers in order to drive further revenue improvements.
In growth in our customer base there.
On the back of strong revenue growth, O2 Germanys EBITDA margin Germany, there is significant room for growth at recent rates and our accelerated investment programme is expected to rise further, to around 20 per cent, after absorbing the impact of UMTS network running will provide a springboard to achieve this.
O2 Airwave will be making a strong financial contribution in its costs and on-going national roaming costs.
Capital expenditure overall should be broadly in line with last first full year of operation.
Higher investment in our UMTS network, particularly in Germany, will be offset by a reduction in spending at O2 Airwave, following completion of its network roll-out.
Best customer experience to give substance to our iconic O brand: quality, value and innovation are the 2 keys to maintaining the strength of the O brand and differentiating us from our competitors.
To keep the 2 loyalty and trust of our customers, we must give them the service that they want and products that work which is why we have been cautious in the timing of our 3G launch.
We do not necessarily want to be the first to market but we do want to be the best.
Our aim is to keep the O brand fresh, with fewer, better 2 services, all designed to enhance the customer experience we are investing in the platforms and people to achieve this.
Peter Erskine Operationally efficient, agile and innovative organisation: we will be driving our businesses to realise Chief Executive officer efficiency gains, using our growing insight into our customers needs and behaviour to align our costs more closely to what customers value most.
We have innovative joint ventures with Tchibo in Germany and Tesco in the UK, and other multi-territory partnerships.
Mobile data services that our customers really value: texting has become a way of life, whether in o2.
