N Brown Group plc 4 Report and Accounts 2005 ALAN WHITE CHIEF EXECUTIVE Chief Executives review We are pleased to report that in the year ended 26th February 2005 we have made good progress in implementing our specialist multi-channel home shopping strategy, whilst at the same time rationalising our other activities.
We will continue to pursue these two routes which we believe will enable us to succeed in a highly competitive and deflationary retail environment.
The overall group turnover is down by 2.2% at 460.3m with operating profit before operating exceptional items up 0.4% at 54.4m.
Within these overall results there is a substantial increase in profits from the core home shopping business offset by a reduction in contributions from our other activities as we restructure the business models.
N Brown Group plc 5 Report and Accounts 2005 Our on-line activity continues to grow rapidly with a further 60% sales increase to 44m, representing 11% of all sales.
HOME SHOPPING of our catalogues.
These offers may be targeted The new addition to this group was House of Bath, Turnover from our core home shopping activities was at specific events, such as Mothers Day, or include a business we acquired out of administration in up by 0.9% at 416.5m.
Operating profit increased by additional products, such as flowers and vitamins.
November 2004 for a total cost of 1.5m.
This This channel to market therefore remains a key area acquisition has given us access to a database of over 13.6% to 59.2m, giving an operating margin of 14.2%.
for future development and growth.
one million customers in the more affluent ABC1 sociodemographic groups, currently the fastest growing The key reasons for the improvement in operating The major internet launch last year was VivaLaDiva.
com sector of the home shopping market.
The key task is profits are a reduction in bad debts, a direct result of which is targeted at women who love shoes.
In addition to integrate House of Baths operations into N Browns the introduction of a more tightly controlled credit policy to our own range of wide fitting footwear a number of facilities, which will be completed later this summer.
since 2003, and also reduced selling and administration high street brands such as Schuh, Carvela and Hobbs This will facilitate mailings to and from other parts of costs resulting from a group-wide campaign to improve and fashion shoe designers including Emma Hope the customer database, allow parcels to be distributed business processes and reduce costs.
and Lulu Guinness are helping us to provide the most through our courier network and enable the provision comprehensive on-line footwear selection in the UK.
CHANNELS TO MARKET Customers have never had so many ways to spend The availability of delivery to customers direct from The launch in January 2005 of a 200 page catalogue their money.
We have responded to this competitive the supplier is vital to these on-line ventures if they to our best performing customers in our 65 aged environment by expanding our channels to market are to deliver an acceptable return.
The ability to group has helped to reverse the recent downward and by targeted promotional activity.
launch new concepts for a low level of investment, trend in sales from this customer group.
There were and the reduced cost of communication with good performances from both Heather Valley and The core route to our customer remains the mailing customers, makes the internet an increasing focus Special Collection in particular.
Sales in total rose of catalogues.
The frequency of mailings has been of our development activities.
increasing, with our best customers receiving a major catalogue or brochure almost every month.
This Retail shops are a small part of our multi-channel Whilst we target these discrete customer groups we frequent contact helps to keep the offer fresh, the mix at present.
We have had for some time a chain also look to identify their product preferences and customers loyal and increases our share of their of nineteen stores in the North East of England to try to increase their spending with us by mailing overall spending.
These additional mailings also sell off end of range stock.
House of Bath has a shop catalogues specific to their needs.
This has helped to allow the introduction of new, and seasonal products, at its headquarters in Bath which attracts customers drive a healthy 4% increase in the spend per customer.
and we can offer selective price reductions and who want to buy the goods on sale in the catalogues promotional offers to stimulate demand.
in person rather than by home delivery.
We are testing The number of customers on the database decreased this concept further with a trial store in Harrogate for by 3% as a result of a number of planned actions.
We Varying catalogue formats has proved successful in our Shoe Tailor brand, offering a selection from our discontinued the Value Catalogue and Home Essentials achieving enhanced response rates.
The sales from footwear range and a personalised measuring service, catalogue which reduced customer numbers and we leaflets accompanying customers statements have augmented with a much wider range available for also put a greater focus on reactivating lapsed good been declining and we have been deliberately home delivery.
customers, and changed the mix of recruitment switching our marketing investment into the direct methods.
This favoured recruitment from catalogue mailing of mid-season catalogues such as New Now, CUSTOMER GROUPS advertising and on-line search engines over the placing Summer Value and Classic Detail, where the sales We operate a portfolio of catalogues targeted at of product advertisements in the press and weekend rose by 5% to 91m.
The common link is the supplements, although this remains our major source product range which is targeted at either the larger of new customers.
In addition to direct mail we continue to expand customer and or those aged over forty-five.
telemarketing activity at our call centres.
In the last The customers are classified into three age groups.
PRODUCT RANGES year 37m of revenue up 3% was generated through The younger customers aged 30-45 are predominantly Our product ranges are tailored to the needs of our up selling techniques used on inbound orders and from serviced by the Fashion World and Simply Be chosen groups.
In order to deliver authority in our outbound calls to selected customers promoting our catalogues.
Total sales were 102m, up 1% on last larger sizes and fittings proposition we have over special offers.
Simply Be is still our fastest growing brand, 50,000 different product options each season.
The best performances have come from our most Our on-line activity continues to grow rapidly with specialist product areas.
a further 60% sales increase to 44m, representing The midlife customer group, incorporating principally 11% of all sales.
Initially the internet was merely an the J D Williams, Ambrose Wilson, Oxendales, alternative ordering mechanism to the telephone and Premier Man and Fifty Plus brands, increased sales post.
This is no longer the case.
We are now well into by 1% to 293m, accounting for 70% of the home shopping total.
the development phase where our websites carry a much wider range of offers and products than any N Brown Group plc 6 Report and Accounts 2005 New focus, new favourites Focused does not mean limited it means we back our winners while looking for new markets and exploring new audiences.
Over the last twelve months we have been refocusing on those areas of our core home shopping business where we have the strongest selling propositions.
These key areas are clothing in larger sizes for both women and men, wide fitting footwear and a comprehensive range of fittings for corsetry and lingerie.
Our share of these markets increased further during the year.
We continue to look for extensions to our niche product ranges and innovative ways to take our message to market.
This has resulted in the launch of a number of major mid-season targeted mailings to constantly stimulate customer interest.
N Brown Group plc 8 Report and Accounts 2005 New channels, new opportunities Multi-channel home shopping is the future so we are testing new complementary channels in the latest evolution of our strategy.
The Internet represents a major growth area for both current and future activities.
If phase one of online shopping was about enabling customers to order over the web, phase two is about driving incremental sales and recruiting customers.
We are already seeing a subtle but distinct transition from catalogue-centric to internet-centric selling.
Not that the Internet is the only new channel we are exploring.
Last October we launched our Express home shopping TV channel, a joint venture between N Brown and Northern & Shell Network Ltd.
The channel offers a balance of lifestyle and entertainment programming, and sells a range of merchandising, available interactively on the channel itself, by phone and via a dedicated website.
N Brown Group plc 10 Report and Accounts 2005 1 Simply Be.
Sam is 39 and enjoys shopping with Simply Be.
She thinks it is fashionable as well as being good quality and value for money.
As a size 20, she finds shopping for clothes can be difficult, but feels that Simply Be understands the needs of the larger young woman.
Annie is 56, and Ambrose Wilson is a real favourite with her.
She likes to wear comfortable clothes, but still likes to look smart.
She feels Ambrose Wilson caters well for this need, while still being good value for money.
Flo is 63 and is a loyal Fifty Plus customer.
She prefers to shop from home and loves Fifty Plus for the extensive offer of casual clothes which suit her active lifestyle 4 Heather Valley.
Helena is 73 and likes to look smart.
She buys stylish, well tailored clothes and finds just what she wants in Heather Valley.
Well-made, good quality clothes are important to her.
New customers, new techniques Just because we have focused on a particular type of customer in the past does not mean we can't look for new markets in the future.
As well as testing new channels we are testing new audiences.
We have recently acquired upmarket home products retailer House of Bath, because we believe their archetypal customer 50, female, well off will prove to be a growth demographic in the future.
Experimenting with new audiences is an example of the trialling approach we aim to pursue across our entire business.
Another example is the emphasis we are now placing on the recruitment of customers via the Internet.
In the last year we have had significant success attracting new customer using online search engines, a concrete example of how we are exploiting the latest technology to improve our performance.
1 2 3 4 N Brown Group plc 12 Report and Accounts 2005 In order to deliver authority in our larger sizes and fittings proposition we have over 50,000 different product options each season.
The best performances have come from our most specialist product areas.
Ladieswear sales of 224m represents 54% of our of Bath catalogues are largely for home and leisure was closed as planned in July 2004 and the focus total sales, the same as the previous year.
Basic casual lines, generally in the hard to find category.
concentrated on securing fulfilment contracts from clothing was impacted by deflation in prices, driven the top 200 UK retailers, many of whom are planning by the discount sector, but we saw strong demand The plan for our product ranges in the 2005 catalogues to expand their catalogue and on-line activities.
for occasionwear, outerwear and styles for the more is to increase further our market share in our core Zendor was successful last year in winning contracts mature lady.
Corsetry and lingerie, where we offer a product areas.
We will be reducing the number of stock with Daisy and Tom, Woolworths and, most recently, comprehensive range of fittings and styles, saw a 9% lines but the product options will increase as we JJB Sports and there is a good pipeline of prospects.
Menswear sales of 31m were level selectively introduce more smaller sizes and variable Sales were 7.4m, down 16.9% with a pre-exceptional with the previous year with the sales concentrated at garment lengths.
This pattern has been reflected in our 2005 menswear ranges where we have a higher OTHER ACTIVITIES Financial income is a core part of N Browns activities.
proportion of value for money lines.
House of Stirling, our weekly collected credit The major activity is the provision of flexible credit operation incurred losses of 4.2m in the first half, accounts for our home shopping customers, and this Footwear is a core range where we sell in excess and we instigated a recovery plan which has been has continued successfully throughout the period.
In of one million pairs of wide-fitting shoes each year.
implemented throughout the second half.
This has addition we offer warranty and insurance products and Additional sales from a range of footwear in younger resulted in a significant improvement in the rate of cash personal loans to our customers and some credit for styles for the Fashion World and Simply Be customers, collection, although sales have remained subdued due third party retailers customers purchases.
Turnover together with an expanded range for the midlife to the more conservative underwriting criteria.
The for the year from these activities was down 22.9% customer, helped aggregate footwear sales to rise results for the year show turnover of 24.0m, down at 6.7m, as we tightened the underwriting criteria, by 13% to 46m.
27.5%, and pre-exceptional operating losses of 6.3m producing an operating profit of 1.2m 2004, 2.4m.
A fundamental review of the Home and leisure sales were 1% lower at 116m business has concluded that we need to rationalise The insurance products are provided by financial but there was a major change in the product mix.
the business, which is unique in being product-based services companies with N Brown Group acting as a We abandoned the long-term interest free credit rather than loan-based, if we are to eliminate losses broker, but the personal loans have been transacted offer in Home Essentials at the end of 2003, with in the future.
We have taken an impairment charge as a principal.
These loans have not delivered an the consequent impact on the sales of higher value of 22.5m to facilitate this restructuring.
acceptable return on capital employed and we have furniture and electrical lines as expected.
However the decided to collect out the existing portfolio.
We have launch of the new Christmas Gifts catalogues in the Zendor, which provides home shopping solutions for recognised a 3m impairment on the 19m loan autumn gave new impetus to sales of toys, gifts and multi-channel retailers, has seen a number of changes portfolio as a consequence of this exit.
Similarly, the bulk of sales from the House during the year.
Eunite, the interactive services division, we will instead offer personal loans to our customers A collection of our catalogues and mid-season mailings Fashion World Classic Detail Home & Garden Essentials NewNow.
co. uk N Brown Group plc 13 Report and Accounts 2005 F uture growth for the business will come from expanding our customer base, developing the channels to our customers and refining the product range.
from third party providers for which we will receive pet-loving consumers.
We see further opportunities a guaranteed commission.
BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW There is additional scope to improve the efficiency The groups borrowings have been reduced to of the business and we intend to build on the great 126.2m as a result of a net cash inflow before response we had from the whole management team financing of 19.3m against an outflow of 30.5m last year in rising to the challenge to reduce costs and last year.
The main changes relate to a lower level of change our business processes.
working capital requirements and capital expenditure of only 9.4m.
Net assets at the year-end are 243.3m SUMMARY 2004, 244.3m with gearing reduced to 52%.
The The clear focus on niche customers and products is underlying financial strength of the business has starting to produce positive results, and is helping us significantly improved during the last year.
to succeed in a highly competitive and deflationary retail environment.
The business is developing a OUTLOOK number of marketing channels to customers and Future growth for the business will come from improving the targeting of products and catalogues expanding our customer base, developing the channels to customers.
Current trading is 5% up on last year to our customers and refining the product range.
in the core home shopping business, and 2% up on a like-for-like basis excluding House of Bath for the Once we have integrated House of Bath onto our 10 weeks since the year end.
logistics platform we see opportunities for expanding sales to the more affluent customer.
We will also be We are pleased with the progress we have made in concentrating on reactivating lapsed customers and the last year and remain confident that our strategy on-line search engines will be an increasing source will provide a solid platform for the future.
Our internet websites will be further developed.
com will be supported with a public relations campaign and Petfoodnstuff.
com has recently been launched to satisfy the millions of ALAN WHITE Simply Be Spring Value J D Williams Christmas Gifts
