Chief Executives Report Phil White Chief Executive I genuinely believe that we have achieved much this year, positioning the Group well for the future.
THIS YEAR THE CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT TAKES ON A NEW QUESTION AND ANSWER FORMAT.
THIS BRINGS TOGETHER THE QUESTIONS MOST FREQUENTLY ASKED OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE, PHIL WHITE, AND COVERS AREAS SUCH AS HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR AND THE STRATEGIC FOCUS OF THE GROUP.
Q WHAT HAVE BEEN THE HIGHLIGHTS OF THE Another milestone which occurred this year is PAST YEAR?
the Governments proposal to introduce demand management of traffic congestion in our cities as A This has been an excellent year as our results this will have a positive impact on the use of public clearly show and, at the same time, there have also transport.
I would like to congratulate Alistair been some significant moves for the Group.
Darling, Secretary of State for Transport, for The most impressive was undoubtedly the deal having the courage to take this important but which saw us join up with Alsa in the Spanish tough decision.
Alsa is not only Spains leading private coach and bus operator it is also Our team has turned in an excellent performance a quality business that I have admired for during the year and it has been a privilege to lead many years.
Our coach, bus, rail and North American student transportation activities have all made Im pleased to welcome the Alsa management great strides in terms of quality performance, team into the National Express Group.
Weve customer satisfaction and employee engagement.
wanted to enter a major continental European market for some time, but we needed to find the Q AND WHAT HAVE BEEN THE LOW POINTS?
right way with the right purchase.
I believe that A The tragic events of 7 July in London were Alsa is that right purchase and Im confident that it undoubtedly one of the worst events of 2005, brings tremendous opportunities for growth, both particularly as they followed on the back of the organically and through acquisition.
Alsa is a long excitement of the 2012 Olympics award to established family business with a very strong, London.
This was a devastating event for professional, management team that was keen everybody, especially those connected with our to join the National Express family.
capital city, and I want to put on record my Im delighted that the Cosmen family has taken a appreciation of the emergency services and our large shareholding in the Group, with Jorge Cosmen staff who coped so admirably in very challenging joining the Board as a Non Executive Director.
Of course, our difficulties pale into insignificance compared to those who suffered loss It is our aim to move Alsa from a family owned or injury and my greatest sympathies are with business to an international organisation while those families affected.
The follow-up alerts on retaining its core values.
It is helpful that Alsa, like 21 July which were thankfully thwarted, and National Express, believes in local autonomy for subsequent alarms in major cities such as management, quality services and supporting its Birmingham further damaged confidence in employees through training and development.
public transport and it has taken many months There is a great willingness on the part of the Alsa to regain our customers trust.
management team to be fully integrated into the Group, demonstrated by the tremendous energy that is being put into our integration project.
10 Like everybody in our industry, I am shocked by the level of Q HOW HAVE RELATIONSHIPS WITH KEY STAKEHOLDERS crime that takes place on our services and around our DEVELOPED DURING THE YEAR?
Our depots, terminals and stations are part of the A Good relationships with stakeholders are absolutely key if we fabric of the community and the safety of our customers and want to develop the quality of services that our customers employees is of paramount concern.
We are actively working expect.
We can only provide this if we have the right rail and with British Transport Police, the Department for Transport road infrastructure and this is where we need the help of and other stakeholders to identify ways to cut crime and government.
Airlines cant operate without airports, trains improve security.
need tracks and buses and coaches depend on an effective road network.
Q WHAT HAS BEEN THE MAIN MANAGEMENT FOCUS During the year, we were pleased to sign a Statutory Quality THIS YEAR?
Partnership with Dundee City Council and the Scottish A In our day-to-day business, we focus on our customers as Executive to further improve bus services around Dundee.
they are our top priority.
And thats true regardless of We also worked closely with Centro and the West Midlands whether theyre travelling by train to a meeting in London or Passenger Transport Authority which are both key partners on a yellow school bus in Toronto.
Punctuality, reliability and to the successful operation of our Birmingham bus business.
safety are the keys to our business.
Weve taken an industry lead in managing the switch from an operations led business We hosted a major bus conference in Birmingham looking at to a customer focused business.
We look at the journey as a the positive initiatives that are taking place in the bus market.
whole experience, from the moment a customer thinks 2005 also saw us working closely with central Government about buying a ticket.
Its not just about when theyre on on the rail remapping and helping with the establishment of board one of our services.
the DfT as the new body responsible for rail refranchising.
And one key element of ensuring we understand our customers expectations is being able to get the views of Q WHAT DOES THE GROUP WANT TO BE KNOWN FOR?
our employees who are in the front-line of our operations.
They have first hand experience of what our customers A Our business values are all about: being easy and simple: think about the quality of our services.
We regularly seek our being open and honest: taking the lead and working together.
employees views to identify those areas where we feel we These are the foundations for our reputation as a quality could do better.
business and thats something were committed to maintaining and improving.
Q HOW DOES THE GROUP DIFFER FROM ITS PEERS?
We aim to deliver for all our stakeholders, especially our A At National Express Group we have strong local management passengers.
We want to be open and honest and not let teams running our businesses.
Local decisions are taken by people down.
We want to be ahead of the game in terms local managers to ensure local delivery.
Operational of innovation introducing new concepts such as the easyperformance is a priority and during this year we made great access Levante coach and implementing new technology progress, particularly in our Trains division, as is shown by the such as mobile ticketing machines plus a variety of other industry performance and customer satisfaction figures.
We initiatives that help our customers when they travel with us.
constantly think of ways to work smarter.
Our re-engineering process in North America is an illustration of this.
We always We want to earn the reputation for being good to do look at new initiatives to drive our business forward business with, whether as a partner, supplier or customer.
whether its looking at new ways to do things such as new For shareholders, we want to be known for providing value, pools of recruitment eg Polish drivers, or new technology for running a dynamic business efficiently and for achieving such as mobile ticketing.
There is always a better way to solid and sustainable growth.
operate and we are always looking for new ideas.
We aim to be an employer of choice and we need to ensure Q HOW HAVE YOU GROWN THE BUSINESS?
that we do our best to attract and retain top quality people.
A We have seen a steady increase in patronage throughout the year.
We are seeing more and more customers wanting niche Q HOW DOES THE GROUP INTEND TO GET FROM WHERE products, such as our Premier commuter bus service in IT IS TO WHERE IT WANTS TO BE?
At the same time, we have introduced a number A We will continue to focus on giving customers more and of fares initiatives such as airline-type fares on Midland better reasons to travel with us more often.
We will also Mainline that are designed to appeal to a broader range of continue to test new markets where we can add value to customer and encourage off-peak travel.
We always aim to existing businesses and grow them.
provide our customers with the best value for money fares, As always, our employees will play a vital in fact THE most although we have been hit by the increased cost of fuel vital role in this process.
This is a people business and our during the year.
front-line employees such as bus and coach drivers and the on-train teams are the face, the eyes and the ears of our business.
11 Chief Executives Report continued We greatly value the information that our annual employee Q WHERE WILL THE GROUP BE IN FIVE YEARS TIME?
survey brings to the business and we use it to make sure that A On a personal level, I have announced my intention to retire we meet customer and employee needs.
In our experience, this year, after twelve years with the Group, with ten years as when our employees are happy, our customers are happy.
It has been both a challenging and rewarding experience and I am indebted to my colleagues for their Training and development remain central to our business.
We support over the years.
have a good track record of investing in our people and this will continue in 2006, making full use of our new customer In five years time I think we will have a bigger and better service academies in Birmingham, Derby and London which National Express Group.
We will continue to grow in UK provide centres of excellence where skills can be transferred buses and coaches, with a larger presence in London.
We are also introducing new training train portfolio will be balanced and deliver quality earnings.
initiatives including a new leadership development programme.
We are aiming to be a leading market player in North America and to have a growing business in Spain.
In addition Q WHAT ARE THE KEY RISKS FOR THE GROUP?
we will seek other opportunities in new markets where our A We aim to be transparent with all our stakeholders.
core skills can be exploited.
Our Annual Report and Corporate Responsibility Report I genuinely believe that we have achieved much this year, highlight the key issues for the Group.
positioning the Group well for the future.
In common with all companies in the transport sector, we face the risk of disruption to our business through circumstances beyond our control.
Of those risks that are directly related to our business, the greatest is that we cease to offer the products that our customers want.
No customers means no revenue, profit or, ultimately, no business.
We regularly carry out customer satisfaction surveys to make sure we understand their changing expectations.
We also need to ensure that we have the right people in place to build our business, therefore we are investing in recruiting and retaining high quality people.
Q WHAT ARE THE CHALLENGES FOR THE YEAR AHEAD?
A I believe the key challenges for 2006 are: Developing the customer base across our businesses and having a better understanding of our customers needs.
Seeking to grow the business, particularly in the off-peak leisure market.
Ensuring that Alsa is effectively integrated into the business.
Transferring best practice between both our coach operations.
Aiming to keep ahead of our rivals and to anticipate changes in customer demand.
And finally, continuing to manage our cost base.
From a strategic point of view, we will continue to focus on growing the business, both organically and also by acquisition.
We remain open to opportunities, wherever and whenever they are presented.
We have to seize opportunities when they arise, as we did with Alsa.
I believe we are well placed to achieve these goals.
