QA with the Chief Executive: Pat ODriscoll answers questions on the changes and progress made in Northern Foods over the last 12 months Q.
Can you outline the priorities for GET FIT?
How will we know if it is working?
Our priorities in the short term are to improve performance A.
The signs of success are already visible in the many changes in the Chilled division with a simpler and leaner divisional structure, and innovations that are emerging.
Tracking that progress is a key to lower overhead costs and to capture category and customer component of the GET FIT programme and we have developed opportunities.
We will also continue to leverage scale through management information tools which will help us identify successes central procurement and continuous improvement in manufacturing.
and measure performance against defined metrics.
The marketplace is getting tougher.
How will you to see returns?
retain the savings that you expect from the GET FIT A.
We are committed to a major business transformation over initiatives and will you be able to invest in growth?
We expect to see benefits coming through A.
We will achieve this by accelerating the pace of delivery for sales this year and accelerating next year as the changes gain momentum.
growth, lowering competitive costs by improving our Chilled performance, by pursuing efficiency gains and by building on our successes.
Performance has been in decline for a number continuing to invest in growth and in our customer proposition.
of years is the turnaround achievable?
Yes it is, and the increasingly tough trading conditions mean Q.
Do you have the right management team we have to accelerate the pace of our GET FIT programme delivery.
In our strategic business review we clearly identified our strengths and A. I am very pleased with the calibre of our restructured management weaknesses and now our energy is totally focused on implementing team.
We have a very strong group board and a dynamic operating board the strategy for performance and improvement.
which combines the right mix of business expertise and functional excellence.
I am confident in the new management teams ability to address the issues we face and achieve our business ambition at the pace our shareholders require.
12 Q&A with the Chief Executive Northern Foods plc Q.
How are you addressing the impact of business change on your customers?
Our mission is to be the supplier of choice to UK and Irish retailers in added value convenience foods and the integration to a major business of our business underpins the delivery of that mission.
By working as One Northern, the company has been able to streamline its transformation commercial approach and manage key customer relationships more effectively.
That in turn has let us identify new opportunities to innovate and add value.
We are working hard to communicate the over three years rationale for changes and the positive responses we have received indicate that we are on the right track.
During this period of business transformation we need to ensure that our high reputation for quality Q.
Northern has historically grown through and delivery is not affected and we are keeping a careful eye on this.
What are your plans in this area for the future?
What are your criteria for category focus A.
We took the strategic decision to sell a number of businesses and how will success be achieved?
where we did not have the scale to compete or where the business A.
Our strategic business review highlighted consumer demands for was not focused on our key categories.
The approach has freed choice and convenience.
Within our chosen categories we can provide us up to focus with absolute clarity on transforming our current convenient, added value meals, snacks and treats.
However, we do recognise that a consolidating sector categories where we have strong market positions, in either private such as ours offers opportunities for acquisition.
We are therefore label or brands, and we can use our manufacturing scale to achieve receptive to acquisitions which would help us build or maintain competitive costs.
We are clear on the range of category and customer market leadership in categories that are important to us.
We will opportunities we will target.
consider each opportunity as it arises on the criteria of whether it enhances shareholder value.
How are you reflecting the changing eating trends of consumers?
How are you adding skills to Northern Foods A.
Three dominant trends drive todays consumer eating habits: people to cope with the scale and pace of change convenience: a desire for indulgence, taste and quality: and the it is facing?
fulfilment of healthy eating goals.
The company is aligning people behind our ambition by asking of meals, snacks and treats provides choices in all three areas.
them to think and act in different ways to challenge ideas, identify We need to excel in what we do and will succeed by monitoring opportunities and accept that change is a constant.
There is a clear changing food trends, capturing consumer feedback and working responsibility on the management team to lead people through this closely with our customers to adapt our ranges and develop new journey and provide them with the tools and coaching they need products which support emerging trends.
The GET FIT programme includes a number of specific initiatives to support this need.
Examples include the creation of Q.
Can you describe One Northern is it a brand?
project working groups at site level to drive continuous improvement, A.
One Northern is the term we use to describe our newly the roll-out of a leadership development programme and the integrated approach to running our business.
It describes how introduction of performance-related remuneration.
IT solutions are we can address the market more powerfully as a single business, also being harnessed to support change, providing access to online how we can capitalise on our scale and knowledge by centralising learning materials and best practice case studies.
Everyone has key activities and functions, and how we can perform at pace by potential.
It is my responsibility to ensure it can flourish.
planning as a single team and focusing our people on shared goals.
Over time we expect former operating company names to be replaced Q.
Are there more major organisational with Northern Foods branding to reflect this management shift.
An organisation that does not continually ask How can we improve?
is an organisation that will not lead the market.
As we transform Northern Foods we will aggressively pursue the optimum operating model and the best people in the market.
Northern Foods plc Q&A with the Chief Executive 13
