Chief Executives Review The Group is delivering sustained growth and our long-term structure is now established.
With strong recurring revenues from the high quality and growing customer list, an exceptionally high client retention rate, and stable IT market conditions, the Group remains well positioned to continue to deliver shareholder value Overview Last year we had over 100 new client wins, bringing our total This year has seen a further major step in the transformation of number of clients to more than 7,700.
Northgates Human Northgate Information Solutions, to become the UKs leading Resources division signed more than 70 new name clients, Public supplier of specialist software and IT services for the human Services signed 25 new applications clients and Managed resource and public services markets.
Northgate has successfully Services signed 21 new clients.
Significant contract wins include completed our integration of Rebus HR, CIM Systems and MVM payroll outsourcing contracts with Sainsburys, the Daily Mail Holdings.
Additionally, the benefits of the Sx3 acquisition are and General Trust and the British Museum.
being realised in line with the Groups expectations.
Northgate is successful because we deliver high standards of Sx3 is a leading provider of software and managed services to service and product quality, which is reflected in our the UK local government and other markets.
It provides an exceptionally high levels of customer retention.
Group strategy excellent opportunity for Northgate to strengthen our position remains focused on enhancing and exploiting leadership of our as a consolidator in the UK local government market by chosen markets.
The increased scale of the business brings the acquiring a leader in local authority housing and revenues and Group greater visibility and stability, as well as offering increased benefits applications.
opportunities to exploit both operational synergies and crossselling opportunities.
As well as strengthening our public services division and enhancing our opportunities for cross-selling, Sx3 has allowed us We continue to see Northgate competing for, and winning, far to fashion our managed service activities into a third leg of the broader contracts and we have become the strategic partner of business.
In turn, this opens up new opportunities in the choice for many customers.
The enlarged suite of software education and utilities markets.
Education in particular is a real products brings greater opportunities for delivering value to growth opportunity for the Group over the next few years and customers and strengthening our relationship with them.
therefore we are very excited about the work we are doing with the Academy of St. Francis Assisi, Liverpool.
As a result, our order book was 370.3 million 2004: 185.8 million, of which 157.4 million falls in the year to April 2006.
Each of our 3 divisions Northgate HR, Northgate Public Further revenues from framework agreements and contract Services and Northgate Managed Services has substantial scale renewals support our strong recurring revenue base.
in the markets in which they operate and is profitable and cash generative on an adjusted basis.
They are all well positioned to benefit from increasing customer demand and cross-selling.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 5 FOCUS focus NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 6 Chief Executives Review continued Public services and the utilities are constantly under pressure to Public Services deliver value for money.
All too often organisations find Northgates Public Services division has shown significant themselves distracted by matters of internal administration growth during the year, with revenues up from 60.0 million to such as information technology.
These can take them away from 76.6 million.
This includes a 15.8% increase in turnover from their key priority and core business of providing efficient and continuing activities.
Operating profit from continuing effective services to citizens.
Northgate is committed to operations before exceptional items and amortisation of improving public services through the innovative use of goodwill was 7.5 million 2004: 6.6 million.
The order book grew by 183% from 90.3 million to 255.5 The combined strength, knowledge and experience of Northgate million.
There were 25 new name wins in applications.
and Sx3 will help the Group increasingly move away from being a simple technology supplier to becoming a valued consultant The acquisition of Sx3 provides local authorities and utilities and partner in ensuring that the technology delivers its full with a powerful new UK partner in delivering software solutions.
This is very much in line with the type of Already the leading provider in the development of applications working relationships envisaged by the Gershon review of local specifically designed to improve community well-being and government efficiency, set up by Gordon Brown to improve the promote community justice, Northgate is poised to develop and productivity of public services.
grow our solutions to meet customers growing needs for efficiency and effectiveness.
With the addition of Sx3, Northgate One example of this is Organisational Re-engineering OR has ground-breaking applications in citizen-relationship a concept designed by Northgate, working in a unique public management, revenues and benefits systems and housing private partnership with West Lancashire District Council management systems, which are used by government, criminal which is rapidly delivering improved services to meet citizens justice and public safety organisations and utilities on a local, demands at the same time as meeting government targets for regional and national level.
Northgate works with 80 per cent public services efficiency.
OR is a bespoke model designed for of all UK local authorities, and all its police forces.
It moves beyond the traditional process of business re-engineering and is aimed at changing for the best Northgate is helping local authorities to transform the delivery and moving beyond technology.
An integral element of the new of public services with Front Office, our market-leading and model is to engage employees in the process and to transfer award winning citizen relationship management system.
Front knowledge in-house via an action learning approach.
Office continued to be a significant growth driver, with 14 new clients won during the year, bringing the total number of Front The Group expects these types of consultancy revenues to grow Office customers to 51 2004: 37.
Northgate has signed two significantly in the medium-term.
further Front Office clients since 30 April 2005 and now provides Front Office solutions to 53 local authorities across the UK.
We Northgate is also delivering public services value through our are recognised as the leader in this market.
The outlook for Front Notice Enforcement Systems and National Management Office is good.
Our Compass product for geographic information management won a new five-year Our new Assert product, which addresses the market need for national contract with the UKs fifty-two police forces.
In simplified benefits assessment, is also progressing well.
Contract addition to the direct benefits, this product also provides us with wins include Ynys Mon, Liberata Redcar and Cleveland and the a good opportunity to cross-sell with Front Office applications.
This product is making the shift from a development product to full production, and we are seeing The blue 8 and Hays CSG businesses continue to enhance significant interest from both direct end user customers and Northgates leadership position in the criminal justice and public other outsourcing providers.
The outlook for Assert is good, safety markets.
There were 11 new name wins in criminal justice enhanced by the prospect of being able to cross-sell into the Sx3 and public safety including Northgates Notice Enforcement customer base.
System fines for Tayside Police.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 7 Chief Executives Review continued Northgate continues to supply the software and services in Solutions can be delivered in-house, via an application service support of the Penalty Notice for Disorder scheme for the Home provision or outsourced, providing forward thinking and stateOffice.
This is a national scheme, which is already used by all the of-the-art business management tools.
With a comprehensive police forces in England and Wales and is currently being trialled suite of software solutions combined with unparalleled levels of in Scotland.
expertise, Northgate HR can simplify key business tasks and deliver value added benefits to customers, enabling them to In May, Northgate launched our new web-based public access improve HR management and cut costs.
software, which aims to give the public secure access to evidence on alleged speeding offences.
The system, designed to New business wins for this division include the Daily Mail and be used by police forces across the UK, offers the public the General Trust, which selected Northgate HR to provide its opportunity to access evidence relating to alleged speeding pensions administration software.
Northgate HR was also offences for which penalty notices have been issued.
By simply selected to provide the British Museum with a bureau payroll logging on to a secure on-line system, individuals can check all service for its 1,000 London-based employees.
We have also the evidence related to their alleged offence, including recently signed contracts with Hasbro, Ingersoll Rand and photographs, speed, site details and the calibration certificates Ladbrokes in Ireland.
Northgate recently announced a contract with Sainsbury's for Northgates online penalty notice systems are already helping to its full bureau payroll service.
This new contract will see improve efficiency and effectiveness.
Early indications are Northgate HR providing payroll to the 147,500 staff working in showing a radical reduction in queries from the public, reducing 727 Sainsbury's stores across the UK.
The signing follows an the administrative burden on back-office staff and ensuring a existing deal, signed in 2003, to provide payroll services for more efficient service for citizens.
Sainsburys pensioners and staff on the companys head office contracts and more than doubles the companys initial Human Resources investment in Northgate HR.
The full bureau payroll service Northgates Human Resources division reported revenues up allows us to provide Sainsburys with a fully functioning payroll from 51.5 million to 104.2 million.
This represents a 102.3% system whilst all the technical aspects are outsourced to our increase in turnover from continuing activities.
Operating profit from continuing operations before exceptional Northgate HR's ResourceLink is a highly scalable, flexible and items and amortisation of goodwill was 25.7 million 2004: web-enabled integrated suite of HR, payroll and pension 6.7 million.
This past year has seen the first international, multilingual and multi-jurisdictional developments of ResourceLink, The Northgate HR order book grew by 20.4%, from 83.9 million making it increasingly attractive for international customers.
There were over 70 new name wins in are increasingly confident that this product will be a major driver software applications and payroll and HR outsourcing.
HR is of international revenue.
clearly benefiting from the trend for customers to agree longer contracts and demand for a wider range of services.
Our SME small medium enterprise focused business, Moorepay, had a good year with improvements in both customer win Northgate HR is the largest HR and payroll application supplier rates and customer retention - a constant issue in this market.
in the UK and the third largest HR and software application Overall, our SME business won 1,090 new payrolls in the year.
We have the most comprehensive range of The outlook is positive as the regulatory demands on SMEs software and service offerings of any HR-focused vendor and are continue to increase.
able to address the needs of companies of all sizes.
Customers range from businesses with a handful of employees through to supermarket chain Tesco, the UKs largest private sector employer with more than 270,000 staff.
NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 8 Chief Executives Review continued Managed Services Also, we are positioned well to build on the considerable Going forward, Northgates Managed Services division includes expertise that we have in the utilities market.
The depth of the former Corporate Services division, parts of the Sx3 experience and capability that we have acquired in this market business and some managed services that were previously through Sx3 is considerable, and combines well with the reported in Public Services.
software capabilities in the utilities market that we acquired with MVM Holdings.
There are significant opportunities in Revenue for 2004 5 was 25.6 million 2004: 25.8 million.
The Ireland and Great Britain that we are well set to exploit.
focus for our Corporate Services activity for the past year has The deregulation of the electricity and water supply industries in been on improving our operational performance and on Ireland, along with the continued drive for efficiencies in the increasing existing customer satisfaction.
This has been done British utility sector gives us the chance to leverage our successfully, with a continued reduction in costs and improved comprehensive portfolio of software and managed services and profitability, with operating profit before exceptional items and cross-sell more products and services.
amortisation of goodwill growing by 100.0% to 2.8 million 2004: 1.4 million.
The order book grew by 19.0% from 11.6 Our specialist software development business had another solid million to 13.8 million.
year and continues to generate profit and cash for the Group.
Our Corporate Services business throughout the year was The Future profitable and cash generative.
It also continues to add value to Government policies on social exclusion, policing and education, the other Northgate divisions through its outsourcing expertise, all aimed at improving public services, provide considerable providing the managed service and hosting platforms that many opportunities to enhance the organic growth of the business.
Used of our applications customers are choosing.
correctly, new technology can help to create a virtuous circle of improvement: ensuring that the needs of communities are fully The Sx3 acquisition will provide Northgate with scale and integrated into service development and delivery.
Customer enhanced growth prospects, bringing us market-leading service standards need to be effectively monitored.
The effective positions in 3 discrete markets.
The largest of these is local use of technology can support this process and Northgate is government where we enjoy significant relationships with a committed to maintaining our leading position in this area.
number of clients, both directly and as sub-contractors.
This market continues to offer good opportunities for growth as In line with our stated strategy, Northgate has built marketcustomers seek to deliver some of the benefits identified in the leading positions in our chosen markets.
One of these strategies Gershon report on public sector efficiency.
We aim to leverage is to build on our human resource products internationally.
This our existing relationships to help drive our outsourcing business is progressing well and we have already developed software for and grow our Managed Services revenue.
We have a pipeline of customers requiring this functionality, and have established the start of a network of A key driver for this division is set to be the education market, international distributors and support partners.
We expect where the Building Schools for the Future programme offers further opportunities to arise as the year progresses.
We have been appointed preferred supplier for the Academy of St Francis Assisi, Liverpool, The Group is delivering sustained growth and our long-term and are currently bidding in Bristol and other areas.
Fourteen structure is now established.
With strong recurring revenues local education authorities have been asked to take part in the from the high quality and growing customer list, an Governments first wave of the Building Schools for the Future exceptionally high client retention rate, and stable IT market programme from 2005 6.
An estimated 200 schools across the conditions, the Group remains well positioned to continue to country will benefit from a share of 2.1 billion capital deliver shareholder value.
investment in the first wave of the programme with building due to commence in 2006 7.
In current proposals, we are seeing approximately 20% of the budget being allocated to IT.
Chris Stone Chief Executive 27 June 2005 NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 9 B ALANCE balance NORTHGATE INFORMATION SOLUTIONS PLC 10
