Group Chief Executives review During the year, we secured a number of large and strategically important projects, extended the scope and duration of contracts with some of our core customers and, in October, completed Petrofacs Initial Public Offering IPO on the London Stock Exchange.
By working in partnership with the owners of oil & gas reserves and infrastructure, providing innovative and cost-efficient project development, engineering, construction and facilities operation, maintenance and training services, we aim to create value across all aspects of an assets development.
I am pleased to be able to report a strong set of financial results for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Group revenue increased by 56.1% to US$1,485.5 million 2004: US$951.5 million reflecting significant growth in our Engineering & Construction and Operations Services divisions.
EBITDA increased by 20.3% to US$115.6 million 2004: US$96.1 million.
Our Engineering & Construction division accounted for 51.4% 2004: 43.9% of group EBITDA, Operations Services 22.2% 2004: 22.2% and Resources 26.4% 2004: 1 33.9%.
Net profit attributable to Petrofac Limited shareholders on the groups continuing business activities increased by 63.6% to US$75.4 million 2004: US$46.1 million.
2005 was an exciting and eventful year for Petrofac and one in which considerable progress was made At the close of 2005, the combined backlog of the Engineering & Construction and Operations Services divisions was approximately towards our goal of becoming the leading facilities US$3,244 million 2004: US$1,740 million, representing a year-onsolutions provider to the oil & gas industry.
We have sought to ensure that our Engineering & Construction business is positioned where there are significant medium and longterm programmes for investment expenditure, in particular the Middle East, the Former Soviet Union and Africa.
The scale of the hydrocarbon resources in these areas is substantial and there is considerable commitment on the part of both the international and national oil companies to develop these assets.
Through positioning at an early stage in these developments and executing to the highest standard, there are good prospects for sustained growth and, with the operational expenditure that should follow, the opportunity to provide operations management and support and training services.
Our Operations Services business has performed well this year with considerable activity in its core market of the UK Continental Shelf UKCS.
Our longstanding presence in the UK has demonstrated our operations services and training capability in a very discerning and demanding market.
We have successfully expanded into Kuwait, Iran and Sudan, and look forward to continuing this growth by leveraging the international network of our Engineering & Construction and Resources divisions.
1 Excluding consolidation and elimination adjustments.
6 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005 A key area of focus across much of our business is the need Our Engineering & Construction division finished 2005 with backlog to increase the use of local resources and improve the technical skills of approximately US$2.1 billion, of which approximately US$1 billion of national workforces, thereby ensuring our clients achieve their local was awarded as recently as December 2005.
With good progress content goals.
In this regard, Petrofac has two key differentiators we having been made on those contracts that were in an early phase of have considerable experience of working with the leading local execution during much of 2005 and on contracts that are entering subcontractors in our core markets and we have a leading presence their final stages, in the absence of unforeseen circumstances and and focus on providing health, safety and operational training subject to the scale and timing of further contract awards, the services.
With a diverse mix of nationalities and cultures within our directors expect to see some positive progression in profit margins in own business, we are well placed to deliver international competence this division during the year ahead.
to our clients with local capability.
Our Operations Services division secured a number of significant Our Resources business made a strong contribution to the financial contract renewals, extensions and wins during 2005 and revenue performance of the group and its existing investments and projects increased significantly as a result.
At 31 December 2005, the backlog under development continued to meet our expectations.
While we for the division was approximately US$1.1 billion with a further continue to see competition for asset investments, we are confident US$0.3 billion in new awards which, at that time, remained subject to that our strong service platform will continue to provide attractive and final contract.
Revenue for the current year should benefit from a full differentiated investment opportunities where, alongside our partners, years impact from the new business secured during 2005.
The we are able to leverage our engineering and operational skills and directors expect that, in the absence of unforeseen circumstances, unlock an enhanced return.
the divisions profit margins will be maintained in the year ahead.
Overall, Petrofac has had another very successful year.
In The Ohanet investment continued to dominate the financial acknowledging these achievements, I would like to extend my thanks contribution from our Resources divisions investment portfolio and is to all our employees for their dedication, hard work and commitment.
expected to produce relatively stable revenues and cash flows We enter the current year with a record backlog and I am confident throughout the year.
We expect our investment in the Cendor field to that our strategy will deliver sustainable growth in value in 2006 and commence production in late 2006, which is anticipated to result in beyond.
increased revenues and profitability for the division in accordance with the terms of the Cendor production sharing contract.
Outlook After an extended period of relative under-investment by the oil & gas We are well placed to address the execution challenges and resource industry and with increasing demand for energy and rising rates of constraints that accompany a buoyant market and, with the strength depletion of existing production, we believe the capital investment, and breadth of our service offering and strategic positioning, to both brownfield and greenfield, necessary to enable the industry to capitalise on the many opportunities it offers.
Against this backdrop, build the required capacity is substantial and will continue over a and with the significant increase in backlog, we are well positioned for number of years.
continued growth during the current year and beyond.
Each of our three divisions achieved a strong financial performance in 2005 and, on entering 2006 with record backlog, the group is well positioned to deliver further growth.
Ayman Asfari Group Chief Executive 56% 64% Revenue Net profit 20% 86% EBITDA Backlog Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 7 Kuwait Oil Company KOC In early 2005, Petrofac secured two important contracts in Kuwait enabling the group to play an increasingly significant role in the countrys plans to upgrade its oil production and export facilities.
The contract awards by KOC involve both The two contracts build on a relationship the Engineering & Construction and that Petrofac has had with KOC since Operations Services divisions.
Engineering & Constructions Engineering & Construction contract upgrade contract involves increasing involves upgrade work to a number of production capacity and safety KOCs facilities including seven oilimprovements which are critical to KOCs gathering stations and two gas booster future operations.
The Operations Services division Operations Services will provide integrated is providing full maintenance services for oil maintenance management and full production facilities in the North and West maintenance services with the objective of of Kuwait.
This is the first contract of its improving equipment availability by type in Kuwait.
providing cost effective maintenance and associated technical support.
Demonstrating strategy in action Petrofacs success in securing business in In addition, Petrofacs commitment to Kuwait reflects its focus on regions with ensuring that 25% of the maintenance major hydrocarbon reserves where contract workforce will be comprised of significant capital and operational Kuwaiti nationals by 2010 underscores the expenditures are expected as Kuwait is groups ability to assist customers in forecasting to spend more than achieving their local content goals.
US$40 billion over the next few years to upgrade and modernise its oil facilities.
8 Petrofac Annual report and accounts 2005 800m 5,000 25% 4m US$ value of contracts awarded number of staff expected to of workforce to be Kuwaiti barrels per day of anticipated to Petrofac by KOC in 2005 work on E&C upgrade project nationals by 2010 output capacity in Kuwait by at its peak 2020 Annual report and accounts 2005 Petrofac 9
