04 Photo-Me International plc Annual Report 2005 Chief executives review p I am confident that PMI has good opportunities for sustained profitable growth.
Chief executives review Photo-Me International plc 05 Annual Report 2005 In my 2004 Chief Executives Review, I said that the year Business review to 30 April 2004 represented a turning point in PMIs Continental Europe, which includes the great majority of history.
The Boards financial objectives had been the Manufacturing turnover, contributed 60% 2004: exceeded in an outstanding year and beyond its initial 59% of Group turnover and, again, substantially all of expectations.
Additionally, PMIs product platform had pre-tax profit.
put PMI in a unique position to continue to benefit from In the UK and Ireland, the result has been depressed by a the digital revolution.
small reduction in profits from operating divisions, by an Happily, in the year to 30 April 2005, my confidence was increase in Head Office overheads, and by a decrease in vindicated.
The financial upwards momentum has been both profit on foreign exchange and other income.
maintained, with increases in adjusted pre-tax profit and The improved profitability in Asia which is primarily earnings per share of over 50% to figures which are a Japan mainly resulted from a reduction in depreciation, record by a wide margin and ahead of market old technology photobooths having been fully expectations.
Vending produced a solid performance, depreciated by 30 April 2004. increasing its contribution to profit, further upgrading its operating equipment, and extending its service offer.
As the table below indicates, the 7.3% increase in Group Manufacturing had an excellent year, in particular the turnover was the net of a small decrease in Vending and minilab business in its first full year of manufacture by a a 24.8% increase in Manufacturing.
Vending accounted sub-contractor in Poland, and also the Imaging Solutions for 58% 2004: 64% of Group turnover.
wholesale lab business in Switzerland.
Although the Board believes that detailed disclosure of Perhaps of considerable relevance for the future of the results of the individual activities could be prejudicial Vending was the encouraging start achieved by PMIs to the Groups commercial interests, certain trends are Digital Media Kiosks, in particular in France.
to the year-end, production was transferred to a subcontractor in China, thereby reducing costs significantly.
Vending The volume roll-out of Chinese manufactured Digital The Vending business comprises the operation of Media Kiosks has recently begun.
photobooths and other vending equipment.
During the year, the total number of Vending sites worldwide PMI has a unique Vending network and a unique increased by approximately 2,000 to 28,000, including Manufacturing product range which will be some 20,000 photobooths.
PMI is a global company, supplemented in the next year or so by a new generation operating in 20 countries, with three major Vending of digital minilab.
PMIs digital imaging market is territories: France, the UK and Ireland, and Japan in all substantial, fast growing and changing to PMIs of which it continues to enjoy a leading market position.
I am therefore confident that PMI has good opportunities for sustained profitable growth.
Globally, the turnover of the Vending Division, whose photobooth operations are mature, decreased by 2.4%.
Its contribution to profits, however, improved and it again generated substantial cashflow.
Geographical analysis of turnover and profit Turnover Pre-tax profit 2005 2004 Variance 2005 2004 Year to 30 April m m %m m Continental Europe 141.5 130.8 8.2 30.6 17.3 UK & Republic of Ireland 60.9 54.0 12.6 0.3 2.7 Asia and Australia 30.8 31.2 1.4 3.0 1.1 USA 2.8 3.9 29.1 0.3 236.0 219.9 7.3 33.9 20.8 before exceptional items Divisional analysis of turnover 2005 2004 Variance Year to 30 April m m % Vending 138.0 141.4 2.4 Manufacturing 98.0 78.5 24.8 236.0 219.9 7.3 Chief executives review 06 Photo-Me International plc Annual Report 2005 Geographical Analysis Manufacturing Vending turnover in France with 9,300 sites, including Manufacturing turnover primarily derives from the 5,900 photobooths, of which 98% are digital increased sale to third parties of photo-processing equipment by 1%.
The increase in the number of sites, from 8,500 manufactured by PMI or, increasingly, by sub-contractors last year, reflects the siting of Digital Media Kiosks.
located in low cost territories.
PMI has a unique and Demand for ID photographs in France will be boosted by comprehensive range covering all market segments, the planned introduction of photo-identity on personal from wholesale labs, via professional and retail labs, to National Health cards, resulting in 48 million replacement end-consumer vending kiosks.
In output terms, cards from calendar 2006. processing labs range from 250 to 20,000 prints per hour.
This Division increased its turnover by 24.8% in the full Vending turnover in the UK and Ireland with 9,300 sites, year: in the second half, the increase was 40.5%.
including 5,600 photobooths, of which 78% are digital Manufacturing contributed the bulk of the Group profit was flat.
The increase of 1,000 sites over the year mainly and its increase.
reflects expansion in the area of kiddie rides.
Wholesale Labs Vending turnover in Japan with 4,700 sites, including Imaging Solutions wholesale lab business was acquired 4,600 photobooths decreased by 5% despite a 12% in April 2003 and comfortably repaid its purchase price increase in the number of machines and an increase in in the first year of ownership.
Based near Zurich in the proportion of digital machines from 72% to 84%.
Switzerland, Imaging Solutions is involved in the Despite the reduction in turnover, profits in Japan have development, manufacture, sale and technical support increased.
During the year, the maintenance workforce of equipment and systems for high volume photowas reduced by one-third, reducing annual costs by finishing laboratories up to 20,000 prints per hour.
The Japanese Government announced during the year that ID photographs will play an integral part in the In the year, Imaging Solutions increased its turnover by new generation of passports to be introduced in March 16.9% to 15.9m and made another useful profit.
These two developments are expected to improve increased contribution is anticipated in the current year.
Professional Labs A substantial majority of Manufacturing turnover is represented by sales of the DKS 15xx range of minilabs.
Digital Media Kiosks Their success reflects their quality, as evidenced by the Following successful trials, mainly in Continental Europe, award of the DIMA minilab prize at the Photo Marketing the roll-out of Digital Media Kiosks commenced in May Association PMA Convention and Trade Show in 2004.
Digital Media Kiosks are capable of printing from Orlando, Florida in February 2005, uniquely for a third both digital cameras and digital camera phones.
These minilabs have an output of 800 year end, 3,000 had been manufactured: 1,600 had been to 1,500 prints an hour.
sold and 1,400 were operated by PMI, of which 1,000 in France.
To date, results have been encouraging.
In the year, unit sales of minilabs increased by 40%.
A significant proportion of the growth was in relation to The manufacture in China of thermal i. e. dry process contracts signed in September 2004 and November 2004 Digital Media Kiosks commenced in May 2005 and by with Tesco, the UKs largest retailer, and Klick, the UKs 31 December 2005 it is planned that 5,000 of these will largest independent photo-processing retailer, be in operation or sold.
The move of production to China respectively.
Margins benefited from the full year effect reduces the cost of Digital Media Kiosks significantly of the move of production to PMIs sub-contractor in whilst improving a number of features.
Trialling of PMIs minilabs in North America continues satisfactorily.
Chief executives review Photo-Me International plc 07 Annual Report 2005 Retail Labs PMI is the only manufacturer globally to offer a PMIs retail lab is the DKS 900, the worlds first thermal comprehensive digital range, covering the entire digital minilab, capable of printing from 250 to 1,000 spectrum of client needs with an outstanding and prints per hour.
Its compactness, reliability, ease of use recognised quality at realistic pricing points, for both and price make it particularly suited for offering a digital customers and the Group: printing capability in a small retail environment.
PMI has only two significant competitors to its minilab The first deliveries of the DKS 900 were made in manufacturing business and only one competitor, August 2004.
An increased rate of sale is expected in currently in receivership, for its wholesale lab the current year.
manufacturing business: Consumer Labs PMI has two products of particular potential: the Digital Digital Media Kiosks provide vending machine Media Kiosk, whose volume roll-out of lower cost, convenience for digital camera and camera-phone Chinese-manufactured models has recently commenced, customers.
and the next generation of DKS minilab, which is expected to be available in the middle of calendar 2006: Manufacture of Digital Media Kiosks in Grenoble, France and ceased in April 2005 and commenced at a sub-contractor in Shanghai, China in May 2005.
PMI, with its long track record of technical innovation, has the capability to develop further market-leading The digital imaging market products.
PMI believes that it enjoys a strong position in a substantial and fast growing market which is developing Strategic objectives to its advantage: PMI has reached a stepping-stone: financially, with its net cash balance and strong cash generation, and The installed base of digital cameras is expected shortly commercially, with its extensive Vending network, to exceed that of analogue equipment: principally imaging-based, and proven and The installed base of camera phones is rising fast, comprehensive digital imaging manufacturing range.
as is the average of the megapixels offered, improving PMI intends to use its financial strength to grow the quality of photographs taken: organically and through acquisitions.
Home printing is fast losing market share, for reasons In Vending, PMI intends to leverage its infrastructure and mainly of cost, quality and convenience: and extend its product range beyond photobooths, increasing Digital photographers are printing an increasing its relevance to key site owners.
proportion of the photographs that they take.
In Manufacturing, PMI intends to strengthen its footprint PMI is positioned optimally to exploit these trends: and commercial network with a view to obtaining a substantial and rewarding share of the world market for PMI benefits from a unique vending infrastructure digital photo-processing equipment.
of 28,000 sited machines worldwide, with related arrangements for maintenance and cash collection.
This network greatly facilitates the roll-out of Digital Media Kiosks: Serge Crasnianski Chief Executive Officer Chief executives review 08 Photo-Me International plc Annual Report 2005 Our thinking p PMI, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Nippon AutoThe 4,600 photobooths operated by Nippon AutoPhoto K. K. has been successfully operating in Japan for Photo throughout Japan are used year after year by over 43 years.
Throughout this period, it has been the many millions of customers who prefer our technology market leader in the coin-operated photobooth market.
and photographic quality to those of our Japanese competitors.
Nippon Auto-Photo will increase the number of photobooths it operates to more than 6,000 within the next two years.
Vending Photo-Me International plc 09 Annual Report 2005 is releasing the potential in Japan Over the last two years, Nippon Auto-Photo has been assembling its new ND30 and ND50 photobooths in Japan, making good use of PMIs technology and manufacturing expertise and taking advantage of the fact that the main components are developed and manufactured by leading Japanese companies.
The ND30 and ND50 photobooths have a printing speed of 19 seconds the fastest on the market and offer four different sizes of ID photographs, an exciting range of fun photographs and, in the near future, printing from digital cameras and camera phones.
Vending 10 Photo-Me International plc Annual Report 2005 Our UK aim p PMI, with its ever-evolving and ever-expanding range of equipment, is able to meet the most demanding needs.
In the UK, PMI is often viewed as a one-stop solution for retailers vending product requirements.
Our long term experience of working with our site-owners, our nationwide coverage and our advanced communications and service support systems, combine to ensure that our equipment operates at maximum efficiency.
Vending Photo-Me International plc 11 Annual Report 2005 is to broaden our position in the marketplace Building on our position as the number one operator of photobooths, PMIs intentions are to also establish itself as the market leader in the operation of both digital photo printing kiosks and childrens rides.
Vending 12 Photo-Me International plc Annual Report 2005 Our digital technology p Offering the only stand-alone digital media kiosk vending equipment, PMI is well positioned to consolidate its position in the rapidly growing digital photo-printing market.
1,400 Digital Media Kiosks were operated by the Group by April 2005.
1,000 of these are located in France and have generated encouraging revenues.
Vending Photo-Me International plc 13 Annual Report 2005 is facilitating future growth The latest range of Digital Media Kiosks will be the main driver behind expansion of the Groups worldwide Vending operations.
5,000 of the second-generation Digital Media Kiosks are to be supplied for operation by the Group, or for sale, by December 2005.
Vending 14 Photo-Me International plc Annual Report 2005 Our equipment p Minilabs with digital capabilities are in demand as customers realise the quality and convenience of having their digital images printed as real photographs.
This demand has fuelled the growth in the Manufacturing division, as major supermarkets such as Tesco and large independents like Klick start to see real growth in their photographic print business after the recent years of declining film sales.
Manufacturing Photo-Me International plc 15 Annual Report 2005 is making inroads in the high street The profile of the digital camera user has also seen some The high street is not, however, just about minilabs.
changes in recent years, with the main user now being Kiosks that act as the interface between the customer the female within the family.
This market segment is more and the minilab allow the customer to select which likely to use conventional methods of printing their images to print and their size, and can even turn them photos, which in turn, has lead to an increase in digital into fun gifts such as calendars and greetings cards.
prints purchased at high street processors.
The last year has seen a 300% increase in digital photos printed at retail outlets compared to only a 37% increase in digital photos printed at home.
Manufacturing 16 Photo-Me International plc Annual Report 2005 Our R&Dp Research and Development is the cornerstone from which the Groups success has been built.
Every year, more than 7% of Manufacturing turnover is devoted to R&D.
Comprising more than 80 engineers and technicians who are at the forefront of a complex mix of technologies, including optics, digital, photographic film and chemistry, software and hardware, the R&D team has kept the Group at the cutting edge of innovation.
Manufacturing Photo-Me International plc 17 Annual Report 2005 is consistently producing results Constant development and improvement of our technology has enabled us to maintain a winning position in this competitive industry.
This achievement has been recognised by the industry, in the form of the DIMA award.
This award is presented by the Photo Marketing Association at its annual show in the USA, where all manufacturers are judged anonymously by a panel of experts: looking at print criteria such as flesh tones, saturation and image detail.
PMI is proud to be the winner of this prestigious award for the past three consecutive years a record never before achieved by a minilab manufacturer.
Manufacturing 18 Photo-Me International plc Annual Report 2005 Our progress p Our photo processing equipment ranges from our fastest minilab, which produces 1,500 prints per hour, to our wholesale labs, which work at 20,000 prints per hour, and more.
This past year has seen the introduction of our new fastPrint 20 which outputs at over 20,000 images per hour at a high resolution of 300 dpi.
Manufacturing Photo-Me International plc 19 Annual Report 2005 is keeping our machines the fastest f fastScan 20 Capable of processing more than 22,000 images per hour, the fastScan 20 is the worlds fastest digital scanner of 35mm and APS films.
f fastPrint 20 Generating high quality colour prints at speeds in excess of 20,000 per hour, the fastPrint 20 is one of the fastest digital printers in the world.
