GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Stuart Chambers Group Chief Executive 8 The results for the past year demonstrate how Pilkington STRATEGY continues to benefit from our commitment to rigorous cost Pilkington is following a clear three-stage strategy to improve reduction and improvements in operational efficiency.
the effectiveness of our existing operations, to produce net free cash from those operations to reduce debt and then to invest that cash in This has helped to overcome the effects of variable trading future profitable growth.
conditions in our markets around the world.
The results are a tribute to everyone working in the Group.
It is just as important to reduce costs now, as we approach Stage 3, as it was during the Step Change programme.
Pilkington operates in two of the most competitive markets in the world, float glass production and automotive component supply and we are well aware of the commitment and effort needed to stay ahead.
The delivered cost of float glass is fundamental to our success and we intend to take every opportunity to reduce costs further.
To consolidate our position as the lowest cost producer of float, to remain competitive in automotive and to deliver our target of a 15 per cent net cash return over the business cycle, we need to achieve continuous reduction in our cost base, in both Building Products and Automotive.
Our Project 20 internal improvement programme aims to make Pilkington 20 per cent better.
In Float and Automotive in particular, costs are a critical component of this.
We continue to take every opportunity to improve operating efficiency and to drive down our overhead costs.
With quality and safety as top priorities we aim to operate all our plants at the level of the best.
We have made organisational changes in both Building Products and Automotive to capitalise on synergies in our supply chains.
We are combating the current surge in energy and commodity costs by more effective purchasing, through hedging strategies and the introduction of energy surcharges.
The rate of our transition from Stage 2 to Stage 3 will be determined by the progress we make in building our financial strength.
Before spending cash on further growth opportunities, we first need to deliver the benefits from our investment in restructuring.
Our key financial target is to cover our interest cost at least four times by operating profit before moving into Stage 3.
We will continue to deliver strong cash flow performance, by improving supply chains to run the business effectively at ever-lower levels of stock, to improve cash collection so as to reduce working capital wherever possible and to channel most of our free cash flow after dividends into reducing our borrowings until our target levels are reached, which we aim to achieve in the coming financial year.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 Over the next year, our priorities are to maintain momentum on our cost reduction programme, started in Stage 1 of our three-stage strategy, to complete Stage 2, reducing our debt and building financial strength, and to finalise plans for the transition to Stage 3 and profitable growth.
9 Work to prepare for Stage 3 has been in progress for some time.
We Sales of Pilkington Activ continue to progress well, driven by have robust procedures in place to assess the viability and potential steady growth in product recognition.
Increasingly, this growth is profitability of all growth prospects.
We will consider organic growth supported by the expanding range of Pilkington Activ derivatives, and acquisition.
Opportunities exist for profitable investment in our offering Pilkington Activs unique self-cleaning properties in existing businesses, in new products and in emerging markets.
China, combination with solar control coatings, low-e energy-saving glass, Russia, India and the Middle East have been identified as priority laminated safety glass and noise-reduction laminates.
We can minimise the risks of operating in new Pilkington Eclipse Advantage reflective low-e glass: the worlds territories by working in joint ventures with local partners, where first pyrolytic reflective low-emissivity product, continues to enjoy this is appropriate.
great success, with strong export sales around the world.
Over Growth initiatives in anticipation of Stage 3 are already underway.
55,000 square metres of Pilkington Arctic Blue Eclipse Advantage, The  fourth float line in Brazil for our South manufactured by Pilkington North America, was used in the American joint venture is now in full production, achieving excellent construction of the striking Beijing Trade Center building in the results from the outset.
A sound base has been established in China Chinese capital.
as a platform for future growth, with the three Automotive plants The European Union Directive Energy Performance of Buildings, now fully under Pilkington management.
The float line joint venture to be incorporated into the laws of all 25 EU member states by in Russia is on target to start production in summer 2005 and work January 2006, is likely to have a significant impact on legislation has been underway to seed the market for the past two years.
related to buildings throughout Europe.
Its main provisions will require national building regulations to be reviewed at least once BUILDING PRODUCTS every five years.
It will make compulsory the incorporation of The objectives of our Building Products business are clear.
We intend energy-saving products in existing buildings undergoing major to retain our position as the technological leader in the Flat Glass refurbishment, with a system of mandatory energy certification industry, with continued investment designed to sustain a flow of of any building when constructed, sold or rented to a new tenant.
new products and new processes.
Safety and customer quality are The result will be increased demand for energy-saving products at the top of our minds in all that we do.
Pilkington has to be the such as low-emissivity and solar control glass.
lowest cost supplier to our customers.
AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS We have introduced a range of Pilkington Activ Pilkington has a substantial asset base dedicated to Automotive product derivatives, offering self-cleaning combined Products across Europe, North America, South America, Australia with solar control coatings, energy-saving glass, and China, and is well placed to meet the demands of the worlds laminated safety glass and noise-reduction laminates.
carmakers for innovative and reliable vehicle glazing systems.
Pilkington Automotive operates as an integrated global organisation, serving the Original Equipment OE and Automotive Glass Building Product Europes upstream business has achieved corporate Replacement AGR markets throughout the world.
This is the first time that all the operations Further integration has been achieved in the Pilkington Automotive plants and support sites have been covered by a single management global supply chain, bringing cost savings, optimisation of plant system and integrated certification scheme.
The achievement comes loading and improved service to both OE and AGR customers a year after the launch of a continuous improvement integrated worldwide.
Over the course of the year, we announced to customers management system, which was designed to improve and standardise in China the reorganisation of our three Chinese manufacturing manufacturing, operational and administrative processes across plants, with a unified identity and organisation.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED 10 Pilkington Automotive has been successful in winning further new of plant shutdown for cold repair at the end of each campaign.
This business in the highly competitive OE sector, with a record level of strategy has significantly reduced the capital investment required for new model introduction activity in the OE business: 70 new models float line repairs.
It has also freed up part of our engineering were launched in the past year.
Pilkington has also made major resource to focus on new build opportunities as we move into the inroads into the specialised transport business in North America, third stage of our Cash for Growth strategy.
These include proposals clinching contracts with the two largest Class A truck vehicle for emerging markets in China, Central Asia and the Middle East.
The new float line in Brazil is now in operation, following an excellent start-up, and is providing the Group with a very effective Vehicle manufacturers continue to increase the number of body addition to our Latin American manufacturing base.
The focus of the variants for each vehicle platform, with lead times being cut from engineering organisation has switched to Russia, where construction the traditional three year period to as little as 18 months.
These of the new float line in Ramenskoye, near Moscow, has progressed trends place additional pressure on component suppliers, underlining very well despite the harsh winter conditions.
The project is expected the need for right first time, every time new model introduction.
to start glass production in the second half of 2005.
Equipment has An enterprise-wide supply chain system, SABRE, covering all been shipped to Iran during the past year for the new float line for automotive processes from new model introduction through Ghazvin Glass.
Repair projects have started in Dandenong, Australia manufacture to despatch and electronic self-billing, is now well and Ottawa, USA and preparatory work has begun on further repairs established in the automotive business and the intention is to introduce in San Salvo, Italy and St Helens, UK.
it into all our Automotive plants worldwide over the coming year.
Pilkington Automotive has dedicated resources focused on modelling and simulation of processes and products.
We have used virtual Pilkington Automotive has been successful prototyping to develop the windscreen of the future.
These in winning further new business in the highly panoramic windscreens are large, with sweeping wraps at the pillars.
This has led to the expansion of the Polish plant to provide competitive Original Equipment sector, with a a dedicated windscreen line for complex windscreens to serve this record 70 new models launched in the past year.
The Automotive engineering team is completing commissioning of this important investment.
Automotive styling trends have increased demand for advanced glass INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL shapes, including windscreens wrapping around the sides of the vehicle and extending into the roof.
Interest in large-area roof Pilkington is a global leader in manufacturing excellence and glazings is growing, along with moves towards colour tints such as innovation, notably in the areas of glass melting, glass forming by blue glass to complement vehicle design.
Use of laminated sidelights the float process, on-line coating and complex shaping technology, is growing, particularly in North America, where the acoustic especially for automotive windscreens and backlights.
The Group properties of this enhanced glazing make it increasingly appealing.
invests around 29 million a year in research and development.
As a technological leader in the industry, Pilkington continues to be Pilkington owns or controls approximately 2,000 patents and patent well positioned to take advantage of all these trends.
applications, predominantly in the fields of float glass production and processing and automotive glazing, and has access under licence TECHNOLOGY AND ENGINEERING to patents held by third parties.
In addition, it has a cross licence Pilkington is a company founded on technological innovation in Flat agreement covering patents and know-how in the automotive field Glass.
Our role is to invest in sustaining this technology to create with Nippon Sheet Glass NSG.
Pilkington is also active in selective licensing of its patents and Over the year, we have successfully implemented a float line technology, in the areas of on-line coating, encapsulation of progressive repair strategy as an alternative to the traditional practice automotive glazing and rain sensors for automotive glazing.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 We operate in a good industry with positive prospects.
Pilkington is well placed to capitalise on our technology and manufacturing strengths in both Building Products and Automotive.
The long-term trends in our two business lines are positive.
11 LOOKING AHEAD Pilkington is the second largest producer of glass for buildings and vehicles in the world.
We operate in a strong industry, with glass demand growing year on year.
Although our Building Products and Automotive businesses have distinct drivers, there are many synergies, which we will continue to exploit as a single One Pilkington business.
In Building Products there are signs that demand is recovering, though in Europe surplus capacity will continue in the short-term, with weak pricing.
We expect to see considerable cost push in commodity and energy prices, but the energy surcharges operating in North America and Europe will help counter the effects.
Increasing product complexity in Automotive will drive marketing opportunities.
Global vehicle build continues to grow, particularly in Eastern Europe, China and Asia.
Pilkington is a company founded on technological innovation in Flat Glass.
Our role is to invest in sustaining this technology to create value for our shareholders.
Low costs are fundamental to success in the Flat Glass industry.
We will continue to seize every opportunity to reduce our cost base further.
Cash generation remains a priority and we have plans to improve cash performance further by streamlining our supply chains to run our business effectively at ever-lower levels of stock, reducing working capital wherever possible.
Over the next year, our priorities are to maintain momentum on our cost reduction programme, which began in Stage 1 of our three-stage strategy, to complete Stage 2, reducing our debt and building financial strength, and to finalise plans for the transition to Stage 3 and profitable growth.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005
