Chief Executives Review Strategy for growth In recent years, the focus of Premier Farnells Thus our potential depends, more than ever, business has evolved from managing just the upon the quality of our relationships with physical flow of goods from supplier to customers and suppliers.
The talent of our customer to exploiting the vast amount of people, our use of information technology and knowledge and data available to us through the our total service will determine our success.
use of sophisticated information technology.
These three areas have been the focus of our investment over recent years.
Many of our activities are increasingly integrated with those of our customers and suppliers and Talent together we are creating seamless purchase Talent provides the only basis for long-term and supply processes.
Month by month, we improve the quality and effectiveness of our operations We now offer all our customers greater through disciplined management and the ease of doing business and more reliable sharing of expertise across the Group.
For example, we enable customers to reduce significantly the expense of managing We work hard to attract and retain the very best sometimes hundreds, or even thousands, of people.
We have transformed many of our small orders placed with us.
For many, we can practices for recruitment, development and now offer a new source of value: visibility and reward.
We share four core values totally confidence in what is being purchased by reliable, resourceful, intuitive and with designers, maintenance engineers and integrity that underpin everything we do in the procurement professionals across their organisation.
Identified by our customers, they organisations.
are an enduring point of reference for all employees.
The understanding of customer needs is enabling us to offer suppliers a clearer view of Technology their markets.
We can help new products find Over several years we have invested some their target market quicker and more effectively.
40 million in leading edge information systems.
John Hirst Major suppliers now consider us an extension Customer relationship management Group Chief Executive of their marketing activities.
systems give us insight into the composition of our customer base and the needs and behaviours of individual customers and groups.
We give them better service because the information that we need is at our fingertips.
Global product database and publishing systems make the management of our portfolio of some 400,000 individual products far more effective: we can now add new products weekly.
A single system now manages publication of product details to our catalogues, flyers, CDs and to the web.
The process is fast, accurate and flexible essential attributes in the dynamic markets in which we operate.
12 Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Robust back office systems now give us Market opportunities The measures of our success complete visibility of the inventories that we Most markets in which we currently operate We aim to: carry.
They enable us to improve our service are highly fragmented.
Although one of the grow our market share consistently in order and are crucial in the effective management of leaders, we typically have small market shares to achieve the number one or two position in our inventories and logistics processes.
and considerable opportunity for market our markets share growth.
We are operate only in markets that value high progressively migrating all our eCommerce The growing insight we have into our customer service sufficiently to sustain our pricing services onto a single platform.
As the base enables us to define and target new proposition platform develops, it supports all of our market segments, tailoring the right product web sites, as well as a growing number of establish global coverage to support our key range and service to appeal to them.
For customers and suppliers bespoke eProcurement solutions.
The roll-out example, in the UK we have captured a large of a common web search engine across the deliver a superior return on sales sufficient to share of the higher education market through a Group was an important step this year.
bespoke service for that market.
In North provide investment to fuel growth The rapid growth in our eCommerce sales, America we have dramatically increased act as responsible corporate citizens.
up 56 per cent this year in the Marketing and product ranges to meet the needs of electronic Distribution Division, is testament to the design engineers.
In this way, we are confident that we will deliver quality of the service that we can already offer.
superior growth, profitability and shareholder Our international distribution networks In the fourth quarter of the year, eCommerce value.
accounted for 17 per cent of sales in that mean that we can build a presence in new geographic markets without heavy investment Division.
in further warehousing and inventory.
The ability Total service to utilise existing assets across a growing Total service is the core of our proposition.
business has been demonstrated through the Having an enormous range of products in opening of our offices in Italy and Spain in stock, coupled with quick and reliable delivery, recent years.
John Hirst Increasingly, our largest customers want us to Group Chief Executive Premier Farnell aims consistently to offer service support their operations internationally.
We are in line with the best available in our markets.
Servicing their needs is helping This year we have launched a programme to us create a foundation from which to expand set new standards in service for ourselves and into growth markets such as China.
The programme is based upon a variety of metrics that cover all aspects of our Acquisitions customers experience.
We expect this Whilst organic growth is fundamental to our programme to create a new benchmark within strategy, we will use selected acquisitions to our industry.
accelerate our growth and develop our proposition.
We look for acquisitions that We are also building our value-added services increase our capability in selected countries, for customers.
Of particular focus this year, we add valuable product and service knowledge or aim to be the first place our customers turn to reach attractive market segments.
for help to navigate through the complexities arising from the European Directive restricting the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment RoHS Directive and similar requirements in a number of our other key markets.
The better our service, the more opportunities we unlock as customers gain the confidence to rely on us.
Premier Farnell plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13
