Delivering a simple strategy Chief Executives summary Description of the business Premier Foods is a leading UK supplier to the retail grocery and foodservice markets with its broad portfolio of market leading brands and retailer branded products.
It is our ambition to provide our customers category leadership where we operate and to drive our scale further in the UK market.
Strategy The Groups strategy is centred upon growing our branded sales through a combination of innovation and refreshment of classic British brands.
We use retailer brands to support this strategy by increasing our scale with our customers and driving our manufacturing efficiency.
In addition we actively seek to acquire strong brands with a UK focus to strengthen our brand portfolio.
Operational review 2005 2004 m m m Sales Grocery 683.4 594.4 Fresh Produce 106.3 150.3 Total sales 789.7 744.7 For 2005, the Board is pleased to report another year of robust financial performance and progress for the Group.
Our drive brands have performed well with overall growth of 10%.
We have launched Branston relishes, beans and pasta, Loyd Grossman creamy pasta sauces, pesto and chutneys and Ambrosia rice and custard with fruit sauce.
We transferred our jelly products to the Hartleys brand and launched Hartleys fruit smoothies and bars and our newly acquired Quorn brand benefited from the launch of 26 new products.
The trading environment for the food retailers and food manufacturers remains very competitive.
Our strategy is to try to work closely with our customers by focusing on exciting product innovations and promotions to reinvigorate the categories in which we operate.
Acquisitions and disposals During 2005 we acquired four businesses and sold two.
In February 2005, we acquired the Birds and Angel Delight brands to complement our Ambrosia and Hartleys desserts brands.
In June 2005 we bought Marlow Foods, owner of the Quorn brand and in October 2005 Cauldron Foods giving us the two leading brands in the fast-growing meat-free category.
In September 2005 we bought FW Gedneys to extend our potatoes business to include other fresh produce.
The integration of these businesses has gone well and the brands have performed in line with our expectations.
However, we also continuously monitor the operational performance and strategic positioning of all of our brands and businesses.
As a result we disposed of our Tea business and Jonker Fris convenience foods business.
Business resilience Overall, we have been delighted by the resilience of the business in withstanding a number of significant trading and one-off events in the last 18 months.
In October 2004, a fire at our Bury St Edmunds factory disrupted production of our pickles and cooking sauce products.
We were pleased to get the factory back into full production by the Easter of 2005.
In the spring, we were involved in a major product recall resulting from the contamination of raw materials supplied to us, which contained the dye Sudan 1, and which were used in a range of products manufactured by the Group.
We responded to this issue by taking a range of positive steps and initiatives to address the concerns that affected the Group and the wider food retail market.
After a years comprehensive 04 Premier Foods plc investigation with full cooperation and assistance of Premier people, I can report that the Trading profit up relevant authorities concluded to take no action against Premier.
This supports the view I explained at the time that Premier had always acted with integrity and that the issue was clearly a general industry concern.
In addition, the business has responded strongly to the challenges of unexpectedly lower sales in January 2005, exceptionally mild autumn weather and significant levels of energy and utility cost inflation.
3 % In addition to these issues we have significantly extended our Knighton factory to be able to take on production of the Birds products acquired in February 2005 and launched new Branston Beans in the final quarter to mitigate the risk to the business that the licence under which we have marketed HP beans and pasta would not be renewed on its expiry in March 2006.
Enhancing reporting to shareholders The Group has again improved the extent and clarity of information provided to shareholders.
In this report in 2005, we have: provided an in-depth explanation of trading and financial performance, along with background information for both new and existing investors in our revised business review on pages 16 to 21: developed a cohesive and efficient approach to achieve the Groups corporate governance objectives, as outlined on pages 30 to 37: following a risk-based review of the Groups businesses during the year, explained improvements in our approach to risk management, such as the establishment of the risk review group on page 33: incorporated our principles of good corporate social responsibility within the objectives of the risk review group to ensure we meet the operational and information reporting challenges facing the Group and other public companies, outlined on pages 34 to 37: reviewed the composition of the Board and our responsibilities to shareholders, explained on pages 30 to 32 and explained our underlying remuneration principles and senior management incentive plans in our directors remuneration report on pages 38 to 44.
Outlook Overall trading performance for the year to the date of this report has been in line with expectations.
The trading environment remains highly competitive and energy related inflationary pressure remains a concern.
However, we are confident that we will continue to develop the business in line with our strategy, focusing on driving our branded sales growth whilst maintaining a tight control on our cost base.
Robert Schofield Chief Executive 05 Premier Foods plc Chief Executives summary
