CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Arriva has an excellent portfolio of growing, cash-generative businesses.
Our acquired businesses are delivering profitable growth and we have significant opportunities for further strategic investment.
BOB DAVIES CHIEF EXECUTIVE OPERATING REVIEW DELIVERING We have achieved strong results across the Group as a whole, delivering consistently in line PERFORMANCE with our strategy.
Increased fuel costs and the one-off reduction in revenue and profit from the loss of the Arriva Trains Northern franchise have been substantially offset by growth elsewhere, demonstrating the resilience that our strategy gives us.
We made further progress in mainland Europe, winning significant contracts in northern Europe, and acquiring businesses in Germany and Italy, achieving the European growth that we planned.
2006 has started well with a further European rail tender win.
UK BUS Our UK Bus operations achieved an operating profit of 68 million before exceptional items 2004: 63.6 million on revenue of 697.5 million 2004: 651.5 million, maintaining margins at just under 10 per cent, and increasing absolute profits despite cost pressures in the business, including a fuel cost increase of more than 6 million for 2005.
Arrivas policy is to fix fuel prices 12 to 15 months ahead.
We have now fixed the price for our fuel requirements for 2006, and this will result in additional costs for this division of approximately 14 million.
We are working to offset this as far as possible through further revenue growth underpinned by effective marketing and strong partnerships with local authorities, combined with effective cost management.
8 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
co. uk REGIONS bus networks in big urban areas, with local It has been a year of significant change for our UK authorities and bus operators working together to regional business.
Following the reorganisation early improve services.
We fully support this approach.
in 2005, we have restructured the business to reduce overheads and embarked on a drive for innovation Arriva is committed to working in partnership with in the way we approach the market.
In 2005 we delivered the first year to develop our techniques for in-depth analysis of of a five-year programme to develop services on population and neighbourhood profiles to find how Merseyside.
Further partnership schemes in Durham, we can meet demand more effectively.
We are also Thurrock and Medway have seen the introduction of running trials of fresh marketing and information new network designs, new and refurbished vehicles initiatives to improve services, and make it easier and improved information and facilities at bus stops.
and more convenient to travel by bus.
Passenger numbers have increased as a result of improved travel experiences and reduced delays.
For the first time in several years, we are seeing industry consolidation with a number of smaller The introduction in April 2006 of free off-peak local operators being acquired by major groups.
We bus travel in England for passengers who are over 60 acquired operations in Stevenage at the beginning of or who have disabilities is an important initiative.
On 2005 and in July we bought the assets of Blue Bus, the basis of similar experience in Scotland and Wales operating in Bolton and north of Manchester.
In we expect this initiative to stimulate growth.
We are February 2006 we acquired Premier Buses, operating currently in detailed discussions with local authorities in Milton Keynes.
We also recently contracted to to establish how the individual schemes will operate.
acquire an operation in Bishop Auckland.
2005 has been an important year in the development of our UK regional business.
The action we have taken 2005 has been an important year in the positions the business well to absorb future cost increases and we believe the outlook is favourable.
development of our UK regional business.
The reliability of services is vital in broadening the appeal of buses to the public.
In January 2006 the Secretary of State for Transport, Alastair Darling, called on the industry to develop partnership schemes which deliver a new way of planning and operating Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 9 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued TO IMPROVE SERVICES FOR OUR CUSTOMERS WE CONTINUE TO INVEST IN NEW TICKET MACHINES, BARRIERS AND STATION FACILITIES AND SECURITY ARRIVA WORKS POSITIVELY TO PROMOTE ACCESSIBLE PUBLIC TRANSPORT AS A TRAVELLING CHOICE LONDON Our ATW franchise runs until December 2018, and Arriva is the largest bus operator in London, is supported by the Welsh Assembly Government accounting for more than 19 per cent of the WAG which, in partnership with Arriva, is network at the end of 2005.
Improved operational committed to bringing forward innovation and performance led to better service delivery and investment.
In January 2005 the WAG announced enhanced our revenue under Quality Incentive funding of 50 million over the life of the franchise to Contracts.
Over the last five years we have invested allow the leasing of additional trains to accommodate a total of 159 million in new vehicles for London, high demand for peak time services in the Valley Line substantially renewing and expanding the fleet.
In partnership with the WAG, Arriva announced a 3 million station upgrade programme We expect to see continuing increases in usage of in North Wales, and the installation of CCTV on the overall London bus network.
During 2005 Arriva made further investments continues to predict long-term growth as Londons in stations to improve the service for our customers residential and commuting populations increase.
The actual and attempted bombings in July had a In December 2005, following extensive consultation, big effect on public transport in London.
Passenger we introduced a new timetable adding 950 services numbers for our London tourism and sightseeing a week across the network and providing more seats operation, The Original Tour, fell by 40 per cent in the on peak time train services among other benefits.
peak tourist months but the business is well placed to regain its position as confidence increases and tourist Passenger numbers, particularly in South Wales numbers return to previous levels.
Valleys, are continuing to grow significantly.
The new timetable has started to deliver improvements in operating performance.
We remain focused on UK TRAINS delivering continued improvements, listening to our Our UK Trains division achieved an operating profit customers, and working with stakeholders to ensure of 14.9 million before intangible asset amortisation the franchise has the resources needed to respond to 2004: 31.9 million on revenue of 239.4 million growing demand.
Operating profit includes some residual income from the Arriva Trains Northern We see opportunities to grow our position in UK rail, franchise that ceased in December 2004.
Arriva and are pleased to have pre-qualified for the South Trains Wales ATW was our only UK Trains business Western passenger rail franchise.
We have the operating in 2005. resources in place to develop robust bids for franchises which may be tendered in the coming months.
10 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
co. uk OUR NEW TRAIN TIMETABLE IN WALES, INTRODUCED IN DECEMBER 2005, IS DELIVERING IMPROVED PERFORMANCE FOR CUSTOMERS MAINLAND EUROPE In Germany, there is now an accelerating programme Our mainland European division delivered an excellent of tendering of regional rail services, as we performance, increasing operating profit by 37 per anticipated when we entered this market in 2004. cent to 48 million before goodwill impairment, In November we won a ten-year contract, with total intangible asset amortisation and exceptional items revenue of some 150 million, to operate rail services 2004: 35.1 million on revenue of 621.2 million in Bavaria between Munich and towns close to the 2004: 525.6 million.
Included in the results are border with the Czech Republic.
19 million of revenue and 2 million of operating profit from acquisitions in the year.
Indexation on The German bus market is also introducing tendering, contracts and state-approved fare increases helped although the pace is slower than in the rail sector.
In to limit the impact of increased fuel costs.
February, we acquired Sippel, a bus company with operations in the Rhine-Main area, where a five-year Revenue from our mainland European operations programme of tendering has been established.
Sippel has doubled over the last three years.
We have is part of a consortium that will operate the team and consistently maintained that local authorities in FIFA official coaches for the World Cup in Germany in mainland Europe would introduce competitive 2006.
It will also operate additional buses for tendering to reduce the cost of providing public spectators.
services, in response to legislative and economic pressures.
We see this as the key driver for growth Our operations in Scandinavia have also increased for Arriva outside the UK, as the volume of contract through tender wins.
We won new contracts in the work available to private operators increases.
Swedish towns of Helsingborg, Trelleborg and Malm and remain the largest bus operator in Denmark with This view has been confirmed clearly during the year a good rate of contract retention.
Building on our UK across our businesses in northern Europe, where we experience of introducing technology has significantly have seen a number of significant contract wins.
In the helped us to win these tenders, where we are Netherlands, Arriva won the contract to operate all adopting black box journey recorders similar to regional rail services for the next 15 years in the those we have introduced in the UK, passenger northern provinces of Friesland and Groningen, with information systems and CCTV systems.
projected total revenue of around 500 million.
We also won a 120 bus six-year contract in Waterland, north of Amsterdam, worth 120 million in lifetime revenue.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued As we expand our operations in mainland Europe we continue to innovate and gain valuable experience which strengthens the management of Arriva as a whole.
BOB DAVIES CHIEF EXECUTIVE In January 2006 we won our first rail contract in In November, the Portuguese Competition Authority Sweden, to operate the Pgatg regional rail services denied clearance of our proposed joint venture with in the south of the country.
The nine-year contract is Barraqueiro Group to combine the Lisbon public initially worth approximately 15 million of revenue transport operations of the two companies.
We are per annum, and has considerable potential for appealing the decision.
growth with no significant capital expenditure.
In the summer we sold part of our Spanish operation More rail tendering in Denmark is expected in 2006. in Galicia for 7.7 million, in line with book value.
We expect to participate fully, building on our The sale of the more rural operations has allowed the reputation for excellent delivery.
Our train punctuality business to focus on working with the metropolitan averages 97.5 per cent and we have received bonuses transport authorities to develop our operations in for reliability and customer satisfaction throughout La Coruna and Ferrol.
As we expand our operations in mainland Europe we In southern Europe, we have highlighted Italy as continue to innovate and gain valuable experience another key area for development, as the Italian public which strengthens the management of Arriva as a transport market is one of the largest in Europe.
We were the worlds first transport company October, we completed the acquisition of eighty per to use palm oil based bio-diesel for rail services, on cent of the SADEM bus businesses, which operate in several of our trains in Germany.
Our introduction of the Piemonte and Valle dAosta regions of northern contactless smart card ticketing in Portugal went Italy to the west of our other operations.
SADEM well, and is enabling us to gather valuable market co-managed, with GTT of Turin, all transport for the information to tailor services more closely to market 2006 Winter Olympics.
This involved procurement and requirements.
Our introduction of new trains into planning of an operation which ran up to 1,000 Denmark and Germany was on time and notably free coaches and buses a day for competitors and of teething problems.
We are providing experimental spectators.
on demand bus services in some of Italys high mountain valleys such as Alta Valle Brembana.
Our other bus operations in Italy, SAB and SAF, have been excellent investments.
We now own 60 per cent As the pace of liberalisation picks up across Europe our of SAF, having purchased a further 11 per cent in proven expertise and innovative thinking make us well December 2005.
We have also increased our placed to achieve further growth and market success.
shareholding in other Italian businesses.
12 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
co. uk WE HAVE INVESTED IN EASY ACCESS BUSES, NIGHT BUS SERVICES AND IMPROVED SECURITY TO GROW AND DEVELOP REGIONAL BUS SERVICES IN MERSEYSIDE BUS AND COACH OUTLOOK Bus and Coach achieved an operating profit of We are driving the business forward with a clear vision 3 million 2004: 3.2 million on revenue of of becoming the leading transport services organisation 13.1 million 2004: 13.8 million.
We expect strong growth to continue continues to match its resources closely to the needs of through acquisitions and tendering opportunities.
We the market place and has, once again, achieved a solid have businesses in seven mainland European countries profit performance with little new capital requirement.
and are confident that, with our established presence, Arriva is in a strong position to benefit from the increasing liberalisation of European transport markets.
VEHICLE RENTAL We see further opportunities for our UK bus operations Our vehicle rental business achieved an operating and are committed to bringing forward innovative profit of 10.1 million before exceptional items approaches to developing this market.
In common with the rest of the Arriva has an excellent portfolio of growing, cashsector, we experienced downward pressure on daily generative businesses.
Our acquired businesses are hire rates as well as lower residual values and reduced delivering profitable growth and we have significant profits.
In February 2006 we sold the business to opportunities for further strategic investment.
BOB DAVIES CHIEF EXECUTIVE Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13
