Chief executives report While 2004 was a time of consolidation for Randgold Resources, 2005 was the year in which we spread our wings and took off again from the higher ground our efforts had established.
In a year of challenges and delivery, these events and achievements were particularly notable: We doubled our profit year-on-year and increased attributable production by 54%.
We opened Loulo, our second new mine in five years, and it made profits from month one.
We finalised plans for an underground operation at Loulo and its development will start in the third quarter of 2006.
We solved the production problems that had plagued Morila and it ended the year ahead of forecast.
Randgold Resources We updated the prefeasibility study on the Tongon project and has developed into a fully confirmed that it would meet our investment criteria.
independent, integrated We expanded our reserves and resources through dynamic exploration programmes.
business, while its We strengthened our balance sheet ahead of a new growth phase management has through a successful equity placement.
matured into a well rounded unit that can THE FINANCIAL SCORECARD Net profit for the year of US$40.9 million was more than double that handle the most of 2004, mainly due to a substantial rise in the profit from mining.
formidable corporate and This in turn resulted from the improvement in the gold price and a big operational challenges increase in our attributable production, which rose from 204 194 with great dexterity.
ounces to 314 831, thanks to a strong performance by Morila and the fourth quarter contribution from Loulo.
The profit improvement was achieved in spite of higher expenditure on exploration and Morilas first tax payment.
On the balance sheet, the substantial increase in property, plant and equipment is related mainly to the development in Loulo and is, in fact, a further reflection of the companys continued investment in its future.
The balance sheet also shows cash resources of some US$152 million.
Our equity offering of 8.1 million ordinary shares and American Depositary Shares, designed to raise funds for the Loulo underground development and other growth opportunities, produced US$103 million after costs and the balance of the cash came from the Morila and Loulo revenue streams.
It is worth noting that we could have taken an easier fundraising option, but that would have limited it to qualified institutions.
We chose to go the fully marketed global offering route, even though this required an enormous administrative effort, to give all our current shareholders and some new ones the chance to participate.
6 Annual Report 2005 Randgold Resources 1 His Excellency, Amadou Toumani Tour, the President of Mali with Philippe Litard at the opening of the Loulo Mine on 12 November 2005.
2 First gold pour at Loulo in September 2005.
3 CEO Dr Mark Bristow addresses the dignatories and thousands of guests at the official opening of Loulo.
4 Local residents in traditional costumes joined in the festivities.
LOULO: ANOTHER STAR IS BORN world class status.
During the course of 2005 SRK Our new mine at Loulo poured its first gold in September Consulting conducted a feasibility study on the and shipped its first commercial consignment of bullion underground development which confirmed our high four days before its official opening by President Amadou expectations of it.
Since then we have completed a Toumani Tour of Mali on 12 November.
The mine detailed internal and external review of this study and produced just under 68 000 ounces in the December have fine tuned the original design.
We have budgeted quarter at a total cash cost of US$165 per ounce.
US$20 million for this project in 2006, with portal construction due to start in the third quarter and the While the start up was slightly later than originally main decline development commencing in the last planned, Phase 1 of the plant was sufficiently complete quarter.
We expect to access the first development ore by the year end to allow steady gold production.
This in late 2007. was a major achievement for our project team, considering the daunting logistical challenges presented In the meantime, we have continued to build the resource by the remoteness of the site and the lack of infrastructure base at Loulo, which grew by 24% to 9.9 million ounces and by the failure of the main plant contractor, which during the year despite the depletion by mining.
The obliged us to take over the completion of Phase 2, the most recent round of deep drilling has returned excellent hard-rock crushing circuit.
results, further defining and expanding the high grade zones.
Phase 2 is now scheduled for commissioning in the MORILA BACK ON TRACK second quarter of 2006.
Until then, production will be After a difficult start to the year, with production stuttering maintained at planned levels by feeding soft and as a result of persistent problems with the plant screened ore through the Phase 1 circuit.
This should expansion project, Morila recovered strongly.
Production ensure that the delay of the hard rock circuit will not of 651 110 ounces was well ahead of forecast and some have a negative effect on Loulos operating budget for 140 000 ounces up on 2004, and cash costs were the year.
reasonably well contained at US$221 per ounce.
With production from Loulos open pit operation now The remedial measures we initiated at the mine, which settled down, the scene is set for the next stage of the included a change in the management team, are clearly project: the development of an underground operation, taking effect, with monthly throughput in the second which will not only significantly extend the life and half of the year 10% up on the first.
The plant is still not enhance the value of the mine, but will elevate it to true Randgold Resources Annual Report 2005 7 5 Our exploration strategy is to develop good models and then establish a dominant land position.
6 Mining began at Loulo in the last quarter of 2004.
7 Loulo and the area around it remains our most prospective region.
8 Morila paid out dividends of US$90 million during the past year.
functioning at its full expanded capacity, however, so to press for a durable reconciliation of the conflicting there is room for further improvement and this remains parties differences.
We therefore remain optimistic that a key management issue.
our patience and our long term faith in the country will eventually be rewarded.
The other major focus at Morila is the continuing hunt for more ounces.
Last year we came close to replacing In anticipation of that day we recently revisited the the reserves that were depleted, and we believe there project site and confirmed that it would be relatively is still a considerable upside in the lease area.
We simple to resume our activities there.
We have had currently have a two pronged exploration strategy there: preliminary discussions about our plans with the various we are looking closely at the known mineralisation parties concerned and we hope to do some preliminary around the margins of the mine, and were also about drilling before the start of the wet season.
If the elections to embark on an ambitious strategic drilling programme have the anticipated stabilising effect, we would then 2 which will cover the full 200km of the lease and give mobilise a comprehensive programme to complete the us a complete picture of its overall resource potential.
GENERATING ORGANIC GROWTH Morila last year paid out dividends of US$90 million and Our annual resource and reserve declaration, published it remains a spectacular cash generator.
We are elsewhere in this report, shows that our resource base forecasting production of at least 500 000 ounces per has grown by 14% to 16.54 million ounces over the past year for another three years, and even modest exploration year, 16% to 11.67 million ounces attributable a clear success will enable the mine to sustain its output at that tribute to the continuing success of our exploration level for a fourth year.
WAITING IN THE WINGS Randgold Resources key business model is the resource Our three million ounce Tongon project in the Cte triangle: a broad base of targets, the best of which dIvoire has been put on hold by the political unrest become projects, from the ranks of which emerge the which has plagued that country for the past two years.
This model requires expertise in the evaluation There has been some progress towards a settlement, of targets and the development of projects: and, equally but it has been a bumpy road with frequent diversions.
important, a constant flow of fresh prospects to expand However, elections have now been scheduled for and replenish the base.
Finding these is the task of our later this year, and there is a considerable momentum exploration teams, and their consistent record of success within Africa as well as the wider international community has been the main driver of this companys growth.
8 Annual Report 2005 Randgold Resources At present our triangle holds 159 quality targets, our It finalised plans for its first underground development.
2 land position covers a total area of 20 006km in the It undertook a complex, multi-jurisdictional equity most prospective gold belts of West and East Africa, offering with smooth efficiency.
It expanded the where we are active in six countries, looking for our next exploration horizons, consolidated the land positions big one.
Our exploration strategy is a simple one: and built the resource base.
It talked to the market and we develop good models and then we establish a listened to investors.
It strengthened relationships with dominant land position where we have full scope to stakeholders.
The success of these diverse efforts is apply these.
reflected in our results for the year and our prospects for 2006.
Loulo and the area around it remains our most prospective region.
In addition to the ongoing work I thank my colleagues on the executive committee, our around Loulo 0, Yalea and their satellites, we have regional managements and all the people in our offices generated new targets elsewhere on the lease as and operations, spread across nine countries, for the well as outside it.
We believe the Loulo region may outstanding contribution they have again made to host multiple large deposits and could in time Randgold Resources progress.
I also thank our board develop into a major gold region, with our mine there for their wise counsel, and our advisors and suppliers as its hub.
Earlier in this review, I outlined the exploration approach BUILDING OUR FUTURE we and our joint venture partners are following on the In the year ahead, our operational focus will be on Morila lease.
Outside the lease area but still in the completing the Loulo plant, ensuring that the mine meets Morila region, Randgold Resources is the major its targets, and starting the underground development landholder.
We are currently developing a three there.
We shall also be playing our part in raising dimensional exploration model for this region and plan throughput at Morila to full capacity, containing costs to start conceptual drilling later this year.
At the project level, we hope to advance the feasibility study on Tongon.
In Senegal, we are prioritising 31 targets along the Our exploration teams will be finding and evaluating Sabodala belt and in Burkina Faso, we have extended targets in six countries.
and consolidated our position along the southern half of the Markoye fault system, which already hosts a While Randgold Resources is primarily committed to known 8 million ounces in six deposits held by other organic growth, we have shown in the past that we are mining companies.
We have built a big land package not averse to the right kind of corporate transaction, in Tanzania, where we hold the dominant position in the and we shall continue to consider acquisition, merger Musoma greenstone belt, and we have started drilling and joint venture possibilities in Africa and elsewhere.
on the recently acquired Kiabakari permit.
We are The healthy cash flows from Morila and Loulo, and our gradually establishing a presence in Ghana, where we robust balance sheet, place us in a strong position not have been granted three permits and have entered into only to implement our own growth plans but to take a joint venture with a junior.
advantage of attractive opportunities that may arise.
Randgold Resources has the means - and the will - to A FORMIDABLE TEAM EFFORT build its own future.
Over the past 10 years, Randgold Resources has not just grown in size and scope.
It has also developed into a fully independent, integrated business, while its management has matured into a well rounded unit that can handle the most formidable corporate and operational challenges with great dexterity.
During 2005, this team built one new mine - deftly picking up the Mark Bristow pieces when the contractor faltered - and fixed another.
Chief executive Randgold Resources Annual Report 2005 9
