159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 2 2 Report of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer Report of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer We are pleased to report on a year of overall good progress showing underlying improvement of 0.2 percentage points at Reed Elsevier.
through a combination of the revenue growth and firm cost control.
Adjusted operating cashflow was strong at Our financial targets of 5% organic revenue growth 1,080m a1,577m, with a 95% conversion of adjusted and double digit adjusted earnings growth at constant operating profits into cash as capital expenditures levelled currencies have been delivered and are reiterated as our off and through tight management of working capital as the targets for 2006.
Three of our four divisions are performing business expands.
well and delivered on or exceeded their individual divisional targets for organic revenue growth.
The Education business The return on capital employed in the business increased however disappointed in two significant markets and firm by 0.4 percentage points to 9.4% and recent acquisitions are action is being taken to address the related product, delivering, or are expected to deliver, over 10% return on marketing and organisational issues.
Overall, revenue capital within three years, with continuing good growth in growth has accelerated, underlying operating margins have returns thereafter.
continued to improve, cash generation is strong, and good and growing returns achieved on invested capital.
Adjusted pre-tax profits at constant currencies were up 9%, and, including a lower effective tax rate, adjusted earnings Strategically and operationally we have also made positive per share were up 11%.
We have expanded our content, introduced new innovative online information products and services, The financial results are reported this year under deployed market leading technology and expertise, widened International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for the our distribution in winning new customers globally, and first time, with the comparative period restated accordingly.
broadened our product offerings to meet the expanding The derivation of our new benchmark figures is set out in needs of our customers in a digital environment.
One third note 9 to the combined financial statements.
of our revenues are now electronic and internet delivered, and the opportunities to add further value to our customers At reported exchange rates, total revenues were and shareholders through online information and 5,166m a7,542m, up 7% when reported in both sterling applications is very promising.
and euros, and adjusted earnings per share were up 10% for Reed Elsevier PLC at 31.5p and up 9% for Reed Elsevier NV Financial results and progress at a0.70.
Total revenues in 2005 were up 7% at constant currencies, with underlying revenue growth of 5% excluding acquisitions The equalised final dividends proposed by the respective and disposals, up from the 3% underlying growth seen boards are 10.7p for Reed Elsevier PLC and a0.267 for in 2004.
Together with the interim dividends, these give total dividends for the year of 14.4p and In scientific and medical markets, demand has remained a0.359 respectively, up 11% for Reed Elsevier PLC and 9% for strong for scientific research and medical information within Reed Elsevier NV on the prior year dividends.
The difference a more supportive funding environment particularly for online in dividend growth rates reflects the impact of currency product and in the expanding health professions.
In legal movements since the prior year dividend declaration dates.
markets, good demand growth has been seen for online This increase in dividends reflects the more progressive productivity tools and practice solutions, and in international dividend policy announced last year that more closely online expansion and risk management.
In education aligns dividend growth with growth in adjusted earnings.
markets, strong growth in the US K-12 basal business, driven by success in an expanded state textbook adoptions market, Use of cash was in large part offset by a weak supplemental market and Free cashflow for the year before dividends increased a significant underperformance in the supplemental and by 108m a150m to 764m a1,116m.
Of this, 44%, i. e. assessment businesses.
In business to business markets, 336m a491m, was paid out by way of dividends and we are now seeing a more positive overall environment.
The 37%, i. e. 284m a415m, was spent on acquisitions net of exhibitions business grew strongly as markets recovered and, minor disposals.
whilst print advertising remains subdued, the online services in which we have been investing over the last few years Having reviewed our financial position and outlook, we continued their rapid growth.
are introducing with effect from this year an annual share repurchase programme to further improve capital efficiency.
Adjusted operating profits were up 8% at constant The amount may vary from year to year but we would expect, currencies, or 6% underlying, with operating margins subject to prevailing market and business conditions, 159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 3 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005 3 to spend approximately $350m 200m a290m on share curriculum subjects in which we compete, coming no.
1 in repurchases in 2006 and approximately $1 billion Elementary and no.
This was however in large 600m a870m over three years.
With the stronger free part offset by a combination of weak supplemental markets cash flow and positive growth outlook, we believe that this and significant underperformance in the supplemental and new programme will enhance shareholder returns whilst assessment businesses.
In a weak supplemental market, retaining the financial capability to continue to develop the we saw greater attrition in the backlist, which was not well business through both organic and acquisition investment.
aligned with the No Child Left Behind Act, and growth from This programme, together with our dividend policy, is new publishing was unable to compensate.
In assessment, expected to return to shareholders in the region of 7080% we won fewer new state testing contracts than anticipated of free cash flow in 2006.
The repurchase of shares in and saw a cut back on catalog product in a slow new Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV will reflect the publishing year.
Harcourt Educations revenue growth was equalisation ratio.
3% at constant currencies, or 2% excluding acquisitions and disposals against the 910% growth targeted.
Underlying It is expected that the free cashflow available after dividends margin was broadly maintained through firm cost and share repurchases will be used to make acquisitions that management throughout the year.
accelerate Reed Elseviers strategic development and growth, and deliver superior financial returns.
To the extent that Firm action has been taken to address the performance acquisition opportunities arise beyond the available free issues in supplemental and assessment and to reinvigorate cashflow, we would expect these to be funded from debt.
growth through management and organisational changes, new and accelerated publishing programmes, and much Divisional performance and business progress strengthened sales activities.
The benefits of this should start The Elsevier science and medical business saw strong to be felt in 2006 although the greater impact on revenue subscription renewals, growing online sales and successful growth and margin development should be from 2007. second half medical book publishing to deliver 8% revenue 2006 is not a strong adoption year, but the years 2007 to 2009 growth at constant currencies, including a part year are, and strong publishing plans are in place to maintain contribution from the MediMedia MAP business acquired in Harcourts leading adoption position.
Organic revenue growth was 5%, up from 4% in the prior year, with underlying margin similar to the prior year Reed Business, after several years of market decline and despite the costs of the newly launched Scopus database and no growth, saw improvement in its markets, with strong other products.
This revenue momentum should continue with demand for online services and exhibitions.
The rapid growth opportunities to improve underlying margins through revenue in our online revenues reflects the benefit of the sustained growth and continued cost efficiency.
investment in new online product and services over several years despite difficult business markets.
Print advertising LexisNexis showed very good growth in the year with delivery remained variable by geography and sector, in part reflecting on the three key strategic initiatives: to expand the business migration to online.
Reed Business revenues increased from research into total practice solutions: to grow a by 5% at constant currencies, both in total and underlying, significant business in risk management: and to expand against a 2005 organic growth target of 45% and the 2% internationally through innovative online product and services.
growth achieved in the prior year, and saw margins improve.
Strong demand for online information and workflow solutions Whilst there is some uncertainty as to the economic outlook was seen in North American and International markets, and in major developed economies, the momentum going into US corporate and federal markets saw continued recovery 2006, particularly in exhibitions and online, is positive and in online news and business information, higher patent Reed Business has the same 45% organic growth target as volumes and strong demand in risk management.
LexisNexis last year with further margin improvement expected.
saw overall revenues up 13% at constant currencies and improving margins, with 6% organic revenue growth, against The operating and financial review describes the a target of 5% and against 4% growth in 2004.
There was performances of our businesses in greater detail.
a strong contribution from recent acquisitions including Seisint, which saw continued strong demand for its Across our business, the focus has been on driving our powerful risk management products with 20% year on year business online, and the benefits of this are increasingly sales growth.
evident in the strengthening of our revenue growth.
Online now accounts for one third of our revenues and, although Harcourt Education had a disappointing year.
There was a print is still important and expanding, the longer term future strong performance in the US schools basal business, taking and faster growth opportunities are online.
For the customer, a leading share in new state textbook adoptions in the core online products have greater utility, can be more widely 159711 Reed Report 01-27 7 3 06 12:03 Page 4 4 Report of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer accessed, can be integrated into workflows, and drive higher We will continue to focus on expanding the business and productivity.
For Reed Elsevier, online provides opportunities increasing the returns on capital.
The share repurchase to expand the product range, increase competitive plan announced on 16 February 2006 will, we believe, differentiation, widen distribution, and build stronger enhance shareholder returns whilst retaining the financial relationships to deliver superior growth and margin flexibility to continue to increase the value of the business improvement.
The customer is a more effective professional: through acquisition as well as organic development.
Reed Elsevier is a more valued partner.
The longer term outlook is promising.
We have a clear Board changes consistent strategy and growing market success.
The digital At the Annual General Meeting last year, Morris Tabaksblat environment continues to expand our opportunity and we retired as chairman after six years service.
The boards are are very focused on exploiting our content, brands, market extremely grateful for the guidance that Morris provided over positions and technology to drive sustainable long term growth that period.
He was an outstanding Chairman and guided the for the benefit of our customers and shareholders alike.
boards and management through a period of considerable change, first in helping to stabilise the business and then Finally, we want to take this opportunity to thank all at Reed leading a period of strong recovery.
Elsevier for their outstanding commitment and contribution during the year.
John Brock also retired after six years service and we thank him for his substantial contribution in that time.
Strauss Jan Hommen Sir Crispin Davis Zelnick was elected as a non-executive director, bringing a Chairman Chief Executive Officer wide experience of the media sector to our board discussions.
Outlook Looking to 2006, the market environments in which we operate are broadly encouraging, and, whilst noting that 2006 is a slower year for state textbook adoptions, we are again targeting underlying revenue growth for 2006 of at least 5% and double digit adjusted earnings per share growth at constant currencies.
Looking further out, we are encouraged by the growing momentum in the business and the success in developing and marketing innovative online services.
2007 to 2009 should also see the benefit of three strong years in the adoption calendar in US education.
