12 Chairman and Chief Executives report Saxon Math.
Basal math series for US Grades K-12 uses a unique, research-based pedagogy to help students retain math concepts and skills.
60 million searchable documents were added to the LexisNexis collection in 2005.
Chairman and Chief Executives report We are pleased to report on a year of overall good progress at Reed Elsevier.
Our financial targets of 5% organic revenue growth and double digit adjusted earnings growth at constant currencies have been delivered and are reiterated as our targets for 2006.
Three of our four divisions are performing well and delivered on or exceeded their individual divisional targets for organic revenue growth.
The Education business, however, disappointed in two significant markets and firm action is being taken to address the related product, marketing and organisational issues.
Overall, revenue growth has accelerated, underlying operating margins have continued to improve, cash generation is strong, and good and growing returns achieved on invested capital.
Strategically and operationally we have also made positive progress.
We have expanded our content, introduced new, innovative online information products and services, deployed market leading technology and expertise, widened our distribution in winning new customers globally, and broadened our product offerings to meet the expanding needs of our customers in a digital environment.
One third of our revenues are now electronic and internet delivered, and the opportunities to add further value to our customers and shareholders through online information and applications is very promising.
Jan Hommen Sir Crispin Davis Chairman Chief Executive Officer Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2005 13 FIRSTConsult is an evidence-based clinical LexisNexis Publisher is an e-solution that information tool for doctors and nurses in the US, delivers news to companies intranets.
which can be accessed online.
Financial results and progress The return on capital employed in the business increased Total revenues in 2005 were up 7% at constant currencies, by 0.4 percentage points to 9.4% and recent acquisitions with underlying revenue growth of 5% excluding are delivering, or are expected to deliver, over 10% return acquisitions and disposals, up from the 3% underlying on capital within three years, with continuing good growth growth seen in 2004. in returns thereafter.
In scientific and medical markets, demand has remained Adjusted pre-tax profits at constant currencies were up strong for scientific research and medical information 9%, and, including a lower effective tax rate, adjusted within a more supportive funding environment, particularly earnings per share were up 11%.
for online product and in the expanding health professions.
In legal markets, good demand growth has been seen for The financial results are reported this year under online productivity tools and practice solutions, and in International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for international online expansion and risk management.
the first time, with the comparative period restated In education markets, strong growth in the US K-12 basal accordingly.
The derivation of our new benchmark figures business, driven by success in an expanded state textbook is set out in the operating and financial review and adoptions market, was in large part offset by a weak summary financial information.
supplemental market and a significant underperformance in the supplemental and assessment businesses.
At reported exchange rates, total revenues were In business to business markets, we are now seeing 5,166m a7,542m, up 7% when reported in both sterling a more positive overall environment.
The exhibitions and euros, and adjusted earnings per share were business grew strongly as markets recovered and, whilst up 10% for Reed Elsevier PLC at 31.5p and up 9% for print advertising remains subdued, the online services in Reed Elsevier NV at a0.70.
which we have been investing over the last few years continued their rapid growth.
Adjusted operating profits were up 8% at constant currencies, or 6% underlying, with operating margins showing underlying improvement of 0.2 percentage points through a combination of the revenue growth and firm cost control.
Adjusted operating cashflow was strong at 1,080m a1,577m, with a 95% conversion of adjusted operating profits into cash as capital expenditures levelled off, and through tight management of working capital as the business expands.
14 Chairman and Chief Executives report Cell is a leading journal for the biomedical community.
The premier Dutch magazine for the information on the petrochemical and oil markets agricultural sector.
through an online service updated up to four times per day.
Chairman and Chief Executives report continued The equalised final dividends proposed by the respective We have expanded our content, boards are 10.7p for Reed Elsevier PLC and a0.267 for introduced new, innovative online Reed Elsevier NV, both up 11%.
Together with the interim dividends, these give total dividends for the year of 14.4p information products and services, and a0.359 respectively, up 11% for Reed Elsevier PLC deployed market leading technology and 9% for Reed Elsevier NV on the prior year dividends.
The difference in dividend growth rates reflects the impact and expertise, widened our of currency movements since the prior year dividend distribution in winning new declaration dates.
This increase in dividends reflects the more progressive dividend policy announced last year customers globally, and broadened that more closely aligns dividend growth with growth in our product offerings to meet the adjusted earnings.
expanding needs of our customers Use of cash in a digital environment.
Free cash flow for the year before dividends increased by 108m a150m to 764m a1,116m.
Of this, 44%, i. e. 336m a491m, was paid out by way of dividends and 37%, i. e. 284m a415m, was spent on acquisitions net of minor disposals.
Having reviewed our financial position and outlook, we are introducing with effect from this year an annual share repurchase programme to further improve capital efficiency.
The amount may vary from year to year but we would expect, subject to prevailing market and business conditions, to spend approximately $350m 200m a290m on share repurchases in 2006 and approximately $1 billion 600m a870m over three years.
With the stronger free cash flow and positive growth outlook, we believe that this new programme will enhance shareholder returns whilst retaining the financial capability to continue to develop the business through both organic and acquisition investment.
This programme, together with our dividend policy, is expected to return to shareholders in the region of Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2005 15 7% Total revenues in 2005 were up 7% at constant Abacus Evolve.
The UKs leading maths currencies.
9% Adjusted pre-tax profits in 2005 were up 9% at constant currencies.
The repurchase of markets saw continued recovery in online news and shares in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV will business information, higher patent volumes and strong reflect the equalisation ratio.
LexisNexis saw overall revenues up 13% at constant currencies and improving It is expected that the free cash flow available after margins, with 6% organic revenue growth, against a target dividends and share repurchases will be used to make of 5% and against 4% growth in 2004.
There was a strong acquisitions that accelerate Reed Elseviers strategic contribution from recent acquisitions including Seisint, development and growth, and deliver superior financial which saw continued strong demand for its powerful risk returns.
To the extent that acquisition opportunities arise management products with 20% year on year sales growth.
beyond the available free cash flow, we would expect these to be funded from debt.
Harcourt Education had a disappointing year.
There was a strong performance in the US schools basal business, Divisional performance and business progress taking a leading share in new state textbook adoptions in The Elsevier science and medical business saw strong the core curriculum subjects in which we compete, coming subscription renewals, growing online sales and no.
This was, successful second half medical book publishing to deliver however, in large part offset by a combination of weak 8% revenue growth at constant currencies, including a part supplemental markets and significant underperformance year contribution from the MediMedia MAP business in the supplemental and assessment businesses.
Organic revenue growth was 5%, up weak supplemental market, we saw greater attrition in the from 4% in the prior year, with underlying margin similar backlist, which was not well aligned with the No Child Left to the prior year despite the costs of the newly launched Behind Act, and growth from new publishing was unable to Scopus database and other products.
In assessment, we won fewer new state momentum should continue with opportunities to improve testing contracts than anticipated and saw a cut back on underlying margins through revenue growth and continued catalog product in a slow new publishing year.
Educations revenue growth was 3% at constant currencies, or 2% excluding acquisitions and disposals LexisNexis showed very good growth in the year with against the 910% growth targeted.
Underlying margin was delivery on three key strategic initiatives: to expand the broadly maintained through firm cost management business from research into total practice solutions: to throughout the year.
grow a significant business in risk management: and to expand internationally through innovative online product and services.
Strong demand for online information and workflow solutions was seen in North American and International markets, and US corporate and federal 16 Chairman and Chief Executives report Elseviers Scirus websearch engine is linked to over 200 million science related pages.
World Travel Market Over 48,000 visitors attended WTM 2005, the leading show for the travel sector.
Chairman and Chief Executives report continued Firm action has been taken to address the performance The longer term outlook is issues in supplemental and assessment and to promising.
We have a clear reinvigorate growth through management and organisational changes, new and accelerated publishing consistent strategy and growing programmes, and much strengthened sales activities.
The benefits of this should start to be felt in 2006, although the greater impact on revenue growth and margin development should be from 2007.
2006 is not a strong adoption year, but the years 2007 to 2009 are, and strong publishing plans are in place to maintain Harcourts leading adoption position.
Reed Business, after several years of market decline and no growth, saw improvement in its markets, with strong demand for online services and exhibitions.
The rapid growth in our online revenues reflects the benefit of the sustained investment in new online product and services over several years despite difficult business markets.
Print advertising remained variable by geography and sector, in part reflecting migration to online.
Reed Business revenues increased by 5% at constant currencies, both in total and underlying, against a 2005 organic growth target of 45% and the 2% growth achieved in the prior year, and saw margins improve.
Whilst there is some uncertainty as to the economic outlook in major developed economies, the momentum going into 2006, particularly in exhibitions and online, is positive and Reed Business has the same 45% organic growth target as last year with further margin improvement expected.
The operating and financial review describes the performances of our businesses in greater detail.
Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2005 17 11% 9% LexisNexis Time Matters business and legal Total dividends for the year are up 11% for practice management software provides seamless Reed Elsevier PLC and 9% for Reed Elsevier NV.
billing, expense and accounts control.
1 3 1 3 of our revenues are now electronic and internet delivered.
Across our business, the focus has been on driving our again targeting underlying revenue growth for 2006 of at business online, and the benefits of this are increasingly least 5% and double digit adjusted earnings per share evident in the strengthening of our revenue growth.
Online growth at constant currencies.
Looking further out, we are now accounts for one third of our revenues and, although encouraged by the growing momentum in the business and print is still important and expanding, the longer term the success in developing and marketing innovative online future and faster growth opportunities are online.
2007 to 2009 should also see the benefit of three customer, online products have greater utility, can be more strong years in the adoption calendar in US education.
widely accessed, can be integrated into workflows, and drive higher productivity.
For Reed Elsevier, online provides We will continue to focus on expanding the business and opportunities to expand the product range, increase increasing the returns on capital.
The share repurchase competitive differentiation, widen distribution, and build plan announced on 16 February 2006 will, we believe, stronger relationships to deliver superior growth and enhance shareholder returns whilst retaining the financial margin improvement.
The customer is a more effective flexibility to continue to increase the value of the business professional: Reed Elsevier is a more valued partner.
through acquisition as well as organic development.
Board changes The longer term outlook is promising.
We have a clear At the Annual General Meeting last year, Morris Tabaksblat consistent strategy and growing market success.
The retired as Chairman after six years service.
The boards are digital environment continues to expand our opportunity extremely grateful for the guidance that Morris provided and we are very focused on exploiting our content, brands, over that period.
He was an outstanding chairman and market positions and technology to drive sustainable long guided the boards and management through a period of term growth for the benefit of our customers and considerable change, first in helping to stabilise the shareholders alike.
business and then leading a period of strong recovery.
Finally, we want to take this opportunity to thank all at John Brock also retired after six years service and we Reed Elsevier for their outstanding commitment and thank him for his substantial contribution in that time.
Strauss Zelnick was elected as a non-executive director, bringing a wide experience of the media sector to our board discussions.
Outlook Looking to 2006, the market environments in which we operate are broadly encouraging, and, whilst noting that Jan Hommen Sir Crispin Davis Chairman Chief Executive Officer 2006 is a slower year for state textbook adoptions, we are
