Group performance overview Revenue from the groups continuing operations increased by 4.8% over last year at constant exchange rates to 2,286.1 million and was 5.5% higher at 2,301.2 million at actual exchange rates.
Revenue was higher year-on-year across all divisions at both constant and actual exchange rates.
The highest increases in revenue were achieved by City Link, Manned Guarding and Electronic Security.
Textiles and Washroom Services recorded the lowest increase in revenue but this was impacted by the decision to cease selling new business in the UK linen and workwear activities in the fourth quarter.
The contract portfolio, which is the annualised value of customer contracts, increased by 7.0% during the course of the year to 1,870.4 million.
The portfolio moved ahead for all divisions which record it City Link is not a portfolio business.
Strongest portfolio growth was achieved by Electronic Security, Facilities Services both Manned Guarding and Other Facilities Services and Tropical Plants.
Operating profit from continuing operations before amortisation of customer lists and exceptional items was 306.1 million at constant exchange rates and 308.5 million at actual exchange rates.
This represented a decline of 14.1% at constant rates and 13.4% at actual rates compared to the Andrew Macfarlane prior year.
All businesses recorded lower operating profit with the exception of Manned Guarding, Chief Financial Officer which was flat year-on-year, and Other principally South Africa which recorded a modest increase.
A non-executive Comparisons with the prior year are impacted by the progressive introduction of additional costs, director of Invensys plc.
He was previously amounting to 35 million on an annualised basis, from the last quarter of 2004 onwards.
Excluding group finance director of Land Securities Group plc.
Prior to that he was chief financial officer the impact of one-off items, adjusted operating profit before amortisation of customer lists and of Bass Hotels and Resorts.
exceptional items fell by 9.4% for the year as a whole at constant exchange rates to 325.9 million.
The decline in adjusted operating profit reduced significantly as the year progressed.
Having fallen by 14.4% in the first half, it was 8.3% lower in the third quarter and 0.4% behind last year in the fourth quarter.
Profit before tax, amortisation of customer lists and exceptional items fell by 17.0% at constant exchange rates to 252.9 million and by 16.2% at actual exchange rates to 255.3 million.
After amortisation of customer lists and exceptional items, profit before tax of 190.1 million was 25.9% lower than last year.
Profit after tax fell by 25.8% to 138.6 million.
Profit for the year including discontinued operations, predominantly the disposal of Style Conferences, was up 68.9% at 324.4 million.
Basic earnings per share, from continuing operations, fell by 26.6% compared to last year to 7.52 pence per share.
Basic earnings per share from total operations increased by 69.2% to 17.82 pence per share.
The dividend paid and proposed increased by 10.0% to 7.38 pence per share.
Basis of commentary The group management structure was reorganised as of 1 September 2005 and the performance reviews on pages 10 to 21 are based on the divisional structure which is based upon the way the businesses are now managed.
In all cases, unless otherwise stated, references to operating profit and profit before tax are for continuing businesses before amortisation of customer lists and exceptional items.
References to adjusted operating profit and adjusted profit before tax also exclude items of a one-off nature totalling a net cost of 19.8 million 2004: 3.3 million that, in addition to exceptional items and amortisation of customer lists, have impacted the results for the year.
These principally relate to reorganisation and redundancy costs, other asset impairments, profit on the sale of land and buildings and professional and other costs in the group centre.
All comparisons, unless otherwise stated, are at constant 2004 exchange rates.
08 Rentokil Initial plc Operating Review New CFO Andrew Macfarlane appointed on 9 September Andrew Macfarlane Chief Financial Officer
