Dear shareholder At the beginning of 2005, I was still temporarily executive chairman of the group.
However, as stated in last years annual report, Doug Flynn joined us on 4 April as chief executive and I reverted to non-executive chairman.
I explained in last years report how the board believed that Dougs proven qualities and experience were those required at Rentokil Initial.
Much has happened in the last twelve months so I have left the majority of this letter for Doug to explain the actions he has taken since April 2005 and how he sees our companys future.
There were other board changes during the year.
Roger Payne, finance director, retired and we warmly welcomed his successor Andrew Macfarlane as chief financial officer.
Andrew joined us in August from Land Securities Group plc where he had been group finance director.
The board was also pleased that Duncan Tatton-Brown, group finance director of Kingfisher plc, agreed to become a non-executive director in July.
In October, Ted Brown announced that he would be retiring as an executive director at the end of 2005 after nearly 25 years with the company and I would like to thank him for his significant contribution over many years.
I have also to announce that Ron Spinney, deputy chairman, and Paul Mason, non-executive director, have indicated that they intend to step down from the board at the AGM on 18 May 2006.
Ron has been a non-executive director since 1997 and deputy chairman since 2004.
I would like to thank Ron on behalf of the board for his nine years commitment to Rentokil Initial and personally for the invaluable support he has given me during the challenging times the company has faced in recent years.
Paul, who joined the board in 2003, has recently been appointed chief executive of Somerfield Limited and feels with this new appointment he will no longer be able to devote sufficient time to the company.
We wish both Ron and Paul well in their future activities and, in the meantime, the board is looking to appoint additional non-executive directors.
Finally, before I hand over to Doug I must comment on the unwelcome approach made by Raphoe in the second half of last year.
Raphoe proposed that existing shareholders give them for free approximately 70 million worth of Rentokil Initial shares in return for them replacing the existing management.
Not surprisingly, the approach came to nothing.
However, the financial cost and in particular the considerable amount of management time which needed to be diverted was unhelpful to say the least.
Our company is at an interesting and exciting junction: a company with some strong market positions, a new senior team, part way through a turnaround programme.
How did we get into this position?
The company did not suddenly stop growing and then see profit decline.
The problems and their sources have been there for a long time.
Like the little boy who said the emperor has no clothes, the message was not well received at first.
Brian, in the period that he was acting chief executive, articulated some of the fundamental problems but as he was only in the role for an interim period was somewhat restricted in the actions he could start.
He did, however, Rentokil Initial plc A Letter from the Chairman and CEO 01 A letter from the Chairman and CEO continued identify and address several issues.
In particular he pursued four key subjects: the need to rebuild service capabilities and sales capabilities: the need to be more innovative: and the need to be better marketers of our services.
The underinvestment in systems was also recognised.
Directionally, all of these were unarguably correct and investment in these areas most particularly in sales and service went into the costs from the end of 2004 onwards.
There is no doubt that the increases in sales and service capability have contributed to the increasing turnover, restarting portfolio growth and improving contract retention rates that we have seen this year.
But much more needs to be done to return the company to sustainable, profitable growth.
We commenced a strategic review of the company within a month of my joining.
We started that review with one precondition: we would do the review with a completely open mind about what would maximise shareholder value.
The review sought to analyse the deep rooted problems that the company faced.
If confirmed the boards opinion that many of these problems had been self-inflicted as a result of underinvestment, lack of management focus and a risk-averse culture.
The key specific outcomes from the review were that: Brian McGowan Chairman we were in too many businesses but we had strong positions to build from in a number of them Aged 61.
Appointed we were underinvested in systems and inefficient in our back office and administrative processes a director in October 1996 and non-executive service was a key factor the company was falling short on chairman in July 2004.
Chairman of UMECO plc and Catalyst Corporate Finance UK sales and marketing was one dimensional and not as effective as it could be Limited.
Formerly chief executive of Williams a number of key businesses were in decline and performance needed to be reversed plc and chairman of House of Fraser plc.
the structure of the organisation did not support business objectives Doug Flynn Chief Executive In the broad the company needed to be redirected and re-energised.
Appointed a director and chief executive in April 2005.
He was previously At the interim results back in August 2005, we talked about our criteria for success under three chief executive of Aegis Group PLC, having headings: strategy, people and structure and operations.
We said our progress should be measured joined the board as a non-executive director in 1999.
Prior to this, he spent 13 years with by the end of 2006 against the following objectives: the News Corporation Limited in the UK and Australia, latterly as managing director of Strategy: News International Plc.
Before joining News Corporation Limited he was with ICI for ten Clearer strategic focus and investment priorities years working in Australia and Hong Kong Stronger strategic positions in various management roles.
People and structure: Properly aligned business structure Progressively strengthened management team Operations: Performance improvement in priority businesses Improvement in contract retention rates Revenue growing at least at market rates 02 Rentokil Initial plc A Letter from the Chairman and CEO New CEO Doug Flynn appointed on 4 April Doug Flynn Brian McGowan Chief Executive Chairman
