81795x 1020 25 2 06 4:02 pm Page 3 Chief executives report The 2005 results were excellent.
The mining industry is experiencing strong prices across most of its products.
We were able to capitalise on the upswing with a strong operating performance that maximised production, while at the same time improving our safety record.
We approved a number of major projects and concluded a number of well executed transactions.
We are also introducing structural business improvements in the Group that are expected to yield long term benefits and position us for continuing strong performance when markets are not as buoyant.
Performance As Chinas industrial output soars and more than a billion people participate in a transformation of their living standards, the demand for the metals and minerals we Rio Tinto are responding to demand energy more efficiently and improve produce has increased rapidly.
In copper, productivity across all our operations.
Chinas large share of world growth, the response has been impacted by Rio Tinto has a long track record of economic conditions were also stronger in significant interruptions in supply.
In creating value through business Japan and the US.
aluminium, in spite of strong demand improvement.
A global approach to The level of demand sent the prices for growth, a period of strong investment in procurement has resulted in savings from copper, molybdenum, iron ore, coking and China has meant demand has been purchases under Group wide contracts, thermal coal, and alumina to historic peaks in satisfied for the metal itself, although while the establishment of Rio Tinto nominal terms.
Only time will tell whether the alumina is in short supply and prices have Shipping to leverage the scale of our bulk 2005 prices for these commodities represent risen significantly.
Finally, in both coking shipments has successfully reduced costs.
For its part, Rio Tinto and thermal coal, there has been some On the operating side, the concept of concentrated on operational delivery, and we response but infrastructure has been a combining business units in common achieved record output in many areas.
geographic areas such as Rio Tinto Coal As a result, all product groups except Current market conditions may result in Australia and Pilbara Iron has led to cost Industrial Minerals increased their a longer period of above average prices effective rationalisation.
Higher costs reduced than we have seen before.
In fact Rio Tinto We are currently entering the next earnings by US$598 million.
has modestly increased its long term price phase in the evolution of business In the current environment some cost forecasts for some products for planning improvement.
Our model of decentralised increases are inevitable.
Other costs are, in and investment purposes.
businesses with strong local management fact, desirable and make good business While the cycle may be longer, there accountability has been a source of sense, such as increased exploration and has been a significant impact on costs.
By making the most of our global project evaluation spending.
Most mining inputs such as energy, scale and reach, we now want to ensure Our business is cyclical.
The increase in supplies, equipment and labour have we maximise the sum of our parts.
demand and consumption with the resultant become more costly and in short supply.
This means leveraging synergies across rise in prices, provides an incentive for the In energy, we paid 40 per cent more for all our businesses through greater industry to invest.
This can lead to fuel and 50 per cent more for natural gas collaboration and the standardisation of oversupply and some product substitution, in the US.
Lead times to procure heavy successful operating practices.
The use of which ultimately depresses prices.
This mining equipment have risen from six improved information technology is part of effect produces spikes in the chart, above to 12 months.
Heavy mobile equipment the process.
and below the average long term price tyres are in very short supply.
Thanks to We are still in the early stages of this trend.
Rio Tinto aims to operate successfully our established purchasing networks we journey, but we are confident it will deliver and create value in all environments.
have been able to secure supplies better considerable value.
Improving performance How long the current strong price than most.
together, as we call our programme, will environment remains depends on how Some specialist skills are also short and create value through a combination of rapidly the industry is able to respond to labour costs in a number of regions have capital efficiency, higher volumes, higher the strong demand for most products.
The cost of oil and gas is revenues and improved productivity leading The response will differ from product to unlikely to return to the prices prevailing to lower costs.
This goes to the core of our product.
These factors may represent a business, which is about first class So far this response has been varied.
structural increase in costs for our industry, operational delivery.
We are developing a In iron ore, major producers including but we constantly look for ways to use real sense of excitement about the scale, Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements 3 81795x 1020 27 2 06 11:35 am Page 4 COORDINATED SKILLS RECRUITMENT Extraordinary growth in metals and developing new projects or becoming Solomons Mines.
Rio Tinto project minerals markets has resulted in strong involved in finding major mineral deposits, geologist Sam Roffey is featured as demand for a variety of engineering and says the Group project leader, Graduate swapping Tunbridge Wells in England for mineral science disciplines.
In recent years Recruitment and Development, Errol Muir.
Five years spent exploring Rio Tinto has taken a more globally Rio Tinto has established relationships for copper in Chile and Argentina made her coordinated approach to recruitment to with major universities in Australia, the US fluent in Spanish, but then she was ensure the Group maintains the skills it and the UK for management training and uprooted to become a diamond hunter needs for the present and the future.
About 150 graduates were recruited in campuses emphasises that a career in the Sam is quoted as saying: Ive found 2005 and development of talent internally mining industry is an exciting career choice myself being an environmentalist, donkey is a high priority.
Graduates have a real job with above average pay.
renter, accountant, helicopter navigator and from day one, working with people who are In an article in The Times of London agony aunt.
There has been considerable leaders in their fields.
This is an exciting career supplement What its like to work for responsibility from the very beginning, but time for our industry and some of the Rio Tinto, working for the Group is its always been balanced with a good people who join now could find themselves described as like a scene from King dose of adventure.
Chief executives report continued ambition and potential of the changes we significant joint venture in Russia with upgraded titanium slag plant at QIT in have set in motion see page 53.
Due to strong demand, we exploration projects in progress in Australia announced a further expansion to 375,000 Strategy iron ore, India diamonds, Indonesia tonnes per year which will be completed We focus on long life, low cost assets.
nickel, Brazil bauxite, South Africa coal in 2006.
These assets will generate very strong and Turkey copper.
The resource relating to our investment cash flows when markets are buoyant.
Our exploration portfolio is currently the in Madagascar will support a 40 year mine Just as importantly, they also deliver good best we have seen.
Titanium dioxide feedstock reserves are returns when markets are weaker.
Large projects and prospects with the potential more than 12 millon tonnes, with an world class orebodies give us options to to ensure we can maintain our growth additional 39 million tonnes of resources.
At expand capacity in line with demand, as profile.
They provide a variety of new an ilmenite grade of 60 per cent, this we are doing today.
Options can also be development options in all of our main represents the best undeveloped resource created by acquisition, especially where product sectors over the next five years, of this scale and quality.
We are investing synergies exist.
many of which could become long life, US$775 million of which US$585 million will This was demonstrated in our Iron Ore quality assets the hallmark of Rio Tinto.
be for the mine and port in Madagascar group by the development of West Angelas In 2005 we invested US$2.5 billion in the and US$190 million for upgrading related following the acquisition of North Ltd in growth of the business and expect to spend processing facilities in Canada.
Production 2000, and the 2005 agreement to form a an additional US$3 billion in both 2006 and is due to commence in late 2008. joint venture involving Hope Downs.
We are demonstrating that in these Elsewhere, the development of a new Hope Downs iron ore property in Western times of buoyant demand Rio Tinto has the mine at Cortez Hills in Nevada, US was Australia is also a good illustration of our best opportunities for organic growth in its announced, and the Diavik diamond mine ability to evaluate and execute a value history, based on the number and scale of in Canada closed off a second dike to creating transaction quickly.
current and potential projects in our pipeline.
permit mining of additional orebodies.
At Although the bulk of our operations are Reflecting strong demand and our year end we commenced development of in Australia, the US and Canada, we have excellent resource position, we are making an underground mine at Argyle Diamonds invested in many new frontier regions and significant investments in iron ore. At the at a cost of US$910 million and further will continue to do so.
Our exploration beginning of 2005 we had investment of expenditure to extend the life of mine at programme is very broad, but wherever we US$1.3 billion already under way for the Rssing Uranium in Namibia to 2016. conduct development, our projects will be expansion of production and transportation After taking a leading position in the subject to the same rigorous evaluation.
In April we financing and development of the Lihir Our approach is focused and measured committed another US$290 million to gold mine in Papua New Guinea in the we are risk aware, but not risk averse.
expanding three mines, followed in October 1990s, we agreed with Lihir Gold in We are investing in Madagascar, we are by a further US$1.35 billion for additional September to relinquish our management evaluating exciting projects in West Africa port capacity and further mine expansions.
agreement and subsequently sold our iron ore and Argentina potash by solution In Industrial Minerals, in the first half of 14.5 per cent interest in November for mining and we have entered into a the year we completed an expansion of the US$295 million.
4 Rio Tinto 2005 Annual report and financial statements 81795x 1020 28 2 06 2:05 pm Page 5 Summing up Underlying Margins Profit for the Cash flows from % a adjusted earnings year a e operations a d The Group is performing well operationally, US$m a b US$m maximising the volumes of product we deliver into strong markets.
These markets continue to look strong well into 2006.
Whilst alert to merger and acquisition opportunities we are delivering our current projects and have an excellent array of organic growth options.
Notwithstanding our record levels of investment and return of capital to shareholders, we are generating cash that is surplus to our needs, enabling us to 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 Dividends from Underlying adjusted manage and maintain a strong balance jointly controlled earnings but before sheet and retain our capacity to take entities and associates interest and tax, as advantage of opportunities as they arise.
Cash flows from a percentage of consolidated operations gross turnover.
In this buoyant climate we remain focused on business improvement as a priority by implementing a major new programme of renewal that will create value for shareholders in the future no Notes to the charts are on page 6.
Net debt: total matter what market conditions we face.
capital Profit and turnover measures Rio Tintos success is a tribute to the % a The Financial review on pages 32 to 39 includes a discussion of the main factors dedication and commitment of our affecting the Groups Profit for the year, as measured in accordance with International employees.
I thank my management team Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
In monitoring its financial performance, the Group also focuses on that part of the Profit for the year attributable to equity and employees throughout the world for shareholders of Rio Tinto, which is referred to as Net earnings, and on an additional the hard work they have put in and for their measure called Underlying earnings.
The latter measure, which is also based on the amounts attributable to Rio Tinto shareholders, is reported to provide greater continued support.
understanding of the underlying business performance of Rio Tinto operations.
This is defined and reconciled with Net earnings in Note 2 to the financial statements.
Significant movements in the items excluded from Underlying earnings and in the earnings attributable to outside equity shareholders are discussed on pages 32 and 33 of the Financial review respectively.
In this report, the turnover of the parent companies and their subsidiaries is referred to as Consolidated turnover.
Rio Tinto also reports a turnover measure that 01 02 03 04 05 includes its share of jointly controlled entities and associates, which is referred to as Gross turnover.
This latter measure is considered informative because a significant part of the Groups business is conducted through operations that are subject to equity accounting.
