10885 R&A 2005 actual 15 3 06 07:56 Page 06 06 Chief Executives review Rolls-Royce continued to make good financial progress in 2005.
Sir John Rose Chief Executive Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005 10885 R&A 2005 actual 15 3 06 07:56 Page 07 07 Rolls-Royce continued to make good financial We believe it desirable to continue to increase All this added to the increasingly international progress in 2005, with a substantial increase in the strength of the balance sheet, reecting the nature of the Group.
Today 40 per cent of our our profitability and cash ow.
By cutting costs long-term nature of the business.
This will also employees work outside the UK, 87 per cent and working more efficiently, we were able to stand us in good stead as we manage pension of our sales are to destinations outside the UK counter the impact of higher commodity prices obligations over the coming years.
and we have ofces, manufacturing and locallyand an adverse trend in our achieved US dollar New orders in 2005 reached a record level supported service facilities in 50 countries.
It was good to see the results of 11.3 billion, and brought the year-end rm reected in a rising share price.
order book to a record 22.9 billion, an increase Priorities We continue to grow organically and of 21 per cent over 2004.
Over the past ten years, We focused on three priority areas in 2005. our sales increased in 2005 by 11 per cent to the order book has grown at an annual Investment in technology and products 6,603 million, with growth achieved in each compound rate of 14 per cent.
Over the past Acquisition of new technologies is of the Groups market sectors.
Our underlying five years, Asia has been a significant source conducted very methodically.
We aim to profit, on a like-for-like basis, increased by 49 per of new business and it now represents have  ready to cent and a strong cash inow of 552 million 33 per cent of the order book.
incorporate into our next generation of resulted in positive net funds of 335 million on products, whilst at the same time exploring the balance sheet at the year-end.
Average net Progress in Asia what might be possible further into the debt was reduced by a further 59 per cent, Growth in Asia is prompting more air travel, future.
We see no shortage of market to 260 million.
both for business and for pleasure, increasing opportunities and expect the level of Underlying earnings per share rose 55 per the energy requirements to support industrial self-funded investment in our research cent to 24.14p and basic earnings per share development and larger numbers of afuent and development work to remain at rose 29 per cent to 20.11p.
It is stimulating investment in oil and approximately five per cent of Group sales.
shareholders has been proposed of 5.38p per gas exploration and transmission and it is share, making a total payment for the year of boosting orders for marine propulsion systems The impact of this investment on our 8.72p per share, a 6.6 per cent increase from Asias ship building industries, now the income in any one year will reect the mix compared to the payment in 2004. largest and fastest growing in the world.
and maturity of our current development We attach great importance to minimising These are all target markets for Rolls-Royce programmes.
During 2005 we launched the impact on our nances of volatility in the and we are benefiting accordingly.
In 2005 a number of new programmes, notably global currency markets.
We continued in 2005 sales to the region increased by 18 per cent the Trent 1700 for the Airbus A350 and to pursue our strategy of hedging future net and the order book for the region increased the Avon 200, an upgrade of the existing dollar revenues and at the end of the year we by 70 per cent.
Avon engine that has been so successful had approximately US$10.5 billion of forward Our physical presence in Asia is also in the energy sector.
cover, at an average exchange rate of growing.
We incorporated a new subsidiary 1.67 dollars to the pound.
The achieved rate in in Bangalore, in order to expand engineering 2005 deteriorated by four cents relative to 2004. capacity over a range of new programmes.
We will use this hedge book in conjunction We established a joint venture in Singapore, with cost-reduction initiatives and further to develop a commercially viable power system dollarisationof our cost base to manage based on solid oxide fuel cell technology.
our future foreign exchange exposure.
We opened a new marine factory in Shanghai, from which the Groups 300 million turnover merchant business will be managed.
And we established new sources of supply in markets such as China, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and Taiwan.
Delivering shareholder value FTSE 100 Rolls-Royce Total Shareholder Return over 10 years Rolls-Royce against FTSE 100 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 12 1995 12 1996 12 1997 12 1998 12 1999 12 2000 12 2001 12 2002 12 2003 12 2004 12 2005 Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005 Total Shareholder Return index 10885 R&A 2005 actual 15 3 06 07:56 Page 08 08 Chief Executives review continued Operational and unit cost reduction Technology and the environment Community We made further progress in improving We continued to pay particular attention The Groups other community activities in efficiency, thereby offsetting the impact in 2005 to the environmental impact of our 2005 were far ranging.
They involved the active of higher commodity prices by cutting products and of our manufacturing operations.
participation and generosity of our employees.
We achieved this by increasing In civil aerospace, our strategy is to seek to This was notably true of our response to the productivity in our plants, managing maintain the benets to society of the growth sad consequences of both the tsunami that our supply chain better and buying more in air travel, whilst helping to rein back as struck in the Indian Ocean just before the start from low-cost sources.
Where we had much as possible the negative consequences of the year and the Gulf of Mexico hurricanes to carry higher inventories to facilitate of air travel for the global environment.
We are that swept across the southern US in our  programme, accordingly pursuing new technologies that September.
Employees added over 250,000 we more than offset their financial impact should enable us to meet a series of highly of their own money to our corporate donations through a rigorous management of our demanding environmental targets, described of 500,000 for recovery projects in Asia.
Importantly, more efficient in more detail on pages 36 and 37.
Several of these were supported by Rolls-Royce working practices were implemented as We will succeed in this because our managers and engineers based in the region.
a pre-condition for new factory investment.
engineers and scientists have the skills and In the US, where three sites with 136 employees A signicantly higher work load, particularly dedication to tackle some daunting technical were directly affected, Group assistance was in relation to our civil aerospace engines, challenges.
Their talents are a timely reminder similarly backed up by generous support from has challenged the ability of our supply of the importance of attracting gifted Rolls-Royce colleagues.
chain to match our needs and this remains individuals to a career in the sciences.
As a We received a Gold Award from the UK an area for attention.
Group, we are increasingly impressed by the Institute of Fundraising in 2005 for our Payroll commitment to science teaching in many Giving Scheme.
This provides and pays for the Continued development of countries, especially in Asia.
The picture in the administration of employeesdonations to aftermarket services UK, though, is very different with increasing charity, enabling them to be made regularly Aftermarket service revenues, including evidence that young peoples enthusiasm and in a tax-efficient way.
Employees last year 100 per cent of our repair and overhaul for the physical sciences is in decline.
gave in excess of 396,000 to charities of their joint ventures, increased by 12 per cent in To help address this issue, in 2004 we own choosing.
2005 and have grown at 11 per cent per introduced the Rolls-Royce Science Prize.
It has annum compound over the past ten years.
been designed to reward imaginative scienceEmployees Services now represent 54 per cent of our teaching projects in the classrooms of the UK Our contribution to community activities revenues.
This is a consequence of the and Ireland each year, across all ages.
reects a strong corporate culture that successful broadening of the Groups product It offers substantial cash awards for the remains one of the Groups most valuable range, the steady increase in the number of winning entrants.
It owes much to the unusually long our engines in service and the investment encouragingly in 2005, with a 55 per cent average tenure of our employees, many of we have made in a comprehensive range increase in the number of schools taking part whom spend their entire careers with of aftermarket-service capabilities.
in the prize as compared with its inaugural year.
It is therefore especially pleasing Increasingly, we are taking responsibility that the rise in our share price will benefit a for the maintenance of our engines and broad constituency of shareholders within systems under long-term service agreements.
the company, with a significant number of our This aligns our commercial interests closely employees participating in sharesaveschemes with those of our customers, and maximises and a large number owning shares directly.
the value that our skills and assets can add.
During 2005 a number of innovative service agreements were announced in each of the Groups business sectors.
A consistent strategy, built around five objectives All four of our market sectors are characterised Address four global markets Invest in technology, by strong demand trends that stretch well capability and infrastructure We are a leading power-systems company, into the future.
Our business strategy is built operating in the civil and defence aerospace, Over the past five years we have invested around five key objectives: marine and energy markets.
We manufacture more than 3 billion in research and in 20 countries and serve customers in development.
We invest on average 30 million 150 countries.
annually on training, and the Group invests 200 300 million every year in capital projects.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005 10885 R&A 2005 actual 15 3 06 07:56 Page 09 09 Our improved financial performance has In defence aerospace, we have developed a In aggregate, we are expecting continued also meant that, for the first time in many broad product portfolio that addresses all of the progress in 2006, underpinned by the rising years, executive share options have vested.
major market sectors, from combat and trainer order book, the growth in service revenues The vesting of this component of executive aircraft to transport and tactical aircraft and and sustained cost reduction.
As a result, remuneration is tied to performance criteria helicopters.
Our mix of mature programmes, though we see no likelihood of any reduction designed with a view to securing and new production programmes, development in competitive intensity in our markets, we do rewarding long-term success.
It is worth programmes and service revenues is expected expect increased profits and a positive cash noting that our executive directors all to enable the Group to make good progress in ow for the year.
own, either directly or in trust, substantial spite of the volatility that may be experienced The proposed increase in the payment to shareholdings in Rolls-Royce.
This demonstrates on individual programmes, as exemplied by shareholders for 2005 represents an increase their commitment to the Group, and has the the uncertainties surrounding the alternate of 6.6 per cent over the payment made in 2004. added benefit of aligning their personal engine for the Joint Strike Fighter in the wake This reects our confidence in the future interests with those of all other shareholders.
of the US Quadrennial Defense Review.
I would like here to Our marine business is benefiting from its acknowledge the hard work and dedication of Future prospects broad access to naval and commercial markets.
all the people in Rolls-Royce around the world Rolls-Royce is addressing four long-term growth Here again, we are bringing new products to that have helped us establish this position.
Their aggregate demand for engines market, from gas turbines such as the MT30 and services over the next 20 years is estimated to rim-driven tunnel thrusters, which we believe to be worth approximately two trillion dollars.
are likely to have a major impact on marine The Groups consistent investment in propulsion systems.
Boosted by the rise in oil technology and in new products and services and gas prices, the commercial offshore market enables us to respond effectively to new remains very strong and we are confident Sir John Rose Chief Executive developments, creating opportunities for that we can continue to capture a good share organic growth in each of the four markets.
In civil aerospace, we see the market Our energy business is strengthening its continuing to recover from the recession that presence in emerging oil and gas markets and began at the start of this decade, the impact of is well positioned to secure a growing share which was exacerbated by the events of 9 11, of the power-generation market.
Its profitability SARS and the Gulf War.
We expect to benefit will be constrained for some time by the further from this recovery.
The number of investments it is making in new technology Rolls-Royce jet engines in service is increasing including the development of solid-oxide fuel and ying hours across our eet are cell systems.
This growth, combined with our broadening of the services we make available, is expected to lead to a steady increase in our service revenues.
Develop a competitive portfolio Grow market share and Add value through the provision of products and services installed product base of product-related services Our strong product portfolio means that Across the Group, the growing number We seek to add value for our customers we are involved in many of the major future of engines in service and their long service with aftermarket services that will enhance projects in the markets we serve.
These key lives are expected to generate attractive the performance and reliability of our products.
projects will shape the power-systems market returns over many decades.
This approach is fundamental to developing for the next 50 years.
and sustaining collaborative long-term relationships in all our markets.
Rolls-Royce Group plc Annual report 2005 10885 R&A 2005 actual 15 3 06 07:56 Page 10 Innovation 10885 R&A 2005 actual 15 3 06 07:56 Page 11 Focused investment in technology and products Main image: Below: Below: Trent 1000 for the Boeing 787 Fuel cells TP400 The image shows a close-up of compressor blades used Rolls-Royce is developing this technology with a view This large 11,000 shaft horsepower shp turboprop in the Trent 1000 engine.
This member of the Trent family to producing a new source of energy characterised engine is being developed by Europrop International, is in development for the new Boeing 787 family of airliners.
by minimal noise and emission levels.
Rolls-Royce Fuel a consortium in which Rolls-Royce is a major partner.
Rolls-Royce has secured important new customers on this Cell Systems is building a fuel cell that, if successful, The engine will power the Airbus A400M transport aircraft programme, such as ANA of Japan and Northwest Airlines will produce a commercially viable one-megawatt, and is scheduled for certication in 2007.
stationary power system capable of servicing the energy engines will be required to meet the needs of the partners Below: needs of, for example, a business park or large hospital.
in the programme: Germany, France, the UK, Spain, Turkey, Airbus A380 Belgium and Luxembourg.
The first ight of the Airbus A380 took place on April 27, 2005, powered by four Trent 900 engines.
As the next Trent to enter service, the Trent 900 features an advanced hollow swept fan, contra-rotating and 3-D computer-designed compressors and a low NOx combustor, all developed as a result of our investment in new technology.
Rolls-Royce programmes have long life-cycles, often lasting more than 50 years.
Our  strategy is focused on both developing new products and enhancing their through-life performance.
10885 R&A 2005 actual 15 3 06 07:56 Page 12 We are investing in new facilities and the most efficient working practices, to manufacture high value-added components in our factories.
We also work closely with a highly capable international supply chain.
Operational and unit cost reduction Main image and below: Below: Below: Derby Shanghai Bristol Two new facilities, each costing 50 million, have been built Our largest investment yet in China, the new marine facility Bristol is a main centre for the Groups military in Derby providing additional capacity for the production in Shanghai, will produce a wide range of propulsion and engine activities and here 80 million is being of compressor systems and for our aero-engine repair & steering systems and deck machinery for the fast-growing invested in new facilities for the manufacture of overhaul AR&O business.
A programme of investment shipyards of north-east Asia.
turbine systems and components and their assembly in engine testbeds is also under way.
10885 R&A 2005 actual 15 3 06 07:56 Page 13 Integrity 10885 R&A 2005 actual 15 3 06 07:56 Page 14 Rolls-Royce provides reliable products and a comprehensive range of product-related services.
Our long-term support contracts enable us to add value for our customers by using our technology and skills to help them achieve their objectives.
Reliability 10885 R&A 2005 actual 15 3 06 07:56 Page 15 Continued development of aftermarket services Main image: Belgian and Royal Netherlands navies.
This service and Below: Euroghter Typhoon support contract runs until 2017 and covers Olympus and Building relationships Under a 57 million contract signed in 2005, Rolls-Royce Tyne engines powering 27 ships.
Malaysian oil and gas giant PETRONAS and Rolls-Royce will provide a complete support package that will ensure have been fostering stronger customer supplier links Below: the RAF always has enough EJ200 engines available through a successful technology-transfer programme.
Customer care to meet its expanding ying programme for the new The programme has seen Rolls-Royce increase the Both the civil aerospace and defence aerospace businesses Euroghter Typhoon aircraft, which has just entered service.
knowledge and expertise in gas turbine technology are now running Operations Centres based at Derby and of key PETRONAS personnel.
It has involved training Bristol respectively providing 24-hour in-service support Below: and hands-on experience for PETRONAS participants for customers.
The centres monitor engine operations Marine at Rolls-Royce facilities in Europe and North America.
in real time, co-ordinating and integrating data that allow A long-term service contract worth 137 million has been Rolls-Royce to provide better predictive information and agreed for our marine business to support Rolls-Royce operational advice to customers.
gas turbines in service with the Royal Navy and the French,
