Chief executives review Over the past 12 months we have concentrated steadily on building our operations and marketing skills while working to extract better performance from all our assets.
In a third year of remarkable growth, total beverage volumes increased by 8% to 187 million hectolitres.
Lager sales also up 8% stood at 148 million hectolitres.
Earnings before interest, taxation, amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items EBITA grew by 27% 18% in organic, constant currency terms to US$2,409 million while our EBITA margin rose from 15.0% to 16.6%.
So not only are we selling more, were also making more money from our sales as margins improve.
So what have been some of the reasons for the years successes?
driving performan One is the global spread of our operations.
We now have a continuum of businesses from emerging to mature: enabling us to benefit from both value and volume growth.
In many cases, theres also an upward trend towards higher value brands as consumers enter the market at the bottom end and others progress towards the premium end.
A second reason is our strong market positions and the benets that come from having market leadership in nearly every case.
Thirdly, we continue to benefit from our skills in turning around previously under-performing businesses.
Weve done it several times over in Europe and the team at Miller are now producing good results from their turnaround programme.
Finally, weve again reaped the rewards of our relentless focus on operating performance.
Three stages of growth Last year I described our three-phase strategy for growing our earnings.
To recap, we see gains to be made in the near-term from our strong, established operations in growth markets South Africa, the rest of Africa, Europe and Central America.
We then see, somewhat later, growth from the recent big acquisitions, Miller in the US and Peroni in Italy.
Longer term, we look to the developing markets of China and India and the growing contribution of our international premium brands.
This year, each of our businesses contributed more or less in accordance with its place in the strategy.
The exception is Miller where the turnaround programme has produced results ahead of their expectations.
With two years gone, the benets expected towards the end of the programme are already coming through.
6 SABMiller plc We now have a continuum of businesses from emerging to mature: enabling us to benefit from value and volume growth.
ce SABMiller plc 7 Chief executives review Although, for the coming year, we anticipate that Millers growth rate will be more modest than the original plan.
Near-term growth As the chairman has mentioned, our businesses in South Africa have benefited from the countrys strong economic growth and the consequent robust consumer upturn that seems set to continue for some time.
One result is the upward trend I referred to earlier as more South Africans nd they can afford commercially-brewed lager for the first time while others trade up to mainstream brands or from mainstream to premium brands.
The business has capitalised on the trend in a number of ways: by introducing new premium brands such as Miller Genuine Draft and Pilsner Urquell at the top of the market: by adding new avours to its range of fruit alcoholic drinks: and by offering higher-value brands in new packaging.
As a result, our premium brands grew by 50% during the year.
With sales volumes up 8%, the soft drinks business, ABI, was one of the best performing Coca-Cola bottlers in the world last year.
Following the buy-out of the minority ABI shareholders in December 2004, weve now combined our beer and soft drinks businesses in one division and are starting to look for joint efficiencies.
The rest of Africa produced another year of strong earnings growth.
Our two largest operations, Tanzania and Botswana, have contributed the bulk of our profits in Africa for some time and both again did well exceptionally so in the case of Tanzania.
Among our smaller businesses, Mozambique excelled and Angola continued its Weve again reaped the strong growth in soft drinks.
rewards of our relentless focus Prospects in Africa are generally hopeful with increasing economic stability.
As incomes rise, were seeing the same trading up among on operating performance.
beer drinkers that is evident in South Africa.
The challenge is to make sure our products are readily available, particularly in rural areas.
Were also working hard to improve productivity, recognising that theres some way to go to match the standards weve achieved in South Africa.
Europe produced another tremendous performance with particularly good results in Russia, Poland and Romania.
In Europe generally, were emerging from a period of acquisition, turnaround and consolidation.
The priority now is to capitalise on the positions weve gained and to keep building our brands.
Were looking to increase SABMillers international premium volumes ahead of the market and so gain market share.
brands, which include Pilsner One feature of these markets is that many mainstream Urquell and Miller Genuine Draft, consumers are trading either up or down to premium performed well during the year or economy brands.
In response, were with continued worldwide growth.
rejuvenating our mainstream brands while also developing our higher-value brands, both local and international.
Its also crucial to keep innovating and the year has seen a number of new products and formats.
Central America had a good year nancially with profits up as costs were reduced, despite operating in an extremely competitive market.
El Salvador has been particularly tough and the team there has re-engineered the business for what is bound to be a challenging year ahead.
8 SABMiller plc Medium-term growth In North America, we acquired Miller in 2002 and after an intense period of analysis and planning, the Miller executive team announced its three-year recovery programme in May 2003.
Two years into the programme, were pleased to report that Millers US sales volumes have started to lift for the first time in six years.
While the most eyecatching success has been the resurgence of Miller Lite, the trends in our other brands are beginning to improve.
As mentioned last year, the turnaround plan has four components building brands and shaping the portfolio: getting sales and distribution right: cutting costs and raising productivity: and mobilising and invigorating the organisation and its people.
Millers Marketing, Sales and Distribution Conference, Milwaukee 2005.
Theres been good progress in each aspect.
Miller has staked out strong positions for most of its important brands, some linked to the qualities of the product.
It has split the US into distinct market India also offers good long-term prospects.
Following the areas and is working to local marketing plans with the enthusiastic transaction in May 2005, the business is now wholly-owned and is support of its distributors.
Among its cost-saving measures, it has Indias second largest brewer and expanding ahead of the industry rationalised the corporate centre and sharpened its approach to with double-digit volume growth in the past year.
To help establish a performance culture, it has restructured consumption is low, the countrys economic growth and the trend the organisation with new performance management processes, from spirits to beer promise well for the future.
The main impediment clearer goals and better training and development of its people.
is a complex regulatory system that limits economies of scale and Miller is now the recognised challenger to the long-established may take some time to be liberalised.
It uses the phrase able challenger The final element in our long-term growth strategy consists of our international premium brands.
Among the years successes, Miller Genuine Draft did well in South Africa and grew by 43% in Russia.
The newly packaged Peroni Nastro Azzurro was launched in the USA, the UK and Romania, while Pilsner Urquell continued to grow The imperative is to keep worldwide and Castle increased its sales in Zambia and Tanzania.
building brands that consumers Developments in the global marketplace love and to market them I argued last year that the global beer industry had largely completed its first phase of consolidation the acquisition of local businesses by superbly.
Its also to make the larger players and was now entering a second phase consisting of mergers of relative equals.
The Miller transaction was the first of this whole greater than the sum of its new wave and has now been followed by the Interbrew and Ambev deal and the merger between Coors and Molson.
Global consolidation parts, so generating ever-greater continues to gather pace.
In our view, we have the scale we need to execute our strategy value from our worldwide without being constrained by our size.
We therefore dont need another landscape-changing deal on the scale of Miller.
acquisitions we do decide to make will be determined solely by their ability to add value.
The imperative from here on is to keep building brands that to describe the required competence and capability in shaking up the consumers love and to market them superbly.
Its also to make each market, challenging the status quo and presenting itself as a strong operation work better that relentless focus on performance I alternative.
This positioning will be important as the US market mentioned earlier while making the whole greater than the sum of its becomes more competitive.
parts, so generating ever-greater value from our worldwide portfolio.
Although Italy is not an easy market at present, were starting to There is underlying momentum in most of our major markets, see some progress with Peroni.
A new managing director was and we expect further steady organic volume growth for the group, appointed in February 2005 to accelerate the pace of change as the supported by significant ongoing marketplace investments.
turnaround programme moves from planning to implementation.
Following a number of years of exceptional rates of profit growth delivered by the group, earnings per share for the coming year are Long-term growth expected to continue to grow at a more moderate rate from this Through our Chinese associate, CR Snow previously CRB, weve higher base.
been operating in China for 11 years.
During that time, the business has grown both organically and by acquisition to become one of the largest beer businesses in the worlds largest market.
Volumes have continued to increase and after stagnating for many years, Chinese beer prices are starting to lift as outdated breweries are taken out of service and cost pressures in commodities such as glass and grain are passed on in price increases.
As we build brand equities, we see Graham Mackay opportunities for premium brands commanding premium prices.
