Support contract growth 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 0.75m 1.00m 1.25m 1.50m I am pleased to report that Sage has continued to make strong progress.
Chief Executives Review We delivered organic revenue growth of 6%, with growth in all regions and in both software licences and services.
We continued to attract new businesses into our customer base.
During the year, we expanded our market presence with some significant acquisitions, whilst 2004s acquisitions have been successfully integrated into our business, showing strong growth and improved margins.
Fulfilling customers needs improved products in all of our markets.
As our customers needs have evolved, they New product releases included improved have continued to enhance their solutions integration with other Sage products and by selecting more advanced software from more consistent and intuitive user interfaces.
the broad range of products we offer.
During We also invested in new applications that will the year, 70,000 customers purchased new enable customers to expand their solutions mid-market solutions from Sage either as in future, such as business intelligence and new customers or by migrating from our payroll services.
Our total investment in small business solutions.
This provides a research and development grew by 8m, significant revenue opportunity as these or 11%, and represented 28% of software customers are more likely to enhance their revenue 2004: 28%.
solution over time and subscribe to our During the year, our CRM business delivered support and service offerings.
a product that enables customers to choose In addition to providing more advanced freely between software that is either rented, back office software, we also offer our and provided via the web, or purchased as customers a range of software to help them a traditional desktop PC application.
In manage processes elsewhere in their recognition of the growth potential of CRM, businesses.
Our customers have exhibited a global organisation has been established increasing demand for CRM software and, within Sage to increase our focus on this as a result, CRM, with organic revenue market and to direct the development of all growth of 9%, was our fastest-growing CRM products.
We have established new category of solution in the year.
Other global branding for all CRM products and software solutions including payroll, human have set up a localisation centre to ensure resources and industry-specific products advances in our CRM solutions are Paul Walker, Chief Executive also contributed to our growth.
This was responsive to local needs.
These initiatives stimulated by country-specific evolution of will accelerate the development of CRM both government legislation and other opportunities in new regions, whilst also business rules.
These have increased the adding focus to the development of our level of information that businesses are existing CRM businesses in North America required to produce.
As our customers purchase more complex Our investment activity also extended to solutions, they increasingly opt to buy more our network of high-quality reseller and of our services in order to run their systems recommender partners.
We provided more more efficiently and produce useful business support for the sales and marketing activities information.
These additional services of our 23,000 reseller partners.
We also include both new support for added extended our sales activities with key software and higher levels of support for influencers such as accountants and existing software.
In addition, more sales consultants.
customers are choosing our combined Acquisition in high-growth segments of the subscriptions to both software and services, SME market remains an important part of including feature upgrades, technical and Sages growth strategy.
As part of this advisory support and data transmission to strategy, we made a number of acquisitions accountants and government bodies.
These acquisitions took us Investing for growth into new markets and also enhanced our We continued our annual programme of position in existing markets.
upgrading our product portfolio in response to customer needs, releasing new and 2 3 Regional review Mainland Europe Revenues in Mainland Europe were 205.2m UK and Ireland 2004: 172.6m.
Organic revenue growth UK revenues were 195.8m 2004: 185.8m.
of 7% resulted from customers migrating Organic revenue growth of 5% resulted to more sophisticated software and from principally from the sale of upgrades of increased take-up of both premium support accounting and payroll products to existing services and continuous subscriptions customers.
In addition, sales of both combining software and support.
Sales software and support were increased in of both software and support were also key industry-specific solutions such as favourably impacted by changes in those for accountants.
The UK CRM business contributed revenues The acquisition of Simultan significantly of 12m.
Its 10% growth reflects increased expanded coverage of the mid-market in UK and Ireland adoption of Sage CRM products by our UK Switzerland.
The acquisition of Logic Control, reseller partners.
This has enabled our Organic revenue growth of 5% a leading mid-market vendor, complemented resulted principally from the sale under-penetrated UK customer base to be our existing small business division in Spain.
of upgrades of accounting and targeted more effectively.
payroll products to existing The acquisition of Symfonia established a customers.
The operating margin improved in the second leading presence in the attractive Polish market.
Two French acquisitions, C2G half of the year to 39% through effective cost Informatique and Cogestib, established management.
The operating margin for the full year was 38% 2004: 39%.
leading industry-specific presences in the distribution sector.
After the end of the financial year, the acquisition of Adonix extended our presence in the French mid-market.
For the year ended 31 December 2004, its last full year prior to acquisition, its revenue was 42.6m and its operating profit was 9.6m.
Adonix will provide advanced solutions for our midmarket customers, including industry-specific software for real estate and manufacturing.
The overall operating margin in Mainland Europe was 23% 2004: 24%, having been reduced by the initial impact of acquisitions completed during 2005.
Mainland Europe Organic revenue growth of 7% resulted from customers migrating to more sophisticated software and from increased take-up of both premium support services and continuous subscriptions combining software and support.
Foreign currency results for the year ended 30 September 2004 have been retranslated based on the average exchange rates for the year ended 30 September 2005 to facilitate the comparison of results.
Calculated on the basis of 1 Euro 1.480.
1 Financial Highlights and Overview 2 Chairmans Statement 3 Chief Executives Review 6 Corporate Social Responsibility 8 Directors and Advisers 10 Financial Review 13 Directors Report 18 Corporate Governance Statement 23 Remuneration Report 32 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 33 Consolidated Balance Sheet 34 Company Balance Sheet 35 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 36 Consolidated Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 36 Reconciliation of Movements in Equity Shareholders Funds 37 Notes to the Accounts 61 Independent Auditors Report 62 Notice of Meeting 64 Financial Calendar North America Africa, Australia and Asia Revenues in North America were 315.8m This region contributed revenues of 59.8m 2004: 278.5m.
businesses, in South Africa and Australia, showed strong revenue growth and raised Revenues from the small business division margins through increased support were 100.9m 2004: 90.8m, including penetration, improved payroll solutions and the impact of acquisitions.
Organic revenue migration of customers to mid-market growth of 4% resulted from new and solutions.
In Asia, investments in marketing existing customers adopting premium within the ACCPAC business acquired in versions of existing products, together 2004 reduced margins in comparison with with support services for these products.
The overall operating margin These products include industry-specific for the region was 25% 2004: 26%.
Sales of all these North America products benefited from the development of Paul Walker Organic revenue growth of 6% sales channels comprising recommenders Chief Executive resulted from customers and consultants.
purchasing both new solutions and adding to existing solutions, Revenues from the mid-market division were including new and renewed support services.
214.9m 2004: 187.7m, including the impact of acquisitions.
Organic revenue growth of 7% resulted from customers purchasing both new solutions and adding to existing solutions, including new and renewed support services.
These results reflected increased support for the sales and marketing activity of our reseller partners.
We introduced a range of additional payroll services, including full payroll outsourcing, for our 270,000 North American payroll customers.
During the year, 5,000 customers subscribed to these services.
This business was enhanced by the acquisition of Federal Liaison Services, a payroll services supplier, in November 2004.
After the end of the financial year, we agreed to aquire Verus, which is a merchant services business specialising in credit card and cheque processing for SMEs in the US.
The operating margin increased to 23% 2004: 22% as a result of profitable growth Africa, Australia, Asia in the core businesses and of improving margins in 2004s ACCPAC acquisition.
The two largest businesses, in South Africa and Australia, showed strong revenue growth and raised margins.
