Following the sale of PacifiCorp, we will focus our management and capital on our Infrastructure Division, UK Division and PPM Energy.
These three businesses have strong positions, combined with a market and regulatory environment which we anticipate will continue to provide attractive opportunities for increasing returns and organic growth.
This year we achieved profit before tax of over 1 billion for the first time, an increase of 10% compared with the prior year.
Ian Russell Chief Executive Excluding goodwill amortisation and the exceptional item 4 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Chief Executives Review 1 Sale of PacifiCorp 5 Health and Safety 2 Financial Results 6 Corporate Social Responsibility 3 Investing for Growth 7 Employees 4 Improving Operational Performance 8 Conclusion approximately $4.5 billion of the net proceeds from the sale to shareholders following the completion of the sale.
The sale and 1 Sale of PacifiCorp return of capital is expected to be earnings accretive for ScottishPower from completion.
Introduction An exceptional impairment charge of 927 million, under UK In November 2004, the Board began a strategic review of GAAP, has been made in ScottishPowers results for the year PacifiCorp as a result of its performance and the significant ended 31 March 2005.
This impairment provision has been made investment it required in the immediate future.
to reduce the book value of PacifiCorp down to its expected net Our review examined PacifiCorps future capital investment realisable value.
Pending completion of the sale, PacifiCorp will requirements, the likely development of its regulatory regimes, be treated as a discontinued operation in the financial statements the scope for further operational efficiencies and improvements of ScottishPower.
The impairment amount excludes foreign and the scale and timing of further improvements in its achieved exchange gains of 485 million, achieved to date, which will be rates of return.
We also considered the opportunities for growth reflected in ScottishPowers Income Statement under IFRS on and returns that exist in our three other businesses.
completion of the sale of PacifiCorp to MidAmerican.
The Board concluded that, in the light of the scale and timing Going forward, our current dividend policy is to grow of the capital investment required in PacifiCorp and the likely dividends broadly in line with earnings and we expect this to profile of returns from that investment, shareholders interests continue following the sale and return of capital to shareholders.
were best served by a sale of PacifiCorp and return of capital to Our financial strategy will be to retain an A category credit shareholders.
rating for the group and our principal operating subsidiaries.
To The Board, therefore, has entered into a binding agreement achieve this rating, on completion of the sale, the group will for the sale of PacifiCorp to MidAmerican for $9.4 billion.
The target credit ratios of adjusted FFO net debt of greater than Board intends to return approximately $4.5 billion of the net 25% and FFO interest cover of more than five times.
proceeds of $5.0 billion from the sale of PacifiCorp, to ScottishPower will work closely with the rating agencies in shareholders.
This capital return is anticipated to occur order to ensure its rating objectives are achieved.
following completion of the sale.
The details of the capital For the year ended 31 March 2005, PacifiCorps UK GAAP return will be communicated to shareholders in due course.
profit before tax, excluding goodwill amortisation and the The sale of PacifiCorp enables us to focus our management exceptional item, was $581 million and net assets were $4.1 and capital on the continued development of the Infrastructure billion as at 31 March 2005.
From the perspective of PacifiCorp, Division, UK Division and PPM Energy.
These businesses have its unaudited earnings under US GAAP were $250 million for driven our profit growth over the last two years and delivered the same period.
overall returns ahead of our cost of capital.
They have substantial opportunities for continued growth through capital Strategy for ScottishPower investment and improved operational performance.
Following the sale, ScottishPower will continue to develop its Infrastructure Division, UK Division and PPM Energy, where Financial Impact of the Sale and Return of Capital ScottishPower has strong positions, combined with a market MidAmerican will be acquiring the equity of PacifiCorp for and regulatory environment that it is anticipated will continue $5,109.5 million and will be assuming net debt at completion to provide attractive opportunities for organic growth and expected to be approximately $4.3 billion, which gives a total investment.
These businesses have also driven ScottishPowers sale price for PacifiCorp of $9.4 billion.
Allowing for that net recent profit growth and offer the most attractive returns.
In debt, with no material tax cost expected and after estimated aggregate, these three divisions have shown growth in operating costs, net proceeds from the sale are expected to be profit of 38% over the last two years.
ScottishPower intends to return 5 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Chief Executives Review The Infrastructure Division can benefit from increases in material respects, and no material adverse effect in relation to allowed revenue as a result of the recently concluded PacifiCorp having occurred.
The Agreement may be terminated Distribution Price Control Review and Transmission Price prior to completion by mutual agreement of the parties or Control Extension.
The resulting price controls provide otherwise in certain circumstances including material breach of increased revenue allowances for taxation and pension costs, the representations, warranties or covenants of the parties, reflect higher capital investment levels and introduce new ScottishPower shareholders not approving the sale or the sale incentive targets.
The division has geared up across its activities not having been completed by 23 May 2006 or in certain to achieve and, where possible, outperform those new targets circumstances by 17 February 2007 and by MidAmerican where and to deliver the increased investment programme.
We expect the Board of ScottishPower withdraws or adversely modifies its capital expenditure in the division to amount to approximately recommendation of the sale.
ScottishPower has also agreed that it 1.7 billion to 2010, with 40% of that figure associated with will not initiate, solicit or engage in negotiations concerning any growth in the business.
alternative proposals relating to PacifiCorp other than in certain In our UK Division, over the medium-term, we aim to specified circumstances.
continue to grow profitably our customer base and generation ScottishPower and MidAmerican have agreed certain break assets.
The growth in customer numbers is expected to deliver fee arrangements.
In summary, ScottishPower has agreed to pay increased earnings via higher revenues and a reduction in our MidAmerican a break fee of $10 million if, prior to average cost to serve.
We will support this growth in customer ScottishPower shareholders approving the sale, an alternative numbers with further investment in generation and gas storage proposal relating to PacifiCorp or a proposal for the acquisition and aim to invest approximately 1.4 billion of capital to 2010. of control of ScottishPower is made or announced, is rejected by This includes the continued expansion of our windfarm ScottishPower, and ScottishPower shareholders do not portfolio, where we aim to invest 1 billion by 2010.
Some subsequently approve the sale at the relevant shareholders 75% of UK Divisions capital expenditure is expected to meeting or in any event before 1 September 2005 and the support growth, with targeted returns immediately following Agreement with MidAmerican is as a result terminated.
If the completion of each project for new investments of at least 300 break fee would otherwise become payable then its amount is basis points above the divisions weighted average cost of increased to a $100 million in total if the ScottishPower capital.
Board instead of rejecting such proposal, recommends it or At PPM Energy we expect to see continued strong growth withdraws or adversely modifies its recommendation of the sale in the medium-term coming from our investments in and b $250 million in total if within a year of the Agreement windfarms and gas storage.
Approximately 1.4 billion of with MidAmerican terminating, ScottishPower enters into an capital is expected to be invested to 2010, almost all for agreement with respect to or consummates an alternative growth, including 950 million for new wind capacity, taking proposal relating to PacifiCorp or a proposal for the acquisition our total to at least some 2,300 MW and 460 million in the of control of ScottishPower.
The maximum break fee payable by same period to increase our gas storage capacity to 125 BCF.
A break fee of $250 Returns of at least 300 basis points above PPM Energys million is payable by MidAmerican to ScottishPower if weighted average cost of capital are expected immediately ScottishPower terminates the Agreement as a result of following completion of each project.
MidAmerican agreeing to or announcing a proposal to acquire certain competing utility and energy assets if the same directly Details of the PacifiCorp Sale or indirectly results in the failure to satisfy certain regulatory The sale is subject to Securities and Exchange Commission, conditions to the sale and or creates or imposes additional Department of Justice or Federal Energy Regulatory conditionality or costs which result in MidAmerican choosing Commission, Federal Trade Commission and Nuclear not to complete or to terminate the Agreement.
Regulatory Commission approvals at federal level, without Prior to sale it is envisaged that PacifiCorp will be managed conditions that would have a material adverse effect on the and developed as currently, with no material changes to its PacifiCorp business.
In addition it is subject to approval at state operating plans, management structures, or boards.
level in Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, Idaho and Between now and closing of the sale, ScottishPower has California provided such state approvals are not subject to agreed to invest additional equity in PacifiCorp to fund ongoing conditions whose effect would be meaningfully adverse to the capital expenditure in line with PacifiCorps current plan.
The directors of ScottishPower Pursuant to these arrangements, ScottishPower will invest $500 anticipate that such approvals should be forthcoming within 12 million during the financial year 2005 06.
The sale is subject to further conditions to ScottishPower has agreed to make further investments during completion which include the representations and warranties of the financial year 2006 07 of up to $525 million, contributed the parties remaining true and correct, the parties performing quarterly, although ScottishPower will be fully compensated for their covenants and obligations under the Agreement in all any such payments made in respect of the financial year 6 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 2006 07.
Between now and the closing of the sale, complemented significant growth in customer numbers, up ScottishPower is entitled to dividends from PacifiCorp in line 865,000 this year to over 5.1 million.
Together, these have with PacifiCorps current plan.
Pursuant to these arrangements, contributed to the substantial increase of some 80% in the it is expected that, ScottishPower will receive $215 million of operating profit of the division.
We are continuing to grow dividends during the financial year 2005 06, and $242 million our customer numbers, albeit at a slower rate than experienced of dividends during the financial year 2006 07, these amounts to in the first nine months of 2004 05, while maintaining our accrue monthly.
focus on gaining profitable customers that will create Due to the size of the sale, the approval of ScottishPowers shareholder value.
Generation has started at the Black Law shareholders is required.
Accordingly, a circular containing windfarm and construction is underway at the Beinn details of the sale and a notice convening a general meeting will Tharsuinn and Coldham windfarms.
The UK Division has be posted to shareholders in due course.
It is expected that the continued to demonstrate significant progress toward its details of the return of capital will be sent to shareholders renewable energy strategy.
around the time of completion of the sale.
The sale, which is PPM Energy continued to grow rapidly with operating conditional on shareholders approval and on regulatory profit rising 60% to 59 million, for the year, with additional clearance, is expected to complete in 12 to 18 months.
earnings delivered through Production Tax Credits on wind output.
In the year we acquired Atlantic Renewable Energy Corporation in order to expand on the east coast of the US.
This acquisition and the recently announced Shiloh and Maple Ridge windfarms, together with windfarms at Klondike II, 2 Financial Results Trimont and Elk River, gives PPM Energy 574 MW due on-line We have achieved profit before tax of over 1 billion for the by 31 December 2005, all of which are expected to be first time, an increase of 10% compared with the prior year.
immediately earnings enhancing following completion.
These results reflect a 20% growth in our UK customer numbers complemented by investments in generation, continued efficiency in our UK network business, further returns from our US competitive wind and gas storage 3 Investing for Growth investments, and lower interest costs.
These contributions more than made up for the lower profit at PacifiCorp.
We continue to execute our investment strategy across the We continue to see very attractive opportunities for group and invested 1.4 billion during the year, with 0.8 profitable growth in our UK network business, where the billion 60% invested for growth.
Investments in our regulated finalisation of the Distribution Price Control Review places us businesses aim to achieve at least the allowed rate of regulatory in a good position to continue to outperform the targets and returns, while our competitive businesses are expected to enhance returns.
We are the leading developer of wind achieve returns of at least 300 basis points above each generation in the UK and the US with approximately 1,000 divisions weighted average cost of capital.
MW of plant in operation and some 700 MW of plant to be PacifiCorps net capital investment was 480 million for the constructed in the remainder of 2005. year, with 231 million 48% invested for organic growth.
Of PacifiCorps financial performance was impacted by milder this, 136 million was invested in building new generation.
The temperatures and lower thermal generation availability in the first phase of the 525 MW Currant Creek plant, representing 280 first half, and a lack of rainfall and snow held back the MW, will be operational this summer with full operations contribution from our hydroelectric generation plants in the scheduled to begin in summer 2006.
Construction at the 534 second half.
The lower than normal snow and rainfall over the MW Lake Side plant is scheduled to begin this summer.
A winter months will also reduce hydroelectric generation further 95 million was invested in new connections and availability during the first six months of 2005 06. network reinforcement.
The Infrastructure Division delivered an increase in Infrastructure Divisions net capital investment was 267 operating profit of 6% in the year and concluded the million for the year, with 67 million 25% invested for Distribution Price Control Review and Transmission Price organic growth, including expenditure on the connection to the Control Extension.
The division will benefit from increases in Black Law windfarm and other new customer connections.
The price controls also introduce Other organic investment focused on network reinforcement challenging new incentive targets which will require further projects, such as the 30 million, five-year, Liverpool city improvements in operational performance.
The division is centre regeneration programme and initial spend on the focused on outperforming these new targets and delivering the Renewable Energy Transmission Study upgrade programme increased investment programme.
required to accommodate the connection of renewable In the UK Division the investment in generation plant has generation in Scotland.
As a result of the Distribution Price Excluding goodwill amortisation and the exceptional item 7 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Chief Executives Review Control Review, capital expenditure allowances increase by 55% recoveries of $44 million.
Deferred power cost recoveries will over the next five years, against the previous control period, with expire fully by the end of December 2005.
Underlying retail some 1,800 km of overhead lines due to be built.
New revenues improved due to regulatory rate increases and customer initiatives in operational excellence will also help our drive growth, partly offset by lower customer usage, mainly due to the towards a 30% improvement in network performance, resulting milder weather.
Although the contribution from hydroelectric in reduced fault duration for our customers and minimising resources was in line with last year, it remained below risk of financial penalty from Ofgem.
We also plan to invest expectations as a result of the unusually dry conditions.
The some 190 million in the first phase of the Transmission impact of lower thermal generation availability and related Investment for Renewable Generation.
increase in purchase volumes, together with higher fuel and The UK Divisions net capital investment was 546 million, market prices and increased load volumes, all contributed to the including 454 million 83% invested for growth.
Growth rise in net power costs.
Operating efficiencies delivered $42 investment included the acquisitions of the 800 MW Damhead million of benefits and this more than offset adverse other net Creek power plant for 320 million and the remaining 50% of revenue and cost movements of $37 million, which increased the 400 MW Brighton power plant for 71 million.
Other growth largely as a result of higher labour-related and maintenance costs.
investment of 63 million related primarily to our windfarm Non-recurring items were favourable by $10 million, as the $56 developments, notably the largest consented UK onshore windfarm million environmental provision release in the year more than project at Black Law.
Development of the project continues, with offset $46 million of non-recurring items in the prior year.
completion of approximately 100 MW scheduled for autumn this Initiatives directed at improving operational efficiency year.
Construction is also underway at the 30 MW windfarm at included steps to significantly reduce future expected coal costs Beinn Tharsuinn and the 16 MW windfarm at Coldham.
over the long-term by commencing underground coal mining in PPM Energys net capital investment for the year was 84 Wyoming: to aid generation efficiency by improving the million, with 79 million 94% of this invested for growth, management of plant overhauls and targeted capital expenditure primarily on new wind generation projects where build is programmes: and to deliver cost savings by renegotiating ongoing.
For 2005 06 PPM Energy has announced 574 MW of operational and service level agreements.
In addition, customer new windfarm investments, comprising 75 MW Klondike II, 100 service was enhanced following the streamlining and automation MW Trimont, 150 MW Elk River, 150 MW Shiloh and 50% of the of activities and, in April 2005, we opened another new operations 198 MW joint venture Maple Ridge windfarm in upstate New centre to facilitate the centralisation of call handling and to York, which is being developed along with Zilkha Renewable provide rapid responses to outages for our customers.
Maple Ridge represents the first project in the initiatives contributed to PacifiCorp delivering and exceeding its northeastern US associated with the PPM Atlantic Renewable target of $300 million of benefits set at the time of the merger.
PPM Energys share of the capital investment is In February 2005, the Utah Public Service Commission approximately $160 million and the 120 turbine windfarm is due granted PacifiCorp additional annual revenues of $51 million, to be completed this December.
Once operational, all of these based upon a forward-looking test year, effective from 1 March projects are expected to be immediately earnings enhancing.
Along with other awards earlier in the year of $15 million Looking ahead, we aim to invest further capital to 2010 of in Washington and $9.25 million in Wyoming, this represents some 1.7 billion in the Infrastructure Division including rate case awards in the year of approximately $75 million of renewable infrastructure investment: 1.4 billion in generation additional annual revenue.
On 5 May 2005, PacifiCorp filed a and gas storage in the UK Division: and approximately 1.4 general rate case request in Washington for approximately $39 billion at PPM Energy on new wind and gas storage capacity.
million that also related to increased operating costs.
PacifiCorp is also seeking to account for and recover power costs in Oregon and Washington related to the unfavourable weather conditions.
These requests relate to the 2005 calendar Improving Operational year and are expected to be resolved early in 2006.
Recovery of 4 Performance any weather-related costs is expected to be made at a future PacifiCorp date.
PacifiCorp has also requested power cost adjustment For the year, operating profit, excluding goodwill amortisation mechanisms PCAMs in Oregon and Washington.
The and the exceptional item, was lower by 78 million at 542 proposed PCAMs are designed to be longer-term, ongoing million down $29 million to $914 million due mainly to a net mechanisms that pass through to customers a portion of excess 61 million adverse translation impact from the weaker US power costs, or return to customers a portion of over-collected dollar, which has been substantially mitigated at an earnings level power costs.
This would enable power costs included within by the benefits from our hedging policy.
Retail revenue growth of rates to be more closely aligned with PacifiCorps actual costs $98 million was offset by both increased net power costs of $98 and assist in reducing earnings volatility.
Discussions on million and, as expected, the reduction in deferred power cost possible PCAMs are also underway in Utah and Wyoming.
8 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Regulatory returns for PacifiCorp at September 2004, the the Great Britain GB transmission system, including end of the last regulatory reportable period, were approximately balancing of generation and demand in Scotland.
ScottishPower 7% on a normalised basis compared to approximately 8% at retains network ownership and all associated responsibilities September 2003, as the period does not include the increased including development of the network.
revenue from the Utah general rate case settlement effective in Two storms in January affected approximately 77,000 March 2005 and the Washington general rate case outcome customers across our licence areas in Manweb and southern from November 2004.
Early deployment of emergency plans ensured power PacifiCorp now has licenses or settlements in place restoration was highly effective and we received favourable regarding seven out of nine recent hydroelectric relicensing feedback from energywatch for our handling of these events.
The relicensing of the Klamath River and Prospect During the year the system performance of one of our River systems remain to be settled.
distribution businesses outperformed the regulatory targets and, In April 2005, PacifiCorp received a magistrate judges subject to the annual audit of system performance data, will opinion agreeing to PacifiCorps request to dismiss the $1 billion qualify for a one-off reward of approximately 3 million.
This lawsuit filed against it in May 2004 by the Klamath Tribes.
In reward will be reflected in allowed revenue for 2005 06.
May 2005, the Tribes filed objections to the magistrate judges opinion and the matter is now before a district court judge.
UK Division From a customer service perspective, the US Department of For the year, operating profit, excluding goodwill amortisation, was Energy ranked PacifiCorp second in the nation in terms of the higher by 79 million at 180 million.
Electricity and gas margins total number of customers purchasing renewable power and improved by 198 million due to the growth in customer numbers third in terms of sales volumes.
In July, PacifiCorp was named combined with our investment in generation, which delivered best for overall customer satisfaction in a nationwide survey of 137 million of this increase.
The effective management of our commercial and industrial customers by TQS Research, an generation resource portfolio, including the benefit of our rolling improvement from third place last year.
commodity procurement strategy, contributed the majority of the remaining 61 million of margin growth.
The substantial increase in Infrastructure Division customer numbers contributed to higher customer capture, energy For the year, operating profit increased by 23 million to 416 efficiency and customer service costs of 45 million.
Other net costs million, with regulated revenues higher by 13 million mainly as increased by 74 million, primarily due to 33 million of operating a result of distribution sales volume growth and favourable expenses relating to Damhead Creek and Brighton and higher transmission prices, in line with allowed revenues.
Underlying depreciation and debt provisioning movements.
net costs were favourable by 14 million mainly due to a Renewable development remains a key part of our business reduction in third party transmission charges and lower other strategy and the division is the leading developer of wind net costs.
This upside, together with a net 4 million increase in generation in the UK with approximately 3,000 MW in its one-off gains, including the gain on disposal of gas assets, more renewable development pipeline, in addition to 158 MW that are than offset an 8 million increase in rates and depreciation.
operational and 142 MW under construction.
We have entered In March, we accepted the new licence conditions for the into a joint venture with the Co-operative group to build a 16 MW Distribution Price Control Review over the next five years from windfarm at Coldham in Cambridgeshire.
Construction is 1 April 2005 and the Transmission Price Control Extension for expected to be complete later this year.
In March, planning the next two years also from 1 April 2005.
The effect of the two determination for an 18 MW windfarm at Wether Hill in Dumfries reviews is to increase revenues by around 60 million in 2005 06 and Galloway was given and construction will commence early in mainly due to increased revenue allowances for taxation and 2005 06.
We have also completed trials of co-firing of biomass pension costs and also reflecting higher capital investment levels.
at our Cockenzie power station and have commenced full They also introduce challenging new incentive targets which will commercial burning.
Co-firing trials have also begun at require further improvements in operational performance in order Longannet.
Overall these activities demonstrate the Renewables to avoid penalties.
The division has geared up across its activities Obligation Scheme is a successful mechanism that can deliver to achieve and, where possible, outperform these new targets and the Governments targets for renewable power.
We maintain our to deliver the increased investment programme.
Initiatives include support for marine renewable power through our relationship with deploying a greater proportion of the workforce to restore Ocean Power Delivery, a leading developer of marine power.
customers to the network: improved scheduling and monitoring of As we have grown our portfolio of customers and assets, we repairs: programmes targeted at the worst performing circuits: and continue to maintain a good balance between our retail demand a re-prioritised maintenance programme.
We are maximising the returns from On 1 April 2005, the British Electricity Trading and our generating plant by effectively utilising its flexibility, which is Transmission Arrangements BETTA were successfully increasingly important under the new BETTA market introduced with National Grid assuming operational control of arrangements.
Our effective forward purchasing strategy for gas 9 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 Chief Executives Review and coal has helped to maintain a competitive cost base for plant windfarms at Maple Ridge, Klondike II, Trimont and Elk River, and customers, whilst also helping to protect us from wholesale will take PPM Energys total wind portfolio to approximately price volatility.
We are substantially covered across our 1,405 MW by the end of 2005, well on target toward its goal of commodity requirements for the next two years and have secured at least 2,300 MW on-line by 2010.
Approximately 90% of PPM access to competitively priced low-sulphur coal from the Energys operational windfarm output is committed under longinternational market, which will be delivered to our plant via our term contract.
In December 2004, PPM Energy also acquired highly competitive end-to-end coal logistics deal with Clydeport.
the northeast US wind energy developer, Atlantic Renewable We have successfully adapted to the new arrangements under Energy Corporation now called PPM Atlantic Renewable.
BETTA, and we are capturing the commercial opportunities that Including PPM Atlantic Renewable projects, PPM Energy now the new arrangements present.
However, we continue to have has approximately 9,000 MW in its renewable development concerns with the GB transmission charging arrangements pipeline, stretching from California to New York.
In addition, introduced with BETTA and have therefore commenced Judicial PPM Energy has over 800 MW of thermal generation.
Review proceedings with respect to Ofgems decision to approve In May 2005, PPM Energy announced plans to expand the the current GB charging methodology.
Waha gas storage development project in west Texas from 7.2 The 6 Sigma business transformation programme that was BCF to 9.5 BCF based on strong market demand and favourable originally adopted in our supply activities was extended to our geological results.
PPM Energy also announced the acquisition generation activities in the year and, in total, delivered revenue of the 4.5 BCF Grama Ridge gas storage facility in New Mexico, and cost savings of 15 million this year.
In April 2005, we from ConocoPhillips, which continues PPM Energys profitable received a Best in Class Award at the European 6 Sigma IQ investment in gas storage assets.
Including Grama Ridge, PPM Awards in recognition of the successful delivery of a project to Energy now has 80.5 BCF of gas storage under its ownership or improve significantly customer accounts set-up time.
PPM Energy intends to expand the Grama Ridge site to of the improvements in our customer service provision have also 6.0 BCF by the end of 2005. been evidenced by the results seen in two customer satisfaction studies.
ScottishPower came top of Datamonitors annual survey of industrial and commercial customers and was ranked highest for price and value in J. D. Powers domestic gas market award.
5 Health and Safety Health and safety continues to be our top priority.
After our PPM Energy review and implementation of policies and standards, we have For the year, operating profit, excluding goodwill amortisation, now undertaken two years of thorough assessments for each of increased by 22 million to 59 million by $35 million to $98 our businesses.
These assessments show where we have million.
PPM Energys contribution to the groups profit before improved in sharing information and practice and where we can interest and tax, excluding goodwill amortisation and including improve further in our ambition to have world-class health and results from joint ventures, was $99 million.
In addition, the safety performance throughout the company.
groups tax charge was reduced by $12 million, as a result of PPM Our policy and standards reflect our determination to achieve Energys Production Tax Credits.
Gas storage margins improved our goal of creating a positive and productive environment, one by $48 million in the year, with increased contracted storage free from injury or illness that causes no harm to our employees, capacity delivering $34 million of this growth and the owned customers or the public.
facilities at Alberta and Katy, adding $14 million.
Wind generation We have stepped up employee involvement and training, profit improved by $10 million, primarily due to investment in launched behavioural safety auditing and are working with our 2003 04 in new windfarms delivering substantial volume growth contractors to ensure they share our commitment to health and during the year.
Energy management activities improved by $7 safety.
We have also improved the sharing of best operational million mainly as a result of increased contributions from longpractices across our businesses.
term contractual arrangements to supply electricity and gas due to higher volumes.
Net operating costs required to support increased business activities and infrastructure were higher by $24 million Corporate Social and depreciation increased by $6 million.
6 Responsibility PPM Energy now controls about 830 MW of operating wind energy with new developments totalling 574 MW due to be During the year we have continued our commitment to building constructed in 2005, making PPM Energy the largest US a strong business that creates benefits for customers, employees, developer of renewables announced to date this year.
In May shareholders, communities and the environment.
2005, PPM Energy announced plans for a 150 MW windfarm in Our businesses and functions have been working together to northern California to be called the Shiloh windfarm.
The identify our impacts on communities and the environment and Shiloh windfarm, together with the previously announced will continue to refine further our approach to managing our 10 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 business responsibly.
We remain committed to developing talent at all levels by We continue to report our performance in a comprehensive providing both vocational and non-vocational development and transparent manner and were again shortlisted for the activity for all employees at the work place and at home, ACCA sustainability reporting awards and ranked among the together with tailored management development programmes.
top 20 in Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Throughout the group we strive to recognise and celebrate Index.
Our commitment to the highest standards of corporate the achievements of our people as we continue to build our governance was acknowledged by FTSE and Institutional business for the future.
Shareholder Services which placed ScottishPower third in the UK in the new Corporate Governance Index.
These achievements during a year of increased regulation and scrutiny reflect and reinforce the value of the effort of 8 Conclusion employees across the group in delivering good performance.
In summary, we have announced the sale of PacifiCorp to Two special highlights of our activity this year were helping MidAmerican for $9.4 billion with approximately $4.5 billion over 10,000 young people since 1996 through ScottishPower of the net proceeds to be returned to shareholders.
Our full Learning, and delivery of a national framework for youth action year results show profit before tax, earnings per share and and engagement in the UK through the commission which I led dividends per share all up by 10%.
We have set the dividend with the Government.
The Government has announced an for each of the first three quarters of 2005 06 off the higher investment of 150 million to recruit up to one million young than expected base for dividends this year, at 5.20 pence per volunteers to help build strong and cohesive communities.
share, representing an increase of 5% from 2004 05, up from 4.2% for the first three quarters of 2004 05, compared to 2003 04.
Looking ahead, we will focus our management and capital on our Infrastructure Division, UK Division and PPM 7 Employees Energy and we remain committed to delivering our strategy of At ScottishPower we recognise that our people are our greatest investing for growth and improving operational performance.
asset and employee feedback has been incorporated into the groups performance management system through our employee survey tools.
This group-wide employee survey measures how our employees feel about their working environment.
The results are monitored by the Executive Team and are used as a basis for action to remove barriers to productivity and increase Ian Russell Chief Executive employee satisfaction.
24 May 2005 Excluding goodwill amortisation and the exceptional item 11 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05
