SEVERN TRENT PLC 04 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Severn Trent is a successful group I deeply regret to report one employee with tremendous strengths and great fatality this year where a Biffa refuse collector opportunities that is my clear conclusion was hit by a reversing vehicle.
As with any after four months as Group Chief Executive serious accident we have undertaken a and nine months as an executive Director.
rigorous investigation and audit to reduce the possibility of this, or any similar incident, For five months, from September 2004, happening in future.
I focused exclusively on Severn Trent Water which after all accounts for around 77% Overall the group recorded a RIDDOR of our profits.
Since becoming Group CEO Reportable Incident Rate of 22.93 per I have been immersed in all the businesses 1,000 employees: this represents a 4% in the group.
improvement rate on last years figure.
We are looking to accelerate the rate of As a result I am able now to lay out the two improvement in this and future years.
top priorities for our company both of which are operational.
Water and sewerage In 2004 2005 we completed the AMP3 The first is to deliver and hopefully beat the programme, reaching the Ofwat targets and operational performance required by the outperforming them in many cases.
We were regulatory settlement for Severn Trent Water among the leading water and sewerage from 2005-2010. companies in Ofwats overall performance and relative efficiency assessments.
The second is to build on our waste companys operational success story by re-focusing on The challenge now is to at least deliver organic growth and return on investment.
the performance required by the Price Determination agreed in January 2005.
Improving operational performance goes hand in hand with improving financial We have already streamlined the top performance.
There is a false argument management structure to achieve a which implies that the way to achieve cost shortening of the lines of communication reduction is to cut corners and reduce from the top to the bottom to continue to standards.
I believe the opposite, the way to drive efficiencies through the organisation.
secure cost reduction is to raise professional standards across the whole organisation.
Operational efficiencies will be achieved in the following ways: However good we become in health and safety, quality or environmental performance, Headcount reduction: We cannot deliver we must always have an ambition to get operational efficiencies without reducing better.
As we get the processes in place to employee numbers within the group, largely raise these professional standards then our through improved technology.
There are financial performance will also improve.
three particular areas in which we continue to invest: replacing back office systems around Health and safety financing and purchasing: continuing to We have established three key health and upgrade our customer interface systems: and safety principles for all employees: maintaining, but also improving, our capability If a job cannot be done safely, dont do it to manage our remote sites automatically.
Always look for safety hazards Never ignore a safety hazard: fix it or Overheads: We can reduce our property report it costs by consolidating office accommodation and depots.
My team and I are highly focused on improving operational performance.
Indeed, we are already analysing and scrutinising all our businesses in greater detail both to ensure continual improvement, but also to be certain we can demonstrate their value to the group as a whole going forward.
SEVERN TRENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 05 Procurement: We are reducing the number Biffas management achieved healthy organic Severn Trent Water International, which of suppliers and working with them in a turnover growth throughout the 1990s.
More provides management and consultancy more intense and collaborative way, taking recently, the UK Waste and Hales acquisitions services in Europe and the developing world, cost out of the total system and sharing the have accounted for a more substantial part was awarded an exciting 25 year PFI contract benefits with them.
This is in contrast to of Biffas turnover growth.
That is why the worth approximately 1 billion with Costain.
expending more energy in determining who two key challenges for us within Biffa are to This groundbreaking deal for the provision of pays than in reducing cost.
re-establish a focus on organic growth and water and wastewater services to MoD sites to improve the return on investment.
in England is now up and running.
Our capital expenditure amounts to a total of 2.6 billion over the five year period.
There Laboratories Other businesses are some 900 significant projects, a huge The business in the US operated in a difficult We will take the opportunities that we can to programme for us to manage.
We are looking market last year.
There has been a significant restructure some of our smaller businesses to work with 20 named key contractors reduction in return on total investment in the to make sure that we are focused on doing reduced from 50 in the past.
course of the year, which we must confront.
the right thing for our main business activities.
We shall: One particularly key initiative is to replace We are scaling down our engineering Standardise designs as far as we can, a number of laboratory information consultancy, Charles Haswell, and merging not just whole plants but also elements management systems with a single standard it into the Water business.
All of their skill within the plants system that covers the whole network.
is now devoted to Severn Trent Water and Invest in preparation work in order to Customers buy not simply tests, but also we are no longer pursuing external contracts.
reduce the cost of the delivery data.
Customers want that data with faster Our Severn Trent Water International interest Ensure good discipline around design turn round times and standardised reporting in Portugal has been sold and we are freeze and establish target pricing and they want to be able to transfer and restructuring Severn Trent Systems so use data in their own systems.
Having we can focus on our in-house IT needs We are also looking to make sure that our different IT systems in our laboratories whilst satisfying our existing obligations suppliers are incentivised financially to drive is an impediment to exploiting our scale.
for continuous improvement and that they, The first five laboratories already have like us, are motivated on an RPI minus the new system up and running and it is Outlook type incentive arrangement.
It will be rolled My team and I are highly focused on out to the others in the course of the next improving operational performance.
Indeed, Other industries have already demonstrated 12 months.
In 2006 2007 we expect to we are already analysing and scrutinising the value of implementing these procurement see significant operational improvements all our businesses in greater detail both to principles.
ensure continual improvement, but also to be certain we can demonstrate their value Waste management Water purification and operating services to the group as a whole going forward.
Biffas growth represents a real success story This business includes the Water Purification in terms of acquiring UK Waste, then Hales, business, the Contract Operations business, and successfully integrating them.
Equally, Severn Trent Water International and the the marketplace in which Biffa has been smaller Metering Services and Pipeline operating has been flat overall and the bulk Services businesses.
of Biffas recent growth has been from the acquisition of Hales.
Therefore the question The simplification of these activities in recent of organic growth is important.
years has stabilised the business and in the Colin Matthews last couple of years we have seen a gradual Group Chief Executive We believe that the myriad of regulatory improvement in returns.
Although this is of developments which are scheduled year in a modest scale, this is a business which is year out for the next five years are going to closely related to Water in the UK.
It exploits drive opportunities for revenue growth.
This our technology and capability and, from a is a marketplace which is going to favour the stable base, is now back on a growing and bigger players in this industry and we are improving trend.
Turnover by business 5 % of group total in 2004 2005 4 3 1Water 47%1,015.1m 1 2Waste 32%696.3m 3Laboratories 7%162.6m 4 Water Purification and Operating Services 10% 208.1m 2 5 Other 4% 86.8m
