6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 2 Chief Executive Ofcers review Today Shire has one of the richest product pipelines in the specialty pharmaceutical industry.
Shire HGT, this dedicated team is working submission of a NDA with the FDA on disease areas where there is high unmet for ELAPRASE, as well as submission medical need.
In addition to near-term of a MAA in Europe: and products, it provides Shire with important intellectual property and discovery capabilities obtained the reinstatement of that will provide value over the long term.
Shire HGT already has one approved product in Europe REPLAGAL for the treatment ADDERALL XR of Fabry Disease, a lipid storage disorder.
ADDERALL XR, our once-daily treatment At the end of 2005, we submitted a New for ADHD, continued to perform extremely Drug Application NDA to the Food and Drug well during the year, reaching an all-time Matthew Emmens Administration FDA for idursulfase, the first high market share of 26% in the US.
In the Chief Executive Officer human ERT treatment for Hunter Syndrome, interest of patient safety, during 2005 we filed under the trade name ELAPRASE, as a Citizen Petition with the FDA requesting well as submitting Marketing Authorization that they ask companies seeking approval The year 2005 was pivotal for Shire.
With a Application MAA in Europe for this product.
for generic ADDERALL XR or any follow-on breakthrough acquisition, a key collaboration Our GA-GCB compound for Gaucher Disease of ADDERALL XR to undertake more rigorous agreement, several product launches and will enter Phase 3 trials this year and there are bioequivalence testing or additional clinical continuing advancement of our pipeline, we several other very promising compounds in trials.
This petition is currently under review have made excellent progress in setting the the pipeline.
and to date, no approvals for follow-on stage for continued growth.
We are seeing generic versions of ADDERALL XR have been the results of our focused business strategy Another major milestone in 2005 was our granted.
On January 19, 2006 we announced through a significant increase in the number collaboration with New River Pharmaceuticals that we settled all pending litigations relating of late-stage product candidates.
Today New River to develop and commercialize to ADDERALL XR with Impax Laboratories Shire has one of the richest product pipelines NRP104.
NRP104 is a very promising Inc. Impax.
Impax confirmed that all Shire in the specialty pharmaceutical industry.
investigational compound for the treatment patents covering ADDERALL XR are valid and Simultaneously, we have put in place a of ADHD, an area of leadership for us.
enforceable and that their proposed version strengthened organization to deliver on New River made excellent progress during of ADDERALL XR did infringe those patents.
the opportunities in key markets.
the year, filing a NDA for NRP104 with the FDA The agreement states that Impax will be in early December and we are looking forward permitted to market their generic version of Our strong competitive position is the to launching this product in early 2007.
ADDERALL XR no later than January 1, 2010. result of the hard work of all 2,400 Shire In certain situations, such as the entry of employees.
We have made good on our Pipeline successes another generic before 2010, Impax may be strategic commitment to grow our underlying The year saw a number of other exciting permitted to market Shires ADDERALL XR business while expanding our portfolio of new advances in our pipeline: in the US as Shires authorized generic.
We have continued to evolve our will receive royalties from Impax on these manufacturing capabilities both in small submission of a NDA with the FDA sales.
This latest development is excellent molecules and proteins to mitigate supply for MESAVANCE, the first once-daily news for Shire as it removes some of the chain risk.
mesalamine treatment for mild to moderate uncertainty that surrounded ADDERALL XR.
In addition, we Shire continues to vigorously defend its The acquisition of TKT in July is an excellent filed this product with Health Canada intellectual property rights relating to strategic fit and will bring significant value and the European authorities during the ADDERALL XR in the ongoing patent litigations to the Company over time.
It broadens our first quarter of 2006: with Barr Laboratories Inc. and Teva revenue base while building our pipeline Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. in the relatively low-risk area of Enzyme submission of an amended NDA Replacement Therapy ERT.
Historically, with the FDA for DAYTRANA, the first enzyme replacement drugs have had a high transdermal patch for the treatment success rate in reaching the market.
Now of ADHD an approval letter was called Shire Human Genetic Therapies received in April 2006: 2 Annual report and accounts for the year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc 6420 Annual Report 2005. qxd 28 4 06 17:44 Page 3 Product launches in 2005 launch ELAPRASE in the US and Europe: Shires transformation FOSRENOL, for the treatment of A few years ago, we imagined a new hyperphosphatemia in end-stage renal file a NDA with the FDA for SPD465, a Shire.
Since then weve transformed Shire disease, and Shires first global product, longer-acting formulation of ADDERALL XR to deepen our product pipeline, enhance was successfully launched in the US in for ADHD: our responsiveness, and capitalize on 2005 and performed in line with its major opportunities in the global specialty competitor when launch periods are file a NDA with the FDA for SPD503, pharmaceutical market.
We also launched FOSRENOL a non-stimulant treatment for ADHD: by a common objective: to make the most into the first four countries in Europe and it out of science and technology to increase will be rolled out to more European countries continue the rollout of FOSRENOL the number of projects we are undertaking in 2006.
In addition, we launched higher in Europe: and so that we can help many more people dose formulations in the US.
XAGRID, our lead healthier, less impaired lives.
We are treatment for a rare platelet disorder known continue the launch of FOSRENOL delivering on that goal, and can all be proud as Essential Thrombocythemia ET, was very higher strengths in the US.
successfully launched in Europe, achieving sales of $46.8 million in 2005.
EQUETRO, Strengthened management team Just imagine what we can achieve in the first ever carbamazepine treatment Shire continued to build its senior the future.
approved for manic phase of Bipolar management team in 2005 and we Disorder, was launched in the US.
added proven talent across all areas of the organization and to our leadership team.
Five launches in 2006 and the first half I am particularly pleased to welcome of 2007 David Pendergast, former CEO of TKT, In 2006 and during the first half of 2007, as Executive Vice President Shire HGT, and we are planning no fewer than five new Michael Cola, formerly President of the Life Matthew Emmens product launches, this is a record breaking Sciences division of Safeguard Scientifics achievement in this industry.
These will Inc. as Executive Vice President for Global require additional spending on advertising Therapeutic Areas.
Both bring a wealth of and promotion, and in some cases additional experience in the pharmaceutical industry sales representatives.
As a result, our Selling, and are welcome additions to our Executive General and Administration SG&A costs Committee.
With the acquisition of TKT are expected to rise in order to support the and the strengthening of our organization success of these launches.
on both sides of the Atlantic, we increased our staff numbers by 570, bringing our total In February 2006, we submitted a MAA staff numbers to over 2,400 highly-skilled for MESAVANCE to both European and people by the end of 2005.
I would like Canadian Regulatory Agencies.
During 2006 to take this opportunity to extend a warm and the first half of 2007 we also expect to: welcome to them, as well as to thank all members of our team around the world for launch MESAVANCE in the US: their exceptional efforts and dedication in helping us achieve our business goals.
launch DYNEPO for anemia in Europe: launch DAYTRANA in the US: launch NRP104 in the US: All products in development and registration are subject to regulatory approvals.
Annual report and accounts for the 3 year ended December 31, 2005 Shire plc
