Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we have performed Group Chief Executives review of strategy Our long-term growth strategy is working.
The exciting developments on the Humber will accelerate our growth during the second half of 2006 Bo Lerenius, CBE Group Chief Executive 28 0 06-1014 ABP Front FINAL.
 Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we have performed ABP continues to be the market leader contributing to operating pro t. Our USA business has signed a new in the UK ports industry.
Our competitive Construction of the 27.5m roll-on roll-off contract with Toyota, which will effectively position is unrivalled and we have the facility and the 59.5m extension to begin in 2006.
This replaces business lost best risk spread in the sector.
Our Humber International Terminal, the UKs in Benicia, California, during the second 21 ports are located in prime strategic premier coal import facility, is proceeding half of 2004, which has resulted in reduced positions around the UK.
Both projects will become operational volumes of business this year.
We keep base is well diversi ed and stable.
in the second quarter of 2006. looking for opportunities to grow this business without major capital investment.
Our business model is strong because Looking further ahead, we are now of these factors and because of the concentrating on our third major project We continue to manage our substantial opportunity we have to grow the business on the Humber, a 30-35m shortsea landholdings actively and have completed organically.
Due to the demand that exists container terminal at Hull that is expected 20.1m of the additional 50m target that we for port facilities at our locations and our to become operational towards the end of set for non-core property and land disposals financial strength, we are able to secure 2007 or early in 2008.
We received final at the end of 2004.
Cumulative proceeds long-term contracts with customers approval from the government for this from the disposal of non-core property and that deliver an internal rate of return of scheme at the end of 2005 and are now land that is not required for port use stood 15 per cent or more.
nalising discussions with customers to at 220.1m at the end of 2005. operate this facility under long-term Given the economic environment that agreements.
Beyond this, potential exists As our growth strategy is delivering, we prevailed for much of the second half for further development opportunities on have no plans at present to change it.
We of 2005, this years 3 per cent increase in the Humber, which we are continuing to will continue to focus on growing the UK underlying operating pro t in the UK ports explore.
In particular, we are looking at business organically by investing in core business is satisfactory.
New projects developing a shortsea coal terminal at Hull.
activities and selling off non-core assets.
becoming operational during the year This project could involve an investment of We monitor strategy to ensure that it is accounted for around two-thirds of this 55-110m, depending on who operates serving our business goals and remain alert growth, with the rest coming from existing the terminal.
Subject to government to new opportunities.
We signed six new contracts with approval and customer demand, we aim never completely rule out acquisitions, this major customers during the year equating for this facility to become operational is not how we intend to grow the business to 20m of capital investment, including around 2009. in the near future.
We believe that we can one 15m contract relating to the extension deliver greater returns to shareholders by of the Humber International Terminal We continue to look at ways of growing maximising the potential that exists within project, taking the total number of contract value-added services, such as stevedoring our business.
In addition, and warehousing, that we offer at our ports.
since the year end, we have signed As reported in our 2004 results, ABP We keep our capital structure under review a further contract that will involve Connect, our value-added services business, with a view to maximising value for our 4.8m of capital investment.
These new lost a major roll-on roll-off customer at shareholders.
Our share repurchase projects will start contributing to operating Immingham in the second half of 2004.
In programme remains on track, with 50m of pro t when they become operational order to mitigate the impact of the reduced shares repurchased in 2005.
By the year and provide a strong foundation for our business volumes caused by the loss of this end, 140.5m of the 205m programme future growth.
customer, ABP Connect was restructured at had been completed.
Our investment in the the end of 2004 to achieve cost savings of core UK ports and transport business and What is more, we expect our growth rate 4.5m per year, which have been fully ongoing share repurchase programme to increase during the second half of 2006 realised in 2005.
Furthermore, the decision have bene ted our capital structure.
At once the two new riverside terminals on was taken during 2005 to integrate ABP 59.1 per cent, gearing is now within our the Humber are operational and start Connect into the core UK ports business.
target range of 50 to 70 per cent.
indd Sec1:29 2 23 2 06 11:33:55 pm 3 2 06 11:33:55 pm Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we have performed 30 0 06-1014 ABP Front FINAL.
Performance Associated British Ports Holdings PLC How we have performed Our strategy versus performance There were a number of changes to our Invest 400m over 10 years On track operational management team during the A.
Three new river terminals to be A.
Two new river terminals at Immingham year.
We welcomed on board two new operational on the Humber by 2007 involving investment of 87m to be faces home-grown talent that exempli es involving investment of some 120m, of operational during the second quarter our policy of recruiting from within which 87m already committed with of 2006.
Final planning approval received wherever possible.
After Doug Morrison the ongoing construction of two new for a 30-35m shortsea container took up his post as the new Port Director river terminals at Immingham terminal development at Hull for Southampton, Matthew Kennerley, 39, became Port Director for Hull & Goole.
Development of a 55-110m Matt Jukes, 34, was appointed Port fourth river terminal on the Humber shortsea coal import facility at Hull Director for the Shortsea Ports, in level of investment to depend on use currently under evaluation succession to John Fitzgerald, who moved and speci cation to the position of Port Director for our South Wales Ports.
These changes were C. Continue to invest in opportunities at C. Six new business wins in 2005, brought about by the retirement of two all of our ports to meet the needs of against which we are investing 20m, Port Directors: Andrew Kent retired as Port existing and new customers taking the total number of wins since Director for the Port of Southampton after early 2000 to over 85.
Excluding the 35 years with ABP: John Copping, Port Humber projects, 37.1m of growth Director South Wales, took early retirement capital expenditure in 2005 for personal reasons.
Andrew and John contributed greatly to the development of ABP and I thank them both for their Sell non-core land and property On track support and loyalty.
Achieve additional 50m target from 220.1m of cumulative proceeds disposal of non-core property and land, generated from sales of I also wish to thank our employees bringing total proceeds to 250m since non-core property and land to for the considerable contribution they early 2000 31 December 2005 make towards our success.
We continue to look at ways of increasing their participation in our business.
This year, Buy back shares On track for the first time since 1997, we undertook Complete 205m share repurchase 140.5m of the 205m share a formal survey of employee views on programme repurchase programme completed by a range of issues.
We will use the results 31 December 2005 to build on what we are good at and address any development areas.
Despite the recent improvements in per thousand employees.
Under different extending our UK market leadership and our overall UK accident-incident rate, local reporting requirements our USA creating even more value for our tragically, one fatality did occur on our business also met its target of 50 or fewer shareholders.
This is currently recordable injuries in 2005, improving its the subject of an investigation by the performance from 64 in 2004 to 49 in 2005.
Thank you for your continued support.
Our health and Yet there can be no room for complacency safety performance remains of paramount and the challenge we face now is to sustain importance.
On a positive note, I am this improvement.
pleased that our accident-incident rate in the UK of 9.3 per thousand employees I am optimistic about the future.
The river Bo Lerenius, CBE was the lowest we have ever achieved terminals on the Humber will accelerate Group Chief Executive and exceeded our target of 12 or fewer our growth during the second half of 2006, 22 February 2006 31 0 06-1014 ABP Front FINAL.
