4 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Chief Executives statement Chief Executives statement Smiths has had a good year.
Sales on continuing activities are up 13%, while, on a headline basis, operating profit has risen by 17% and earnings per share are up 18%.
The increase in earnings came from a good performance across all our businesses.
This is the result of both growth in the markets we serve, and the success of action taken over the past few years.
Our markets are expanding robustly.
At the same time, we are reaping the rewards of investing for growth over recent years, Keith Butler-Wheelhouse and keeping the cost base competitive.
Our acquisitions also Chief Executive performed well, with current year acquisitions contributing 21m to headline operating profit.
In this Annual Report our objective is to explain how our business has developed over the last financial year and to provide a clear description of our activities.
In this statement, I explain how we are managing the business for growth, as well as summarising the performance highlights of 2005, and commenting on the Companys prospects.
The Operating Group sales from continuing activities m and Financial Review, which runs from page 15 to page 37, contains details of Smiths performance by division.
13% How we do what we do 2005 3,017 We have decided to make the theme of this years report 2004 2,678 How we do what we do in order to provide shareholders and other stakeholders with greater insight into our activities and organisational strengths.
In the past, we have described Group headline pre-tax profit m Smiths chiefly through details of our divisions activities.
I will set these activities in context by explaining the six fundamental strengths that underpin everything we do.
Each of these is 18% important, and the order in which I have listed them does not 2005 413 imply any priority: 2004 350 We place great emphasis on creating opportunities for growth.
We have a strong preference for markets with above average long-term growth.
Medical devices, commercial aerospace, Statutory pre-tax profit defence electronics and detection are all markets that are 2005 2004 expanding rapidly.
We also build advantageous competitive m m positions that allow us to achieve significant profitable 310 300 3% expansion in sectors where overall growth is more modest.
5 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Chief Executives statement continued Within our Specialty Engineering division, Interconnect is a Medex, a medical devices business, there are synergies good example of a business with positions that offer faster available to Smiths that were not available to the sellers.
growth than the overall markets in which it competes.
Taking these two transactions together we aim to add something like 50% to shareholder value via the synergies We pursue continuous productivity improvement, sustaining now open to us and we have moved from polymers into our competitive positions and helping to secure greater the higher growth medical devices market.
shares of our markets as we go forward.
Our people have the expertise and receive the necessary support and training We believe in doing business the right way, through motivated, to make sure that we deliver on this.
We are proud of our skilled and dedicated people.
Smiths has a responsibility record for getting the very best out of our businesses.
to be a leader in the way we conduct business.
The Smiths Code of Corporate Responsibility and Business Ethics sets We have the scale and infrastructure to operate globally out a clear ethical framework for all employees to help where that is appropriate.
The form this takes varies by them make the right decisions in difficult circumstances.
In Aerospace, the support activity is truly global, explained on pages 32 and 33, this Code has been extensively while manufacturing is more local and closely aligned to communicated and discussed across our businesses, with the location of our customers.
In Medical, we now have every employee challenged to maintain the highest of standards.
in-house distribution subsidiaries in nearly 20 countries.
In Detection, we are progressively establishing a global Highlights of 2005 sales and support structure.
And, in Specialty Engineering, All four divisions achieved double-digit growth in headline John Crane has facilities in over 40 countries.
operating profits, with three achieving profit growth of 18% or more.
We believe that helping our customers succeed is key to our future.
Developing innovative technology is one way in Turning to productivity and efficiency, sales per employee which we do this, and we invest substantially in research on an underlying basis grew by 5% in the year and headline and development R&D.
In order to enhance future growth operating profit per person grew at a similar rate.
However, rates, we have increased this investment over the past cash generation was below our usual level.
There were several several years.
Customers assist in funding a significant reasons for this.
The largest effect was the concentration portion of R&D, and their involvement is just one of the of sales in the final months of the year.
This concentration ways we ensure that our products and services are focused was greater than last year, and caused year-end debtors on their needs.
We always work closely with our customers to be some 40m higher, including the effect of the timing to help ensure their customers are satisfied.
of payments on major defence programmes.
These high year end debtors will turn into cash in the first quarter of We constantly look at our businesses to see how we can the current financial year.
We also increased stocks, over add value for shareholders by making portfolio changes.
The and above the growth in activity.
This was to safeguard the sale of Polymer in the 2004 financial year and the acquisition ability to supply customers during a period of relocation of of Medex in 2005 are good examples of this.
By coincidence, manufacturing medical and volume growth commercial the profits and the values of these two businesses are very aerospace.
Our capital investment programme involved net similar.
In the case of Polymer, a seals business, the purchaser spend of 105m, exceeding depreciation by 28m.
The cash could achieve synergies that were not available to Smiths.
expenditure on exceptional items was 35m.
The sale price reflected this.
Conversely, in the case of 6 Smiths Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Chief Executives statement continued Over the year we invested 295m in R&D.
Approximately half Specialty Engineering performed well and has grown to 31% of this sum was funded by our customers.
Aerospace R&D of total activity by sales.
Each of John Crane, Interconnect was particularly investment intensive in 2005, with the Airbus and Flex-Tek grew sales and improved margins.
At 14%, the A380 programme nearing completion and the Boeing 787 Specialty Engineering margin was in line with average margins programme currently in full flow.
Current year acquisitions contributed 3% to headline pre-tax Our Full Potential programme profit growth.
These acquisitions were in line with our policy Two years ago we introduced a programme called Full Potential, of generally buying relatively small businesses which bring with two sets of initiatives the first intended to grow sales something to Smiths that we particularly value.
We spent and the second to enhance profitability.
approximately 96m on 10 such businesses in 2005, enhancing With reference to sales growth, we have significantly increased either technology or market access for our existing activities.
the rate of investment in new products, new technologies and We also made one transformational acquisition spending new markets.
At the cost line, we are reinvesting in manufacturing 499m on Medex, which is an excellent strategic fit and moves and other business processes to sustain our competitiveness, us into the medical devices big league.
which will mean we can win an increasing share of available Turning to divisional highlights, after several years of reduced business.
demand, our Aerospace division is now performing well.
In the Full Potential is yielding benefits across Smiths.
However, neither commercial sector, sales rose by over 20% and this growth this nor the wider performance of the Company would have been continues.
Sales of defence equipment were 60% of the total, possible without a positive contribution from Smiths people.
We have a skilled and dedicated workforce across the world and Detection benefits from its broad spread of activities.
The military, I thank them for their commitment over the past 12 months.
ports and borders, and emergency responders markets were Looking forward particularly robust.
This division grew most rapidly with I am encouraged by prospects for the 2006 financial year.
headline operating profits up by 20%.
We expect continuing sales growth across Smiths with each In Medical, we are excited about the Medex acquisition, division growing, aided by a full-year contribution from our completed in March 2005.
It delivers expanded opportunities recent acquisitions.
and a much stronger overall product range, adding significantly We expect to benefit from the growth we are seeing in the to the divisions profit potential.
It provides opportunity for principal markets we serve.
Additionally, our work to improve synergies both in terms of sales gains and cost savings.
We productivity, together with our R&D investment and acquisition have successfully completed phase I of the merger integration, activity, should help us to increase our share of these markets.
which involved sales and marketing.
Phase II will incur some Therefore, looking further forward, I am confident that Smiths one-time costs in 2006.
To increase capacity and to make further is on track to deliver growth, with each of our businesses improvements in quality, some of Medicals manufacturing contributing to an improving performance.
facilities were upgraded during the year.
In the process we fell behind in supplying some products to customers, losing Keith Butler-Wheelhouse modest sales as a result.
