R310 SOCO 00-05 3 22 06 7:14 PM Page 2 CHAIRMANS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Dear shareholder, As an Simply stated, 2005 was a great year for SOCO.
We had a 100% success ratio in our Basement drilling programme exploration led on Block 10 in Yemen and two wells drilled in the Cuu Long Basin in Vietnam were significant discoveries.
Even the company, the third well drilled in Vietnam, which was not classified as a ability to introduce discovery, came with a silver lining as it intersected oil in a previously non-productive interval on Block 9-2.
This exciting new operational success has led to an impressive addition of prospective areas approximately 75 million barrels of oil to the Groups net working interest proven and probable reserves in Vietnam such as Marine XI and Yemen, resulting in an increase in total reserves of 47% over year end 2004 despite disposal of the Groups to the portfolio is Mongolia interest.
The result is not only a real numerical key to continuing increase, but an overall upgrade in terms of the more immediate impact to shareholders.
This momentum has the momentum carried into the first quarter of 2006 with successful tests resulting from our reported in both Yemen and Vietnam.
success in Vietnam Coupled with the extraordinary drilling result, we reshaped and Yemen.
the asset portfolio to focus on high impact, high quality projects and added capacity to our financial capability by agreeing a US$45 million reserve-based lending facility with Ed Story the International Finance Corporation IFC.
The importance of having the financial strength to add valuable upside to the portfolio of a smaller company cannot be overemphasised in the current industry environment where promising projects command a high premium for entry.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 2 R310 SOCO 00-05 3 22 06 7:15 PM Page 3 01.04.05 SOCO enters into a Sale and Purchase Agreement for the sale of its Mongolia interests to Daqing Oilfield Limited Company, a subsidiary of PetroChina, for total consideration of approximately US$93 million.
Simply stated, 2005 was a great year for SOCO.
Patrick Maugein Patrick Maugein, Chairman left, with Ed Story, President and Chief Executive Financial and operating results Significant events After tax profit for the year from continuing operations more Consistent with the Companys stated strategy of than doubled, rising to US$20.3 million from US$8.2 million rationalising its portfolio by monetising non-core assets, in 2004.
After tax profit including discontinued operations SOCO sold the entities holding its Mongolia interests to a fell, reflecting the 2004 disposal of our Tunisia interests that subsidiary of PetroChina.
The transaction, which closed in netted US$21.4 million.
The non-current portion of the August 2005, immediately added approximately US$30 consideration for the Groups disposal of its Mongolia million to the Groups cash position with an additional interests in 2005 is classified as a non-current financial asset.
US$10 million receivable placed in escrow.
Subsequent compensation of up to approximately US$53 million Production net to the Companys working interest associated with future production from the interests sold increased, rising to 5,684 barrels of oil per day BOPD in would bring the total compensation to approximately 2005 from 5,533 BOPD the prior year.
The increase was US$93 million.
Details are described in the Financial achieved even though discontinued operations only Review.
Importantly, this transaction allows us additional contributed 155 BOPD during the year from Mongolia, flexibility in focusing on other projects that may have a compared to 11 months of Tunisia production 1,237 greater near term impact.
BOPD and a full year of Mongolia production 338 BOPD in the 2004 statistics.
The Company announced in August that its 85% owned subsidiary, SOCO Exploration and Production Congo With full year drilling programmes in both Vietnam and SOCO EPC, signed a production sharing contract with Yemen, the Group had its largest capital expenditure Socit Nationale des Ptroles du Congo SNPC wherein programme ever in 2005, with a cash spend of US$76.2 it acquired an interest in the Marine XI Block, offshore the million almost trebling the previous years capital Republic of Congo Brazzaville.
The result is that year on year cash balances this Block led to several discoveries, one of which has been declined from US$71.1 million at year end 2004 to partially delineated with recoverable reserves of 20 to 60 US$51.0 million at year end 2005. million barrels.
However, the full potential of the Block has not been previously explored as there is a thick layer of salt which has impeded seismic interpretation.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 3 R310 SOCO 00-05 3 22 06 7:16 PM Page 4 CHAIRMANS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Application of newer seismic technology, such as that The joint venture partners have redesigned the drilling plan used in Vietnam, can unlock the potential of the Block.
As for a re-entry into this well in 2006. an exploration led company, the ability to introduce exciting new prospective areas such as Marine XI to the Yemen portfolio is key to continuing the momentum resulting from The Kharir field, where the majority of the consortiums our success in Vietnam and Yemen.
Additional details of crude oil production is sourced in the East Shabwa this asset can be found in the Review of Operations.
Development Area on Block 10 in Yemen, was the focus of the Basement drilling programme for most of 2005.
The 2005 operations review consortium was rewarded with wells, which extended the Vietnam limits of the field, testing at rates ranging from 7,300 BOPD It would be hard to expect a much better scenario than the from the KHA 1-10 well, testing the eastern extension one that evolved in Vietnam in 2005, but it could be just of the field as then mapped, to 850 BOPD from the setting the stage for a better 2006.
Last year got off to a KHA 3-07, which was on the previously undrilled Kharir resounding start with the Ca Ngu Vang CNV appraisal North structure.
well success on Block 9-2, which tested at 13,040 barrels of oil equivalent per day BOEPD.
This success was In addition to Basement appraisal wells drilled in and followed by a discovery in the Tertiary sediments of a new around the Kharir field, the consortium initiated step-out play trend in a previously undrilled region of Block 16-1. exploration wells in the northern area of Block 10.
The first The Te Giac Trang-1X TGT-1X tested at 9,432 BOEPD.
of these wells, the Jathma-1 JAT-01, tested at over 1,900 TGT was the first structure tested in a new play fairway that BOPD, causing considerable optimism when considering extends for some 80 kilometres along the eastern and that only relatively poor quality 2D seismic data were southern regions of Block 16-1. available and the well was essentially a vertical rather than highly deviated Basement well.
The consortium expects to The second appraisal well on the CNV structure on Block have three rigs working on the exploration appraisal 9-2 offshore Vietnam, CNV-4X, encountered an oil and gas development injector drilling programme in 2006. interval with unexpected high pressure in the sandstone sequence overlying the Basement objective, and had to be The 2005 2006 programme for Block 10 in Yemen also temporarily suspended.
The pressures encountered were involves fide-bottlenecking and other production enhancement significantly higher than those seen previously on the other efforts.
The end result of this is expected to expand the CNV wells.
consortiums export capability significantly, eventually reaching around 70,000 BOPD by 2007.
07.04.05 Success continues in Yemen with announcement of the KHA 2-16 Basement well test exceeding 5,500 BOPD.
10.05.05 The sale of the Companys Mongolia assets is overwhelmingly approved by SOCO shareholders at an EGM.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 4 R310 SOCO 00-05 3 22 06 7:16 PM Page 5 CHAIRMANS AND CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Corporate Having established the presence of oil in the northern In August 2005, SOCO agreed a credit facility with the IFC, extension of Kharir, we will now appraise and develop the the private sector arm of the World Bank.
The US$45 pool with inclined wells, which should yield higher flow rates million reserve-based, revolving credit facility has a seven such as those seen in wells in the main part of the field.
year tenor that will be made available to SOCO in two tranches.
The first tranche of US$25 million is immediately There were many positives in 2005 that largely resulted accessible and the second tranche of US$20 million is a from forces beyond the control of those who benefited the standby loan.
We think that external industry influences will remain fairly stable during 2006 and companies that are not We are pleased to have the involvement of the IFC as they positioned to create their own good fortune will be hard not only bring expertise in the oil and gas sector, but are pressed to top last years performance.
While SOCO also also leaders on the environmental and social sustainability benefited to a degree from environmental influences, as an front.
The long term availability of the financing will provide exploration led company most of our success was due us with additional flexibility to finance our current projects directly to our own efforts.
More importantly, we are well and pursue future opportunities.
The IFC is a strong ally in positioned to continue as we have the portfolio in place the countries in which we currently operate as well as and the resources to exploit it.
those frontier countries in which we hope to initiate projects in the future.
Whilst we do not think such high drilling success ratios are sustainable in the long term, we are definitely well placed Outlook to again enjoy substantial success in 2006.
We have the Operationally, 2006 will be a banner year for SOCO.
The people, we have the portfolio and we have the materials capital budget will be the largest in the Groups history, with and equipment under contract to ensure that this will again approximately US$100 million earmarked.
Results from the be a news driven year.
drill bit will continue to dominate news flow in 2006.
Last year we spoke of streamlining our portfolio and We are off to a very good start to the year in Vietnam.
Although the portfolio is in great The first drill stem test from the TGT-2X appraisal well shape, we would not hesitate to add additional projects flowed at 3,300 BOPD from the Oligocene C interval, that offered material upside to our shareholders.
We trust which was non-productive in the discovery well.
Testing that your confidence in our strategy of recognising operations continue amidst high expectations.
Several opportunity, capturing potential and realising value will analogous prospects and leads have been mapped along again be confirmed throughout the year.
the fairway and we expect that the success at TGT will be repeated.
As we have more successful wells on Block 16-1, we would expect the risk profile of the drilling programme to be reduced as many of the subsurface questions are answered.
We expect 2006 to be a watershed year in Vietnam as we move toward development on our projects in the Cuu Long Basin.
In Yemen, the exploration drilling programme, of which an extension of the Kharir field eastward will be a significant part, will give us a good indication of the upside remaining on Block 10.
As importantly, the production capacity upgrades will start to have a significant impact as export capability should increase considerably throughout Patrick Maugein Ed Story the year.
Chairman President and Chief Executive SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5 R310 SOCO 06-15 3 22 06 7:19 PM Page 6 COLLABORATION THE PARTNERSHIPS WE FORGE ARE INSTRUMENTAL TO WINNING EARLY ACCESS TO NEW OPPORTUNITIES IN EMERGING REGIONS
