3 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW submission to the US Food and Drug The results of the SAINT I trial with NX Y-059, Administration FDA in December seeking a drug being studied for its ability to limit the approval for the treatment of bipolar depression.
disability associated with ischaemic stroke, Approval for use in this significant area of were complex but encouraging.
Stroke is unmet medical need would provide a new a significant area of unmet medical need and opportunity for further sales growth.
Late in the these results were very heartening, as many year Seroquel was also the subject of a patent drugs have failed to show clinical benefit in challenge in the US, from Teva Pharmaceuticals previous trials.
Once again we will vigorously defend regulators we have approximately doubled and enforce our intellectual property rights and the size and made some other changes to the have filed suit in the US for wilful infringement second pivotal study SAINT II to ensure the of the substance patent protecting Seroquel.
best chance of confirming the efficacy of NX Y- 059, but this will delay completion until 2007.
Sales in Oncology grew by 12% to $3.8 billion led by sales of Arimidex $1.2 billion, which Galida, our new diabetes therapy, is approaching became the new gold standard for adjuvant the end of a large phase 3 clinical programme.
In 2005 the Company delivered excellent results, treatment of breast cancer in post-menopausal As the results from these studies become substantially ahead of market expectations women.
A recent analysis reported at the available during 2006, we will be better able at the beginning of the year as strong sales San Antonio Breast Cancer Symposium to judge its potential.
growth was enhanced by productivity gains in December found Arimidex to be the first to yield very strong earnings growth.
This was aromatase inhibitor to provide a disease-free In the second half of 2005, two new, targeted especially gratifying given the challenges survival benefit compared with tamoxifen, cancer therapies Zactima and AZD2171 moved and uncertainty we faced following some in the treatment of hormone-sensitive early into late stage development after achieving disappointments in 2004.
good results in early clinical studies.
In addition, put to the test in 2005 and these results show encouraging results from a substantial phase 2 how well we responded.
Such an experience Crestor, a highly effective treatment for lowering development programme with AZD6140, will prove of great value in preparing the lipids, achieved sales of $1.3 billion in 2005, an anti-platelet agent for cardiovascular Company to face new challenges in the future.
an increase of 38%, despite the residual disease, led to this compound also moving effects of the earlier unfounded allegations in into late stage development.
We believe that AstraZenecas strength derives from its the US about the products safety.
Patient AZD6140 has the potential to offer significant outstanding portfolio of products, its global wellbeing is always our highest priority and we benefits over current therapy in this area.
reach and, above all, the creativity and have continued to work with the clinical commitment of its employees.
community and regulators throughout the As well as making good progress with the world to monitor any potential risks associated late stage development projects, we have Our marketed product range continues with the products use.
In March 2005, after a also enjoyed one of our best years in terms to develop in both strength and depth.
thorough review, the FDA confirmed that the of numbers of new projects entering AstraZeneca now has ten products each with cholesterol-lowering benefits of Crestor are development.
This progress with our own global sales of over $1 billion.
Several of these, achieved with a safety profile in line with that of projects is being complemented by a very products such as Nexium, Seroquel, Crestor, the other marketed members of the statin active programme of in-licensing and research Arimidex and Symbicort, are still enjoying very class.
Market share growth has now resumed collaborations initiated earlier in 2005.
This strong sales evolution and will continue to be and in 2006 we look forward to the publication included important agreements entered into the engines for growth in the medium term.
of some important new studies that we hope at the end of 2005 with Targacept Inc. will help further establish Crestors rightful AtheroGenics, Inc. and Protherics PLC and for Nexium achieved sales of $4.6 billion in 2005 position in cardiovascular medicine.
the acquisition of KuDOS Pharmaceuticals benefiting from good clinical differentiation Limited.
These transactions represent the and strong branding.
In this large and highly Symbicort, an inhaled therapy for asthma fruits of a long period of  competitive market, it was no surprise when and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, with partners.
we were notified that a manufacturer of generic continues to win market share reaching sales drugs, Ranbaxy Laboratories Limited, had of $1.0 billion in 2005 based on its efficacy New products are our life-blood but growth submitted an Abbreviated New Drug Application and flexibility in use.
The product passed can also be achieved through expanding ANDA for esomeprazole magnesium a significant milestone in September when our market presence geographically.
the active ingredient in Nexium in the US.
we submitted a New Drug Application NDA The pharmaceutical market place is evolving We have full confidence in our intellectual in the US, the worlds largest market.
Approval in response to the changing shape of the world property, which we will continue to defend would provide an excellent opportunity for economy.
The developing economies of the vigorously and we have filed a lawsuit in the US further sales growth.
world are driving growth in healthcare District Court of New Jersey against Ranbaxy provision as GDP rises, creating exciting new Laboratories for wilful patent infringement.
Continued success with these five products opportunities for the pharmaceutical industry.
should provide the platform for future growth, AstraZeneca is committed to meeting the Seroquel, with $2.8 billion sales in 2005, further so it is good to be able to report such excellent needs of the populations in these emerging strengthened its position as the most prescribed progress.
The longer term future of a researchmarkets, and we made significant progress atypical anti-psychotic therapy in the US and based company like AstraZeneca, however, during 2005.
For instance, we have become continued to grow strongly in other markets.
has to be built on the quality of its pipeline of the number one, multi-national, prescription A second phase 3 clinical trial has confirmed development products.
drug company in China and we have grown earlier results and enabled a supplemental our business there by over 200% over the AstraZeneca Annual Report and 4 Form 20-F Information 2005 past five years.
Strong growth is also being achieved in other Asian countries, in Latin America and in Eastern Europe.
In my introduction I mentioned AstraZenecas three great sources of strength our products, our global reach and our people.
Every part of the business is being affected by changes that are more profound and are occurring faster than anything I have experienced previously in my career.
The companies that win in this environment will be those who anticipate and deliver what will be needed for success and have the courage and ability to move ahead of their competitors.
Throughout AstraZeneca we are blessed with outstanding people whose creativity, hard work, determination and The strength of our current product range, teamwork have overcome significant obstacles which now has ten medicines each with and shaped the company we have today.
annual sales of over $1 billion, is not only an indication of the importance of our products to It has been a huge privilege to lead these patients worldwide but is a fitting tribute to the colleagues and, as I retire from AstraZeneca, performance of AstraZeneca employees under I offer all of them my sincere thanks for their the passionate leadership of my predecessor, magnificent contribution.
I also offer my best Sir Tom McKillop.
wishes to the Board, my successor, David Brennan, and his executive team who, It is now my privilege to lead AstraZeneca and I am sure, will guide the Company to even to build upon this record for the future.
clear where our future lies.
AstraZenecas chosen path is to discover, develop and effectively commercialise differentiated prescription medicines that make a real contribution to human health and that create sustainable value for our stakeholders and society at large.
SIR TOM MCKILLOP We recognise that if we are to succeed in our Chief Executive mission of providing medicines that improve the quality and length of life of people around Retired from the Board on 31 December 2005 the world, we must access the innovation potential not only of our own employees but also that from outside the Company.
We routinely seek to strengthen our early stage discovery through alliances with external partners.
Throughout 2005, strengthening the pipeline has been our number one priority, and more recent licence and business development activities reflect a greater focus on strengthening our later stage pipeline.
I am determined that we should continue to utilise our strong financial position to further strengthen our portfolio of medicines with projects that are not only exciting clinical treatments but are commercially viable and offer the opportunity to create sustainable value for our shareholders.
DAVID R BRENNAN Chief Executive Officer Appointed as Chief Executive Officer with effect from 1 January 2006
