SPECTRIS 01-17 5 4 06 4:26 pm Page 9 Chairmans and Chief Executives review Our priority going forward is to continue to pursue the strategy of managing cost, pricing and overheads tightly.
Actions such as transferring component sourcing, manufacturing and assembly to lower-cost regions, productivity and process improvements, and a maintained focus on cash generation, reinforce our ability to deliver improved profitability and operating margins.
The following paragraphs describe the operational performance Electronic controls of the groups business segments.
Sales Profit m m Sector performance Electronic controls achieved sales growth of 3% from 139.7 million in 2004 to 143.5 million, with profit up 6% from 17.2 million to 18.2 million.
Operating margins improved from 12.3% to 12.7%.
Microscan launched two new bar code readers during the year which made a positive 04 05 04 05 contribution to a good growth performance.
Red Lion Controls enjoyed particular success, with human machine interface In-line instrumentation products increasing sales in the US by more than 40% compared with the prior year.
At HBM, sales in the second half were Sales Profit attenuated both by a lack of large projects and the elimination m m of some low margin business, largely for Chinese customers, however profitability improved.
A conditional agreement for the disposal of Arcom was signed in February 2006 for a total consideration of US$26 million.
This business is being divested as it is not core to Spectris strategy and will have greater opportunities as part of a specialist embedded computer technology company.
04 05 04 05 In-line instrumentation achieved sales growth of 2% from 198.4 million to 202.3 million with profit growing by 11% Process technology from 20.6 million to 22.9 million.
Operating margins Sales Profit improved from 10.4% to 11.3%.
Sales of BTGs Duroblade m m product recovered in the second half with the ending of the lock-out at paper mills in Finland.
However, delayed capital spending by paper manufacturers in the light of increases in energy and transport costs, caused sales at the instrumentation side of BTGs business to be subdued.
Servomex reported record sales and operating profits, with strong demand in the second half for gas analysis systems on the back of increased spending by companies in the hydrocarbon industries.
Operating profits were up at Brel & Kjr Vibro on relatively flat sales due primarily to an improved product mix.
04 05 04 05 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2005 9 276.0 198.4 139.7 202.3 143.5 310.1 26.8 20.6 17.2 32.4 22.9 18.2 SPECTRIS 01-17 3 4 06 8:56 pm Page 10 Chairmans and Chief Executives review continued The company is expected to benefit as oil refiners invest in Outlook new capacity, with increased demand for safety and condition Levels of demand in the first two months of the year provide monitoring systems.
At Ircon trading margins and profits encouragement that the company will show further good moved ahead.
NDC made good progress, particularly with the progress in 2006.
Spectris has a strong business portfolio, with sales of sensors for measuring equipment, with strong growth market-leading brands and good technology positions, exposure in Asia.
Although the Chinese plastics market suffered from to a number of attractive end-user industries, and high calibre the high oil price and overcapacity, greater penetration of people.
Continued focus on the emerging markets of Asia other industries, such as non-wovens, compensated.
Beta Pacific, Eastern Europe and Latin America, together with LaserMike made good progress with its restructuring and growing emphasis by customers on the value of after-sales returned to trading profitability in the year.
The restructuring service, present good opportunities for the company.
Several at Loma and Cintex returned the business to profitability in of our operations are well positioned to take advantage of the second half, as management focused on product margins increasing investment in petrochemical, mining and metals and the benefits of the move to a manufacturing unit in the industries as a consequence of high oil and commodity demand.
The company has been renamed Our priority going forward is to continue to pursue the Spectrum Inspection Systems.
strategy of managing cost, pricing and overheads tightly.
Actions such as transferring component sourcing, Process technology achieved sales growth of 12% from manufacturing and assembly to lower-cost regions, 276.0 million to 310.1 million with profit growing by 21% productivity and process improvements, and a maintained from 26.8 million to 32.4 million.
Operating margins focus on cash generation, reinforce our ability to deliver improved from 9.7% to 10.4%.
In a year in which improved profitability and operating margins.
In addition we semiconductor equipment investment was flat, Particle will continue to drive organic sales growth and to strengthen Measuring Systems did well, primarily due to market share our portfolio of businesses by considering external gains in the flat panel display, optical display and opportunities for growth where appropriate.
Continued investment by the automotive and electronics industries in Japan benefited Fusion UV Systems, particularly in flat panel displays, where demand for UV-coated functionalised film products is strong, with Asia expected to satisfy around 90% of world demand.
Malvern produced a good performance both from the laboratory business, where nanomaterial and biotechnology John Poulter John OHiggins research markets are attractive, and in the process business Chairman Chief Executive globally.
Malverns newly-opened applications laboratory in China underpinned a strong Asian performance.
Sales at Brel & Kjr Sound & Vibration increased.
The company won strategic environmental contracts in China for both Beijing city and airport, giving Brel & Kjr a strong position in the growing Chinese environmental noise management market.
Underlying profits increased but were impacted by a one-off cost for centralising back-office functions.
PANalytical enjoyed double-digit growth in both sales and operating profit, with particular success in Asia.
The European directives on restricting hazardous substances and waste electrical and electronic equipment have already been beneficial.
The measurement of traces of heavy metals in foods and asbestos in waste presents good opportunities.
PANalytical also entered into an agreement with Lafarge, making it the preferred supplier of X-ray analysis systems for the entire cement division, comprising 150 plants worldwide.
10 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2005
