A R 2005 17 3 06 12:33 pm Page 6 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW In 2005, both the Spirax Sarco steam business and the Watson-Marlow Bredel peristaltic pumping business increased sales and profits.
While the UK and European markets remained subdued with limited industrial investment, the business climate in Asia, the Americas and the Rest of the World was more buoyant with rising manufacturing output and industrial investment.
We concentrated on developing our businesses in the expanding markets and protecting our position in the more difficult trading areas through extending our offering of products and services, and continuing to advance the product ranges both technically and by way of cost reductions.
The Group produced a solid underlying performance M. J. D. Steel, Chief Executive which, with the benefit of exchange and acquisitions, gave good growth in sales the global pumping market: it is also the fastest growing part.
and profits for the year, which was converted into a strong cash flow.
We make the specialised knowledge of our two The business of the Spirax-Sarco Engineering Group businesses readily available to our customers to remains concentrated on the industrial and commercial improve the efficiency of their plant, reduce energy bills steam-using market and the specialist peristaltic and enhance the quality of their products.
We make this pumping market.
knowledge available through extensive training programmes and through our own highly trained force Steam is the natural choice as a heat medium in many of over 1,000 direct sales engineers and service industrial processes because of its high heat carrying engineers worldwide who build long-term partnerships capacity, controllability, sterility and efficiency as a heat with our customers.
Our business is not only spread transfer medium.
The expertise within the Spirax Sarco very broadly across the globe, it is also spread across business is in applying our products to improve the virtually all manufacturing industries: no industrial sector efficiency of our customers process heating, thereby makes up more than 10% of Group sales and no improving the output of the process or reducing individual customer is greater than 1% of the Groups running costs, most notably energy consumption, sales.
Our sales engineers are trained to analyse helping to relieve the pressures on the environment.
customer problems, then to supply the solution through the application of our products.
In recent years the Equally, Watson-Marlow Bredel are specialists not only Spirax Sarco business has expanded the product in manufacturing the best and most advanced offering to include engineered systems for easier peristaltic pumps, but also in the application of those installation and guaranteed performance: we have also pumps to the customers processes, the objective increased the provision of services such as energy being to improve the performance of the end users audits and steam trap surveys to identify potential plant.
The peristaltic pumping market is a small part of improvements to customers systems.
Because of the 4 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2005 17 3 06 12:33 pm Page 7 importance of the performance of the tubing in a pump, units, steam system services and controls.
Sales to Watson-Marlow Bredel has in recent years brought the oil and petrochemicals industry increased with tube extrusion in-house, most recently the production more project work.
We also increased our sales and of Marprene and Bioprene tubing and this is a growing service coverage during the year.
Watson-Marlow element of the peristaltic pumping business.
Bredel capitalised on the recent releases of the awardwinning new pump ranges which take the company TRADING well ahead of the competition and sales grew Following the good progress in the first half of 2005, we particularly well in developing markets in Asia and continued the growth of our businesses through the South America.
second half of the year and the market conditions have been broadly positive.
North American markets have Operating profit for the Group increased by 15% over remained firm.
The South American economies have 2004 from 48.0 million to 55.2 million, a record for grown but are fragile.
Continental European economies the Group.
Excluding the exchange gains, the profit were generally slow with weak manufacturing sectors increase was 10%, a solid underlying performance.
but we continued to implement our own selective The profit increase was mainly achieved organically: growth plans.
The conditions in the UK market were acquisitions also added 2%.
We increased similar to Continental Europe and we have been productivity during the year and made progress with focussing our sales effort on new product areas and the resourcing of raw materials: the benefits of the strong marketing.
By contrast, there was strong growth latter were however outweighed by significant raw in the Asian markets, driven particularly by China, India material cost increases in Europe and energy cost and Korea.
The high oil price does not yet seem to have increases generally.
We expanded our investment in had much adverse effect on markets generally and, for sales resources in the growing markets in Asia and the Spirax Sarco with the ability to save energy for our Americas, largely in the form of extra sales and service customers, the oil price is overall a positive factor.
Exchange rates have moved in our favour in 2005 with a small weakening of sterling.
With 89% of the Groups sales being outside the UK and the majority of the Groups manufacturing resources also outside the UK, exchange is a significant factor for us.
Taking the annual average exchange rates against sterling, the euro and US dollar were both slightly stronger in 2005 than 2004 but the South American and Asian currencies were stronger still - most notably the Brazilian Real and the Korean Won.
The net result is that, with our mix of business, sterling was 1 approximately 2 2% weaker than in 2004.
The effect GEOGRAPHICAL ANALYSIS OF TURNOVER was to enhance sales by 8.1 million in the year: the operating profit increase includes a positive exchange movement of 2.1 million, of which 1.5 million was We have only minority shareholdings in our operations translation and 0.6 million was transaction.
in India and Mexico which are therefore reported outside the operating profit.
They are nevertheless Turnover increased to 349.1 million from 316.0 integral to the whole and both produced good million in 2004, an increase of 10%.
At constant performances in 2005. exchange the growth in sales was 8%, a good result which includes organic growth of 6% and a The operating profit margin increased from 15.2% in contribution from acquisitions of 2%.
The organic 2004 to 15.8% in 2005, the effect of the sales increase growth was achieved in all regions except the UK, being reduced by our continuing investment for the which was broadly flat.
The strongest growth was in future.
On 9th June 2005 we announced the Asia and the Rest of the World, with good growth in acquisition of the Mitech group of controls companies North America too.
The sales increase in Continental in South Africa for 2.3 million, and on 27th June 2005 Europe was patchy and, in total, modest.
we announced the acquisition for 2.5 million of the assets and business of EMCO, a small supplier of flow In the Spirax Sarco business, we made progress with meters in the USA.
Both businesses have been a number of sales initiatives including engineered successfully brought into the Group.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 5 A R 2005 17 3 06 12:33 pm Page 8 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued UNITED KINGDOM AND REPUBLIC OF IRELAND !!
&& Operating profits in the UK were 10.9 million, an increase The UK domestic market continued to be weak with lower industrial production and weak manufacturing of 3% on 2004 despite significant raw material and energy cost increases.
Third party sales rose marginally to 40.1 million 2004: 39.9m with the sales growth held back by the non-repeat of a large boilerhouse project in 2004.
The sales teams concentrated on market segments where there is potential to grow such as oil and petrochemicals, steam system services, hospitals, controls, OEMs, water treatment and custom tubing.
Our factories were busy with strong demand from our companies overseas.
"CONTINENTAL EUROPE The new Watson-Marlow 620 high-flow process pump !"""
""""" #$ % Sales into the Continental European markets increased Germany."
The Watson-Marlow Bredel sales increased by 3% from 121.2 million in 2004 to 125.3 million in in most markets based on the new product releases 2005, which was achieved against a backdrop of weak and the relatively early stages of development of our markets: the effect of exchange rate movements was companies in some of the markets.
The main economies, Germany, France humidifier business in Germany also increased sales and Italy, have not yet shown any sustained signs of and profits.
The main weaknesses were in the Czech returning to growth, and industrial output and Republic, France, Portugal and Sweden, the latter investment were generally weak, with relatively few having produced a particularly strong performance in projects.
Our growth has come from increased sales of 2004.
We set up our own trading company in Russia controls, heat exchanger packages and both and sales increased well in 2005. condensate pumps and peristaltic pumps.
Particular attention has also been paid to the oil and Our factories in France and the Netherlands were busy petrochemicals industry, and pulp and paper.
with demand from around the world: here too there were higher raw material and energy costs.
The Bredel The growth in Continental Europe was patchy in the factory undertook a major process reorganisation Spirax Sarco business.
Gains were made in which constrained profits in 2005.
Scandinavia where the companies in Finland, Denmark and Norway grew sales and profits.
Sales were also Operating profits in Continental Europe increased by ahead in Italy, Spain and Switzerland but were flat in 6% to 18.7 million 2004: 17.8 million.
"6 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2005 17 3 06 12:33 pm Page 9 NORTH AMERICA ""&!"
"%% #$ ""% %& Turnover in North America increased by 14% from Operating profits in the region increased 20% to 7.9 64.1 million to 73.1 million in 2005, a good increase million 2004: 6.6 million and the operating margin which was only marginally helped by exchange increased to 10.8% despite a squeeze on the gross movements."
The market in the USA was resilient in the margin due to significant product sourcing from face of the twin economic deficits and worries about Europe.
Although Mexico is excluded from the figures above The Spirax Sarco sales increased in the USA, helped because we have only a minority shareholding, we by the EMCO acquisition which performed well in its were pleased that the team there carried the strong first six months under our ownership.
The growth growth through from 2004. came in energy services, engineered systems, controls and pumps: a number of product releases supported these sales initiatives.
Our Canadian company produced increased sales and profits.
Watson-Marlow Bredel Inc. also pushed sales ahead with particular success in sanitary applications, sales to OEMs and tubing sales.
"Fully automated steam trap production at Spirax Sarco Inc. Blythewood, South Carolina Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 7 A R 2005 17 3 06 12:33 pm Page 10 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW continued ASIA #$ %! """
Sales in the Asian territories increased to 65.8 million increase of 13% in Asia.
The gains in sales and profits 2004: 55.3 million, a strong rise of 19%.
The have been widespread with the largest increases being economies in Asia continued their growth record of the in China, Korea and India which is reported separately last few years and trading conditions were generally under Associates.
Elsewhere there was good growth positive.
Our operations pushed up both sales and in Japan, Singapore, Taiwan and Thailand.
profits as a result of the market activity, implementing our own sales plans and increasing our sales coverage.
Operating profit for the region was 11.4 million 2004: Project activity was also higher.
The Asian currencies 8.2 million, an increase of 40% which came mainly have generally been stronger against the US dollar, from the sales growth but the gross margins were also with the Korean Won being particularly strong: the boosted by the stronger currencies.
If the total main exception has been the Japanese Yen which has currency effect is discounted, the underlying profit weakened against the US dollar and sterling thereby growth is still a good 24%.
The operating profit margin holding back the gross margin in Japan.
At constant rose from 16.2% in 2004 to 18.7% in 2005. exchange rates there was a strong underlying sales SOUTH AMERICA, AFRICA, AUSTRALASIA rest of the world %!!
"!% #$ """"% & The economies were, not surprisingly for such a diverse on the sales was significant as the currencies region, rather mixed."
The Australian market was quiet strengthened against sterling, particularly the Brazilian and in Brazil the economy slowed noticeably in the Real.
The underlying increase in turnover in ROW after second half of the year.
Against this, South Africa and allowing for currency movements and the acquisition Argentina were strong, although the economic was still a solid 10%.
We achieved good growth in fundamentals in Argentina and Brazil must give cause Argentina, South Africa and New Zealand.
Turnover in the ROW was strongly ahead at 44.8 Operating profit in ROW increased by 27% to 6.2 million 2004: 35.5 million, an increase of 26%.
This million 2004: 4.9 million helped by exchange and the does include the first six months trading of the small Mitech acquisition.
The South American trading Mitech controls companies in South Africa following margins eased slightly, which held back the margin to their acquisition in June 2005.
The effect of exchange 13.5% for the whole region.
8 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2005 17 3 06 12:33 pm Page 11 shares to be held by the company to meet the demand BALANCE SHEET AND CASH FLOW for shares in respect of share options, the share We continue to pay close attention to the management ownership plan and the performance share plan.
Capital employed, comprising property, plant and equipment, inventories, debtors LOOKING AHEAD and creditors, increased by 7% to 188 million: at We are the world leaders in our niche markets which constant exchange rates the increase was 3% comprise the industrial and commercial steam-using including the addition of 1 million in respect of the market for the Spirax Sarco business, and the process acquisitions of Mitech and EMCO during the year.
and environmental markets for peristaltic pumps.
Underlying working capital levels rose by under 5% compared with the 6% organic increase in sales.
The The worldwide steam-using market is very fragmented value of tangible fixed assets was broadly unchanged and although Spirax Sarco is the leading supplier to at constant exchange rates as additions were in line that market, we have a relatively small market share.
with the depreciation charge for the year.
Under IFRS, There is good long-term potential for growth and the the deficit of 45.8 million before deferred tax in the aim is to continue the steady increase in market share defined benefit schemes is included as a liability for the that we have achieved over the last several decades.
The potential exists both in developed markets such as the USA, Japan and Germany and in the developing markets such as China, India and Russia.
We will achieve the growth by applying our expert knowledge and our specialist product to improve the customers plant performance.
We will also continue to develop new products and increase our sales coverage.
The peristaltic pumping market as served by WatsonMarlow Bredel is the most rapidly growing part of the global pumping market and, although we have a relatively high market share, the potential for growth lies in displacing other pump types within the overall market.
The Watson-Marlow Bredel pump range leads the world in performance, functionality and ease of use, and as the technology advances particularly the tube and hose capability, so the possible applications for peristaltic pumps are widening.
We are continuing to expand our presence in both the developing and developed markets in order to ensure that the unique and very useful qualities of the pumps are fully understood by the market.
Both the Spirax Sarco and Watson-Marlow Bredel Severe service control valve from businesses are based on the philosophy of newly acquired Mitech understanding in detail the customers process and being able to apply the product in order to give a Cash flow for the year was strong and net cash benefit to the customer.
For all these reasons we are balances increased by 17.7 million to 19.0 million, clear that by investing in sales resources, in product underpinned by the good profit and control of capital development, in improved efficiencies and in training, employed.
There was an unusually large inflow of 8.6 we expect to maintain long-term growth in sales, profits million from the issue of shares under the Groups and dividends as we have in the past.
option scheme and employee share ownership plan.
This was roughly matched by the outflow of 5.9 million for acquisitions and an extra 4 million in cash contributions into the Groups defined benefit pension schemes.
In 2006, we plan to make additional contributions of around 20 million to the defined benefit pension schemes, thereby reducing the deficit.
M. J. D. Steel, Chief Executive In addition, in 2006, we expect to buy in up to 2 million Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 9
