4 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 Chief Executives overview Since joining Spirent as Chief Executive I have set out to transform the Group into a focused communications company.
During 2005 we have been busy reshaping and restructuring the business culminating in the disposal of HellermannTyton, as well as starting in 2006 to make selective acquisitions.
Anders Gustafsson Chief Executive Introduction and strategy which were described in detail at the time of the interim results Since joining Spirent as Chief Executive I have set out to transform in August 2005.
These losses were substantially reduced in the the Group into a focused communications company.
During 2005 second half as a result of the actions we took in the first half.
we have been busy reshaping and restructuring the business Material one-time items of 8.4 million have been expensed in culminating in the disposal of HellermannTyton, as well as starting the year.
Of this, 3.9 million is in relation to restructuring in 2006 to make selective acquisitions.
actions in the Service Assurance division and 1.4 million for The decision to focus on communications reects our view that inventory write-downs again in this division.
Other material onethe sector offers Spirent the best top and bottom line growth time items of 3.1 million have been taken in relation to supply opportunities in the mid and long term, leveraging our leading chain initiatives and other restructuring actions within the market positions in our key product segments.
This was reported in our interim results.
We are therefore continuing to invest in organic growth In the first half we took a goodwill impairment charge of opportunities through research and development and sales and 37.0 million due to the drop in activity in the Service Assurance marketing activities and the launch of new products such as the division.
Performance Analysis We will also continue to make selective acquisitions.
These Revenue and operating profit in the Performance Analysis division acquisitions will be a good strategic t with our existing activities for 2005 were slightly up on 2004.
In this division several of our as well as expanding our customer base, broadening our end markets were weaker than had been anticipated earlier in geographic coverage or enabling entry into new markets.
The the year, particularly so in the third quarter, although activity in principal strategic drivers for acquisition are to expand our market the fourth quarter did recover somewhat.
In addition, we are in position and our competitive offering into markets where we a product transition phase as we progressively introduce new and see strong growth opportunities.
This will ensure that we remain improved products and solutions.
Encouragingly, sales to some a core supplier to our customers, whilst at the same time of our largest customers in the equipment manufacturing sector accelerating our development plans to keep ahead of competition.
grew by more than 30 per cent and the divisions wireless and We will shortly establish our operational headquarters in Sunnyvale, position location test activities experienced their best year ever.
California, in the centre of Silicon Valley where we have the highest concentration of customers.
I will relocate in the spring, Service Assurance but we will maintain a small corporate headquarters in the UK.
Revenue in the Service Assurance division was down 43 per cent compared with 2004 and as a result the division reported an Results overview operating loss of 9.6 million of which 9.0 million was incurred The Groups 2005 results were principally affected by the in the first half.
In the first quarter of 2005 our major customers, operating losses incurred by the Service Assurance division, the US service providers, had delayed the release of their full Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 5 capital spending budgets partly due to merger activity, with a larger SwissQual and QuadTex will enhance Spirents product offerings, proportion of these budgets shifting towards next-generation capabilities and customer base in the wireless, triple play voice, rather than existing networks.
As these trends became apparent video, data and IMS markets.
we undertook significant restructuring actions in the division, including changing senior management, reducing headcount by Outlook around 260 approximately 40 per cent of the total workforce, The disposal of the HellermannTyton Division has transformed which resulted in a much reduced loss for the second half of Spirent into a focused communications company, as well as 0.6 million.
During 2005 we have refocused our product having signicantly improved our financial position.
Spirent is well development efforts to generate new solutions for triple play placed to grow organically from its established market-leading and advanced business services: this will continue through 2006. positions.
We also have the potential to expand through selective acquisitions, such as SwissQual and QuadTex, announced in 2006.
Systems The variable market conditions seen in 2005 have continued Our Systems group grew revenue and operating profit by through the beginning of the first quarter, which is usually our 20 per cent and 29 per cent respectively, benefiting from the quietest.
As 2006 progresses, the year will be a period of product launch of two new wheelchair control systems.
transition as the increased capability of our new products and solutions will enable us to gain market share.
As a result, we Acquisitions in 2006 anticipate that the Groups performance for 2006 will show On 23 January 2006, we announced the acquisition of recovery over last year, with a more pronounced seasonal increase SwissQual Holding AG SwissQual for an initial consideration in activity in the second half.
of 27.7 million paid in cash, with up to a further 12.4 million payable depending on revenue growth and various technical and financial milestones.
SwissQual provides world class products and talent in the development of voice and video solutions that analyse, recognise and improve the quality of experience for users of wireless applications and services.
We also announced on 13 February 2006 the acquisition of Operating profit loss and return on sales are used by the Group as key measures of QuadTex Systems, Inc QuadTex for an initial consideration of operating performance and are stated in the text before the effect of material one-time 4.2 million with a further consideration of up to 0.9 million.
items, goodwill impairment and share-based payment so that period-on-period comparisons are not distorted.
QuadTex is a fast growing US based provider of innovative and The HellermannTyton Division for the purposes of these results has been presented as a leading test tools for internet protocol multimedia subsystems discontinued operation and our financial results are presented and discussed for the IMS and voice over IP VoIP testing.
continuing Spirent Group, unless otherwise stated.
