SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 08 An Interview with the Chief Executive Q Are you satisfied with the progress that you have made this year?
A Last year I set out four clear objectives.
We have sold the medical businesses which not only significantly reduced our borrowings, but has left us free to concentrate on the growth of our consumer healthcare brands.
We have grown brand contribution and reduced costs thereby significantly increasing our operating profits.
We have focused on our people by creating a performancerelated culture and by introducing a radical new training programme.
We are also making substantial improvements to internal communication around the organisation.
In short, we have had the first taste of success, but we have much more to do.
Q How can you develop the Durex brand?
A We are positioning Durex as a brand which not only provides safety but also helps give a happy, healthy and fulfilling sex life.
Our strategy is to focus on three core elements of the Durex range: condoms, where we have seen continued success of premium condom brands, for example, Pleasuremax and Performa: a personal lubricants range branded as Durex Play: and the introduction of the Durex Play range of vibrators.
This year, we have seen our global market share of branded condoms grow to 29 per cent with growth in all our key markets driven by innovative product development and advertising.
Q Will you be able to give Scholl footcare a sharper focus?
A The Scholl footcare business is complex, offering a wide range of products from footfiles to corn plasters to moisturising creams.
We will grow this category by focusing on two key areas introducing hero products and improving distribution.
Remedial products, treating corns, calluses and bunions are at the heart Q&A of our range.
We must provide our consumers with the most efficacious Garry Watts answers questions about product offering in this area with strong distribution through pharmacies.
We the progress made during the year, must also ensure that our footcare products are relevant to consumers of growing the value of the global Durex today with products like Scholl Party Feet, a clear gel insole, which prevents the and Scholl brands, how the brand burning sensation in the balls of the feet from wearing high heeled shoes.
We portfolio can be strengthened further combined a consumer need with new and his vision for SSL.
technology, distributed the product through high street retail outlets and supported it with effective advertising it has been an outstanding success.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 09 An Interview with the Chief Executive Q How will you revitalise the Scholl accelerate the cost control programme footwear business?
and we fully expect costs to reduce further during the current year.
Our A Based on consumer insight, we cost of goods sold represents a significant know that Scholl footwear has a strong part of our cost base and by continual brand heritage and is what consumers improvements to supply chain efficiency most readily associate with Scholl.
Our we aim to improve gross margin.
For strategy to turn around the Scholl example, earlier this year we announced footwear business is based on a our proposal to close our manufacturing three-year programme.
facility in Derby by the end of 2005 and to transfer manufacture to India.
Traditionally, Scholl footwear is sold in pharmacies and while we will continue Q What is your vision for SSL?
to sell our classic range of shoes into that channel, we fully recognise that A My vision for SSL is that as an to grow footwear sales we must widen organisation we become Successful, distribution to mainstream retail outlets Socially Responsible and Lively.
and appeal to younger, more imageconscious consumers.
Successful by hitting our targets, by employing successful people, In the development of our footwear by appealing to our consumers range, it is important that we remain true and by satisfying our customers to the ethos of Dr Scholl to improve Socially responsible supporting peoples health, comfort and well-being our employees both through their through their feet whilst ensuring that remuneration and development, we meet the lifestyle needs of todays caring about the environment, consumers.
Our first experience of this providing support to our local approach in the UK has been successful, communities and playing a full part showing growth of over 30 per cent in in the global fight against HIV AIDS the year and we now have a very stylish Lively by being a fun company to Spring Summer 2006 collection to look work for, one that generates creative forward to!
ideas and is a great business partner.
Strategy update Q What is your attitude towards future acquisitions and business partnerships?
Disposal programme We have concluded the disposal of the medical A We already have a substantial portfolio businesses and substantially discharged all our of locally owned brands, for example, responsibilities for transitional service obligations.
Syndol and Meltus in the UK and In total, the disposal programme generated gross Woodwards Gripewater which is popular proceeds of c260 million, enabling a significant in the Far East.
These brands are very reduction in the level of net debt to c88 million.
responsive to advertising and create sales Garry Watts, Chief Executive Growing brand contribution and distribution synergies when sold 23 May 2005 We have established brand contribution as our key alongside Durex and Scholl.
However, measure of success for growth in the value of our we are keen to strengthen our brand brands.
During 2004 05, despite increasing our portfolio and we look for opportunities investment in advertising by 5 million, we have to do this continually.
We have already increased brand contribution to 169.2 million.
made some small acquisitions, for example, Eulactol, a foot and skincare Motivating our people During the year, we have focused our attention product in Australia and entered into new on three key areas: distribution arrangements in Europe and the Far East, for example, V6 dental gum Developed a performance-related culture in Spain.
In addition to this, we are well led by a new incentive scheme based on placed to take advantage of the clear business-related objectives developing economies in China and India Developed a new training programme to be piloted in the UK during the summer of 2005, through our operations there and our focusing on three elements lifestyle, job skills relationships with local business partners.
and business awareness Developed and implemented a strategy Q How do you expect to reduce the level to improve communication throughout of fixed costs further?
A From the cost control measures Challenging the cost base We are continuing to focus on overhead cost we have implemented we are pleased reductions across our organisation.
The measures to see a reduction in overheads more we have already implemented have more than than offsetting inflation increases.
From offset the effects of inflation to reduce overhead 2005 06 onwards, now free of the costs to 131.3 million.
transitional service obligations in respect of the disposed businesses we will
