Chief Executives review Organic growth across our business has driven Stagecoachs strong We are pleased to have been involved in helping to shape the future performance during the year.
direction of the railways during the Governments recent review.
A number of Stagecoach proposals, including better integration on the network, have We have built on our excellent track record in achieving growth in our been put in place and the results are helping to reduce delays and UK bus operations as a result of our innovation, targeted marketing and improve network management.
Despite pressure on fuel costs, we have achieved further impressive results in the year, increasing operating profits At the two Virgin Rail Group VRG franchises, West Coast and by 10.3% in our UK Bus division from 74.8m to 82.5m.
CrossCountry, we are particularly pleased at the improving reliability for Our new telemarketing unit has been attracting thousands of new bus passengers and the step-change in the travelling environment that has users and we expect our two-year campaign focusing on a new location been delivered with the introduction of new trains.
every six-weeks to generate further organic growth in our provincial bus The re-negotiation of the West Coast franchise is a key strategic priority for operations.
com, the Groups low-cost inter-city bus service, has the Group.
We look forward to continuing our discussions with Government now expanded to cover over 30 towns and cities in the UK and we expect in late 2005, following the agreement to gather more revenue, passenger further growth in megabus.
coms revenue during the year to 30 April and operational data to assist the re-negotiation of the franchise for the 2006.
We have also expanded our use of online sales to increase our period through to 2012.
Passenger volumes on the West Coast mainline share in other express coach markets, such as our premier London-Oxford have risen approximately 20% in the period since 18 September 2004 in service.
response to the introduction of new faster Pendolino trains.
Journey times We continue to develop positive partnerships with local authorities where on the key London-Manchester route have been reduced by more than half pro-bus policies coupled with our operational and marketing expertise are an hour, while the frequency of services between the two cities has been producing strong revenue and passenger volume growth in our nondoubled, attracting many airline passengers to rail travel.
Several of our initial Government-funded Kick Start schemes are already generating significant passenger volume growth after These results are extremely encouraging and many more people can be just six months and we have again significantly increased turnover at our attracted back to the railways if this uplift in quality of service is matched regulated bus operations in London.
by further and sustained progress in infrastructure provision by Network Rail.
With these excellent long-term prospects, we believe we can reOur UK Rail division has performed ahead of our original expectations and negotiate a franchise agreement which is sustainable and in the long-term we are extremely pleased with the strong growth in turnover and interests of passengers, taxpayers and shareholders.
passenger volumes at South West Trains.
UK Rail operating profit is up 10.2% and the outlook for the remainder of the SWT franchise remains Like the West Coast franchise, Virgin CrossCountry continues to operate positive.
on the basis of annual budgets set by the Strategic Rail Authority SRA.
Customers have experienced a significantly improved service following the We are awaiting the SRAs decision on the future of the franchise.
If the introduction of the new timetable at South West Trains in December SRA decides to put the franchise out to open competition, we are 2004, with more frequent departures from the busiest stations.
Train confident that VRG, as the incumbent operator with an excellent track punctuality has progressively increased, with over 90% of trains now record, will be in a strong position to win the franchise.
arriving on time measured on the basis of the Strategic Rail Authoritys Overseas, we have a strong set of bus businesses in the North American Public Performance Measure, and we are confident that this new and New Zealand markets.
In North America, we are pleased to report improved timetable and its inherent reliability will stimulate further strong US$ turnover growth of 26.4% in the sightseeing and tour parts of passenger volume growth.
While we have significantly reduced our We have almost completed the UKs biggest introduction of new rolling ongoing exposure to these markets through our restructuring programme, stock at South West Trains with the minimum of delays for passengers.
the leisure-related businesses we have retained are now benefiting from a South West Trains has replaced its old slam-door rolling stock earlier than more stable US economy and from the recovery in charter and sightseeing any other London operator, as part of the project to introduce 155 statemarkets.
To stimulate further growth we have recently launched a new of-the art Desiro units with a total value of around 1 billion.
website for our North American operations, which incorporates online sales as part of our revenue development strategy.
Passengers have responded extremely positively to the new trains and improved service.
The most recent National Rail Trends data published by The non-leisure parts of our continuing North American businesses have the Strategic Rail Authority indicated that the number of passengers who also seen good growth, with US$ turnover from scheduled services and rated their overall journey with South West Trains as satisfactory or good commuter services up 7.8% on the prior year.
In addition, we have was 5% higher than the equivalent period in the previous year.
This continued to win and retain school bus and other contracts resulting in improvement was one of the highest for an operator in the London and US$ turnover growth of 6.2% over the prior year.
In New Zealand, while there has been increased competition from the railways Stagecoach Group has a significant share of the UK passenger rail market in Auckland, operating margins remain satisfactory at 14.7% 2004: 18.4% and a key strategic priority is to maximise the current significant and we are satisfied with the performance of the division although ongoing opportunities to grow our franchise portfolio.
We have been shortlisted for industrial action in Auckland is likely to impact financial performance in the the Greater Western and Thameslink Great Northern franchises.
also working hard with our partners, Danish State Railways, to win the new Integrated Kent franchise.
None of this could have been achieved without the tremendous commitment from our people, who have ensured the Group has delivered The South West Trains franchise runs until February 2007 and we have on its strategy.
We have an excellent team of senior managers across the already started preparing for a possible tender in 2006.
Under our Group and I believe we are well placed to deliver further growth in the management since 1996, South West Trains passengers have benefited from coming year.
record investment in new trains, significant operational improvements and new initiatives to boost security and customer service.
Our strong financial management has delivered value for money to passengers and taxpayers, as well as an excellent return to our shareholders, and we believe we will be in a strong position to retain the franchise.
References to the operating profit or operating margin of a particular business throughout the Chief Brian Souter Executives Review and Operating and Financial Review mean operating profit or operating margin Chief Executive before goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and restructuring costs.
