Chief Executives review Overview The Tate & Lyle Group has performed well during the The Tate & Lyle Group has performed well 2005 financial year and has achieved good profit during the 2005 financial year and has achieved good profit growth.
We have also made significant progress in made significant progress in implementing our strategy and in progressing key implementing our strategy and in progressing key investments to lay the foundations for future investments to lay the foundations for future growth.
The SPLENDA Sucralose business performed strongly in its first full year under our management and we also increased the contribution from our other value added ingredient products, offsetting the effects of exchange rate translation, higher export licence costs at Sugars, Europe and rising global energy costs.
These results reflect the quality and commitment of our people around the world and I would like to thank them for their contribution to our business.
We have also made good progress in building a common Group identity and culture Tate & Lyle everywhere through our Vision Into Action programme.
This involved the participation of around 6,000 people, at some 40 locations around the world.
Changing lifestyles mean that consumers are challenging food manufacturers to increase the pace of innovation and to reformulate and fortify their products.
We have set up a global marketing network and are working more closely than ever with our customers to help them meet this challenge.
Our objective is for Tate & Lyle to become synonymous with creating innovative food ingredient platforms that balance taste, health and nutrition.
We have trademarked key marketing propositions under our CORE TM TM TM range, Create, Optimise, Rebalance, TM and Enrich.
We are investing in consumer research and sensory testing to validate our unique market propositions and are also refocusing our investment in research and development, where we have recruited an additional 19 scientists and technicians this year.
Research and development expenditure increased by 12% to 19 million in the year 2004 17 million.
We have also announced that we will be investing a further 25 million in innovation over a five-year period through Tate & Lyle Ventures, a new fund that we are establishing to invest in new products and technologies that are closely aligned with our strategy.
This will complement our existing research and development and partnering activities.
Group profit before tax, exceptional items and amortisation of 255 million was a 12% improvement on the prior year 2004 227 million and an 18% improvement at constant exchange rates.
Group profit before tax after exceptional items and amortisation was 197 million 2004 224 million.
Net debt has risen from 388 million at Iain Ferguson 31 March 2004 to 451 million at 31 March Chief Executive 2005, mainly reflecting the investment in 06 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 the realignment of the sucralose business.
Overall, in the financial year due to commissioning and The net debt to EBITDA earnings before 2004 calendar year, the shift in product the employment and training of staff.
exceptional items and before interest, tax, mix towards more value added products Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas depreciation and amortisation multiple has which typically require greater processing incurred higher energy and other increased slightly from 1.2 times to 1.3 times.
and higher energy usage means that manufacturing costs, and the weak dollar the Group narrowly failed to achieve the reduced earnings on translation.
Food Group Targets target, with an actual energy reduction ingredients and industrial starches improved Tate & Lyle has made further progress per unit of 2.4%.
Adjusting for this change due to higher volumes and increased against most of its targets in the year to in product-mix the reduction would have gross margins, increasing the contribution 31 March 2005 and we have revised targets been 3.6%.
Sweetener for future financial years where appropriate.
volumes were slightly down, in line with Performance of Main Businesses the market, and overall sweetener gross We have increased the contribution of SPLENDA Sucralose performed strongly margins were lower.
Net corn costs were value added products as a percentage of after the realignment of the business which slightly higher.
Ethanol margins were higher Group profit before interest, exceptional was reported in last years Annual Report than in the previous year as a result of items and amortisation from 39% to 49%.
In the first full year under our higher gasoline prices.
This measure has been restated for the management, sales of 115 million and In the 2005 calendar year pricing round March 2004 financial year, mainly to reflect profit before interest, exceptional items and we succeeded in recovering the increase in a change in the allocation of costs and amortisation of 52 million compared to net corn costs and higher energy prices and products.
The March 2005 financial year proforma results for the year to December expect to at least maintain sweetener total includes start-up costs relating to the 2003 the last full year of operation by McNeil net margins at 2004 calendar year levels.
Bio-3G and Aquasta astaxanthin Nutritionals of 70 million and 21 million The construction of the Bio-3G joint projects.
A key element of our strategy is respectively.
Integration costs at 3 million venture plant in Loudon, Tennessee, to grow the value added business and we were lower than we had previously indicated.
The Bio-3G aim to increase this contribution to 60% in We saw a number of exciting product project has been selected to receive the 2005 the next few years.
launches by our SPLENDA Sucralose DuPont Sustainable Growth Award.
This is The overall Group Return on Net Operating customers throughout the year and product awarded by a committee composed of Assets RONOA improved further to innovation remains strong.
Our current representatives from DuPont and leading 16.7% 2004 15.4% after restatement production capacity is fully utilised and we environmental organisations.
The nomination for adoption of UITF 38.
Having achieved have announced three investments in new stated that the teams invented, developed, our short term target of 15%, we now aim capacity to satisfy existing and projected and demonstrated, through pilot scale, a to reach our longer term target of 20%.
The first of the two expansions to novel biological process for the production of We expect the return in the year to March the sucralose facility in McIntosh, Alabama, 1,3-propanediol Bio-3G, a key ingredient 2006 to be broadly stable as we invest for USA is being progressively brought on to DuPont Sorona polymer, the newest future growth with earnings from new stream and will be completed in January and most advanced polymer platform investments being seen in later years.
The second is on track to commence introduced by DuPont in over six decades.
Interest cover has again increased with production in April 2006.
The building of the We are pleased to be partners in this business cover at 11.3 times, underpinning our new Singapore facility will be completed by and to share in this prestigious award.
investments in future growth and our January 2007, by which time we will have At Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe, progressive dividend policy.
Our minimum more than tripled the production capacity overall profits in the business were lower target is 5.0 times.
we acquired under the realignment.
Like any than the comparative year.
The 2004 All businesses have a target on both new facility, this will require some time to calendar year pricing round failed to recover economic and environmental grounds to build up to full production.
These projects all of the cereal cost increase, which arose reduce energy consumption on a per unit will incur start-up costs during our 2006 due to a drought in 2003.
During 2004, cereal prices reduced to more normal levels enabling margins to increase.
Sales volumes in both sweeteners and starches increased.
Return on net operating assets % Interest cover times In a disappointing pricing round in the 2005 calendar year, and despite the impact of 20% long-term target higher energy costs, the industry was unable to retain any of the net gain from lower 11.3 16.7 cereal prices.
Total sweetener and starch net 1 15.4 15% short-term target margins are, therefore, expected to be lower 14.2 9.3 in the 2005 calendar year.
Eaststarch, the joint venture operations 7.6 10.5 in Central and Eastern Europe, also suffered from raw material price increases due to the 8.5 5.0 minimum target drought but achieved better sales pricing on the accession of Slovakia and Hungary into 3.3 the European Union EU.
Overall, profits 2.3 improved over the prior year.
01 02 03 04 05 01 02 03 04 05 The DuPont oval logo, DuPont, Sorona and the 1 Restated to reflect the adoption of UITF 38 Accounting miracles of Science are trademarks or registered for ESOP Trusts.
trademarks of E. I. du Pont fide Nemours and Company.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 07 Chief Executives review continued Our EU cane sugar operations have At Tate & Lyle we understand the drivers that are affecting delivered profits in line with the prior year and generated strong cash flow.
This was the food and beverage industry as consumers become more despite the impact of surplus sugar in the sophisticated, demanding and health conscious than ever EU leading to increased competition for export licences and driving up the cost of before.
We are committed to developing innovative solutions these licences at auction.
Traditionally export to enable our customers to meet these product challenges.
licences have been sold by auction at under 12 per tonne.
Recent auctions have seen this increase to above 90 per tonne as a result of oversupply in the EU.
This has reduced the profitability of exports in the second half year by 4 million and is team.
The reform will adversely affect our views widely and strongly known and expected to impact further in the year to European businesses in the financial year promoting possible alternatives.
The current sugar regime does ending 31 March 2007. has been participating fully in this process not allow cane refiners to sell their product There are external and internal pressures to ensure that its interests and concerns, through intervention unlike beet processors.
These include:- and those of its suppliers, are fully and Our refineries typically export between adequately understood.
the need to bring the structure of the The EU Commission is actively formulating Legislative proposals on the reform of sugar regime into line with the reforms definitive proposals for regime reform along the EU sugar regime are expected on which have been made to most of the with an accompanying legal text and has 22 June 2005.
This issue is considered EUs other commodity regimes: indicated that these proposals will take in greater detail later.
a challenge before the World Trade account of the recent adverse outcome Our Canadian sugar refinery performed Organisation WTO to the legitimacy of of the EUs appeal to the WTO.
The in line with the previous year.
the EUs quota and non-quota C sugar Commission has indicated that these formal export programmes.
In 2004 the WTO proposals will be tabled on 22 June 2005.
Performance of Other Businesses Dispute Panel found against the EU and They will then be the subject of negotiation Eastern Sugar, the joint venture European the EU recently learned that its appeal and possible further amendment in the sugar beet business, returned to a modest against that decision has also been Council of Ministers and will also be profit following the accession of the Czech unsuccessful.
The consequence of this presented to the European Parliament.
Republic, Slovakia and Hungary to the EU.
ruling is that pressure on the EU to limit The British Government assumes the EU Whilst no resolution has been achieved in production further in order to prevent Presidency on 1 July 2005 and, along with the North American Free Trade Agreement future exports of C sugar has been the EU Commission, has committed to dispute on access for high fructose corn significantly intensified: securing a political agreement in time for syrup HFCS into Mexico and the Mexican changes necessary to ensure the EU the next WTO ministerial negotiating session tax on drinks containing HFCS remains in can negotiate constructively in the WTO in Hong Kong in December 2005. place, certain of our customers have been Doha Development Round: and As often occurs, there have been a granted injunctions exempting them from the announcement by the EU Trade number of rumours and apparent leaks of this tax.
Consequently at Almex, the Mexican Commission in February 2001 that a list discussion drafts of formal proposals that cereal sweeteners and starch business, profits of Least Developed Countries would be might be published by the EU Commission improved over the comparative period.
Our permitted duty free imports into the EU of on 22 June 2005.
We continue to be sugar operation, Occidente, reported lower everything but arms the EBA initiative.
From encouraged by the support from the UK profits as a result of higher cane prices.
July 2009 i. e. within the period of the next Government and the continuing work being Nghe An Tate & Lyle, our cane sugar renewal sugar from these countries will be undertaken on cane refining by the EU factory in Vietnam, operated well with better granted unlimited duty free access, disrupting Commission, but we remain concerned selling prices.
the traditional balance of supply and demand.
whether there will be adequate protection for International sugar trading performed well the interests of isoglucose quota holders.
In July 2004 the EU Commission published is not possible to comment in detail on the Implementing our strategy for growth a White Paper on possible mechanisms for likely consequences at this time as we do required increased expenditure in customer sugar regime reform.
The main thrust of the not have the definitive proposals and in the management, marketing and innovation.
White Paper was aimed at achieving a light of the delicate state of negotiations and This, together with higher personnel costs significant reduction in EU sugar prices, lobbying that is taking place prior to the and professional fees, has resulted in quota beet production and exports.
However, it increased central costs.
the publication of the White Paper, Member is our intention to publish our quantification State Governments, the sugar industry, its of the range of potential impacts upon our European Sugar Regime suppliers beet farmers and cane producers, businesses after the EU Commission Looking forward, the reform of the EU sugar customers and the European Institutions proposals are formally published.
regime, due to take effect from 1 July 2006, have been examining the Commissions The EU Commission has specifically is an important focus for the management ideas in depth and have been making their assured Tate & Lyle that during policy 08 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 formulation it will have in mind during this It should be noted that the interactions and objective: to establish strong, safe and process that the Community cane refining inter-dependencies are very complex, so it healthy communities by investing time and industry can maintain its competitiveness is possible that definitive information may resources into projects that directly address under fair conditions.
We believe the EU not be available in sufficient detail until after local needs.
Commission will do everything it can to negotiations, which start with the June Our community partnerships are very well ensure that this is the case.
The policy of publication, are complete.
supported by our people, many of whom the British Government has consistently We have always maintained that our take part in programmes.
Tate & Lyles been that, in seeking reform of the sugar businesses have an important role to play community involvement benefits our people regime, it would look for arrangements that in the European sweeteners industry and, by enhancing their own local community, provide fair terms of competition between in an unregulated market, would be able to offering significant personal development the beet and cane sectors.
It should be compete effectively with other domestic opportunities and making Tate & Lyle a stressed that June will see the start of a producers and imports.
This remains our company for which they are proud to process that the EU Commission expects view, but we rely on the EU Commission to work.
The community involvement policy to run until at least the end of November.
ensure that proposals are advanced which is reviewed annually by the Board.
Our principal areas for concern arising do not prejudice the ability of our operations from sugar regime reform are that: to compete to their full capability in that Conclusion evolving market place.
These results demonstrate the success reductions in sugar selling prices and The potential of the reform to impact on of our strategy of focusing on growing the raw material prices beet and cane could the total Group results is reduced by the value added segment of our business and result in a corresponding reduction in successful implementation of our strategy building the future of the Group around one the beet processors and cane refiners to grow the value added component of our common identity, as Tate & Lyle everywhere.
It is essential that a competitive business, a consistent objective since 1999.
The SPLENDA Sucralose business has balance is maintained between beet and been successfully integrated and has seen cane producers: Segmental Reporting exciting demand from our customers.
We at Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe, We will be adopting a new basis for have laid the foundation for future growth isoglucose produced from wheat and segmental financial reporting with effect from with investment in both sucralose and in the corn, the prices for which are not linked 1 April 2005.
This analysis will be presented Bio-3G joint venture with DuPont, and to that of sugar is typically priced at a along product lines, compared to the have demonstrated good organic growth discount to sugar and so a reduction in existing geographic analysis given today.
with the launch of a range of new functional the sugar price will lead to a reduction We believe that this will give a more value added ingredients.
Isoglucose meaningful analysis of our activities.
At Tate & Lyle we understand the drivers producers will seek adequate compensation that are affecting the food and beverage for the effect of such lower prices through, Safety industry as consumers become more by example, increased quotas: Tate & Lyle is committed to providing safe sophisticated, demanding and health Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe also and healthy conditions for its employees, conscious than ever before.
We are supplies other products which compete contractors and visitors.
The Group has committed to developing innovative with sugar, where margins could be no higher priority than safety and we target solutions often containing leading edge adversely affected by changes in the continuous improvement to reduce ingredients that are unique to us to regime: and recordable injury and lost time accident enable our customers to meet these product to ensure their global competitiveness, our rates to zero in every plant.
This approach will be the driver Citric Acid operations in Europe, which We measure and report our safety of value added growth in the future.
currently benefit from production refunds performance in calendar years and, for available to the EU chemical and 2004, most Tate & Lyle locations equalled or fermentation industry, will require improved their 2003 performance, including continued access to the raw materials 25 that reported no lost-time accidents and they use in the form of sugar or dextrose nine that reported no recordable injuries for at world market prices.
For example, employees at Houlton, USA again took their record to The pressures for reform of the Sugar 12 years and over 1.2 million employee Regime which lay behind the publication hours without a lost-time accident.
Iain Ferguson CBE of the White Paper have intensified with the Chief Executive recent WTO dispute panel appeal ruling Community Involvement 1 June 2005 against the EU and this leads us to the view Tate & Lyle aims to play a positive role in all that the reform will adversely affect the future the communities in which we operate.
Over performance of our European Sugar and the years we have developed a Group-wide Food & Industrial Ingredients businesses, community involvement policy to underpin although we cannot quantify the nature our ethical behaviour.
Our programme and scale of the financial and accounting involves building long-term relationships consequences at this stage.
with local partners to deliver on a shared Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 09
