Chief Executives Review Taylor Woodrow has completed the transformation from a group of diverse, semi-autonomous companies into one focused housing business.
In order to achieve continuing growth in shareholder value, we conduct our business through a portfolio of selected housing markets across the UK and within North America, Spain and Gibraltar.
Our presence in different markets profit from operations was 233.4m provides us with alternative growth 2004: 301.1m.
The reduction in our UK channels.
These enable us to allocate Housing operating margin from 15.6 per capital where we see the best cent in 2004 to 14.2 per cent in 2005 opportunities for returns and optimises reects the difficult conditions that we our ability to mitigate any short term faced and the impact of reduced weakness in any particular market or volumes on overhead absorption not sub market.
withstanding year on year reduction in overhead costs.
Housing Our housing operations worldwide The second half of 2005 saw the reported a slight rise in profit from potential for a return to a more favourable operations to 456.0m 2004: 448.8m environment and our order book of on turnover of 2,864.9m 2004: 411m at the end of 2005 2004: 407m 2,876.6m.
During 2005 we sold a total sees us well-placed for 2006.
Iain Napier, Chief Executive of 12,516 homes, compared to 13,092 in 2004.
During 2005 we have grown our UK landbank of owned and controlled plots As expected, the UK market continued to 34,985 2004: 32,459 of which 41 per to be relatively subdued in 2005 after a cent is sourced from strategic land.
Our number of years of unusually strong strategic landbank has also grown and performance came to an end in the we now have 80,000 potential plots, second half of 2004.
We sold 8,178 most of which are held under option.
Options enable us to purchase land at an We saw a fall in visitor numbers, agreed discount to open market value resulting from a lack of confidence due when planning is received, with no to widespread forecasts of a house price obligation to buy if satisfactory planning collapse that did not materialise.
This fall is not forthcoming.
was partially offset by improvements in our conversion rate of visitors into During 2005, 19 per cent of our home customers.
completions were from strategic land holdings.
We continue to build the Throughout the Chief Executives and Operating Performance Reviews, profit from operations and operating margins are before exceptional pension credits in 2004 and exclude joint ventures interest and tax see note 3, page 57.
Joint venture revenue is used in the margin calculation see note 3, page 57 : all 2004 comparatives have been represented Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 5 under international financial reporting standards.
Chief Executives Review continued We have made good progress on strategy by improving our forward sales position, managing our cost base and providing for future growth.
majority of our homes on browneld to 49.2 per cent 2004: 39.2 per cent.
land in these markets remains land, with 68 per cent of completions in Our business in Phoenix, Arizona competitive, however we continue to 2005 coming from this source.
continues to perform strongly, with over nd attractive opportunities to replenish 1,000 home completions in 2005.
Our and grow our landbanks.
In the challenging conditions experienced strategy of acquiring large land parcels in the UK housing market this year, we where we retain the premier plots for our In recent years, the markets in Texas have have made good progress on strategy by homebuilding business continues to not seen the exuberance of other states improving our forward sales position, generate exceptional results.
However during the managing our cost base and providing for fourth quarter of 2005 we experienced future growth.
During the year we have In California, we continue to benefit from increasing demand for our homes.
also delivered the 25m of synergies our reputation as a luxury homebuilder.
identied at the time of the Wilson Whilst at the same time we have now Our business in Ontario, Canada, Connolly transaction.
We saw improved successfully moved our product offerings continues to provide excellent returns.
reservation rates towards the end of into the mid-market, where we offer The greater Toronto area remains a supply 2005, albeit against low comparatives, quality homes with high brand values constrained market ensuring demand for which has enabled us to enter 2006 at premium prices.
well located high quality developments.
with an increased order book.
We continue to operate regional ofces Our Florida business continues to 2005 has been another year of growth that are serviced by support functions experience strong growth as we have for our operations in Spain and Gibraltar.
based at our central ofce in Solihull, increased the scale of our homebuilding profit from operations has grown by and have an organisational structure in operations.
All of our low-rise operations 14 per cent to 23.0m.
We continue place to support growth as market are well placed for continued growth, to focus on the British second home conditions allow.
having made promising land acquisitions market in our three core regions of the in 2005 and previous years.
During the Balearic Islands, Alicante and Malaga, Our operations in North America had an year, we also completed several luxury where we offer a mix of apartments excellent year, benefiting from increased high-rise waterfront condominiums and townhouses.
Our Los Arqueros investment and careful target marketing.
which enhanced our profits and returns.
development, near Marbella, has recently been declared 'Best Spain Development' We saw another year of strong organic The California, Arizona and Florida as one of five awards achieved at the growth, with profit from operations markets all experienced strong price prestigious Bentley International growing by 56 per cent to 199.6m.
growth in 2005, albeit partially offset by Property Awards.
In Gibraltar we focus Return on capital employed rose again increased construction costs.
Sourcing on the premium end of the market, 6 Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 Belcara, Southern California We will continue to invest all across our portfolio in the best interests of our shareholders.
Above: Calders Green, Cheshire 6 8 T Ta aylor ylor W Woodro oodrow R w Report and eport and A Accounts 20 ccounts 2005 05 Chief Executives Review continued As the Government seeks to address the chronic shortage of developable land in the UK and pursue its sustainable development agenda, Taylor Woodrow plays an active part in consultation to ensure that practicalities of implementation are considered in Government planning.
selling offplan well in advance of the start performance.
Although pricing strength likely to fare better in this environment.
We are addressing these issues through and demand moderated during the fourth quarter of 2005, we remain increasing the pull-through of our Construction and property strategic landbank, working with our confident that we can successfully Taylor Woodrow Construction has also deliver superior results in a more normal supplier base to drive out cost and had a successful year in terms of increasing the use of our rationalised market.
Due to our record forward order industry recognition.
As well as being book and strong landbank, we anticipate range of standard housetypes.
voted Contract Journal's 'Building a successful 2006.
Contractor of the Year' for 2005, our work A large amount of potential legislation is on the new stand at The Oval received pending to accompany the introduction The market for second homes in Spain praise and significant media exposure continues to be attractive, with demand of new technical standards as the as the Ashes cricket series drew to a Government seeks to address the remaining robust from British buyers.
in the UK and North America, we have an chronic shortage of developable land in the UK and pursue its sustainable in-depth knowledge of the markets that As previously announced, we completed development agenda.
Taylor Woodrow we operate in under an experienced and the sale of the K2 development at St. plays an active part in consultation to capable team of local managers.
Katharines Dock in London on 1 July ensure that practicalities of 2005.
This substantially completes our implementation are considered in Therefore, we will continue to invest all exit from property operations.
Whilst we broadly across our portfolio in the best interests however, retained the expertise required welcome the thrust of the Governments of our shareholders.
to deliver future 'mixed use' schemes in intent, we remain concerned about the our housing business.
countrys ability to deliver consented land without a wholesale overhaul of Prospects for 2006 the current planning regime.
We are The long term imbalance between encouraged by the Governments demand and supply for new housing, apparent determination to bring about Iain Napier added to continuing low UK interest reform in this area.
Chief Executive rates, continue to underpin the market.
27 February 2006 However, margin pressures remain with We have experienced substantial levels consented land in short supply and the of house price ination in parts of North need for increased use of incentives in America over the last two years, which a tighter market.
Larger builders are has been reected in our strong Taylor Woodrow Report and Accounts 2005 9 Macintosh Village, Manchester
