Chief Executives review The last twelve months have seen a significant improvement in the Companys position as debt has been repaid and operating profitability has been achieved.
Our new products have performed well in the In Access Networks, revenues rose 17% over North American revenues from our BBRS market, resulting in constant currency sales last year driven by increased sales of our fixed business were impacted by reduced US growth, from Continuing Operations, of 4% wireless access and Access Hub products.
Federal Government spending in the year.
However market conditions Access Hub growth led to a significant The impact was felt primarily in sales of BBRS have continued to deteriorate as pricing increase in our share of the European equipment, with BBRS services revenues pressure mounts.
the growth was a major win with Bulldog Improved financial position Communications in the UK.
Existing Operational performance In September 2004, having completed the customers such as BT, Telecom Italia, Telkom We delivered an improvement in gross margin disposal of the Outside Plant and Power South Africa, and others in Europe and Asia of over two percentage points for the year OPP business, we were able to pay down also continued to deploy the Access Hub in as a whole.
This was driven mainly by the outstanding Senior Notes issued at the their broadband access networks and added improvements in Optical and Access time of the financial restructuring.
With the new voice and IP functionality.
Intensifying price pressure, debt paid down, we continue to maintain a operators in Germany continued to deploy combined with lower BBRS sales and an solid net cash balance with 297 million at fixed wireless access and we worked with increase in lower-margin Network Services 31 March 2005.
Kingston Communications on the deployment sales in the second half of the year, of the Impact SoftSwitch in their network.
constrained further gross margin improvement.
During the year, our gross margin increased from 30.4% in 2003-04 to 32.5% despite In Services, we made inroads into managed We continued to focus on reducing costs and 1 fierce pricing pressure, and we reduced services with a three-year contract to support as a result, adjusted operating expenses 1 our adjusted operating expenses from multiple vendors transmission, routing, access reduced to 385 million, from 433 million in 433 million in 2003-04 to 385 million.
and customer premises equipment in Energiss the prior year.
These improvements combined with the network.
In addition, Tube Lines signed a In 2004-05, we delivered an adjusted 1 benefits of a 4% increase in revenue resulted thirteen-year contract with us to upgrade and 1 operating profit before goodwill amortisation, 1 in an adjusted operating profit of 28 million maintain the communications infrastructure share options and exceptional items of for the year.
on three major London Underground lines.
This return to profitability was In the Middle East, we announced an largely based on the improved profitability Markets and customers eight-year contract with a large Government we saw in our Optical and Access Networks We saw increased competition from both new defence organisation for the extension of its business when compared to last year.
and existing competitors looking to gain mobile radio network and communications 1 market share in a crowded market but had backbone.
We also benefited from revenues Overall, we saw our operating loss after significant wins for our new products with under long-term contracts with Toll Collect in share options, goodwill amortisation and customers in the UK, Southern Europe Germany, with the UK Highways Agency and exceptional items reduce to 95 million and Australia.
with Network Rail in the UK.
Optical Networks revenues overall were stable BT remains an important customer for in 2004-05.
We competed to maintain our Marconi.
Sales to BT represented 25% of Our operating cash inflow before exceptional market position in European Optical Networks our revenues in 2004-05.
Over half of these items, share options and capital expenditure and saw several breakthrough wins with large revenues were in our Services business as from Continuing Operations was 32 million operators such as T-Com and Telefnica.
we installed residential and business cable for the year, as we continued to improve our T-Com deployed the Marconi 40Gbit s optical connections for BT and deployed equipment operational performance.
core platform after intense interoperability for BTs broadband network.
We expect to and technology trials.
The sale to Telefnica continue to supply to BT under existing frame is our first DWDM sale to that customer and contracts for Access and Optical products, complements an installed base of SDH and cable services which run to 2006 and equipment already in its network.
In Australia, 2008 respectively and continue to work with we increased sales under our multi-year frame BT to shape our future relationship with them.
We also had continuing sales under existing contracts with BT, Telecom Italia, Vodafone, and the metro city carriers in Germany.
1 from Continuing Operations see table on page 7.
4 Outlook and objectives Our partnership strategy will also play a key Following BT's announcement on preferred role going forward.
Our mutual distribution suppliers for its 21CN project, we expect a agreement with Huawei enables us to offer reduction of 50 million in BT revenues in our customers new competitively priced 2005-06 when compared to 2004-05. carrier-grade data products that complement Pricing pressure remains fierce across our own and will enable Huawei to resell our products and services and this, together with next-generation radio access products and changing business mix, will impact gross associated services.
In addition, we are margins.
Despite this, overall we currently exploring how this agreement, and our other expect revenues to be at a similar level to last partnerships, might offer access to joint year, based on continuing high levels of product development and a lower-cost customer interest, tender activity and trials R&D and manufacturing base.
across our products as well as services.
The objectives for the business, which have We continue to target business cost been communicated to all employees reductions to counter the pricing pressures we throughout the organisation, are to: are seeing.
continue to improve customer satisfaction to We continue to migrate more of our ensure sustainable and profitable revenues: outsourced manufacturing to lower cost develop and motivate our employees: locations.
Over 75% of our cost of sales are now spent with our outsourced improve product quality and delivery by manufacturing partners.
Approximately 20% continuing to work with outsourced supply of this outsourced manufacturing is currently chain partners to ensure quality and improve in low cost locations.
Our new operations customer lead times: organisation, which devolves supply chain, continue our drive for business efficiency by R&D and product management to our improving R&D efficiency and implementing regional businesses, is expected to generate our new free-market outsourced cost savings from the second half of manufacturing agreements: 2005-06.
In addition, further business cost reductions and efficiency gains are expected grow our business profitably by delivering from existing initiatives.
As a result we stable sales and reducing operating expect to achieve overall cost savings of costs: and approximately 25 million in 2005-06. position the Company for long-term growth.
We will incur cash costs of approximately 45 million in 2005-06 to deliver these future Last year, we challenged the business, and cost savings.
our employees, to generate profitable growth for shareholders and world-class technology Beyond the current financial year, we expect for customers.
Looking forward, we have to to achieve supply chain cost savings of up position the Company to ensure that it to 25 million per annum as we introduce remains a competitive player in an industry competitive sourcing amongst our suffering from oversupply, in a way outsourced manufacturing partners and that delivers value to our shareholders.
implement free market agreements, which We announced in May that the Board would will allow us to source product from the pursue all strategic options open to the lowest cost suppliers.
Company in order to maximise shareholder Overall, we expect this to result in cost value: that exercise is ongoing.
savings of 50 million per annum from 2006-07.
We are focusing our R&D spend on those products which we see as having the Mike Parton highest sales growth and profit potential.
Chief Executive We are also maintaining our commitment to product roadmaps and features which our customers require but will see a modest reduction in R&D spend as we stop developing BT-specific features for the Impact SoftSwitch.
