6 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations Chief Executives statement Our three-phase performance-based strategy Stabilise Revitalise Grow forms the cornerstone of our success in achieving strong results in the face of the UKs advertising slowdown.
It will continue to provide the foundation for future growth and stability across the Group as we create a sustainable and valueenhancing media business.
The core portfolio performed well during 2005 despite the difficult advertising environment.
Our Regionals division improved both operating profit and margin, despite extremely difficult revenue conditions which saw a sharp decline in recruitment advertising, our most profitable advertising category.
Despite the adverse revenue environment we continued to invest in the portfolio, revitalising and relaunching existing titles to ensure they remain relevant, compelling propositions for both readers and advertisers.
Our commitment to excellence in journalism and marketing saw us conduct the UKs biggest ever regional press survey during 2005.
The findings will help shape further product development across the Regionals portfolio and ensure our products deliver to the needs of our readers and advertisers during 2006 and beyond.
While circulation volumes continue to be challenging the divisions ABC performance remains in line with or ahead of the market.
Our National titles were also impacted by the advertising downturn.
However, management mitigated the effects of reduced revenues through cost initiatives, and the division saw circulation revenue growth, profit growth and margin progression.
In Scotland we continued the development of The One Directory and doubled the number of editions from two to four during the year.
Scotcareers, launched in 2004, moved to break-even and has now become the number two on-line recruitment site in Scotland.
Our Sports division delivered improved revenues and profit despite the advertising slowdown.
It is well advanced in plans to maintain the Racing Posts leadership in the racing and sports betting markets.
We have continued our investment programme in colour presses, in July announcing an 83 million investment over three years in new printing presses.
This investment will provide our Nationals print sites with full colour capability by the start of 2008.
Coupled with previous investment this provides full colour across the Groups manufacturing network with the exception of Liverpool and Newcastle.
We do not envisage repressing these sites in the medium term.
We are also pleased with the progress made on the joint press investment with GMG Regionals at our Oldham press site.
Production using the new equipment began in January 2006.
During 2005, in addition to strengthening our core portfolio, we have focused on driving real growth from new initiatives, deepening our presence in our core markets and geographies, both in print and on-line.
Further segmentation of our markets through product layering - targeting different products at different consumer and advertiser segments - is allowing us to pursue new opportunities via launch and acquisition, while ensuring our existing market-leading positions are maintained in a changing media landscape.
For further information, go to webcast on www.
com ir results On a like-for-like basis, which is before acquisitions, non-recurring items, IAS 39 and for 2004 excludes the additional weeks trading.
7 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations Stabilise Revitalise Grow forms the cornerstone of our success 8 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations Any decision to launch or acquire is carefully considered against a range of factors.
Consideration is given to the importance of the sector, our existing brand or market strength and expertise, the competitive nature of the market, the time needed to build a strong position, the scarcity of assets and our return on investment.
Strong media businesses build a track record of innovation as a means of driving growth, resulting in successful new products that build new revenues and profits.
During 2005 we launched a total of 36 new products and services, including weekly paid-for and free newspapers, on-line brands, directories and shows.
These investments continue to be funded from our existing resources.
In our Regional business, continuing to renew and grow our core portfolio through launch is a key element of the Regionals strategy.
2005 saw the launch of five weekly newspapers, both paid-for and free, achieving our aims of strengthening our position within existing marketplaces and expanding our publishing footprint.
These are all profitable in their first year.
2006 will see the launch of two new Metros in Liverpool and Cardiff, building on the success of the Groups three existing Metro titles.
2005 also saw continuing development of our digital activities, both via launch and acquisition.
Our initial launch focus has been in the key classified category of recruitment advertising and during the year we launched a total of nine local recruitment sites.
Our aim is to win strong, profitable positions on-line that complement our print brands.
Revenues are being driven from up-selling print to local on-line sites.
This complements our national position with Fish4.
The launches also enable us to capture local on-line only revenues.
We also launched ten local community sites focusing on low-end classified for sale and wanted advertising, a further example of our market-layering approach.
Initially revenues are expected to be minimal for these digital launches.
However, more importantly, they establish a foothold in new markets and revenues will build over time.
Progress continues in 2006 with the launch of ten local property sites and five motor sites.
During the year we successfully completed the acquisition of four market-leading digital businesses: the hotgroup, GAAPweb and Secsinthecity in the recruitment classified sector and Smartnewhomes in the property sector.
Each acquisition adds scale in key markets and is complementary to our existing print portfolio, enabling us to expand nationally beyond our existing regional footprint.
They also allow us to build upon our print strengths, as is the case with Smartnewhomes, or provide access to new market segments where we are less strong in print, as is the case with financial jobs site GAAPweb.
9 Chairmans statement Chief Executives statement Business review Corporate responsibility Board of Directors and Executive Committee Corporate governance Remuneration report Directors report Group independent auditors report Accounts and notes Unaudited other information Holding company accounts and notes Investor Relations We build a track record of innovation as a means of driving growth Significant progress has been made with the integration of these assets, which now benefit from the scale and reach the Group provides.
We have strengthened their management structures, including the appointment of a Head of Digital Recruitment.
Smartnewhomes is now fully integrated into the activities of our Regionals division.
Overall, across the businesses, despite the difficult trading conditions, the year has been characterised by strong development of the portfolio via both launch and acquisition, coupled with a continued tight focus on cost management.
Our strategy remains on course and we believe that our actions during 2005 have resulted in a stronger business, which is well equipped to meet the challenges of the future.
Board changes In January 2006 Sir Victor Blank, the Chairman of the Group, announced he will be retiring from the Board at the Companys Annual General Meeting in May 2006.
Sir Victor has made a significant contribution over a number of years during which he oversaw the creation of the UKs largest newspaper group when Mirror Group merged with Trinity in 1999.
The Board would like to thank him for his enthusiasm and dedication and for the support he has given the management team to help develop our business.
The process to recruit a new Chairman is well advanced.
