Chief Executives Review Tullow aims to maintain a strong portfolio of assets and a growth strategy that will allow the Group to continue its development through all phases of the resource price cycle.
2005 was an excellent year for the Group, with many new achievements in operations and a record financial performance.
These results illustrate the benefits of the Groups increased scale and deliver on the significant investments made over the past five years, during which period the Group has been transformed through a mixture of organic and acquisition-led expansion.
Strong Production Growth Tullow operates in three core areas, focusing on gas in the UK, oil in the African continent and a variety of growth opportunities in South Asia.
It is growing steadily and is forecast to exceed 75,000 boepd by the end of the year.
In 2006, we plan over 20 exploration wells and capital expenditure on exploration and production is expected to be 280 million.
In 2005, organic reserve replacement was over 118%, a clear demonstration of the quality of our assets.
Valuable Assets and Further Opportunities Tullow has steadily increased its acreage and developed its reputation as a technically innovative and commercially astute operator since its entry into the UK Southern North Sea in 2001.
During this time, the UK has become a net importer Aidan Heavey of gas to satisfy indigenous demand.
Our UK gas production Chief Executive Officer was over 200 mmscfd for the first time in December and has since increased to 210 mmscfd.
Tullow has over 40 licences and a strategic position in terms of acreage and infrastructure.
We operate over 60% of our UK production, allowing the Group material control and influence over its daily production, gas sales and the management of its assets.
There is an outstanding opportunity, we believe, over the coming years to continue to build a truly Pan-African oil and gas business.
In 2005, we invested over 139 million in our African operations with exceptional results.
Current African oil production exceeds 34,000 bopd, with further increases anticipated during 2006 as new developments in Cte dIvoire and Equatorial Guinea come on stream.
Africa is a region with high exploration potential and our recent results in Uganda and Mauritania are very encouraging.
We are establishing a presence in new countries where attractive prospects exist.
In 2005, the Government of Madagascar approved Tullows participation in onshore Block 3109.
Further exploration and development opportunities are in the final stages of 4 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 The outlook for Tullow is very positive: Oil and gas prices are strong and forecast to remain so: Our existing assets and work programmes are expected to deliver robust organic growth: Our new ventures programme and other development opportunities offer compelling upside potential.
negotiation and should include entry into at least one The UK market is not without some challenges, such as additional new country this year.
In Namibia, we are making the Governments decision in the 2006 Budget to raise the steady progress, together with our joint development partners, supplemental corporation tax for the industry by 10%.
Despite in ensuring that the significant potential of the Kudu gas this we believe that, as the UK increasingly becomes a net field is realised.
importer of gas to satisfy indigenous demand, the prospects for Tullow in this market remain very favourable.
While Tullows production in South Asia has been modest, an extensive work programme in 2005, covering a number There are also potential political and economic risks of important exploration and development projects has the associated with doing business in developing regions.
Tullow potential to transform the Groups business in the area.
We has operated in Africa for 20 years and is very conscious are already seeing results with first gas in 2006 from two of both the challenges and the opportunities that exist in new developments in Bangladesh and Pakistan.
We produce oil in four African countries a 1,152 km 2D seismic programme recently commenced and we have significant projects at different stages in three in Block CB-ON 1.
In parallel, the joint venture is integrating South Asian countries.
In total, the Group has operations in information from significant regional discoveries to the 15 countries across 90 licences, avoiding over-dependence South and the North, and we anticipate a multi-well drilling on any single region, country, field or project.
A Proactive Environmental Engagement Tullow has a Group-wide commitment to environmentally sensitive operations for which every employee has The Groups 2005 results responsibility.
We conduct environmental impact assessments demonstrate the quality of across the Group prior to all significant operations, integrating results into decision-making at all stages of the project from our people and portfolio licence application to field abandonment.
Increasing levels of carbon dioxide CO in the atmosphere 2 Rigorous Operational Risk Management are a major concern in the debate about climate change.
Risk management is central to our business, particularly In the past two years we have embraced the requirement in light of the international spread of our activities and to reduce emissions and in 2005 have achieved excellent the dynamic nature of our industry.
Our Integrated results with levels of C0 emissions at the Hewett and 2 Management System provides a disciplined framework Bacton facilities 40% lower than their allocation under the to assess, manage and measure the range of operational, EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
environmental, social and political risks that we encounter.
The Board gives regular consideration to the key risks facing A Long-term Perspective the business, with particular reference to those concerning The Group has a consistent growth strategy and a long-term the overall safety of our operations, the geographical balance perspective.
We invest in assets and markets where our skills of our activities and the characteristics of our individual and focus make a difference and seek developments where assets and joint ventures.
modern technology, attention to detail and a rigorous commercial approach adds significant value.
Business and External Challenges Oil and gas markets are volatile and we expect them to remain so in light of the current geo-political environment.
However, we expect, along with many industry commentators, that prices will remain above their long-run average for some time to come.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5
