CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Strong Results from a focused business In 2005 we achieved strong financial results, and made substantial progress in reshaping UBM for the future.
In conjunction with these strong results, we simplified UBM to focus on businesses that support buyers and sellers, through the distribution of market information PR Newswire, and through providing media channels that support market activity CMPs trade shows, print and online publishing.
David Levin Chief Executive 28th February 2006 Results summary In 2005 revenues from our continuing operations grew by 21.3% to 675.8m 2004 557.3m, with operating profit from continuing operations rising by 27.3% to 137.1m 2004 107.7m.
Profit before tax was 152.1m excluding profits on disposals, and 501.4m including disposal profits.
We ended the year with almost 250m of net cash on the back of solid trading, coupled with strong balance sheet and cash flow management.
Earnings per share rose by 25.1% to 40.9p from 32.7p.
The Board is proposing a final dividend of 11.0p, taking the total dividend for 2005 to 15.0p, an increase of 25% from 12.0p in 2004.
Excluding non-recurring items, amortisation of intangible assets, and including operating profit from discontinued operations.
Excluding non-recurring items, amortisation of intangible assets, net financing cost other than interest, and including discontinued operations.
p. 08 In the course of 2005 and early 2006, we acquired a range Strategy of new events, including, among others, Informex chemical In the course of 2005 we simplified UBM to focus on two ingredients, Black Hat IT security, Bar Show, the Japan principal businesses PR Newswire, our global news Jewellery Fair and RFID World.
During 2005 we also acquired distribution business, and CMP, our international events, successful, innovative online media businesses through the print and online publishing business.
In achieving this, we purchase of Light Reading and TechOnLine.
disposed of assets for a total of nearly 750m, including NOP for 383m and our 35% stake in five for 248m.
We The need to do business face-to-face at exhibition and trade demonstrated our continuing commitment to shareholder show events remains as strong as ever.
Paradoxically in our value and returned 550m of capital, including a special increasingly digital world, the face-to-face meeting is dividend of 298m.
becoming a more and more important part of doing business.
Our events business showed healthy growth in UBM is well placed to capitalise on the new audience 2005 with total revenues rising by 21% to 161.5m and an dynamics as the audience for media shifts from using underlying growth rate of around 10%.
The business will horizontal media to vertical media.
UBM is now focused continue to be a major focus for organic development and on businesses that support buyers and sellers, through the acquisitions in the future.
distribution of market information PR Newswire, and through providing media channels within many specific Revenues across UBMs online businesses grew to 42.7m in vertical markets that support our customers CMPs trade 2005 with an underlying growth rate of 24.4%.
The online shows, print and online publishing.
We will grow these media business environment continues to be highly dynamic businesses organically and by making bolt-on acquisitions, as the new generation of broadband digital technology and with a focus on B2B markets, on faster growing economies, content media emerge and are adopted more widely.
The on vertical markets where we already have a strong position, current imbalance of advertising spend between online and and in markets where we can leverage a leading position more traditional media relative to their respective audiences with an audience in one medium into another, for example suggests there will be a substantial demand for online from print into exhibitions or online.
advertising over the coming years.
However, given the unproven profitability of many such business models, We intend to keep investing and acquiring to develop our particularly in comparison to their print equivalents, we will business.
We intend to accelerate the rate of acquisitions continue to invest carefully in the development of our online from the 105m achieved in 2005 towards the 150m to products and their associated business models.
We will look 250m level annually whilst maintaining our strict financial particularly towards achieving more comprehensive criteria.
At the same time it is our intention to move towards integration of our offerings across multiple media.
a prudent leveraged balance sheet over the next two years.
In so doing, and of course subject to our trading over these few years, we expect to be in a position to return in excess of 300m to shareholders during that period.
Investments in acquisitions & organic growth In 2005 we invested 105m in bolt-on acquisitions of 11 businesses that complemented existing market positions and enhanced our businesses growth opportunities.
We also Business environment continued to invest to support organic growth initiatives.
Our customers increasingly look to reach their target We remain committed to our record of delivering shareholder audiences within a given vertical market across multiple value by effective financial and operational management of media, with online media taking a growing proportion of our owned businesses and our new acquisitions.
We are seeking to manage this structural of acquisitions made in both 2004 and 2005 has progressed shift while recognising that there will continue to be very well and the performance of these businesses has met our significant demand for print in many markets.
We look to meet our customers needs to access their audiences by using our three main media forms print, events, online, offering them a rich and integrated mix People & management of products each with distinct benefits and attributes.
Since my arrival in 2005 we appointed Steve Weitzner as We continue to see a critical role for print as a part of the CEO of CMP Media and early in 2006 Gary Hughes joined media mix and we have acquired and launched new titles, us as CEO of CMP Information.
Charles Gregson relocated including the acquisition of Le Quotidien du Medecin to New York to focus exclusively on the role as CEO of a daily newspaper for doctors in France and the launch PR Newswire.
Henry Elkington was also appointed Group of Global Services a monthly magazine for the global Corporate Development Director.
The underlying revenue of our print titles varied by geography with aggregate underlying revenues falling in the US, flat in Outlook Europe and growing in Asia, resulting in a decline of 2% overall.
At an aggregate level we did, however, reduce 2006 has begun with a solid performance.
PR Newswire our exposure to print by selling or closing titles where we is continuing to perform well.
Our events business remains felt UBM was not able to develop or grow the franchise strong worldwide and forward bookings are ahead of the including the disposal of Exchange & Mart.
Our performance in print is mixed, for example a continue to review our portfolio of all products and indeed good performance in France being offset by weaker revenue all media and will maintain the discipline of selling where in the UK.
Whilst our online revenues are growing rapidly we believe our ability to add value is unlikely.
albeit from a small base and we plan to accelerate that growth through further investment, we will focus on We are increasingly focused on further development of our improving profitability of our online offerings.
portfolio of events and online assets alongside print.
In doing so, we seek to drive profitable revenue growth and to transition the business to revenue streams that are sustainable in the digital era that we foresee in the longer term.
