05 In all of its businesses, Business Posts strategy is to remain a premium rather than a volume player PAUL CARVELL, CHIEF EXECUTIVE Chief Executives Review STRATEGIC DEVELOPMENT Courier has developed both a rapidly-growing nationwide The Groups strategy, first articulated in 2001, has been for network for same-day deliveries and, through acquisition, Express UK business-to-business parcel delivery to remain a specialist technical courier capability: the Groups core activity, with the Groups other activities being developed alongside, each with more rapid growth UK Pallets, building on the expertise developed in our rates.
Strategic acquisitions have been selectively parcel network, is introducing sophisticated IT into considered, either to achieve critical mass in a particular area the market for palletised deliveries to differentiate itself or to add a complementary service to the range of timefrom the volume competitors through higher definite deliveries.
In all of its businesses, Business Posts levels of customer service.
strategy has been to remain a premium rather than a volume player.
The Board believes that the Group contains the elements A substantial advance has been achieved since 2001 and necessary for further substantial profitable growth, not only in the Group has developed strong market positions for each UK Mail, but also through its other businesses, which are of its businesses: collectively capable of driving double-digit percentage growth.
relative to the pre-tax profit of 12.7m and earnings per share of 16.9p reported for the year ended 31 March REVIEW OF 2005 2001, the underlying increases in profits and EPS have A summary of the main developments across the Group been 61% and 57% respectively: during the year is set out on the following pages: Express has progressively grown its market share by Page 07 Parcel Services focusing on providing high quality services and, in a recent independent market survey, was again voted best Page 13 Mail Services for on-time deliveries: Page 15 Specialist Distribution Services International, through its long-term partnership with FedEx, offers customers access to the worlds Page 18 Staff & Associates leading air express delivery company and, via the Eurodis network, offers high quality road-based deliveries throughout Europe: HomeServe has introduced a number of innovations to improve customers first-time delivery success rate, increasing its turnover eight-fold over three years: UK Mail was the first company to sign an agreement for access into Royal Mails network and is recognised as the market leader: 06 07 Chief Executives Review Parcel Services Parcel Services comprises the Groups business-to-business Express, businessto-consumer HomeServe and crossborder International business units, all sharing the combined infrastructure of Network Services.
08 Chief Executives Review Express Express is the UKs largest independent parcel business Financial Highlights - Express Express is the Groups core UK business-to-business parcel 131.3m service, and in the period contributed 56% of Group turnover.
It specialises in next-day deliveries for those customers who of turnover need a reliable service backed up by sophisticated information systems, thereby differentiating itself from the high volume low price operators.
56% Express made good progress in a market which was challenging throughout the year, increasing its turnover by 5.4% to 131.3m.
Adjusting for the three fewer of Group turnover working days, Express increased its turnover by 7%, representing a further increase in market share to around 8%.
Despite customers tending more towards a standard service, the average rate per 5.4% consignment advanced marginally, through strategic price rises and an increase in fuel surcharge as a result of higher oil prices.
Further increases in revenue quality, growth on last year whilst maintaining market share, and the introduction of a Business Print service for customers sending out point-of-sale materials, will be the main focus for Express in the coming year.
09 Chief Executives Review International With the market for cross-border shipments growing at roughly twice that of domestic, International has considerable scope for Financial Highlights - International growth International is responsible for all shipments coming into and leaving 28.1m the UK, accounting in the period for 12% of Group turnover.
A high proportion of its business derives from Business Posts activities as of turnover Global Service Participant in the UK for FedEx.
Additionally, as a member of the Eurodis network, International handles road-based shipments to and from Continental Europe.
12% International increased its turnover by 17% to 28.1m, reflecting the introduction of a heavyweight distribution service FedEx International Priority Freight from April 2004. of Group turnover International Mail, launched in July 2002 to offer business customers an alternative to Royal Mail for their overseas postal requirements, again grew substantially, increasing its turnover to 2.4m from 1.6m.
17% Continued development of the Eurodis road arrangement, launched in January 2004, contributed to a 23% increase in Continental European road-borne business.
The Eurodis growth on last year network will benefit in the current year from the 10 states which have recently joined the EU.
10 Chief Executives Review HomeServe HomeServe has grown eight-fold since its relaunch in April 2002 Financial Highlights - HomeServe HomeServe, which accounted for 12% of Group turnover, is the 26.8m Groups UK business-to-consumer parcel service, providing a high quality time-definite service to residential addresses, with full proof of of turnover delivery and track-and-trace facilities.
The home delivery market continues to grow strongly and, through its targeted sales approach focusing on customers requiring a tailored service, HomeServe continued its 12% recent success, increasing turnover by 54% to 26.8m, representing an eight-fold increase since its relaunch in April 2002. of Group turnover An important element in HomeServe's success is that it concentrates on delivering high value items and works closely with the customer to achieve a first time delivery.
A substantial contributor to the turnover increase was the Walsh Western contract, which 54% was effective from June 2003, to deliver computers and related equipment.
Important new business wins, all of which are expected to contribute an increased turnover in the growth on last year current year, included deliveries of computers, household goods and golf equipment for a range of new customers.
Under an exclusive distribution agreement with Toronto-based eBox, using a network of eBoxes incorporating electronic access devices, trials of secure unattended deliveries commenced and are proceeding satisfactorily.
11 Chief Executives Review Network Services The Network Services infrastructure ensures the Group retains its market - leading delivery quality Key Points - Network Services Over 37 million Network Services is responsible for providing high quality collection and delivery services to the business units within Parcel Services parcels delivered through a network of 59 depots 22 corporate and 37 franchised.
Network Services moved 37.4 million parcels, up 14% on the previous year, together with On-time deliveries over 70 million items of mail.
Against the background of this strong growth, and the increasingly strong pre-Christmas peak period, Network Services incurred additional consistently over costs of approximately 0.75m to ensure the maintenance of high quality service levels.
During the year, the roll out was completed of 1,500 new scanners for the Group's collection and delivery drivers: their GPRS and wi-fi capability significantly improves the speed with which scans can be transferred to the Group's track-and-trace website both 98% from within its sites and whilst out on the road.
Initiatives designed to enhance further the level of both customer and employee satisfaction have commenced, and the first half of the current year will see significant Major investments levels of training and development throughout the network.
made in scanning technology 12 13 Chief Executives Review Mail Services UK Mail is licensed by Postcomm, the independent regulator, to offer mail services throughout the United Kingdom 14 Chief Executives Review UK Mail UK Mail commenced trading on 10 May 2004 and had an outstanding and profitable first year Financial Highlights - UK Mail UK Mail, as the first mover in the deregulated UK market for business 10.2m mail, offers a nationwide two day mail delivery service, operating in both the business-to-consumer and business-to-business markets.
of turnover Features of the service are track-and-trace and flexibility of collection for large mailers.
UK Mail has made excellent progress and achieved turnover of 10.2m for the year, 4% comprising 2.1m in the first half and 8.1m in the second half.
At the year end, less than 11 months after commencing trading, UK Mail had an annualised throughput of of Group turnover approximately 250 million items, approaching 1% of the market and making UK Mail the largest Downstream Access operator.
Customers cover a broad range of sectors, with the March 2005 contract with Royal Bank Approaching of Scotland Group RBSG representing a ground-breaking entry into the VAT-exempt market place.
Making full use of the established collection, linehaul and delivery expertise of the Group, UK Mail achieved over 98% on-time deliveries.
UK Mail achieved monthly profitability by October 2004 and made a small profit for the 1% year overall.
UK Mail has ambitious plans for the current year, including launching new products to address the unsorted segment of the market.
Significant advances in market market share share and profit are expected.
15 Chief Executives Review Specialist Distribution Services Specialist Distribution Services comprises the Groups same-day and palletised goods delivery activities.
16 Chief Executives Review Courier Business Posts Courier activities are increasingly focusing on small-van logistics solutions Financial Highlights - Courier Business Posts Courier activity, which comprises UK Today and 12.1m BXTech, accounted for 5% of Group turnover, with an increase of 15%.
of turnover UK Today is the Groups UK nationwide same-day courier service.
It operates out of corporate and franchised depots, using dedicated liveried vehicles and uniformed drivers.
In the year, UK Today increased its turnover by 25% and its profit contribution significantly, 5% rewarding a focus on improved margins.
BXTech is the Birmingham-based technical courier active in the IT, medical and utilities of Group turnover sectors.
It has a higher proportion of contract-backed business than the rest of the Group, including agreements with Blockbuster, Siemens and Severn Trent Water for a range of specialist support services.
In the year, a number of important contracts were 15% successfully renewed and the sales force was strengthened to develop the sales pipeline.
A focus for the current year is entry into the market for the installation of LCD and plasma screens for major manufacturers.
growth on last year 17 Chief Executives Review UK Pallets UK Pallets is introducing a range of IT solutions which put it at the forefront of the pallet networks Financial Highlights - UK Pallets UK Pallets provides a nationwide palletised goods delivery service through a partnership network with over 70 independent haulage businesses throughout the UK.
Operating from a national hub at Lichfield Staffordshire, UK Pallets currently handles nearly 5,000 23.1m pallets each night and is estimated to be the UKs fourth largest palletised goods network.
of turnover UK Pallets generated a turnover of 23.1m, which compares with 14.4m in the eight months to 31 March 2004 and represents 10% of Group turnover.
Whilst the turnover increase was 16% year on year, this was below the Boards expectations, reflecting 10% disappointing market conditions throughout the year, which were further depressed by poor trading experienced in the retail and parts of the building sectors over Christmas of Group turnover and subsequently.
The shortfall in turnover growth and the additional cost of a hub extension from September 2004 led to a reduced full year profit contribution.
The introduction during the year of UK Pallets Online, which incorporates many tried and 16% tested concepts from the Parcels side of the business, together with changes in operational management and expansion of the sales team, will benefit the current year, growth on last year during which a significantly improved performance is expected.
18 Chief Executives Review Staff & Associates The Employee Consultative Group has been strengthened to provide a robust platform for all employees to make a significant contribution to Key Points - Staff & Associates bringing about change in the workplace As always, we are entirely dependent upon the hard work and enthusiasm of not only our employees but also our associates working within our franchised and partner operations, and as ownerECG representatives drivers.
We have already commenced a programme of training and process improvements increased from 13 designed to make sure our customers interests are at the heart of everything we do.
By differentiating ourselves further from our competition through ever-improving customer to 59 care, we will establish a competitive advantage which will be sustainable over the long term.
The Delta Programme will represent a significant focus for us in the current year, and all Investors in People our employees and associates will be taking part in these improvements.
I look forward to the coming year with enthusiam.
accreditation renewed Paul Carvell Chief Executive
