Group Chief Executive Here Patrick Cescau, Group Chief Executive, talks about What role has vitality played in the progress thats been performance in 2005 and looks ahead to what needs to be achieved?
achieved over the next 12 months.
Vitality unites us as a mission and resonates with our customers and consumers.
What was the key challenge for 2005?
Our mission is to help people feel good, look good and get more At the start of 2005 it was clear what we had to do.
We had to out of life and this underpins everything we do.
restore our competitiveness in the market and get the business It is the inspiration for innovations that are driving growth across growing again.
Lipton and AdeS healthy and But we had to do it in a way that we can sustain for the long refreshing beverages: Dove the Campaign for Real Beauty: and term, creating value and unlocking our full potential.
healthier choices in ice cream.
In Foods, for instance, our Knorr Vie mini shots, which help you How did you set about tackling this challenge?
on your way towards your daily fruit and vegetable needs, have Our approach was simple to focus on three things that matter.
done extremely well in Europe.
We have revitalised Lipton in the First, to make our portfolio work harder for us, with sharper US by stressing its natural health benets with its AOX priorities and resource allocation.
Secondly, better execution, antioxidant seal, and this has produced good share gain especially especially in the areas of marketing and customer management.
And, nally, create a more agile One Unilever organisation, In Home and Personal Care our Dove Campaign for Real Beauty, aligned behind a single strategy, with the right people in the right which offers consumers a broader, healthier view of female jobs, delivering quality and speed of execution.
beauty, has played a central role in the brands continued growth, while programmes to encourage hygienic handwashing in India What were the priorities and why did you focus on these have improved sales of Lifebuoy.
We focused on building on our strengths in developing and You mentioned developing and emerging markets.
emerging D&E markets, vitality and Personal Care.
They are Why are these so important to Unilever?
areas of strength for Unilever where we have performed well, with D&E are rapidly growing markets the forecast is that they will good growth and profitability.
account for 90% of the worlds population by 2010.
We have Regaining momentum in Europe was an equally important priority.
long-established local roots in these markets, which gives us a competitive advantage, and we need to capitalise on this Overall, what results have been achieved by following this opportunity.
In 2005 we delivered a strong performance in all major D&E We have made real progress.
In 2005 underlying sales growth markets in Foods, Home Care and Personal Care.
And for the was 3.1%, signicantly ahead of a at 2004, and in line with our first time, our D&E sales, at 38%, exceeded our sales in markets.
Growth momentum has improved steadily throughout Western Europe.
the year and has been driven by volume.
The reason for our success here is partly due to our wellIm also pleased to report that our growth rates improved across established distribution strength in both the traditional and most of our major markets and in most categories.
These gures modern trade and also to our ability to adapt excellent global are a real testament to the hard work of our people, the strength brand concepts, such as the Omo Dirt is Good campaign, to of our brands and the resilience of our business.
In Turkey, for instance, this enabled us to regain Restoring growth required a step up in investment behind our market leadership with double-digit growth.
In 2005, we invested an extra 500 million in advertising and promotions.
We also invested signicantly to reduce prices, But what has been achieved in Europe and North America?
especially in Europe, and offer better value to the consumer in Our sustained recovery in the US is great news for us.
In one selected categories and markets.
of the worlds most competitive markets we grew by 3.2% Our savings programmes generated more than 700 million in with strong performances from both Foods and Home and 2005 and helped fund the additional investment in our brands Personal Care.
and absorb the impact of higher input costs.
Europe has been an area that needed our attention.
A healthy European business matters to Unilever.
It delivers a large Why has Personal Care played a key role in the strategy?
proportion of our sales 41% in 2005 and is an important Personal Care is one of our traditional strengths and accounts for source of profit.
around a quarter of sales, so it was vital we delivered real growth.
Looking at our performance, Central and Eastern Europe Over the last year or so, Personal Care has been achieving growth performed strongly in 2005 with Russia, for example, delivering levels that are up with the best at more than 6%.
And we have around 20% growth.
So the challenge is Western Europe.
And delivered broad-based share gain across most of our biggest the issue here is growth, not profitability.
Western Europe is an extremely tough competitive environment Key to this success are our brands.
The big global brands such as and to turn the business around we are having to do things Axe, Dove, Lux, Rexona and Sunsilk all performed and delivered differently.
We have addressed pricing in selected markets and growth.
Smaller, more local brands such as Clear and Lifebuoy categories and by doing so are now offering consumers better also pulled their weight.
06 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Group Chief Executive continued We are also increasing choice by extending our product portfolio to make choices and to allocate resources according to those ice cream value ranges, for example and by moving into a choices.
It then allows us to drive disciplined execution.
And we are delivering innovation new We had to take decisive action on parts of our portfolio where we heart health ranges and Sunsilk styling are just two examples, had reached a strategic cross-roads.
which are being backed by increased marketing investment.
The sale of UCI Unilever Cosmetics International and the recent announcement of our intention to sell the majority of our What are you doing to build capabilities across the European frozen foods business were tough decisions.
them because it was clear we would not be able to grow these This is another area we are investing in.
Customer management is businesses in the long term which is fundamental to future value a strategic priority and our team is implementing an improvement creation.
We felt we had better opportunities to invest in and that programme market by market, with outstanding results.
these businesses would perform better in the hands of owners to An important element of this programme is combining our Foods whom they were a top priority.
and HPC sales teams so that we can present a single, integrated As we move forward we will continue to invest behind our best face to our customers and leverage our scale.
The programme growth opportunities, channelling more of our resources into developed in the USA has been rolled out in France, Germany and building leading positions in high growth areas.
the Netherlands and will be extended to other markets in 2006.
By working closely with our customers such as Carrefour, Tesco Continuing to look forward, what are your priorities for and Wal-Mart we are increasing the value that we can gain by 2006 and beyond?
Our priorities will not change.
We will continue to build on the We are also improving our marketing capabilities.
For example, stronger focus we now have.
UEx believes that the portfolio is in we will craft more of our global brand mixes to the standards set good shape: all parts of our business have an important role to by the best of our brands.
And we intend to get more out of the play in delivering growth, but its not always the same role.
investment in our brands whether it be in advertising or in R&D.
Obviously I cant disclose all our intentions in detail.
But I would like to give you some insight into our priorities for 2006.
In 2004 you announced One Unilever as a way of You will not be surprised to hear that our plans include simplifying the business and generating savings.
Has it capitalising on the high-growth potential of D&E markets such as achieved this?
Or that in Personal Care, we will be Our One Unilever programme is all about making us t to building on our leading market positions in deodorants and compete.
It has achieved a great deal in simplifying our business personal wash. And that vitality will continue to be at the heart of and leveraging our scale more effectively.
We have merged our operations in countries so that, at the end of 2005, almost 80% of our turnover is managed through One Unilever is now in better shape, with increased Unilever organisations.
We will continue with its implementation in 2006 with our We have achieved a tremendous amount in 2005 organisational priorities being to put in place a single management team in all change, improved capabilities and restored growth.
Most of our top 20 markets report directly to UEx.
There have much to make them proud.
will be a further reduction in the management headcount and The Unilever team has worked together to create a momentum simplied, standardised business services up and running, with a that will help us rise to the challenges of the year ahead.
There is substantial proportion outsourced.
still a great deal to do, but we know the categories, segments, By the end of 2006, One Unilever will deliver 700 million brands and countries that will drive growth.
And we are now savings and 1 billion by the end of 2007.
But the biggest benefit rigorously deploying our funds and resources behind our best for us is that we now have one face for our customers and opportunities.
consumers, as well as being faster and more disciplined.
In other We have the right structure to deliver and the processes in place words we are t to compete.
to make sure that we execute against our priorities.
Our people are clear about what they need to do.
What is driving the decisions you are making relating to We will build on what we achieved in 2005 and deliver the results the portfolio?
This will unlock more of the unique In 2005 we reviewed and sharpened our portfolio strategy.
It is potential of Unilever.
I passionately believe that we can now an essential building block that gives us clarity it identies the compete to win.
best opportunities for sustainable long-term growth, enables us Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 07 Report of the Directors 08 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Report of the Directors About Unilever General information 04 Chairmans foreword 05 Group Chief Executive 06 About Unilever 10 Description of business 10 Regions 10 Categories 10 Functions 10 Brands 10 People 10 Environment and corporate responsibility 11 Information technology 12 Corporate venture activities 13 Competition 13 Distribution and selling 13 Exports 13 Seasonality 13 Related party transactions 13 Intellectual property 13 Description of our properties 14 Legal and arbitration proceedings and regulatory matters 14 Government regulation 14 Financial and operating reviews 15 Risk management 31 Corporate governance 33 Reports of Board Committees 51 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005 09
