Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Chief Executives Review Group Summary 25.0 24.1 1,884.2 455.0 1,289.5 322.7 17 Aluminium 48 Zinc 35 Copper FY FY FY FY FY FY 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 Group Turnover Group EBITDA Group EBITDA EBITDA contribution $ million $ million Margin % % Over the past twelve months, we have shown good Tariffs on metal imports into India were cut twice operational delivery on our existing assets and made during the year, at a special post-election budget in excellent progress on our expansion pipeline.
The July 2004 and at the annual budget in February year was again weighted towards the second half 2005.
Tariffs now stand at 10% on each of our major with production, turnover and profitability rising metals, around the level recommended in the report through the year in all areas.
Zinc and aluminium produced by the Kelkar Committee for the both enjoyed significant increases in profitability in Government.
comparison to the previous year.
The acquisition of KCM, in November 2004, also contributed to our Growth in India has continued at a good pace and turnover and margin.
Strong metals prices were a this has been reected in demand for metals.
The consistent factor, which more than offset high new Government has continued with policies to energy costs and the impact of tariff cuts.
promote growth and development in India.
Industrial production in India has risen by around 8% during Group turnover has increased 46% to $1,884 2004 and ofcial Government forecasts anticipate million, compared to last year, and EBITDA has similar levels for this financial year.
Metals demand increased by 41% to $455 million, of which $295 should also benefit from a targeted rise of 14% in million was in the second half of the year, including infrastructure spend by the Government.
India is well $76 million from KCM.
Operating profit has placed to play a growing role in the global metals increased by 40% to $332 million.
Strong metals and minerals markets, both from domestic demand prices have more than offset rises in some input and the development of resources and facilities.
costs, such as energy, and reductions in import tariffs by the Government.
EBITDA Margin has remained Our organisation continues to develop and grow.
Underlying profit has use of programmes such as TPM and Six Sigma, increased by 81% to $138 million from $76 million, along with the assistance of external consultants and and EPS, based on Underlying profit, by 81% to 48.1 reviews, help to deliver operational improvements, US cents per Ordinary Share.
This reects the benefit utilise our assets better, develop and retain our staff of the successful changes in the Group structure, and, importantly, to improve service to our which has increased the proportion of earnings customers.
Aluminium The expansions at the Tuticorin copper plant and The existing assets performed well over the year and Chanderiya zinc plant were completed shortly after the the results benefited from the strong increase in the year end and the aluminium expansion at BALCO is in metal price.
The expansion project at Korba is on its final phase before commissioning.
There are many track for commissioning in March 2006, taking our opportunities to develop KCM and we have a clear aluminium capacity to around 400,000 tpa and the strategy on how to take these assets forward.
These new 1.0 million tpa alumina renery at Orissa is expansions should result in steadily building production making good progress.
over the coming year, with the ramp-ups of copper, zinc and aluminium contributing towards a rise in The total production of nished aluminium in the production in the second half of the current year.
financial year was 135,926 tonnes, an increase of 5% on last year, and in line with capacity.
The 8 DELIVER Y AND GROWTH Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Chief Executives Review continued The two new pot rooms at Korba, each 1 kilometer long and containing 144 pots introduction of a fifth boiler at BALCO allowed more prices, notably petroleum products, coal and caustic stable power output with fewer interruptions in soda.
The expansion planned at BALCO will introduce power supply, and better control of management more modern 320 KA pre-baked technology, giving processes at both companies also helped to increase the potential for a significant reduction in unit costs, output.
We sold around 35,000 tonnes of rolled mainly through lower power consumption and better products from BALCO over the year.
heat rate from the new power plant.
Turnover in the Aluminium Business increased by We estimate that demand for aluminium in India 26% to $282 million, with EBITDA increasing 41% to increased by around 10% over the year, driven by $76 million.
The increase in turnover and profitability strong demand from the power, construction, was principally due to the strength of the price for automotive and packaging industries.
Power aluminium, with aluminium prices, as quoted on the transmission and electrical applications continue to LME, averaging $1,779 per tonne over the year, an be the single largest domestic user of aluminium.
increase of 24% over the previous year.
Tariffs on the import of aluminium were reduced in February 2005 The domestic market will see significant capacity from 15% to 10% and thus the impact from tariff expansion over the next three years.
Consumption in changes in the financial year was limited.
the country is still less than 1 kilogram per capita and we believe that consumption growth over the next Unit costs rose to $1,378 per tonne, an increase of three years should average over 9 to 10% per annum 12.5% from the previous financial year.
This was with demand being driven by the construction, primarily caused by the increase in all key input automotive and power industries.
Aluminium Business 282 76 1,378 136 129 1,226 223 54 17 FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 Turnover EBITDA Production Unit cost EBITDA contribution $ million $ million Tonnes thousand $ per tonne % DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 9 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Chief Executives Review continued I: India Copper Business Z:Zambia 240 1,015 161 106 179 I I 593 I 94 7.8 7.1 Z I I I I I Z 35 Z Z FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2005 Turnover EBITDA Production Unit cost Unit cost EBITDA contribution $ million $ million Tonnes thousand US cents US cents per pound per pound % including mining The expansion project at Korba has made excellent Copper progress over the past year.
We have invested a The assets in India made limited headway over the further $431 million over the period, to bring our year, given at TC RCs and the impact of tariffs.
The total spend to $562 million, against a budget of $900 new smelter received permission to operate in April million.
The captive power plant is at an advanced 2005 and will take our capacity to 300,000 tpa.
In stage and we anticipate being able to use the first of November 2004 we acquired KCM, making Vedanta the four power units in July 2005.
The pot rooms are one of the top five global copper producers.
complete and technology testing on the pots has been successfully undertaken.
We will start bringing Copper India Australia pots into production on a progressive basis as the Production of copper cathode in India declined by power plants are introduced.
4% from the previous year to 171,992 tonnes.
Production was lower in the first quarter as a result of We should, therefore, see some increase in output a planned shutdown of 20 days at the smelter, after a towards the end of the year from these first pots and long campaign life of 24 months.
In the second half remain on track for our commissioning date of of the year this was almost fully recovered, with the March 2006.
I look forward to reporting next year on plant running above capacity through both the third this expansion, which will transform the size, and fourth quarters.
dynamics and cost of production of this Business.
Turnover increased 29% to $766 million, though Alumina EBITDA declined by 10% to $85 million.
The rise in At our major alumina project in Orissa, we have turnover reects the significant increase in the made substantial progress on the alumina renery copper price over the period.
The average price on with all of the civil works and construction well in the LME over the financial year was 136 US cents per hand and around halfway to completion.
To date, pound, an increase of 68% on the previous year.
approximately $101 million has been invested.
There Around 20% of our copper concentrate was have been some public interest submissions to a supplied by our own mines in Australia and these Supreme Court of India sub-committee, regarding operations benefited from this rise.
the environmental clearances for the bauxite mining and these are currently being addressed.
As The average TC RC we received in the year was mentioned in last years annual report, we have 8.6 US cents per pound, similar to the levels of investigated the possibility of introducing a partner in 2003 04.
TC RCs in the first half were 6.6 US cents this project and this option remains under per pound and were improving towards the end of consideration.
We anticipate that our TC RCs should increase signicantly in the current year.
We have made good progress towards our strategy of obtaining around two-thirds of our concentrate on long term contract, having signed some frame contracts over the year.
10 DELIVER Y AND GROWTH Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Chief Executives Review continued The new copper plant at Tuticorin The impact of tariffs was most significant in the Shortly after the year end, we started commissioning Copper Business.
Over the course of the year, the new copper smelter at Tuticorin.
This will take tariffs on imports of nished copper were reduced our capacity to around 300,000 tpa of copper anode.
Duty assistance on exports of A new renery of 120,000 tpa and rod plant of copper was also reduced during the year.
On current 100,000 tpa has also been built at Tuticorin, so that prices of copper cathodes this export assistance the additional anode will be processed at Tuticorin.
broadly offsets the tariff of 5% paid on copper This will allow production of around 300,000 tpa of concentrate imports.
The expansion also included a new 22.5 MW power plant, and new acid Cash costs were improved from 7.8 US cents per and oxygen plants.
The smelter is producing metal pound to 7.1 US cents per pound.
This was driven by and we are moving through the ramp-up phase, better recovery of metal and improved by-product towards full production in the second half of management, notably sulphuric and phosphoric the year.
Our copper operations in India are already in the first quartile of cash costs for copper producers Copper Zambia globally, however we believe we can improve this In November 2004 we acquired a 51% holding in further and are targeting a cost of 6.0 US cents Konkola Copper Mines.
KCM is the largest mining per pound.
company in Zambia, contributing signicantly to the nations economy and export earnings.
Over the five During the year, further drilling was undertaken at months from the date of acquisition, KCM produced CMT and a further 13.0 million tonnes of ore has 67,547 tonnes of copper cathode and contributed been added to reserves, reecting an extension to $76 million of EBITDA to the Group.
The cash cost of the mine life of around five years.
CMT produced production was 106 US cents per pound.
around 27,600 tonnes of copper in concentrate over the year and the operation gained substantially from A new chief executive, Mr CV Krishnan, has been the increase in the copper price.
Production at TCM appointed to KCM.
He has extensive experience in was around 12,300 tpa.
The operation at TCM is the Copper Business, having worked previously with likely to be closed in the first quarter of the 2005 06 the Group at Tuticorin.
The immediate aim is for a financial year and closure costs, as estimated, have substantial improvement in operations and been fully provided.
We are seeking to raise plant availability and deliver better process management.
Training for We estimate that growth in demand for copper in staff is taking place along with the transfer of around India has grown at around 7% per annum, over the 15 specialists from elsewhere in the Group.
This growth rate should benefit from growing power sector demand, construction, air There are several projects under way at KCM, all with conditioning and the automotive sector.
At the end the aim of enhancing production and reducing costs.
of 2002, India had power generation facilities of A new 500 tonne per day acid plant is being built to 105,000 MW: this is planned to double by 2012. improve the availability of sulphuric acid and reduce costs for the leaching plant.
We are also moving to fide-bottleneck the smelter and improve recovery in the smelters and concentrators.
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 11 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Chief Executives Review continued Zinc Business 486 221 219 695 212 401 179 571 48 FY FY FY FY FY FY FY FY 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 Turnover EBITDA Production Unit cost EBITDA contribution $ million $ million Tonnes thousands $ per tonne % The most significant project at Konkola is the Turnover rose 21% to $486 million and EBITDA rose Konkola Ore Body Extension Project.
Both turnover and profitability mining the ore below the current depth at Konkola were driven by the increase in nished metal sales underground mine and expanding production from and the strong rise in the zinc price.
The average 2 million tpa to 6 million tpa.
Our intention is to price for zinc over the period, quoted on the LME, make full use of the existing infrastructure and rose 34% to $1,108 per tonne.
This has more than thereby deliver the project at a lower cost and shorter offset rising costs and tariff reductions.
Cash costs of timescale than had previously been thought possible.
production rose 22% to $695 per tonne.
These were The project should also have several economic and impacted by rising energy prices and the costs of met environmental benets for the surrounding area.
Import tariffs on zinc were reduced in 5% intended that the additional production of stages, from 20% to 10% in July 2004 and concentrates from Konkola will be treated in the February 2005. smelter at Nkana, producing copper cathodes for export.
Zinc demand in India grew at around 10% over the year.
The growth is driven by galvanising, which Zinc protects steel from corrosion, and the end users of The Zinc Business performed exceptionally well over galvanised materials in construction, the automotive the period, assisted by strong sales and a rm zinc sector, housing and power transmission.
Our expansion at Chanderiya was completed of zinc demand is driven by sheet galvanising.
and trial production commenced in May 2005 and this will increase our rened zinc output close to There have been focused efforts on expanding new 400,000 tpa of nished metal.
zinc applications, notably galvanised reinforcement bars and structures used in construction.
These should Mine output has improved considerably and all the benefit from Government infrastructure spend.
Rampura Agucha in particular did better than the previous year due to Shortly after the year end, we commissioned the new fide-bottlenecking.
This is reected in an increase in facilities at Chanderiya zinc smelter.
The final cost of mined metal content of 7% over the year to 354,641 the expansion is around 15% below the budget of tonnes.
Production of rened zinc declined by 4% to $425 million set out at the time of Listing.
First metal 212,445 tonnes due to inconsistent qualities of met was poured in May 2005, and we will build up coke, caused by short supply, which impacted the towards full capacity in the second half of the production process.
financial year, which will take our total zinc capacity close to 400,000 tpa.
The new facilities should assist Sales of zinc metal at approximately 289,000 tonnes in reducing unit costs in the future towards our are about 12% higher than the prior year, using our target of $500 per tonne, subject to variations in own production of 212,445 tonnes along with energy and coal prices.
The operations are already in additional tonnage from tolling activities and stocks.
the first quartile of global costs and reaching our target will make us one of the lowest cost zinc producers in the world.
12 DELIVER Y AND GROWTH Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Chief Executives Review continued Rampura Agucha lead and zinc mine, known for its consistent and high grade ore The lead smelting facilities are currently being We believe that there are some significant further increased by 50,000 tpa to take total output to opportunities to expand our production in the future 85,000 tpa.
These new facilities should be and this coincides with a unique period in Indias commissioned by the end of the financial year.
The economic growth and development.
There is also the cost of this will be around $35 million.
potential to move our Zambian assets forward considerably.
This will extend our pipeline of growth Exploration into the future and retain our prole of growth led The replacement and growth of our resource base is through projects.
We are undertaking a detailed fundamental to our Businesses.
During the year, we feasibility study for the development of aluminium appointed a Head of Exploration who will lead a production in the State of Orissa.
We are at a team responsible for exploration across the Group.
preliminary stage in evaluating the potential for iron The team is tasked with developing our competence development in the same State.
We believe that in this area and producing a meaningful exploration there is potential for further additions in other programme.
areas, particularly aluminium and zinc, and these possibilities should develop over the year ahead.
The importance of exploration has already been demonstrated at our zinc operations.
The reserves at Sustainable Development Rampura Agucha have been increased to 50.1 We believe in sustainable development and are million tonnes from 40.1 million tonnes.
These committed to effective management of health, contain zinc at 12.8% and lead at 1.9%.
The life of safety, environment and community development as the mine has increased to well over 15 years, even at an integral part of our business.
the increased levels of production required by the expansion at the smelter.
We will continue with The acquisition of KCM brings our total workforce to further exploration work around the mines.
around 22,500 and as the Group has grown, so have our responsibilities to our employees and the New Projects communities around us.
We have made considerable The four projects set out at Listing are around 50% progress over the past year with many initiatives complete in terms of budget, with two already undertaken.
We have appointed Group managers for commissioned, zinc and copper, and the third, both HSE and CSR who will further develop tasks and aluminium, on track for the end of the 2005 06 performance indicators across the Group.
Costs are within budget, in spite of input cost pressures such as steel, through a combination of the timing of the initial contracts and sound project management.
DELIVER Y AND GROWTH 13 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2005 Chief Executives Review continued We seek to meet needs in the community by Outlook providing assistance in the three key areas of primary This year will see further delivery of the tasks we set health, education and distress relief.
It is our wish to out at Listing as new production ramps up from our assist those around us, far beyond their minimum copper and zinc expansions and our aluminium needs.
Across the Group we undertake considerable project is fully commissioned.
I also anticipate work ranging from funding schools and school improvements in production and costs at KCM.
The meals, to skill training programmes for adults and the delivery of our strategy will reduce our unit costs sponsorship of sports.
There is a wide range of through the increase in volumes, new technology activity in health care, from providing centres and and greater productivity and take us towards our medicine to extensive treatment programmes.
KCM goal of being in the top decile of cost of production has a strong track record in malaria and HIV in all of our Businesses.
Our growth strategy programmes, the learning from which we can share combined with growing demand for metals in India across the Group.
gives a positive outlook and I look forward to reporting on this over the year.
Over the year we have undertaken several initiatives to ensure that we meet environmental requirements KK Kaura and the use of third party audits by international Chief Executive specialists has validated our belief in our practices.
1 June 2005 The selection of the new technology being introduced in our expansion programmes will assist our efforts by improving on energy efficiency and waste recycling.
Investment has taken place to improve air quality well within current permissible standards, in anticipation of more stringent legislation that will inevitably be introduced in the future.
14 DELIVER Y AND GROWTH A 51% holding in Konkola Copper Mines was acquired in November 2004.
This is an integrated copper operation, comprising both open pit and underground mines and a leaching plant and smelter.
Total capacity is around 250,000 tpa.
KCM offers many opportunities to increase production and reduce costs, to make the operations more profitable through the cycle.
The picture here shows the substantial Nchanga open pit mine.
A new aluminium smelter is being built at Korba, at a total cost of $900 million, with capacity of 250,000 tpa and including a new 540 MW power plant.
The smelter has two pot rooms, each 1 kilometre in length and containing 144 pots.
The pot rooms are complete and at the year end pots were being tested.
The project is on track for commissioning in March 2006.
