Chairmans and Chief Executives 2005 Review 2005 saw Ventures North Sea development programme deliver a step change in production levels leading, in turn, to record financial performance.
During the year we brought three brand new fields on stream and successfully completed a further nine in-field development projects, investing a total of 208 million in development capital expenditure and acquisitions.
We have seen the benefits of scale and portfolio diversification, leading to record production levels in line with our overall expectations and this strong performance has continued into 2006.
Our ongoing development programme is expected to continue to deliver further substantial production growth during 2006 and 2007.
In addition, through the acquisitions we made in 2005, we continue to add to our North Sea inventory of undeveloped oil and gas fields.
We have put in place a strategic plan to develop Ventures business, which is designed to deliver steady and sustained production growth for the foreseeable future.
The key elements of this plan are as follows: Maintain our strategic focus on the acquisition and development of proved but under exploited oil and gas fields, known as stranded reserves: Retain a tight geographic focus as a North Sea development and production company following withdrawal from operations in Trinidad: Develop our portfolio of interests in over 30 North Sea oil and gas fields, only one third of which are currently in production: Exploit Ventures operational and development expertise which we believe offers a real competitive John Morgan, Chairman and Mike Wagstaff, Chief Executive advantage: and Build upon the long term strategic relationships with our core contractors to ensure access to key equipment and services, which are a critical part of our development delivery capability.
In addition to record production, cashflow and earnings, Ventures proven and probable 2P reserves increased by 29% to 161 million barrels of oil equivalent MMboe.
This was achieved through a combination of both acquisitions and organic reserves additions.
Our reserves replacement ratio for the year exceeded 400%, with a three-year average of approximately 600%.
Financial Results Average daily production for 2005 increased 77% to 29,864 barrels of oil equivalent per day boepd compared to the previous year 2004: 16,832 boepd.
The average realised sales price of 17.35 boe represented a 21% increase over the prior year 2004: 14.36 boe.
This increase resulted from the rise in commodity prices during the year for both oil and natural gas, offset by production hedged at prices below current 2 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 market levels.
As a result, turnover for the year more Total production levels from Trees increased during the than doubled to 164.1 million, 2004: 81.5 million.
year as a result of a successful workover on the main Group profitability benefited from increased production Birch production well and the contribution from the South volumes, higher realised commodity prices and lower Sycamore production well, which was completed late in unit lifting costs, due to higher production volumes over the year.
Excluding the effects Production from our Greater Kittiwake Area GKA hub of both the Trinidadian impairment recorded in 2004 substantially increased as a result of bringing on stream and the adoption of IFRS during 2005, operating profit the Gadwall oil field in April.
Gadwall has performed increased by 259% to 83.0 million 2004: 23.1 better than expected and this led to the drilling of a million.
Taking into account the adoption of IFRS, water injection well, which was completed in early 2006.
Venture recorded a net profit after tax of 31.1 million During 2005, a new water injection well was drilled on 2004: 6.9 million loss.
Mallard to provide additional pressure support and the During 2005, investment in our North Sea business field was brought back on stream in late 2005 at through development capital expenditures and production rates ahead of expectations.
Development acquisitions more than doubled to 208 million 2004: planning on Goosander continued with the field receiving 99.4 million.
This investment programme was financed field development plan FDP approval in January 2006 from a combination of operating cashflow, drawing under and is expected to come on stream during the third Ventures credit facilities and by raising 29 million quarter of this year.
through a privately placed convertible bond.
During the year, we made progress in the development Operational Overview of the other principal assets outside our three production The 77% increase in average production rate for 2005 to hubs, Chestnut and Pilot.
Chestnut will be developed 29,864 boepd was driven by the impact of both new utilising an innovative low cost floating production field development activity as well as a substantial system for which FDP approval has now been received.
number of incremental in field investment projects.
This The production vessel is under construction and the growth was achieved in spite of the shut-in of our Trees project is on track for first oil in 2007.
The Pilot field is a production hub during the early part of the year.
As a shallow heavy oil field located about 45km southwest of result, production during the first quarter averaged only the Kittiwake field.
Development economics for this field 13,369 boepd and rose almost threefold during the year have been substantially improved by recent increases in as development projects came on stream, averaging oil prices and we are planning to drill a low cost appraisal over 39,000 boepd during the fourth quarter.
well in 2006 to prove the fields commerciality.
An additional appraisal well on another heavy oil discovery During 2005, we continued to build our UK natural gas located in the adjacent block 28 2a, which was awarded business, which is focused on our A Fields production to Venture in the 23rd UKCS Licensing Round, is also hub in the southern North Sea.
The operational highlight planned for this year.
of the year was the development of the Annabel field, which came on stream in April.
Production performance Last year we completed a strategic review of our from the field has exceeded expectations, thereby Trinidadian operations.
As a result of their reduced enabling us to drill a second production well in the field materiality to the Group as a whole, the Board decided and this well was brought on stream in December.
The to withdraw from operations in Trinidad.
Agreement was nearby ConocoPhillips operated Saturn development reached with a local Trinidadian company to sell our came on stream in October and to date production assets whilst retaining a significant minority stake in the performance has also been ahead of forecast.
This transaction was completed in December.
Development drilling on the field is continuing into 2006.
As a result, we now operate exclusively in the UK sector In addition to new field development activity, we drilled of the North Sea, giving us a degree of geographic focus one in-fill well in each of the Audrey and Ann fields.
Unfortunately, the Audrey in-fill well encountered lower Corporate and Business Development than anticipated reservoir pressure.
However, the Ann Our acquisition strategy has been to focus on the well was successfully completed and brought on stream expansion of our three production hubs, building our in early April, 2006. southern North Sea gas business and acquiring the long In February 2005, we were able to restore production term development inventory to deliver sustained from Trees that had been shut-in in late 2004 due to production growth through 2007 and beyond.
Despite the gas leak in the riser below the Brae A platform.
the very competitive acquisition market in the North Sea, VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 3 Chairmans and Chief Executives 2005 Review we succeeded in making seven acquisitions of experience of financial management within larger undeveloped discoveries, adding 45 MMboe of reserves businesses, which will benefit the Company during the at a total cost of 23 million.
These bring a number of current period of rapid growth.
Since her arrival, Marienew operated field development opportunities and will Louise has made a major contribution to the increase materially our longer term development strengthening of Ventures management team.
During April, Alan Jones joined Ventures Board as a nonIn May, we announced the acquisition of a package of executive Director.
He chairs the Remuneration assets consisting of interests in seven undeveloped Committee and sits on both the Audit Committee and central North Sea oil and gas fields for a total the newly created Nominations Committee.
His in-depth consideration of up to $18.75 million.
In July, we acquired understanding of project development and production additional interests in both the undeveloped Christian operations emanate from his more than 30 year career oil and Bligh gas condensate discoveries.
These fields with BP in all parts of the world.
Most recently, Alan has are located immediately to the east of GKA and will help worked with UKOOA on its restructuring and has us to expand this production hub.
extensive experience of the regulatory and commercial environment in the UKCS.
In June we agreed to exchange our 12.5% non-operated interest in Block 16 13c for a 33.3% interest in several In 2006, we have been delighted to welcome two new part blocks containing the undrilled Channon gas prospect non-executive directors to Ventures Board, Tom Ehret in the southern North Sea.
We plan to drill a low risk and Tom Blades.
Tom Ehret is Chief Executive Officer of exploration well on this prospect, located within Blocks Acergy, a leading offshore contractor to the oil and gas 47 8c and 47 13b, during 2006.
Previously he was Vice Chairman of the transaction, we increased our interest in the Channon management board of Technip and President of its prospect to approximately 53% and became the offshore branch.
A well recognised figure in the offshore operator.
and subsea sector where he has over 30 years experience, 20 of which in management positions, Tom As a result of two separate transactions, we acquired has been instrumental in several industry shaping moves.
100% of the Ensign gas discovery, located to the west of the Audrey gas field.
Ensign is one of the largest Tom Blades is Chief Executive Officer of Choren undeveloped gas fields in the southern North Sea and we Industries, a German technology company, currently a plan to drill an appraisal well on the field during the world leader in the conversion of biomass to synthetic second half of 2006. liquid fuels.
Prior to this he was President and Chief Executive Officer of Spectro, a specialised manufacturer in As a development and production operator, we the global analytical instruments industry.
In recent years recognise the importance of having access to high his achievements have included major improvements in quality equipment and services to deliver our business corporate performance through strategic re-engineering objectives.
In 2004 we anticipated the current tight and implementation of value building strategies.
Messrs oilfield equipment and service market conditions.
We put Blades and Ehret will both bring invaluable experience in place a strategic plan to concentrate our business in a from their hands-on management of rapid growth in number of long-term contracts with key suppliers to differing corporate situations.
assure our future business delivery.
During 2005, Venture extended its existing contract on the Noble Julie David Morrison, who has been a Board member since Robertson jack-up drilling rig into 2008 and put in place a 1999, has recently decided not to stand for re-election 12 month contract for a semi-submersible drilling rig and stepped down from the Board as of today.
These contracts guarantee access to would like to express its thanks to David for his drilling equipment until mid-2008.
We also entered into a significant contribution to the growth of the Company multi-year contract, with Subsea 7, for all of our subsea during the time he has been a member of the Board.
construction, engineering and maintenance work.
During Staff and Contractors the first 12 months of this strategic partnership we have Without the commitment, professionalism and seen important benefits from this relationship, in terms performance of our staff and contractors, Venture would of being able to respond to operational circumstances as be unable to deliver its business objectives.
Once again, well as react to business development opportunities.
our people have excelled in delivering the most Board and Management ambitious drilling and development programme in the Marie-Louise Clayton joined the Venture Board in Companys history, while at the same time maintaining February 2005 as Finance Director, bringing extensive the highest levels of operational, health, safety and 4 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 environmental performance.
The Board would like to levels.
FDP approval for Goosander was achieved in thank all of the Venture team for their major contribution January and the Sedco 704 drilling rig is currently to our success during 2005. completing the Goosander field production well.
First oil production remains on schedule for the third quarter.
Dividend Policy As an oil and gas production company, Venture is In our Trees hub, production from Birch and Larch has required to maintain high and sustained levels of capital continued to exceed expectations.
During February, the reinvestment into its business.
Up to and including 2005, central Sycamore water injection well SW1 was drilled.
Venture has invested far greater levels of capital than it Unfortunately the well encountered poor quality reservoir has generated in operating cashflow.
This shortfall has and has been suspended due to rig timing constraints.
been funded by a combination of debt and equity In April, we announced the formation of a strategic financing.
During 2006, dependent on production levels partnership, North Sea Gas Partners, with three financial and market prices for oil and natural gas, it is anticipated institutions in order to pursue acquisitions and that in the absence of any acquisitions, Venture will development opportunities in the southern North Sea.
generate operating cashflow in excess of its budgeted In April 2006, we acquired an additional interest in Pilot capital expenditures.
Historically, acquisitions have taking our total ownership to 80%.
represented an important but unpredictable part of 2006 has got off to an excellent start and we have seen Ventures growth.
a continuation of the rapid growth evident in 2005.
In utilising any free cashflow generated, the Board has Average first quarter production set a new record at determined the following priorities: first, acquisitions or 44,196 boepd as a result of strong reservoir and good other internally generated business development hub uptime performance.
opportunities meeting Ventures strict investment criteria: While still at an early stage in the year, we remain on second, the repayment of part of the Companys track to meet our average production guidance for the outstanding debt to sustainable long term levels and year of 40-42,000 boepd.
Overall our development third, the return of capital to shareholders through programme remains on track to meet our growth dividends or other mechanisms.
However, achievement Venture has a requirement to issue up to five million of these targets remains dependent on attaining a shares representing approximately 4% of the currently number of development milestones.
As always, their issued share capital to management and employees achievement is subject to operational and other project during 2006 and 2007 to satisfy share based incentive risks, some of which are beyond our direct control.
It is the Boards intention to During 2006, we anticipate seeing a continuation in the satisfy these requirements wherever possible by improvement of Ventures financial performance.
This purchasing shares in the market, rather than through the results from a combination of three factors: increased issue of additional new shares, in order to minimise production volumes, a reduction in the proportion of dilution to existing shareholders.
production hedged at prices substantially below current Current Trading and Outlook market levels and lower unit lifting costs.
Operationally, we have had an excellent start to 2006.
In summary, as a result of the strong operating We have completed drilling and tie-ing in the Ann in-fill performance of our business combined with favourable well, which was brought on stream in early April.
We commodity prices, the Board remains confident of the now have a short break in our operated southern North outlook for Ventures business.
Sea drilling programme until the arrival of the Noble Julie Robertson jack-up rig that is expected in July.
Its first project will be either the Channon exploration well or 25th April, 2006 Ensign appraisal well.
John Morgan Mike Wagstaff During February, we successfully completed the drilling of Chairman Chief Executive the Gadwall water injection well, which is expected to be tied-in in late April.
Damage to the Mallard-Kittiwake pipeline forced the Mallard field to be shut-in for six weeks from mid-February to early April.
Production has been restarted utilising a temporary repair pending a permanent solution in June.
This shut-in is expected to have very limited impact on overall annual production VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 5
