4 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Chief Executives Review First phase of recovery strategy on track Recovery strategy progress A series of strategic and tactical steps are being implemented to enable margins to recover and profitable growth to be pursued.
The strategy is focussed on both the migration of the business mix towards more profitable customer groups and ensuring that the Group is the most efficient provider in that regard.
The strategy is divided into two phases, each of which encompasses a series of initiatives designed to drive targeted profitable growth or to reduce costs.
The strategy builds on the Groups core strengths, is balanced between implementation at the European headquarters, country operations and shared Murray Hennessy service centres, is characterised by low technological complexity and is comprised of multiple, smaller projects reducing execution risk.
Phase I Fix the basics This element of the strategy is well underway and comprises a series of initiatives to improve the basics of the business and begin to address structural change in the industry.
Revenue development To drive profitable growth, the Group has invested in strengthening its sales and marketing capability to develop channels to market, stimulate Avis network reservations, enhance customer service and focus on improving yield and utilisation.
Progress is set out below.
Channel development: On-line marketing activities and continued investment in enhancing website functionality have increased internet bookings in the year from 18% to 24% of reservations.
Avis Europe plc 5 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Margin improvement Implementation of second 3-5 percentage phase progressing with initial points focus on cost reduction Primary focus is Targeted Cost growth reduction return on capital Network reservation traffic: Arrangements have been put in place with Scandinavia to improve international outbound business.
Enhance customer service: Operational investments to improve customer satisfaction with the car rental collection and return processes are progressing well.
A new car-side check-in service, at the point of car return, using hand-held technology is now operating at all key locations across the network.
An increasing number of customers are benefiting from this service, thereby increasing satisfaction Avis has been a strong brand for decades, often cited as one levels and reducing the number of post-rental adjustments.
Our new rental station branding The new simplied rental agreement is fully operational at is currently being rolled-out across key locations to ensure that our global brand is recognised by the customer in the same many rental locations, with the roll-out continuing in 2006. way throughout the world.
In 2005, Avis completed one of the most extensive customer Avis car-side check-in service rapid return is the industrys research initiatives in the European car rental industry.
The most sophisticated Meet and Greet service.
It has now been findings are being used to improve further the customer offer rolled-out in 125 rental stations.
The hand-held device gives and the way Avis operates across all of its major locations.
the customer the ability to return their rental car in less than Continuing to nd ways to differentiate the customer experience, 60 seconds, while receiving their final bill in the language of while being competitive, will be key to maintaining our position their choice.
as the leading car rental company in Europe.
6 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Chief Executives Review continued Driving targeted profitable growth Yield and utilisation focus: Following several pilot initiatives in a number of markets, the Group is substantially enhancing its revenue management capability.
These initiatives, together with operational process improvements, have helped further increase utilisation during the year from 69.5% to 70.5% and links to some improvements to yields in the second half.
Cost reduction Cost initiatives have been undertaken to increase efficiency across the cost base, including successfully reducing commissions on directly contracted business and the reduction In 2005 in our corporate markets we successfully appointed in post-rental adjustments.
Additionally, the Group has invested Budget sub-licensees to key downtown locations and opened in staff to help optimise the value on vehicle re-marketing for the new corporate locations at Heathrow and in the Cote dAzur.
eet that is not subject to re-purchase contracts.
The transfer of back-ofce activities to the Groups shared service centre in Budapest continued, with a total of 80 positions having been transferred in the year.
Budget The Budget business has continued to make losses but remains on track to return to profitability on a run rate basis by the end of 2007.
The turnaround strategy comprises actions to improve performance within the corporate operations in the UK and New Budget licensees in: France and the development of overall network revenue.
Italy Slovakia The strengthening and expansion of the international licensee network continues with the opening of Sweden and the recently Sweden Bulgaria announced entry into Italy.
Yemen Phase II Optimise the business The objectives of the second phase are to both grow revenues in chosen customer groups and to substantially restructure the New licensees were appointed, giving Budget a greater cost base.
Both elements are built upon fundamental analysis presence in Europe and the Middle East.
Avis Europe plc 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Focusing on the customer Avis has launched a new easy-to-understand rental agreement available in the customers own choice of language.
It makes the rental process simple, fast and transparent.
Targeted growth call centre as we close our Manchester operation and there The Group has developed a comprehensive fact base on the will be further transfers of roles to the Budapest shared service profitability and return on capital characteristics of different centre.
Redundancies will be phased over the next 18 months.
Actions are underway to migrate business towards more profitable customer groups Non-staff related overhead costs will be reduced through so that capital is progressively deployed to generate a higher a number of initiatives, including the re-negotiation and exit return.
This shift will be achieved by increasing marketing spend of certain non-eet supplier contracts in the areas of telecoms, and sales focus on these more profitable segments and by systems, transportation and professional services.
upgrading the Groups service to its chosen customer groups.
In addition to 6 million of exceptional costs taken in 2005 Cost reduction in respect of this restructuring, the exceptional costs of the As previously announced, the Group has now commenced project are expected to amount to some 40 million in 2006 a restructuring of the roles of its European headquarters, and 7 million in 2007.
The project will generate anticipated corporate operations and shared service centres to create savings of around 7 million in 2006, 25 million in 2007 and an organisation that is both more effective and more efficient.
The project comprises the following main elements: Murray Hennessy a substantial reduction in staff and running costs at the Chief Executive European headquarters: acceleration of the transfer of back-ofce activities into the shared service centre in Budapest: consolidation of all call centre activities into the existing Barcelona facility and closure of the Manchester call centre: and a number of personnel and overhead cost initiatives within corporate operations.
Subject to the employee consultation process which is underway, the net headcount reduction is expected to be approximately 200, primarily in the European headquarters Budgets award winning internet booking platform has now been and the UK and German corporate operations.
It is expected rolled-out to 19 country websites, whilst customer functionality that some 180 positions will be created in the Barcelona has been enhanced to drive incremental revenue.
Rental transactions through this channel grew by over 200% during 2005.
