Chief Executives Review WE HAVE MADE BETTER PROGRESS IN IMPLEMENTING THE STRATEGIC PLAN IN 2005 THAN I EXPECTED AT THE OUTSET Nick Salmon Chief Executive 14 March 2006 We have made good progress in 2005 in implementing the growth in Asia-Pacific, offsetting slight declines in Europe Companys strategic plan see page 6.
This is borne out by and NAFTA.
Retail jewellery, the end-market for the the Groups improved profitability and reduced debt and Precious Metals division, was weak throughout 2005, the achievement of our 100 million disposals target ahead particularly in the UK.
This reflected several factors, of schedule.
including the sharp rise in the cost of gold and generally Since I joined the Group in July 2004 we have appointed weaker retail spending trends.
new Chief Executives to head our two largest divisions, Against this background, revenue from continuing Francois Wanecq in Ceramics and Steve Corbett in Electronics operations at 1,481 million was marginally down on 2004 and a new Group Finance Director, Mike Butterworth.
but the product mix improved with lower revenue from I believe we now have in place a strong management team to commodity-type activities and growth in several of our deliver continued improvements in 2006 and beyond.
Trading profit from continuing operations rose by 14% to 123.5 million.
2005 Results Headline profit before tax increased by 20% to 102 million.
End-market growth for our products and services was The retained loss for the year improved from 17.0 million in positive overall.
Global steel production, the most important 2004 to 7.6 million in 2005.
Net debt at 31 December 2005 end-market for our Ceramics division, increased 6%, with was 292 million compared to 322 million at 31 December falls in Europe and NAFTA more than offset by growth in 2004, having been adversely affected by 26 million of Asia-Pacific, most notably China.
The Electronics divisions foreign exchange movements in the year, but benefiting end-markets were relatively flat in 2005 following a year of from the disposal proceeds of 29 million for SCS received strong growth in 2004, but again we experienced strong at the year-end.
Cookson Group plc { 10 } Annual Report 2005 Divisional Highlights Strategic Plan The Ceramics division has achieved outstanding progress in We have made better progress in implementing the 2005, with trading profit up 24% over 2004, as a result of strategic plan in 2005 than I expected at the outset.
The a solid performance from the Steel sector and marked margin improvements in Ceramics and Electronics have improvements in the Foundry and Glass sectors.
The profit come from a combination of improved profitability in the growth came mainly from increased activity in emerging revenue mix and internal cost reduction actions.
markets, particularly China, India and Eastern Europe.
The disposals proceeds target of 100 million will be In the Electronics division, the Assembly Materials reached when we receive the proceeds from the Laminates sector delivered a 24% improvement in trading profit from disposal.
The Laminates deal, signed on 15 December 2005, is continuing operations on the back of stronger sales in leadsubject to approval by the European competition authorities, free solder, a trend we expect to continue into 2006 and which we expect to receive in the first half of 2006.
2007 driven by EU legislation banning lead-based consumer The sale of the Laminates business has a particular electronics products.
The Chemistry sector posted a 3% significance for the Group.
Over the past four years, decline in trading profit, principally due to our sole following the severe downturn in the telecommunications distributor over-ordering the highly profitable copper market in 2001 and the transition of the electronics damascene product in late 2004 which led to a manufacturing industry to Asia, the Laminates business has corresponding decline in early 2005. made cumulative operating losses of 46 million and has Precious Metals, which represented 17% of Group also absorbed significant cash in restructuring costs and revenue, reported trading profit down 35% in the difficult capital investment to expand new and existing facilities retail environment described above.
Our US operations some 73 million in total.
This cash drain is now stemmed by were profitable but Europe recorded a small loss, due to the disposal.
Further, the Laminates business was the the UK operations, where we are now taking steps to Groups last sector which sold purely into the electronics improve the efficiency of our selling and distribution market, hence our cyclical market exposure is much activities to restore profitability.
In fact, electronics end-markets now represent only about 20% of Group revenue.
Restructuring There are one or two further, albeit smaller, potential Restructuring charges in 2005 totalled 18.5 million, of business disposals in the pipeline and some further land and which 5.1 million related to the discontinued Laminates property transactions that we expect to complete in 2006. business and 13.4 million to continuing operations.
For the The strategic plan involves further restructuring actions past few years a significant proportion of our restructuring in our continuing operations, beyond those actions listed charges have related to the turnaround of the Laminates above, to reduce costs and adjust production capacities in business 45 million in the last four years, which was mature markets.
We therefore anticipate two further years thereby returned to profitability before its sale.
of restructuring charges at levels similar to 2005.
The main restructuring actions completed in 2005 covered: Outlook Ceramics division: As a just in time supplier, our businesses do not have an The relocation of production capacity from the US to order book giving a clear long-term market view.
However, Mexico: we are close to our customers in all our markets and our The merger of two South African factories to a single view on the Groups outlook reflects their views: site: Ceramics: The talk of fide-stocking in the global steel The closure of a linings factory in Italy: industry has now subsided and we see the positive The downsizing of a linings factory in Germany: and momentum at the end of 2005 continuing into 2006.
Steel Overhead reduction programmes in the US, the UK output in 2006 is expected to be ahead in Asia-Pacific, and Continental Europe.
growing at the global level and broadly in line with 2005 in Europe and NAFTA.
Electronics division: Electronics: Market growth in electronics is expected to The closure of the Laminates operation in Germany be slightly ahead of GDP, but our automotive markets in and downsizing in Sweden: Europe and the US may show some softness.
Overhead reduction in Europe: Precious Metals: Some firming of the US market is The relocation of production capacity from the US to apparent, but Europe remains weak.
Mexico: and Our well-established positions in the fastest-growing, Workforce reduction in Singapore.
and most profitable Asia-Pacific region represent a substantial asset and will be an important factor in our Precious Metals division: performance in 2006.
An 8% reduction in the US workforce and Against a background of these market expectations and consolidation into one factory: and with our continued cost reduction and restructuring The completion of the 2004 restructuring plan to programmes in all divisions, together with a particular focus cease manufacturing in France.
on the turnaround of the Precious Metals division, we expect an improvement in the overall performance of our continuing operations in 2006.
The disposal of the Laminates business should also improve the quality of our earnings.
Cookson Group plc { 11 } Annual Report 2005
