793529 1050 3 6 05 10:38 Page 5 We have announced that Andy Halford, who, until the end of December, was Chief Responsible behaviour Financial officer at our US afliate, Verizon Wireless, will succeed Ken Hydon.
Andy Mobile telecommunications brings many positive social, environmental and economic Halford joined Vodafone in 1999 as Financial Director, Vodafone UK.
In 2001 he was benets, although for some it also brings concerns about possible health effects.
Our given regional responsibility as Financial Director for the UK, Northern Europe, Middle approach is to continue to support research aligned with the World Health East and Africa before moving to his position with Verizon Wireless in 2002.
Organisations priorities and to provide customers and local communities everywhere On 1 January, I was delighted to welcome Sir John Bond to the Board as a nonwe operate with up to date, reliable information in plain language.
We are committed executive director.
Sir John, who is Group Chairman of HSBC Holdings plc, one of the to communicating clearly to ensure people have the information they want to make worlds largest banks, brings with him many years experience and a track record of decisions on mobile telecommunications.
success in international markets, particularly in Asia and the Americas.
His skills will be For Vodafone, corporate responsibility is about understanding the expectations of our of great benefit to the Board.
stakeholders and taking appropriate action to meet those expectations.
We are, For the first time, all the directors are retiring and seeking re-election this year.
This is therefore, integrating corporate responsibility into the business and this is reected in a responsible step forward as we seek to maintain the highest standards of corporate our strategic goals, our values and our Business Principles.
During the year, Vodafone and its operating companies made charitable contributions of It is only with the support and commitment of all employees, at all levels, that we are 33 million to The Vodafone Group Foundation, local Vodafone Foundations and social able to continue the growth of Vodafone.
In thanking them all, I look forward to their projects.
To support the humanitarian rescue operation following the Asia Tsunami ongoing contribution to achieving further progress in the current year.
disaster, Vodafone, its employees and Foundations committed total funds of 2.5 million, including the provision of free calls to and from the affected region as well as employee matched donations in a number of countries.
A summary of our corporate responsibility activity in the year is set out later in this report, with full details available in our Corporate Responsibility report, which I believe you will be pleased to read.
Delivering value to shareholders Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth, DL Your Board believes that with the continuing financial strength of your Company it is Chairman possible to increase returns to shareholders through enhanced dividend payments and share purchases.
In November, the interim dividend was increased by 100% and the directors are now recommending that the final dividend is also increased by 100%.
We have also continued with our share purchase programme and in the year to 31 March 2005 purchased approximately 3 billion shares at a cost of 4 billion.
We shall be seeking shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM for the purchase of up to a further 4.5 billion of shares during the current financial year and I look forward to your support.
Effective leadership As part of a new organisational structure designed to assist in the delivery of the Groups strategic goals, Sir Julian Horn-Smith was appointed Deputy Chief Executive on 1 January this year.
In this role, Sir Julian leads a new function, Global Business Development, which is responsible for delivering Vodafones products and services portfolio into the Groups afliates and Partner Networks.
The Global Business Development team has also assumed responsibility for expanding and consolidating our footprint through our Partner Network programme and any acquisition activities.
It was a great pleasure for us all that the Queen awarded Julian a Knighthood in her last birthday honours list.
The honour was very much deserved and is appropriate recognition of the outstanding contribution he has made to the success of your Company.
At the conclusion of the AGM to be held in July, our Financial Director, Ken Hydon, will retire.
Ken was one of the first directors of your Company and he has done a superb job in helping to guide the Company from its origins to the world leader it is today.
His financial discipline and acumen has enabled Vodafone to invest signicantly in customers, infrastructure and acquisitions whilst maintaining financial strength and exibility at all times.
He will be missed by his colleagues and we wish him a very happy and well deserved retirement.
Also retiring at the AGM will be Sir David Scholey, a non-executive director since 1998.
Davids wise counsel will also be missed and we thank him for his service and contribution to the Board over many years.
