Chief Executives Review Delivering operating performance Proportionate customers Total millions March 05 110.1 154.8 Arun Sarin Chief Executive March 04 97.0 133.4 4 Delivering operating performance 6 Delighting our customers 87.7 March 03 119.7 8 Implementing One Vodafone Subsidiaries Others Total 10 Increasing shareholder returns 11 Executing our strategy This has been another successful year for Vodafone.
We closed the year with nearly 155 million proportionate customers, having generated 7.8 billion of free cash flow.
Cash shareholder returns increased to 6 billion as we doubled the dividend and purchased 4 billion of our shares.
We also launched 3G for consumers and firmly established our One Vodafone plan key drivers for our future growth.
Our results are built on the base of a strong overall Group In a competitive market place, we achieved this overall operational performance that has delivered on all our revenue growth whilst maintaining proportionate EBITDA margins at similar levels year on year.
On a statutory basis, Group revenue increased by 2% to Organic growth of 12% in proportionate customers was 34.1 billion.
Removing the effect of acquisitions and driven by particularly strong performances in the year in disposals and adverse foreign exchange movements, Germany, Spain and the US.
Customer growth has again organic revenue growth was 6%.
been the driver for the increase in revenue but, as average customer expenditure has reduced, this led to organic Cash flow generation continued to be robust, reflecting the growth in proportionate mobile revenue of 9%.
underlying strength of our operations and financial structure.
4 Strategy | Turnover Cash flow Total Total bn bn 34.1 12.7 34.1 12.7 March 05 March 05 7.8 33.2 7.8 33.2 32.7 33.6 12.1 12.3 March 04 March 04 31.9 31.9 7.7 8.5 28.6 30.4 10.5 11.1 March 03 March 03 27.8 27.8 5.0 5.2 Continuing operations Discontinued operations Total Net cash flow from operating activities Free cash flow Mobile turnover Discontinued operations and, in the year ended 31 March 2004, free cash flow from the closure of certain financial instruments Operating cash flow increased by 0.4 billion to 12.7 Japan remains a strategically important mobile market for us billion, driven by higher revenue.
Free cash flow for the year and is a significant profit generator for the Group, contributing 0.8 billion of operating profit before goodwill amortisation in was 7.8 billion, compared to 8.5 billion last year that the last year.
However, the pace of change and advanced included one-off items amounting to 0.8 billion.
This strong state of 3G there requires additional focus to improve our cash flow supports our significant increases in shareholder competitive position.
Together with our three main objectives, returns this year.
we have strengthened the management team and remain This past financial year we added a further 5.1 billion of focused on a successful execution of our recovery plan.
fixed assets, primarily in respect of our mobile network As we look forward, we see both greater opportunities and infrastructure.
This amount is only slightly higher than the greater challenges.
The potential for growth in voice and prior year, even though we continue to invest significantly in data is significant.
However, penetration levels in many of our 3G networks.
our markets are now reaching saturation and competition is intensifying through existing network operators and the Our operating performance in Europe remains robust.
introduction of many more low cost operators and resellers.
In the US, Verizon Wireless has performed exceptionally well, Greater choice in the market place is leading to rising delivering impressive financial performance across all customer demands.
We are also seeing continued regulatory metrics.
We have a productive working relationship with our led termination rate reductions.
partner, Verizon Communications, and believe that we will In this environment, we see winners and losers.
We believe continue to benefit from our investment in Verizon Wireless Vodafone is uniquely positioned to succeed through our as we go forward.
scale and scope and the customer focus of all our We face challenges in Japan, where we are half way employees.
To achieve this success, we are focused on the through a two year plan to turnaround our business.
execution of the six strategic goals that we outlined last This plan has three main objectives: to improve the year: delighting our customers, leveraging our scale and attractiveness of 3G handsets and content in that market, scope, expanding market boundaries, building the best to increase the effectiveness of our distribution channels global team, being a responsible business and providing and to improve the coverage of our 3G network.
Strategy 5 | Chief Executives Review Delighting our customers Focus on customer needs Creating new and enhanced services A core strategic goal is delighting our customers.
Vodafone Customers have been enjoying Vodafone live!
services on has nearly 155 million proportionate customers around the 2.5G since its launch in October 2002.
With the introduction world, all with the common need to communicate with friends, of 3G, these services are enhanced through greater data family and colleagues wherever they are.
Within this common speed and capacity, providing a better customer experience.
need, our customers have different communication Faster network speed, more network capacity and increasingly requirements.
Some may need constant and real time access sophisticated devices also means many new services can be to their email.
Others may want to download music and delivered to the mobile.
The result is clearer pictures, more games.
However, all of our customers exciting games and better music and sound quality.
Vodafone aims to deliver We now offer 3D games, full track music downloads with increasing value to its customers by creating innovative CD-like quality in addition to real music and polyphonic services that meet these different needs, supported by world ringtones and a wider range of video based services, class customer service.
including video calling and higher quality film, music and entertainment clips.
We have also significantly increased the One of the key elements in delighting our customers was the range and depth of content as mobile has become a more launch in November 2004 of our 3G consumer service, attractive channel to content providers.
This service fundamentally changes mobile communications for our customers and gives But 3G is not all about consumer services, as it provides a Vodafone a platform to deliver a market leading, differentiated significant enhancement to business offerings as well.
Most importantly, it represents a significant This has been most evident with the Vodafone Mobile Connect ongoing growth opportunity for the Group through new and data card, which enables business customers to connect to enhanced services, additional network capacity and their office systems whilst on the move.
Greater speed and innovative pricing.
capacity means much easier access and use of email and other office applications our customers can now use their laptops as if they were in the office.
We have expanded our push email offerings recently and are also working closely with a number of leading IT industry players to bring historically fixed line internet services to the mobile world.
The place to find the latest ringtones, games, music, sport and film clips every day.
Want a ringtone, music video or a Full Track Music Download?
We have the lot, from chart acts to archive hits.
From arcade style classics to the very latest 3D games releases, all the best games optimised for your mobile phone are here.
Missed the match, racing results or want the highlights?
Get the latest sports news and video clips from Sky, as well as fixture information and updates on the winners and losers.
The place to catch up with whats happening around the world, check the weather or the lottery results and even hear the latest celebrity gossip.
Watch video clips from the latest cinema, DVD and video releases, or download a classic comedy video clip to watch later.
Lost and need to find somewhere?
You can get maps and directions to services, banks, entertainment, restaurants and clubs no matter where you are.
6 Strategy | Capturing more minutes Customer management 3G provides significantly more capacity in our networks.
With rising customer expectations and increasing choice, This gives us the ability to drive voice minutes that are effective customer management is increasingly important.
currently carried on fixed lines onto mobile networks, so We seek regular feedback on customer satisfaction and called fixed to mobile substitution, and therefore generate brand preference and closely monitor network performance.
To put this opportunity into perspective, We also offer a wide range of attractive loyalty schemes so approximately two thirds of all voice traffic in Europe today is as to maximise customer retention.
In highly penetrated carried on fixed line networks, offering significant market markets, customer retention is a critical driver of market and expansion potential for Vodafone in voice minutes.
Offering innovative pricing Driving revenue growth Whilst we can now offer a much richer customer experience, We aim to delight our customers through tailoring services to the key to generating additional revenue is to encourage what they really want.
We believe the combination of new customers to use more services and increase their mobile and enhanced services, greater value offerings and effective spending, in an environment where people want simplicity customer management will drive revenue growth.
and more value at lower cost.
with 3G delivers an end-to-end customer To deliver on this basic customer need, we plan progressively service through the combined effect of being first to market to introduce price plans that bundle voice and data services with the widest and best range of handsets and the most together within an attractive value proposition for our exciting services: providing content from leading providers: customers, whilst at the same time encouraging higher offering innovative and value driving pricing: and all of this in usage.
The more cost efficient nature of the new technology a common way across our high quality networks.
also enables us to provide these additional services and But we are doing more than just focusing on 3G: we are revenue without incurring a substantial change in underlying expanding our business services, offering an uncomplicated costs, thereby creating value for shareholders.
mobile experience through Vodafone Simply and have simplified and increased the value to customers of our roaming tariffs.
Our focus on customer needs provides the basis for the future.
Vodafone for business Vodafone Mobile BlackBerry from Vodafone Connect data card Email, calendar, contacts Full mobile access to and business services on your business applications.
Synchronised with office or home computer.
Vodafone push email Vodafone Wireless Office Replacement for your Real time automatic desk phone.
A mobile synchronisation of email, which you use in the calendar and contacts.
same way, but you can Read and work on also use it when out of documents and the office.
Strategy 7 | Chief Executives Review Implementing One Vodafone Develop an integrated network plan Standardise network design and purchasing Reduce network maintenance costs from standardised networks Networks Consolidate European service platforms Establish regional hosting centres in Germany and Italy Migrate operating companies to hosting centres over next 18 months Service Platforms Create a roadmap to consolidate billing and CRM systems IT Delivery on our programme.
Whilst we are in the early stages, some Leverage scale and scope initiatives are more advanced than others.
Another key goal is to deliver fully the benefits of our scale We are establishing an integrated network planning process and scope.
As the Group has expanded over the past few to harmonise network specifications across our operations years, we have been able to achieve some significant scale and we have reduced significantly the duplication of research benefits.
For example, as the volumes of network equipment projects across the Group.
We have also created operational and handsets we have purchased from the same suppliers hosting centres in Germany and Italy for the delivery of have increased, we have secured better pricing.
We have also harmonised the brand in many of our markets and started common services and our European operations will be offering common products and services.
The One Vodafone migrating to these centres over the next 18 months.
programme builds on this to further integrate our businesses In May 2005, we announced our new roaming proposition and create sustainable competitive advantage.
that will be available across 14 markets, leveraging our The programme is focused on six major areas of our unrivalled footprint.
This is a significant step in reducing business, defined as networks, service platforms, IT delivery, roaming complexity for our customers.
It offers simple pricing terminals, customer management and roaming.
We aim to that is transparent to customers so that they will know leverage scale and scope through a combination of exactly what their charges will be when abroad.
The basic standardising designs and processes, reducing duplication, principle is that, where available, a customers home tariff will centralising certain functions and sharing best practice.
apply abroad, with the same call set-up fee being charged for The effect will be to improve our time to market with new each call made.
offerings, create a consistent customer experience across our networks and enable us to achieve a strategic, lowest The consumer launch of 3G saw us begin to offer converged, cost position.
global handsets as we introduced ten common handsets across our markets and we will develop this portfolio going During the year to March 2005, we have established forward whilst still catering for specific local market needs.
objectives, plans and the supporting organisation to deliver 8 Strategy | Drive greater volumes of global handsets Focus on customisation and exclusivity Balance local needs against global scale Terminals Deliver simplified roaming offerings Optimise value from roaming through benefit from scale and scope Develop co-ordinated and centralised support activities for roaming Roaming Implement consistent, segment and value based customer management Drive improvements in customer retention and satisfaction Customer Management IT delivery is one of the most complex areas as we aim to significant changes in foreign exchange rates and after consolidate our business-critical billing and customer support adjusting for acquisitions and disposals.
systems and will take place over a longer time frame than the Our revenue targets are equivalent to at least 1% additional other initiatives.
This will simplify our systems and lead to a revenue market share in the year to March 2008 compared lower cost structure in the future.
We will measure this in our five major controlled markets compared to our principal For the year ahead, our focus will be on implementing our established competitors.
plans and beginning to deliver improvements.
The net benefit to us in the short term will be limited as we will incur costs in centralising certain activities.
The first substantial benefits are Build the best global Vodafone team expected in the year to March 2007, with the programme With effect from the beginning of 2005, we restructured the fully up and running in the year to March 2008. business to create a flatter organisational structure that is better positioned to respond to the rising expectations of our Financial targets customers and to deliver on 3G and One Vodafone.
The One Vodafone programme is targeted to deliver The previous regional structure has been simplified so that 2.5 billion of incremental pre-tax operating free cash flow major countries and business areas now report directly to improvements in the year ending March 2008.
This new structure focuses more attention on customers annual benefit and is made up of cost savings of 1.4 billion in Vodafones local markets, enhances our ability to deliver and revenue enhancements of 1.1 billion.
seamless services and speeds up execution.
We expect that, in the year to March 2008, combined mobile operating and capital expenditures will be broadly similar, in absolute terms, to the year to March 2004, even after four years of projected revenue growth and assuming no Strategy 9 | Chief Executives Review Increasing shareholder returns Having increased the dividend by 100% in the year, we Increasing shareholder returns currently expect future increases in dividends to be in line Overall, the business is performing well.
We are generating with underlying growth in earnings.
We also intend to strong cash flows and, through our focus on customers and continue to purchase shares on an ongoing basis, although leveraging our scale and scope, we continue to see strong this is subject to gaining shareholder approval each year.
growth prospects for the business.
For the year to March 2006, we are targeting another 4.5 These factors have enabled us to deliver a substantial billion of share purchases.
Given our expectations for cash increase in shareholder returns in the year.
At our interim generation in the year ahead, we would expect shareholder results we doubled the dividend and indicated we would do returns to represent a pay out ratio of approximately 100%.
the same for the final dividend, which we have now proposed for approval at the AGM.
In addition to increasing the Expanding market boundaries dividend, we re-purchased 4 billion of our shares in the year to March 2005.
The result was an increase in cash returns to The proposed acquisition of TIWs mobile interests in Romania shareholders compared to the previous year from 2.3 billion and the Czech Republic is very much in line with our to 6 billion.
acquisition strategy, focusing on selected opportunities, Through our shareholder returns policy, we wish to continue primarily in Central and Eastern Europe.
These businesses are to provide shareholders with a mix of dividends and share fast growing and we believe they will benefit fully from the purchases, whilst retaining flexibility within our debt capacity global services and scale benefits that our Group can deliver.
to pursue selective acquisition opportunities should they Retaining financial flexibility to pursue these incremental arise.
Given our strong financial position, we see no need for opportunities enables us to act quickly and decisively when the business to reduce absolute levels of debt in the future.
the ability to enhance shareholder value arises.
Cash returns to shareholders Total March 05 2bn 4bn 6bn Total March 04 1.3bn 1.0bn 2.3bn Total March 03 1.1bn Nil 1.1bn Cash Dividends Cash Share Purchases 10 Strategy | Chief Executives Review Executing our strategy This year Vodafone has taken important steps to deliver Executing our strategy ongoing growth and increased shareholder returns.
We have made excellent progress in executing against our The future for mobile communications is both challenging strategic goals in the year but there is still much to do.
We face increasing competition and differing We have restructured the business to more closely align regulatory environments but the opportunities for us remain ourselves to these goals and have outstanding and significant.
We are in a unique position and, through our passionate leaders and people in the organisation to deliver launch of 3G and the establishment of One Vodafone, we are them.
Our commitment to deliver on our goals is underlined creating platforms to deliver differentiated services to the by our values, which state that everything we do is driven by benefit of both our customers and shareholders.
our passion for customers, our people, results and the world around us.
Outlook For the year ahead, we see organic growth in proportionate mobile revenues in the 6% to 9% range with proportionate mobile EBITDA margin flat to 1 percentage point lower.
We expect to add approximately a further 5 billion of fixed Arun Sarin assets as we continue to expand our 3G networks.
Free cash Chief Executive flow is anticipated to be in the 6.5 billion to 7 billion range, with a lower level of dividends expected from Verizon Wireless combined with higher cash expenditure on taxation and fixed assets offsetting growth in operating cash flow.
Executing our strategic goals Consumer launch of 3G: launch of Vodafone Delight our Customers Simply: expanding business services: simplifying tariffs Implementing One Vodafone: launch of new Leverage Scale roaming proposition and Scope Acquiring control in Romania and Czech Expand Market Boundaries Republic: extending Partner Networks Simplifying management structure to focus on Build the Best customers and deliver on strategic goals Global Vodafone Team Integrating Corporate Responsibility Be a Responsible Business into the business Doubled the dividend and increased share Provide Superior purchases to 4bn in the year Shareholder Returns Strategy 11 |
