Chief executives review Paul Lester Chief Executive The group continues to perform well as we take further steps to meet our strategic objectives.
The outlook for both our Support Services and Shipbuilding businesses is encouraging as the group moves forward into another promising year.
Shipbuilding has substantial growth Strategy Our Vision opportunities both in the domestic and Over the past three years we have pursued a To be Recognised as the Number One international markets for at least the next ten consistent strategy: International Government Services Group years.
However, we continue to believe that To win a major share of UK defence projects The Number One in our vision relates to the alleviating the peaks and troughs which have quality and reputation that we strive for, as well To grow our US business to over $500m traditionally beset the industry would benefit as the size of organisation we aspire to be in per annum both the UK Shipbuilding industry and its future years.
This builds on our existing customers.
VT is taking a leading role in this To grow our Education and Skills business reputation for quality of service, project process.
to over 150m per annum management and customer focus.
To develop alliances with other defence We already have significant International reach companies Our Vision and Values with operations across the globe within our We have made substantial progress in all communications, shipbuilding, ship support, As the group has grown and diversified in areas of our strategy in 2004 05.
Profits and aerospace and education and skills recent years, we continue to work on bringing earnings have continued to grow in excess businesses.
To be truly international we will the various parts of the business together and of 10% per annum.
We have been named continue to pursue opportunities overseas, ensure we all have a common understanding of preferred bidder as part of the AirTanker with a specific focus on Europe and the VT Groups objectives.
The vision has been consortium on the largest UK PFI project, United States.
developed through a number of workshops, the Future Strategic Tanker Aircraft FSTA and, involving management from across the group.
through strong organic growth and acquisitions, Government Services embraces all forms of Our vision now clearly outlines our aspirations both our US Defense and Education and Skills services to governments, government bodies and gives both our internal and external businesses have increased in size by 57% and and agencies.
This does not prohibit VT Group stakeholders an understanding of what we, as 22% respectively.
from addressing commercial markets outside a group, want to be.
Underpinning this vision is of government but only if those markets We anticipate that the UK Support Services our set of core values which define the way we are relevant to the business that we are defence market will start to flatten after the operate as an organisation.
With this in mind, VT already delivering.
will continue to expand in the US Defense and UK Education and Skills sectors.
04 VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Copyright DESO, Ministry of Defence Michael Jeffries and Paul Lester Left to right: Paul Lester, Lord Bach, Sir David Wright, Bill Rommell Our Vision To be Recognised as the Number One International Government Services Group Encouraging and demonstrating Our Values Management innovation and creativity Passionate about People The group has doubled its size over the past Demonstrating integrity four years.
This has meant we have needed We believe that the quality of our people directly to strengthen our management.
In the past Delivering the requirements contributes to business success and we must twelve months, Jo Robbins, Human Resources demonstrate our commitment to them by Partnering with Customers and Suppliers Director, and Matthew Jowett, General enabling them to release their full potential and Counsel, have joined the Group Executive achieve their goals.
We will do this by: VT is recognised by many customers as a Committee.
They have had substantial trusted and reliable partner that can deliver the Valuing contribution and teamwork experience in working within larger companies specified requirement on time and to budget.
Effective communication which will greatly benefit VT. We will continue to do this and develop that recognition with suppliers by: Empowering people I would like to express my appreciation for the committed contribution made by Martin Jay Developing and maintaining Demonstrating commitment to personal over the past sixteen years, the last three as development positive relationships chairman.
Under Martins leadership VT has Sharing the success Listening to and understanding the been transformed from a Shipbuilding to a needs of customers and suppliers leading Support Services group.
Performance Driven Encouraging openness and honesty I look forward to continuing to grow the group As the business grows we must ensure that Promoting teamwork successfully with Mike Jeffries whose wealth of we continue to deliver excellence to both our experience in the Support Services sector will internal and external customers and that our Sharing the success add a new dimension to VT. employees are focused on performance.
Many companies develop vision and values We will do this by: statements but fail to make them happen.
Adopting a can do will do approach With commitment from senior management and involvement by all employees across the Being results focused understanding and working towards individual and group, we will ensure our vision and values live shared targets within the group in the long term.
Paul Lester Chief Executive VT Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 05
