The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Chief Executives Review: 2005 again demonstrated the successful execution of the Weir Group strategy, exiting activities which were non-core, restructuring those that had historically under-performed, increasing our exposure to higher growth markets and delivering improvements to underpin future growth.
We remain on course to realise significant further improvements in 2006.
In the Annual Report published in 2002, we first defined our ambition to achieve sector-best performance by targeting those markets which offered the most attractive prospects and where we had a realistic ability to lead.
2005 proved to be a critical point on our journey: we restructured our under-performers, exiting a number of low margin activities and acquired Gabbioneta which competes in the higher margin, high growth oil sector.
The benefits of these strategies were evident in our second half results, delivering higher order input, continuing operational improvements and strong growth in our core areas of business.
The year also demonstrated the Groups capabilities to integrate new business activities with the seamless entry of Gabbioneta into the Clear Liquid group.
Our Journey to Excellence Engineering Products Division Engineering Products includes the combined activities of our Minerals, Clear Liquid and Valves & Controls businesses which all supply pumps Our operational plans are well developed and valves to the flow control industry.
The Division collectively grew its input, revenue and profits when compared to the same period last year.
and the realignment of the Group portfolio Input grew 11.5% to 559.7m with excellent results from the Minerals will improve both margins and the activities offsetting the planned reductions in our UK Clear Liquid and Valves & Controls operations.
Revenue grew 13.2% to 505.6m against robustness of future earnings.
Before restructuring costs, the results from the operations of Engineering Products grew 31.5% to 42.3m with an underlying margin of 8.4% against 7.2% last year.
The collective businesses work closely together and share many facets of their operations across geographic and product boundaries.
The businesses combine their activities in the emerging markets where individually they would be unable to fund the necessary cost.
In China, our purchasing, logistics and quality infrastructure manages the low cost sourcing of components for the Engineering Products Division.
Chinese demand for oil, power and mining products makes it essential for Weir to have a presence in China.
Our approach is to combine our collective needs: Minerals investing in a foundry, Valves & Controls in an assembly and test facility and all activities sharing sales offices in the key industrial centres.
The restructuring activities at both Weir Pumps and the UK Valves & Controls business were critical to the performance of the Engineering Products Division.
I am pleased with the achievements made during the year using common practices and dedicated teams to ensure that a consistent approach was taken as they moved through the various stages towards completion.
4 Chief Executives Review Our Minerals activities had an excellent year with input, revenue Engineering Services Division and profit levels increasing significantly.
The businesses were able to Our Engineering Services Division experienced a difficult year in 2005 capitalise on the growth of mining activity globally, fuelled by strong with the combination of lower UK sales, higher start-up costs in our United commodity prices and the continuing appetite for industrial products States global parts business and the lack of political progress in Iraq, in China and elsewhere.
impacting the profit performance of the division.
Sales at 215.3m were A 21% increase in orders from the Americas was due to a combination 4.3% above 2004, with good progress achieved in our Canadian, United of sales initiatives, new products and the buoyant investment climate States, Australian and Middle East markets, offsetting the decline in the UK.
in North and South American mining markets.
Growth in flue gas The loss of the Yorkshire Water asset management contract and lower desulphurisation also contributed to the result.
level of sales to Iraq were key factors in the significant reduction in the UK A 29% gain was achieved in the Indo Pacific, reflecting the award of businesses revenue and profits.
A number of replacement contracts have further large contracts for high pressure pumping equipment from our subsequently been secured and will come on stream during 2006 and this, Netherlands operation and a significant increase in new orders for flue together with some measured consolidation, promises improved results in gas desulphurisation in the Chinese power market.
Minerals businesses have achieved significant success in expanding their Input in the Americas grew 29% due to a combination of a large mine position in the higher growth markets of South America, Eastern Europe refurbishment contract secured in Canada and a growing order book and Asia.
In 2006, we are planning to add foundry capacity in China, Chile from our service centres in the United States.
and South Africa with an expected capital spend of approximately 5m.
Going forward we expect to deliver further progress in our core markets Going forward, while the market is likely to soften over time, I expect and the continued strength of our end markets provides the catalyst for the Minerals businesses to continue to benefit from the favourable improved results in 2006. economic climate and make further progress in their already established The Defence, Nuclear & Gas Division performed well in 2005 delivering leadership positions.
healthy orders, sales and improved profits in the year.
The divesture of The Valves & Controls businesses made good progress in 2005 and the desalination businesses for a total consideration of 27.7m leaves the contributed significantly to the profit of the Engineering Products Division.
remaining Defence, Nuclear & Gas operations in higher margin, lower risk markets which in 2005 delivered significant profit growth when compared The United States business continued to build on its success in the Chinese to 2004. power market and will expand its activities into a wholly-owned subsidiary in Suzhou early in 2006.
The increased activity in China helped offset Our liquid gas handling business was awarded 80.2m of new orders in continued softness in the domestic power market and delivered growth the year against 62.7m in 2004.
It won a number of marine gas ship in revenue and profits when compared to 2004. contracts, increased its position in on-shore gas storage facilities in the Middle East and is well positioned to deliver further progress in 2006 Weir Valves & Controls France benefited from its ongoing success in and beyond.
Eastern European nuclear markets where upgrade work is being funded by the European Union.
Growth in sales and profits from this business is The defence and nuclear businesses also performed well in the year, expected to continue in 2006 and for the foreseeable future.
growing profits and margins when compared to 2004.
Our increased presence in the UK, Australia and Canada helped deliver higher profits The previously announced restructuring of the Weir Valves & Controls from the defence operations while new nuclear decommissioning and UK operation is now largely complete with the move to a modern, storage work in the UK helped grow this area of activity.
2006 should appropriately sized facility and outsourcing of non-essential machining bring with it a number of significant new opportunities.
work executed on-time and on budget.
The second half performance of the UK operation provides increased confidence in the delivery of anticipated improvements and positions us well for further profit 2006 Outlook progress in 2006.
The Group is well placed to execute the final stages of our five year plan.
We remain encouraged by the prospects for the Valves & Controls The 2005 corporate and restructuring activities, coupled to improving businesses.
The anticipated growth from our investments in China operational performances provide a solid platform for further progress in and the Middle East, coupled to improvements from our UK and 2006 and beyond.
Our operational plans are well developed and the final French operations, should deliver further progress in 2006. realignment of the Group portfolio will deliver improved margins and In the Clear Liquid businesses our focused group of speciality market increased robustness of future earnings.
pump businesses made significant progress in both their business Our corporate development strategy remains focused on pursuing suitable development and profit improvement strategies.
acquisitions and achieving sustainable organic growth.
2006 will be an The collective speciality pump businesses improved their results and important year for the Group, in which we intend to further leverage achieved good levels of growth in each of their respective markets while our key strengths in higher technology, higher margin products whilst the restructuring at Weir Pumps, which incurred a 2005 charge of 11.8m, growing our positions in the key power, oil, minerals and defence and proved successful at stemming the losses from the UK operations.
work is being undertaken to prepare plans for a move from the existing I am confident that the investment and restructuring actions we have Cathcart operations to a more suitable site, possibly in 2008. taken in 2005 will position the Weir Group to prosper in our chosen The acquisition of Gabbioneta contributed an incremental 10.9m of sectors.
Our management structure remains focused and fully engaged.
revenue in the last quarter of 2005 and increased the Groups offerings We have the right people, products and geographic profile to deliver to the higher growth oil refining industry.
The integration of Gabbioneta growth and further shareholder value going forward.
within the Clear Liquid operations has progressed exceptionally well with the business delivering revenue and profits ahead of expectations.
In 2006, we expect further improvements from our Clear Liquid operations, largely driven by the benefits of the UK restructuring and inclusion of Gabbioneta for the full year.
Mark Selway Chief Executive 21 March 2006 5
