OUR BUSINESSES WORK TOGETHER TO ADD VALUE, QUALITY, CHOICE WESTBURY AND EFFICIENCY TO OUR CORE HOMES BUSINESS.
WESCOTT SPACE4 DIRECT Wescott Homes develops aspirational Off-site manufacturing reduces labour houses and apartments such as this costs and on-site build time.
This prestigious brownfield regeneration improves efficiency as well as offering development at Leftbank, Manchester.
exceptional environmental compliance Wescott Land provides access to capital and energy savings.
Westbury Direct provides our customers with additional choice and customisation, through our Solutions wide range of value added products and services.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 13 OPERATING REVIEW WE HAVE THE LAND AND THE SKILLS TO DELIVER FIVE MORE YEARS OF GROWTH New five-year plan capital, by continuously enhancing the efficiency of our Having already attained the key objectives of our last fiveoperations and progressively improving the quality of our year plan to 2006, this year we reviewed our strategy for the products and services.
remainder of the current decade.
The new plan we have adopted for the five years to 2010 marks a distinct change in Supply and demand our approach.
Previously we have focused on turnover Official forecasts are that household formation in the UK will growth through increases in our average selling price by not continue at over 180,000 per annum.
Adding in the need to only repositioning our product but also the locations in replace derelict housing, the Government estimates a need which we operate.
Now we intend to concentrate on the for 200,000 new homes a year for the next ten years.
The delivery of volume growth, raising the output of our core ability of the housebuilding industry to respond to this Homes business from its current level of around 4,400 units strong underlying demand is constrained by the continuing per annum to over 7,000 a year by the end of the plan period.
shortage of land with planning consent, making it unlikely We will do this by increasing our number of trading outlets that the private sector completions will exceed the 150,000 and by delivering an increased number of houses for the per annum that has been the norm for the last 30 years.
social and affordable sector, in part to satisfy our planning Although the Barker Report recommended a market-led obligations.
In what we believe will be a more stable market, solution, releasing more land in the areas of highest demand, average selling prices, which have increased from 105,000 the Governments response has been to improve supply only to 194,000 over the last five years, are expected to advance in designated development areas.
Similarly, promises of broadly in line with general inflation.
action to speed the planning process have not been fulfilled, with the reality of local government actions remaining at Responding to market change odds with Government policy.
Our new priorities recognise that the market in which we operate is likely to be more subdued than in the recent past, Substantial land bank with greater price stability.
They also reflect the successful Westbury has many advantages in this climate.
First and completion of our strategy of re-orientating Westbury foremost, we already have the land we need to meet our Homes towards prime sites which can command higher volume aspirations.
With 15,700 plots either owned or prices.
In this new environment, we shall maintain our focus controlled in our consented land bank and a further 22,000 on protecting and improving our margins and return on in our strategic holdings, we control in total some 37,700 plots, GROWTH Westbury is perfectly poised for growth.
We have the land bank to deliver greater volumes of houses to meet the Governments requirements to respond to household formation.
Crucially, we also have the design footprint to achieve greater densities on the land under development.
Our award winning Renaissance styles used widely across the Group and our planning experience create high density developments within an extremely attractive environment.
Our experience reclaiming brownfield sites puts us in prime position for involvement in major government regeneration and pathfinder schemes, such as the New East Manchester Urban Regeneration Company, set up to deliver the strategic vision for 1900 hectares of East Manchester.
Westbury has been appointed to the Housing Developers Panel to plan 12,500 new homes in the area over the next decade.
14 Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 OPERATING REVIEW equivalent to more than eight years output at current levels Driving efficiency of production.
Furthermore, this includes land in a number of Our relentless focus on efficiency in all aspects of our business the areas that the Government has identified for development, is also an important contributor to our growth.
We enhanced notably Milton Keynes and Ashford.
Our confidence in our organisational efficiency through the creation of a new ability to grow our market share is enhanced by the withdrawal divisional structure for Westbury Homes in 2003 which is aiding of some significant players from the traditional housebuilding the dissemination of best practice throughout the business.
sector and the increasing difficulties faced by smaller operators All our developments are analysed to ensure optimum product in securing their land supply in a competitive market.
utilisation, while we are continually enhancing the efficiency of the build process both through the increasing use of Strong skill base Space4 and improvements to conventional construction We have well developed skills in the acquisition of land, practices.
We also focus on the reduction of waste throughout including the assembly of commercially viable development the business, and on maximising value through the sites from multiple owners in brownfield urban environments.
increasing use of group purchasing and supplier partnering.
This is complemented by our expertise in taking proposals through the planning process and securing detailed consents.
Maintaining customer focus Our Wescott Land joint venture with Bank of Scotland gives us Achieving customer satisfaction is our highest goal and the the financialcapability to secure larger opportunities, which ultimate guarantee of continued business success.
We offer scope for profitable land trading as well as securing continuously monitor customer satisfaction through an our own future supply.
We also have a proven capability to independent agency, using their analyses to highlight regenerate even the most difficult sites and to create priorities for improvement in our business processes, systems attractive mixed developments that combine private and and procedures.
As a result of feedback, we are undertaking social housing.
The Agecroft former power station site in a complete review of the way we communicate with our Salford is a prime example of our work, which has been well customers, and are training all our senior managers in the received by planners and customers alike.
This in turn has led skills required for a customer-focused approach.
We have to our selection as a member of the panel of developers for also implemented new quality management policies on all the regeneration of east Manchester.
sites throughout the Group, and introduced a new home demonstration process to make the experience more useful Excellent designs and better attuned to customer needs.
Our Renaissance design portfolio, which now accounts for 60% of our output, addresses the PPG3 planning Increasing emphasis on marketing requirement for higher building densities, while creating As well as enhancing communication with our customers, we attractive and varied environments in which people are refocusing our investment in marketing our products to actually want to live.
In developments such as Little Shilling potential home buyers throughout England and Wales.
The in Dorset, we have successfully created new communities national advertising campaign we launched in January 2005 that combine social and private housing, and larger and was a first for Westbury and proved successful in stimulating with smaller homes, in a village setting.
We have also interest and demand.
In the more challenging trading contributed to the acclaimed Poundbury development environment that we are currently facing, we believe that the in Dorchester, which has done so much to influence consistent use of effective marketing will make an important thinking on urban design.
contribution to delivering our targets for volume-driven turnover growth.
15,700 Plots 22,000 Plots Owned or Strategic Controlled Holdings Our landbank provides a platform for growth.
Poundbury near Dorset, is the Prince of Wales Little Shillings density of 34.4 house units per flagship village development which has been hectare, still comprising 15,000 square feet of cited as a model for sustainable development.
living space per acre beats the norm for a modern Westbury have been appointed to build a estate at 20 units per hectare and 13,000 square further 94 homes.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 15 OPERATING REVIEW COMMITTED TO CONTINUOUSLY IMPROVING QUALITY IN ALL WE DO Finding the right sites public open spaces and a further 0.4 million for play Westburys commitment to quality runs literally from the areas and equipment.
We also seek to involve the whole ground up.
We select sites in prime locations with natural local community in the planning process.
Last year we held customer appeal.
Our assessment of their commercial 18 public meetings to consult on developments.
Such viability then reviews how we can achieve optimum product open communication is of great value in refining our utilisation and compliance with Government planning proposals to ensure that they win public support and guidelines, together with the expected ease of development secure planning approval.
The rigorous site investigations that we undertake focus not just on technical issues, but also Building sustainability on the wider impact of any development on the community Transport is another key area of research in all our and the environment.
developments, as we seek to make public transport readily available to our customers and reduce the number of Protecting nature unnecessary car journeys.
We work closely with local We review the potential environmental effects of any planners to ensure that our sites are laid out in a way that development in terms of noise, air quality, landscape and reduces both traffic volume and speeds.
Wherever possible visual impact, as well as its effects on ecology, archaeology these calming measures rely on traditional village features and the built heritage.
This EnviroCheck process also includes such as curving and narrowed roads, rather than intrusive a detailed examination of drainage and ground conditions, signs and humps.
In many of our sites we are also able to including potential contamination, and a comprehensive risk create attractive walkways and cycle paths that allow easy analysis.
This ensures that we can make an informed decision access to local amenities.
on land values based on the fullest possible understanding of each site and its costs, liabilities and risks.
It also enables Minimising impact us to draw up plans that will preserve or improve the Our use of Sustainable Urban Drainage Systems SUDS helps existing ecological balance, protecting historic features and to minimise the environmental impact of new housing ensuring that existing animal and plant life continues to developments by taking a holistic approach that aims to flourish.
We seek to preserve the best natural features of replicate the natural environment as closely as possible.
This each site, retaining existing watercourses and mature trees replaces traditional, piped, underground systems that sought wherever possible.
Last year alone these were to convey rainwater away as quickly as possible, often to the complemented by the planting of some 4,000 new trees detriment of areas downstream.
The drainage systems under a number roughly equal to the number of houses we our sites may now feed into balancing tanks, small lagoons completed.
We also undertook 13 projects across the Group or artificial lakes.
These can be designed to look like natural to protect wildlife habitats, including the relocation of ponds, so enhancing the quality of our sites by providing a colonies of newts and bats in Ashford, and of water voles at home for local wildlife such as frogs, newts, fish and birds, Bracklesham Bay.
and also an attractive and tranquil area for the enjoyment of residents.
Enhancing communities Our constant aim is to build genuine communities in which Creating customer appeal people really want to live.
We maintain close links with The PPG3 planning guidelines created a real challenge for communities and local authorities throughout our operating housebuilders: how to construct attractive and commercially territory, and seek to improve local infrastructure and viable developments at the high densities now demanded, facilities in ways that benefit our neighbours as well as our when so many customers still aspire to the traditional four customers.
Last year we contributed 1.9 million to enhance bedroom detached house with a double garage.
Our local schools and provide affordable housing, 1.3 million for Renaissance portfolio of house types has proved a most 16 Westbury plc Annual Report 2005
