Chief Executives review Strategy, decisions and actions We have an ambitious vision to be the best hospitality company there is.
In pursuit of this vision we have created a strong platform to build upon in the three sectors of the hospitality market where we have leading positions budget hotels, restaurants and sports, health and tness clubs.
I rmly believe that its our 40,000 people that hold the key to our success.
By building a One Whitbread, No Limits culture we will unleash their full potential.
We aim to create value for our shareholders through generating higher returns from our invested capital and through disciplined growth.
Over the course of the last year we have made significant progress and have substantially completed the reshaping of Whitbread for the future.
We have taken a number of decisive steps: Alan Parker Chief Executive comprehensive business review undertaken: created Premier Travel Inn following the 505 million acquisition of Premier Lodge: consolidated our pub restaurants businesses under one management team: decided to sell our Marriott hotels business and non-core assets, with an expected realisation of 1.3 billion: announced a significant return of cash to shareholders: strengthened the senior management team: started to build a One Whitbread, No Limits culture.
PAGE 6 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 STRATEGY, DECISIONS AND ACTIONS The best hospitality company there is The past twelve months have been a period of transformation at Whitbread.
Business review Achieving sustainable earnings growth through: The Whitbread Way In June 2004 the Whitbread Board began a review to identify the actions new site investment in value At Whitbread we are proud of required to achieve our ambition.
generative businesses: who we are.
We believe in four principles that guide our actions and We were able to do this from a position sharpened consumer focus to drive behaviours.
Its the way we do things of strength with a solid track record like-for-like sales: and its called the Whitbread Way.
of earnings growth: year-on-year better ways of working to lower costs: improvements in return on capital People and teamwork employed: and ownership of good international development on solid assets and strong brands.
Caring for guests UK base.
The review involved: Passion for winning Commitment to improving shareholder returns through: reappraisal of business plans: Continuous improvement dividends growing faster than canvassing of views from our people, The Whitbread Way is part of our earnings per share: our shareholders and our customers: 260 year heritage and is shared across our family of brands.
returning to shareholders at least assessment of the competitive half of the proceeds from identi ed environment and outlook for asset sales, based upon current Chairmans succession market growth.
By October we were ready to share the outcomes of our review and set forth a Creating Premier Travel Inn new strategy for the company focused In July, Whitbread acquired Premier Lodge on four key objectives: from Spirit Group for 505 million, increasing our scale in the exciting Strengthening the leading positions of and fast-growing budget hotels sector our businesses in three sectors of the by nearly 50%.
UK hospitality market: Over the following 32 weeks we integrated budget hotels: Premier Lodge with our own Travel Inn restaurants: business, combining under one brand I am delighted that Anthony more than 28,400 bedrooms across more sports, health and tness clubs.
Habgood is to join Whitbread.
than 450 sites, to create Premier Travel Inn.
Anthony aged 58 is currently Generating return on capital employed Chairman of Bunzl PLC and he will Our aim was not simply to increase ahead of the groups cost bring a wealth of experience to the scale: by combining Travel Inn and of capital on a consistent basis: company as our new Chairman Premier Lodge and marketing them every Whitbread business is when Sir John Banham retires to the UK consumer under one brand, targeted to achieve and sustain in August.
we are able to realise signi cant cost an economic pro t. and revenue synergies.
I would like to thank Sir John for his enormous contribution to the The transaction was an early signal of company over the last six years Whitbreads new direction, consolidating which has seen substantial growth our leading position in budget hotels, in total shareholder return.
a sector where we have a track record of value creation.
PAGE 7 Building One Whitbread and strengthening the Whitbread Way culture will play a key role in achieving our vision.
Pub restaurants consolidation Then in March 2005, we announced our intention to sell a further 46 Marriott Whitbread has one of the best pub hotels into a joint venture with Marriott restaurant estates in the UK: and in International transferring the operation Brewers Fayre and Beefeater we have of the hotels to Marriott.
On 25 April 2005 we announced the In January we brought together all of conditional sale of our German our pub restaurants as a single business, steak-house business Maredo.
run by one management team under Phil Urban.
In addition, we have identied three other areas where we will make Phil and his team are focused on We reached a key milestone in March 2005 disposals to crystallise value for our generating long-term growth and with the first One Whitbread Convention.
shareholders: a significant improvement in return on capital employed, from a business that Britannia Soft Drinks Whitbread has yet to reach its true potential.
holds a 23.75% stake in Britannia Soft Drinks Limited BSD.
The company Marriott exit and disposal intends to dispose of this holding via of non-core assets an initial public oering of BSD.
The shareholders of BSD have agreed that Following the business review, we took this can occur between 1 January the decision to reduce our exposure 2005 and 31 December 2008: to and ultimately exit from the full-service hotels sector where we are Chiswell Street after more than the UK operators of the Marriott brand.
250 years we will be disposing of our Chiswell Street site: Having spent the past decade building up the business, in my previous role as hotel properties we intend to sell Managing Director of Whitbread Hotel an additional seven hotel properties Company, the decision was not an easy The event brought together, for the first not forming part of the main one for me personally.
time in Whitbreads history, all of our Marriott disposal.
The event was However, despite our out-performance also attended by our key suppliers.
of the sector, the fact is that we have significant return of cash not been able to generate high enough to shareholders returns from this franchised business.
We expect to realise 1.3 billion through With an expected realisation of at the sale of Marriott Hotels and other least 1 billion and a substantial assets that are not core to our strategy.
return of cash to shareholders this is a This restructuring, which is now strategically important step for Whitbread.
substantially complete, will step up Whitbreads return on capital employed.
The first disposals were announced We will make a significant return of cash in November 2004, with the sale to our shareholders and reduce both our agreement for 79 million of debt and our pension fund deficit.
In May this year we will pay a special dividend of 135p per share, returning a total of 400 million to shareholders.
PAGE 8 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 STRATEGY, DECISIONS AND ACTIONS The WINcard is our business.
It re ects our philosophy that if we take care of our people, they will take care of our guests, which in turn drives pro ts and enables us to create value for our shareholders.
It is unique to Whitbread and will clearly di erentiate us from the competition.
Changes to senior One Whitbread, No Limits culture The WINcard will be used at every unit management team by every brand.
At group and brand level Building One Whitbread and economic pro t and outlet growth are To deliver our strategy, we need the right strengthening the Whitbread Way also measured.
people in the right positions.
Over the culture will play a key role in achieving last 12 months we have made a number our vision.
Better ways of working of key appointments to our senior We reached a key milestone in March As part of our business review we management team: 2005 when we brought together, for the established a Better Ways of Working Finance Director e ective 1 May 2005 first time in Whitbreads history, all of programme.
The purpose of this is to Christopher Rogers has joined us our 1,600 outlet managers at the identify areas where we can maximise from Woolworths Group where he One Whitbread Convention.
synergies and by doing so take costs out held the position of Finance Director: of our operating overhead.
WINcard Managing Director, pub restaurants There are four key areas where we In 2005 6 we are introducing a standard Phil Urban joined Whitbread from are focusing our e orts on realising business performance tool for every Spirit Group, having previously spent these synergies people, processes, single Whitbread employee in every ten years at Scottish and Newcastle procurement and property.
single outlet or of ce throughout the Retail: company.
Driving ef ciencies is critical at a time Group Development Director when, like many retailers, we are facing Its called the WINcard or Whitbread Desmond Taljaard joined Whitbread signi cant cost pressures in areas such as in Numbers card and it will change the from J Sainsbury where he was gas, electricity, business rates and labour.
Property Director, a position he also Our people WINcard introduces a set of performance held at Hilton Group: criteria that are consistent across each My first year as your Chief Executive Group Commercial Director individual component of the company.
has been an exciting time of change.
Paula Vennells is responsible for It takes a balanced scorecard approach We have restructured Whitbread to coordinating the groups commercial to assess how each outlet or business create sustained value for shareholders.
activities including marketing and unit serves our key stakeholder groups: The 100% commitment and enthusiasm procurement.
Previously she was our people: our guests: and our of all our people to the principles of Marketing Director for Whitbread shareholders.
the Whitbread Way and the No Limits Restaurants: culture is very impressive.
I am very The criteria are based upon the key proud to work alongside them to make Director of Group Information performance indicators for Whitbread: Whitbread the best hospitality company Systems Ben Wishart joined there is.
retention of our people: Whitbread from Tesco where he was an IT Director.
health and safety: brand standards: guest recommendations: like-for-like sales growth: pro t growth.
SAMPLE ONLY PAGE 9 Group trading: in a year of transformation, Whitbread has made progress against the key strategic measures of earnings growth and return on capital employed.
Premier Travel Inn is a simple business and it is at the heart of Whitbread.
The management treat the team like family members says receptionist Farkhanda Iqbal Elli.
PAGE 10 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 OPERATING REVIEW Growth in a year of transformation By placing a sharper focus on the value that we o er our guests and by In a year of transformation, Whitbread leveraging the bene ts of scale we aim has made progress against the key to enhance the competitive positions of strategic measures of earnings growth each of our businesses, driving long-term and return on capital employed.
growth and further improvements in For the fourth year in succession we return on capital employed.
have generated double-digit growth in adjusted earnings per share.
Outlook On an underlying basis excluding the The underlying trends seen in the last acquired Premier Lodge assets and quarter of 2004 5 have continued: exceptional items, group return on total group sales growth in the capital employed improved to 10.5% first seven weeks of the new financial from 10.1%.
year has remained strong, primarily Both Premier Travel Inn and our due to the contribution from We have now converted 33 more high street restaurants had an Premier Travel Inn: Beefeaters to our new format.
Emma Bryant above is an assistant outstanding year.
Performance from growth in like-for-like sales has chef at The Old Barn in Milton Keynes.
pub restaurants has been mixed and slowed, particularly in pub restaurants a new management team has been and David Lloyd Leisure.
David Lloyd Leisure has achieved sales and pro t growth in Despite signs of a less con dent a competitive market.
consumer, we anticipate ongoing Whitbread delivering increased sales In Marriott, where we have been unable in the year ahead.
to generate acceptable returns, we made the decision to crystallise value for A tightening environment is evident shareholders through a complete exit.
from the higher costs arising from national minimum wage, utility charges Across the group we have increased and the five-year rating revaluation.
turnover by 6.8% and strengthened We are taking steps to limit the impact group margin by 0.7% point to 15.5%, of these increases through operational driving a 9.4% improvement in pro t e ectiveness and margin management before exceptional items and tax.
and we shall keep capital expenditure Like-for-like sales were ahead by 2.6% and under disciplined review.
we have continued the organic growth The Board believes that Whitbread is of our businesses, with outlet numbers well placed for further organic growth, across the group increasing by 15%.
improvements in returns and dividends Investment in new sites, mainly for growing faster than earnings per share.
Premier Travel Inn, Brewers Fayre and This con dence is re ected in the Boards In 2005 6 our David Lloyd Leisure clubs David Lloyd Leisure, totalled 681 million, recommendation of a 13.6% increase in will be introducing a range of new studio including the acquisition of Premier Lodge.
the final dividend, bringing the total for classes to help members get more out of the year to 25.25p.
Nick Acock is a personal trainer at our Oxford club, which opened in 2003.
PAGE 11 Premier Travel Inn: the integration of Travel Inn and Premier Lodge to form Premier Travel Inn took just 32 weeks, creating the UKs largest hotels business.
By creating the UKs largest hotels business, we have more than 28,400 bedrooms in 452 locations across the UK.
PAGE 12 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 OPERATING REVIEW Premier Travel Inn has launched a new marketing campaign to generate awareness of the new brand.
Premier Travel Inn 2004 5 change This has contributed to a 6.5% year-onPizza Hut promises year increase in room yield in these units Sales 323m 41% since the acquisition.
tha occupancy t every pizza delivered Like-for-like to customers will be sales 6.4% The integration of Travel Inn and Premier Lodge to form Premier Travel Inn took hot and on time.
Operating pro t just 32 weeks, creating the UKs largest pre-exceptional items 109.0m 47% hotels business, with more than 28,400 81% bedrooms in 452 locations across the UK.
a 1% point improvement Operating pro t Its completion on time and within post-exceptional items 103.0m 39% budget creates a platform for growth and will enable Whitbread to generate Return on capital employed 15.7% 2.1% cost and revenue synergies.
points We have rebuilt our reservations system Excludes Premier Lodge and exceptional items to accommodate the acquired and The performance of Premier Travel Inn pipeline bedrooms.
This should enable has been particularly encouraging with us to raise occupancy in the former sales increasing from 230 million to Premier Lodge outlets towards the 323 million and operating pro t up higher levels enjoyed by Travel Inn.
With a larger estate, we are better able Although this level of growth is due to retain and recycle demand through in part to the acquired Premier Lodge cross-sell where we o er guests the units which contributed 32 weeks nearest available Premier Travel Inn trading, like-for-like sales growth of bedroom if their first choice location is 6.4% and return on capital employed of unavailable.
Cross-selling generated 15.7% in the former Travel Inn outlets, 16.6 million of revenue over the demonstrate the health of the business.
course of the year, and we anticipate substantial growth in 2005 6.
Operating pro t in former Travel Inn pushed ahead by 17.8%, driven by By directing a higher proportion of improvements in occupancy, room rate reservations through the Internet, we and operating margin.
Occupancy are improving operational ef ciency and moved up to 81.2% from 80.2% as London making it simpler for guests to book.
units experienced a stronger first half On average the Internet accounted for than in the previous year and achieved 31% of all our room reservations in 2004 5. room rate grew by 4.2% to 43.25.
The former Premier Lodge outlets Room yield increased by 5.6% to 35.14. experienced particularly strong growth Premier Travel Inn guests enjoy with web bookings, rising from 19% prior to breakfast in an adjacent Brewers Fayre We have opened 817 new bedrooms the best way to start the day.
acquisition to more than 30% by year-end.
in addition to the 9,498 from Premier Lodge.
We plan to open To strengthen awareness of the 1,800 new bedrooms in 2005 6. new brand and to generate demand across our estate we launched, We have introduced Travel Inns in February, a national television transparent pricing policy into the advertising campaign and a newly former Premier Lodge units, eliminating Travel Inn only created Premier Travel Inn website.
PAGE 13 Restaurants: over the past year we have added more than 159 new outlets across our pub restaurant and high street restaurant businesses.
We aim to generate stronger sales Our new format for Beefeater is growth by delivering better value to not simply about great grilled food.
our customers, making our range of We have introduced a brighter dishes more competitive and raising service style which is winning a new levels of service.
We will be integrating within Brewers Fayre the majority of our remaining 144 Brewsters branded outlets, which have been focused too heavily on young families.
Conversion to Brewers Fayres more traditional pub restaurant format allows us to increase dining space and broaden their consumer appeal, whilst maintaining a family-friendly environment.
We have converted a total of 57 Beefeaters to our new format with 25 more to follow in 2005 6.
We aim to generate performance uplift by extending our refreshed menu and service style across the entire Beefeater estate and by adapting our oering to drive sales throughout the week.
Pub restaurants 2004 5 change After a difficult start to the year, We have added 31 outlets to our estate like-for-like sales improved in the third Sales 597m 1.1% and we will continue to grow in 2005 6. quarter.
This level of improvement was Like-for-like The execution of our plans will not maintained in the final quarter sales 1.3% lead to continued disruption in the and for the year as a whole, margin, Operating profit short-term, but we believe that we have operating profit and return on capital pre-exceptional taken the actions that will underpin employed declined.
Our largest pub restaurant brand, Operating profit Brewers Fayre had another good year.
post-exceptional items 78.0m 7.3 % After a slow start, Beefeater improved in the second half but Brewsters has Return on capital employed 10.1% 1.4 % underperformed.
points In January we consolidated all our excluding pubs acquired as part of pub restaurants under one Premier Lodge and exceptional items management team.
By operating as one business we will be able to achieve benets of synergy and scale from our 600-strong estate.
PAGE 14 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 BUSINESS PERFORMANCE High street Costa is the UKs most pro table restaurants 2004 5 change co ee business and it is accelerating Sales 476m 5.1% its growth both in the UK and through franchise in the Middle East Like-for-like and India.
sales 1.2% Operating pro t 35.2m 24% Return on capital employed 28.2% 2.9% points For the fourth year in succession, our high street restaurants have delivered growth in operating pro t greater than 20%.
A strong rise in outlet numbers, mainly from Costa and Pizza Hut, generated good sales increases and contributed to a 1.1% points improvement in operating margin.
Costa has added 66 new stores in the UK and has continued to enhance the quality of its estate by exiting under-performing outlets.
O Ov five er r t th he e l la as st t y ye ea ar r, w we e h ha av five e m ma ad fide e a a n nu um mb be er r o of f o op pe er ra at ti io on na al l i im mp pr ro ov five em me en nt ts s Over the course of 2005 6 Costa at T. G. I. Fridays to drive sales and will accelerate its rate of growth, s st tr re en ng gt th he en n m ma ar rg gi in n.. B By y s st tr re ea am ml li in ni in ng g with an increasing proportion of t th he e T T.. G G..
I I.. F Fr ri id da ay y s s m me en nu u r re em mo ov vi in ng g a a new stores being opened under t to ot ta al l o of f 4 45 5 i it te em ms s w we e h ha av five e s si im mp pl li i e ed d franchise agreements.
o ou ur r b ba ac ck k- -o of f- -h ho ou us se e o op pe er ra at ti io on ns s, i im mp pr ro ov five ed d Through franchising, Costa is developing o ou ur r s sp pe ee ed d o of f s se er rv vi ic ce e a an nd d m ma ad fide e g ga ai in ns s into an international retail business.
Our on our guest satisfaction scores.
presence in the Middle East has doubled W We e h ha av five e o op pe en ne ed d n ne ew w T T.. G G..
I I.. F Fr ri id da ay y s s s st to or re es s and we now have 77 stores trading in i in n B Ba at th h a an nd d H Ha ar rr ro og ga at te e a an nd d i in n 2 20 00 05 5 6 6 nine countries in the region.
Also we w we e e ex xp pe ec ct t t to o o op pe en n i in n F Fu ul lh ha am m B Br ro oa ad dw wa ay y, have signed agreements to take the Newcastle-upon-Tyne and Poole.
brand into India, Ireland and Cyprus.
O Ou ut tl le et t g gr ro ow wt th h o of f 5 50 0 n ne ew w s st to or re es s a at t P Pi iz zz za a H Hu ut t f fu ue el ll le ed d f fu ur rt th he er r i in nc cr re ea as se es s in sales and operating pro t. We have introduced a new streamlined menu at T. G. I. Fridays which is proving popular with our people and guests.
PAGE 15 David Lloyd Leisure: return on capital employed in our mature clubs held steady at 15.1%, demonstrating the underlying strength of the business model.
David Lloyd Leisures nutrition guides are freely available for members.
Revenue per member improved while David Lloyd Leisure is accelerating our membership retention dropped the progression to maturity in its 1% point to 72%.
new clubs opening with more members from day one.
Sales in the first half of 2005 6 will reect the lower opening member numbers, although we expect to rebuild membership as the year progresses.
We will drive new member sales through better marketing and a sharper focus on the health and tness member.
In addition we aim to strengthen membership retention through the introduction of new service skills training and a focus on brand standards.
Our new club in Worthing, West Sussex, has performed well, opening in November 2004 with record member numbers for a new club.
In 2005 6 we will open two clubs in the UK, at Kingshill in Kent and at Southend-on-Sea in Essex.
Our overseas clubs have had a good year with membership rising to more David Lloyd In a competitive market, than 40,000.
We have added two clubs Leisure 2004 5 change David Lloyd Leisure continues to in the Netherlands to the five that we generate sales and profit growth.
Sales 219m 8.3% acquired from Cannons in 2003 4 and The business delivered like-for-like sales Like-for-like in November we opened our first club sales 3.6% growth of 3.6%, while new and recently in Belgium, at Brussels.
opened clubs have performed ahead Operating profit Our Dublin club continues to perform of our expectations.
pre-exceptional items 51.0m 3.9% well and in June we will open our Return on capital employed for our first club in Spain, at Barcelona.
Operating profit mature clubs remains impressive at In its centenary year, the prestigious post-exceptional 15.1%, while for the business as a items 41.0m 16.5 % Real Club fide Tenis del Turo will re-open whole it stands at 9.5%.
under the David Lloyd Leisure banner.
Return on capital employed 9.5% 0% As competition has intensied and points consumer confidence weakened, we have seen increased attrition before goodwill amortisation and slowing new member sales.
before exceptional items This contributed to a decline in total UK membership, which nished the year down 2.3%.
PAGE 16 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 BUSINESS PERFORMANCE A successful leisure breaks marketing campaign gave us a strong nish to the year.
Marriott 2004 5 change In March 2005 we announced our decision to exit the ownership and Sales 389m 0.6 % operation of our Marriott business.
Like-for-like On 22 April a proposal to sell the sales 3.5% majority of our full-service hotel assets Operating pro t into a joint venture with Marriott pre-exceptional International received shareholder items 67.4m 5.7 % approval.
Through this transaction Operating pro t we expect to realise at least 1 billion post-exceptional over the next two years.
items 47.0m 16.1 % Return on Britannia Soft Drinks capital employed 6.1% 0.1 % Britannia Soft Drinks Britvic enjoyed point solid trading, despite less favourable before goodwill amortisation summer weather.
However, the before exceptional items businesss increased investment in existing and new brand extensions, With the full-service hotels market IT and business infrastructure and in gradual recovery, Marriott delivered increased pension costs led to a 18% like-for-like sales growth for the first decline in operating pro t. Britannia year since 2000 1.
However, with the Soft Drinks paid to Whitbread a cash Swallow hotels and Courtyard by dividend for the year of 11.9 million.
Marriott disposals leading to a reduction in the size of the estate, operating pro ts At David Lloyd Leisure our mission is to inspire for life.
Sports, health and tness fell by 5.7%.
should be fun whatever the age.
I look forward to updating you on Underlying growth in pro t, excluding our progress later this year in the contributions from disposed hotels, announcement of our half-year results.
Occupancy in these hotels edged ahead by 1.8% points to 72.6% and achieved room rate improved by 4% to 74.04, as Marriott recorded a 6.8% increase in room yield.
Marriotts London hotels have been a ected by the weakness of the Alan Parker US dollar, which appears to be sti ing Chief Executive a full recovery of the North American 25 April 2005 business traveller market.
An e ective leisure breaks marketing campaign run over December and January and a good performance in the conference market gave us a strong nish to the year.
