William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chief Executives Review Chief Executives Review profit on ordinary activities before 34.4m.
The LBOs sold to the Tote were The average number of FOBTs in the taxation and exceptional items was on average less profitable than the rest William Hill estate increased to 5,892 in 246.0m 2004: 234.1m and included a of the estate.
We nished the contribution of 15.6m from our year with 6,078 FOBTs 2004: 5,573 in A dedicated multi-disciplinary team was acquisition of Stanley Leisure plcs retail the William Hill estate and 1,613 FOBTs established to take control of Stanley betting operations Stanley Retail in in the Stanley estate.
The average net Retail and set about the task of June 2005.
Earnings per share excluding profit per machine per week in the integrating the operation into the exceptional items were 36.2p, broadly William Hill estate was 402 2004: 373 enlarged William Hill Group.
level with 2004. for the year and in the Stanley Retail estate was 293 for the period since its Post OFT clearance, the Group started to We continued to invest in our business acquisition.
The improved profitability in integrate the two businesses.
Key tasks across all three channels.
We invested in the William Hill estate was mainly due to included the harmonisation of products, the ongoing development of our estate, better contractual terms with our main prices, and betting rules: progressive rethe replacement of our text systems and FOBT supplier Leisure Link effective from branding of the shops: installation of the the installation of electronic point of sale May 2005. same version of electronic point of sale terminals EPOS.
In addition we and audiovisual text systems recently commenced a three-year programme to The number of AWPs in the William Hill deployed in the William Hill estate: reupdate our core bookmaking systems.
estate at the end of the year was 276 negotiation of contracts with key As this progresses, our technology 2004: 530 and the average number suppliers: and wind down of the Stanley infrastructure will improve signicantly traded in the period fell from 1,392 in Retail head ofce.
We remain confident of with a common architecture across our 2004 to 353 in 2005.
In Stanley Retail, achieving synergies and other benets in business which will allow prices, results there were 335 AWPs at the end of the excess of the 13m that we estimated at and products to be distributed easily: year.
the time of the acquisition and we provide a consolidated risk believe that these could exceed 20m Costs in the channel were up 17.0% management capability and give our over the medium term.
customers a single account with which benets include a reduction in betting Excluding Stanley Retail, there were to gamble across all channels.
tax in the Republic of Ireland from 2% to savings in staff costs due to reduced In 2005, the Groups sports betting 1% of turnover from 1 July 2006: the overtime and premium payments under activities, in common with other removal of pre-race data charges payable the new employment contracts with bookmakers, were adversely affected by to the British Horseracing Board in certain shop staff and productivity sporting results compared to generally jurisdictions following a judgment in the improvements resulting from the more favourable results in 2004.
In Republic of Ireland: and benets arising investment in EPOS.
FOBT rentals fell addition, the Group continued to from a management restructure relating due to more favourable contractual experience downward pressure on to the combined retail estate.
terms, which are exclusively royalty theoretical margins on horseracing, based, and AWP rentals fell due to the which we first reported on in 2004.
This reduction in the number of machines in Retail adverse trend was largely offset by the estate.
These savings were offset by The Retail division grew gross win by particularly strong performances in the increases in rent and rates due to 13.7% to 623.4m 0.8% excluding Fixed Odds Betting Terminal FOBT and increased shop numbers and rent Stanley Retail and profit increased by poker businesses.
Operating expenses reviews: energy costs: communications 9.7% to 181.6m 0.3% excluding were kept under tight control.
costs incurred to provide EPOS Stanley Retail.
infrastructure: picture and data costs due to additional shop numbers, Acquisition of Stanley Retail Excluding Stanley Retail, gross win on increased charges from SIS and the The acquisition of Stanley Retail was over the counter OTC and amusement number of LBOs showing Sky Sports: completed on 18 June 2005 adding 624 with prizes machines AWPs fell by 6.9% and depreciation and maintenance LBOs to the existing William Hill estate.
and 69.0%, respectively, but this was charges as a result of introducing new compensated for by an increase in FOBT text and EPOS systems.
The headline price for the acquisition gross win of 33.5%.
was 504m, which after a working We completed 138 development and capital adjustment, professional fees In the William Hill estate total gross win shop tting projects during the year and stamp duty resulted in total cash declined 1.3% and increased 3.3% in the including 31 new licences, 53 extensions consideration of 506.6m.
first and second half years, respectively, and resites and 54 shopttings.
We against the comparative periods.
spent 23m on estate development in Subject to William Hill providing the year.
satisfactory undertakings, the OFT LBOs in the Stanley Retail estate decided not to refer the acquisition to performed better year-on-year than At the end of the year we had 2,121 the Competition Commission.
The those in the original William Hill estate in LBOs in the United Kingdom, 9 in the undertakings related to the disposal of the period from their acquisition Channel Islands, 2 in the Isle of Man and 77 LBOs and potentially another two through to the year end.
The pattern of a 52 in the Republic of Ireland: a total of LBOs out of the combined estate.
reduction in OTC and AWP gross win and 2,184.
76 LBOs 64 Stanley Retail shops and an increase in FOBT gross win was also 12 William Hill shops have been sold to seen in Stanley Retail.
We completed the installation of a new the Tote for net consideration of text system and an EPOS system in the 4 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chief Executives Review Retail Telephone Interactive Stanley William Hill Gr Gross oss w win in Gross win Gross win Gross win 123.3 Trading profit Trading profit 623.4 Trading profit Trading profit 106.1 60.3 600 60 100 56.5 548.
The nals of the William Hill minimal disruption and extended the However, we have seen an increase in Grand Prix attracted top players from rollout of the same systems to the stakes placed through the Interactive around the world with a prize pool of Stanley Retail estate.
The total cash and Telephone sportsbooks on 450,000.
The nals are being broadcast investment in respect of these projects is greyhound racing shown live on on Sky television.
We have commenced a As part of our international strategy we trial broadcast of Channel 425 content launched a Greek language poker room into our betting shops and we hope that Telephone to complement our Greek download this will increase shop gross win as well Telephone gross win fell by 11.4% to and instant casinos.
as draw shop punters to interactive 53.4m and profit fell by 41.2% to television outside shop hours.
This channel is the most We added 31 new games to our Boss evaluate the benets of Channel 425 in vulnerable to adverse sporting results and Cryptologic download casinos, mid 2006. and the decline in theoretical including 6 Marvel Comic themed horseracing betting margins as its games targeted at the slot machine Gross win grew against the comparative higher staking customers tend to back a market and blackjack and roulette periods in both the first and second half higher proportion of favourites and are variants aimed at the European market.
years of 2005 and the growth achieved less likely to recycle winnings.
We now offer over 140 games and paid in the second half was just below that out over 750,000 in shared progressive achieved in the first half.
Betting grew at There was a fall in gross win against the jackpots in 2005.
4.6% in the first half and 15.6% in the comparative period in both the first and second half and gaming casino and second half of 2005, although the fall in Total active accounts increased to poker grew at 30.9% in the first half and the second half was less pronounced 341,000 as at 27 December 2005 28 15.3% in the second half.
We continue to expand our range of in Costs in this channel were up 10.9% due Costs in the channel increased 20.7% running betting opportunities and to increases in bank charges and a due to increased marketing activities launched a live betting console on our higher allocation of central technology to support the growth of our poker sportsbook, which enables the rapid costs.
business and to fund the costs of update of prices during play.
We Channel 425 production and content.
enhanced our single account We ended the year with 174,000 active proposition and Interactive and telephone customers 2004: 184,000.
Cost of content Telephone customers can now bet on sports, poker, casino, and arcade from a In July 2005 the Court of Appeal agreed Interactive single wallet.
We launched 5 new arcade with the European Court of Justice ECJ Interactive gross win increased 16.2% to games that expanded our offering to 10 interpretation of the Database Directive, 123.3m and profit grew 18.4% to games.
Our mobile sportsbook service is which had previously been referred to 61.2m.
supported on the majority of WAP the ECJ by the Court of Appeal in enabled handsets.
relation to our dispute with the BHB on Growth in gross win was seen across all the use of certain racing data.
This products with the strongest growth in We upgraded our poker product judgment supported the Groups poker, which increased 90%.
Sportsbook through our partner Cryptologic and position.
Subsequently, the BHB has gross win grew despite adverse sporting they now have the fifth largest poker decided not to challenge this judgment results, on the back of an increase in room on the internet.
As a result, our thus bringing to an end the dispute that turnover and active accounts.
Our players compete for over $3.5m in commenced in 2001. arcade experienced strong growth and guaranteed tournament prize pools the casino showed a small increase in each month.
Players can also qualify for Had the BHB been successful, their gross win.
the World Series of Poker and European database would have been the basis of Poker Tour events.
William Hill continues a commercial deal between racing and In October 2004 we launched William to build its poker brand and is the ofcial betting that would have allowed the Hill TV WHTV on Sky Channel 425. sponsor of the European Poker statutory levy scheme to end.
As a result Gross win generated through the 5 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chief Executives Review of the decision, the Government has costs, fell 1.2% reecting the gaming industry and over the next two extended the statutory levy until 2009 introduction of our new stafng years the Government aims to establish and appointed a committee, under the contract in the retail estate and both regulatory and taxation regimes to chairmanship of Lord Donoughue, improvement in productivity as a result enable this to occur.
We will continue to to nd an alternative basis for a of the rollout of EPOS.
Property costs, work with our trade associations to commercial arrangement.
The which represented 16.0% of our total assist the Gambling Commission to committee issued its draft report in costs, were up 10.9% over the develop appropriate regulation.
It is anticipated that comparable period reecting increases discussion will take place between in rent and rates in part driven by an Capital structure interested parties during 2006 in order increase in average shop size and an William Hill was listed on the London to assess whether a viable alternative to increase in the number of shops, and Stock Exchange in June 2002 and at the current statutory levy can be higher energy costs.
Depreciation and that time the Group put in place a developed from the options identied equipment maintenance costs capital structure and nancing by the committee.
increased 21.2% with the rollout of arrangements to provide the optimum EPOS and text systems along with the capital structure for William Hill as a The betting industry has contractual supporting technology, although this public company, consistent with the arrangements in place with the was offset by staff cost savings.
Since otation, William countrys 59 racetracks for the supply of of providing pictures and data to our Hills strong financial performance has horseracing pictures into LBOs.
These LBOs was up 8.5% over the comparable led the Board to conclude that William contracts expire between spring 2007 period due to the size of the estate and Hill could support a signicantly higher and summer 2009. price increases.
Advertising and amount of debt and to do so would be marketing costs, including the cost of in the interest of shareholders.
In March With regard to football, the Retail casino bonus cash payments that are 2005 the Company announced a return division continues to make payments to expensed in arriving at gross profit, of capital to shareholders of 453m and the football authorities as part of an were up 19.5% over the comparable a 40m additional contribution to the ongoing agreement.
It should be noted period reecting increased web Groups dened benefit pension that at the same time as delivering its advertising and promotions, in scheme to address the actuarial deficit judgment on the interpretation of the particular focusing on poker and WHTV.
Database Directive in relation to horseracing, the ECJ took a similar line Other cost increases relate to our In light of the acquisition of Stanley on three football related cases.
We are investments in WHTV and our ongoing Retail, the Company decided not to still in discussion with the football investment in information technology, proceed with the return of capital but authorities concerning future EPOS capabilities and core bookmaking secured new facilities of 1.2bn in order arrangements for LBOs, as well as systems.
All expenditure on information to fund the acquisition, renance the remote channels.
technology is subject to rigorous costfacilities put in place at otation and benefit analysis, and tightly managed make a 47m additional contribution to In November 2005 the BHB settled a through formalised project and the Groups dened benefit pension long running dispute with Irish programme management systems.
The settlement came during a hearing in Exceptional costs of 26.9m were Subsequent to receiving clearance from Dublins Commercial Court and allowed incurred in 2005 of which 19.0m the OFT on the Stanley Retail the BHB to keep the 30m it had including 5.4m of non-cash charges acquisition, the Board gave further collected from Irish bookmakers since related to the integration of Stanley consideration to the appropriate March 2001.
However the BHB accepted Retail within the William Hill estate, nancing arrangements for the that no further payments under the 3.0m related to the aborted return of enlarged Group.
In September 2005, the previous contract would be made after capital exercise and 7.4m related to Board announced it will target a ratio of 9 January 2006.
Accordingly, from that the installation of EPOS and text net debt to earnings before exceptional date, William Hill has ceased to make systems.
A profit of 2.5m was recorded items, interest, tax, depreciation and any payment to the BHB in respect of on the disposal of 12 William Hill LBOs.
amortisation EBITDA of approximately horseracing betting in its LBOs in 3.5 times to be achieved over the certain jurisdictions.
Previously the Regulatory development medium term.
The Board also Company had paid 10% of gross win In April 2005 the new Gambling Act was announced that consistent with this arising from betting on UK horseracing enacted.
We are advised that it is target it expected to return 200m in LBOs outside of Great Britain.
unlikely to be fully implemented before 300m within an 18 month period.
By Autumn 2007 pending the setting up of the end of 2005, 78.3m had been Operating costs the Gambling Commission.
returned by means of on-market share Full year expenses for the Group were buy-backs.
418.2m an increase of 26.6% 5.5% Proposed deregulation including excluding Stanley Retail and extended betting shop opening hours, Taxation exceptional costs.
the installation of higher payout In its Pre-Budget Report on 5 December gaming machines and the removal of 2005, HM Treasury announced the Excluding Stanley Retail and the demand criteria will impact our conclusions it had reached on gambling exceptional costs, staff costs, which estate.
The new Act also opens up the taxation.
HM Treasury concluded that represented roughly half of our total possibility of a UK based remote 6 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chief Executives Review current tax arrangements are generally brought into the gambling duty net, working well at present and that with the intention of announcing the maintaining stability in the overall rate in the 2006 Budget.
HM Treasury structure of taxation is desirable in a has committed to further discussion period of transition.
In these with the industry and other stakeholders circumstances the Government decided prior to announcing the rate.
to maintain the current tax regimes Republic of Ireland which are working well for betting, betting exchanges, lottery and bingo.
In December 2005 the Irish Government announced a reduction in the tax rate Gross profit tax from 2% to 1% of turnover, to apply HM Treasury concluded that gross profit from 1 July 2006. tax has been a success and the Government has decided not to increase Pension plan the rate of gross profit tax or make any The Board undertook during the year to changes to it at this time.
make a special contribution of 47m to the Groups dened benefit scheme.
The Betting exchanges contribution will be spread over a The Government concluded that the period of five years and is designed to fairest way to tax betting exchanges is to eliminate the deficit calculated on a tax commission earned by them.
It also continuing basis by the actuary as at concluded that taxing layers on September 2004.
The first payment of exchanges, purely on the basis that they 9.4m was made in October 2005.
The lay bets, would not be fair or Board and pension scheme Trustee have proportionate.
On this basis it consulted on this specic proposal and concluded that the current taxation believe it represents an appropriate arrangements remain appropriate.
course of action that properly balances the legitimate interests of shareholders, As a result of the Governments decision members and pensioners.
we expect to see continued pressure on theoretical margins and to address in Future capital structure and part this issue we recently started to dividend policy hedge directly into betting exchanges as a means of improving the effectiveness The Board intends to maintain an of our hedging activities.
In addition, the efficient and exible capital structure Starting Price Regulatory Commission and will use a combination of dividend SPRC is undertaking an independent payments and share buy-backs to review of how starting prices are formed.
The SPRC has appointed For 2006, the Board expects to maintain  to conduct a dividend cover on a per share basis full review of the process and is expected broadly in line with the level in 2005.
In to announce its findings in the early addition, the Board will be seeking summer.
authority from shareholders for a FOBTs renewal of the on-market share buyback mandate.
FOBTs were classied as gaming machines for VAT purposes from 6 David Harding December 2005.
From this date, income Chief Executive earned from these machines is subject to VAT rather than gross profits tax.
This is in line with other types of gaming machine.
From the 2006 Budget, AMLD will be payable in addition to VAT and further discussions are taking place between the Government and the gambling industry prior to the rate being set.
Remote gaming HM Treasury announced that in order to align taxation policy with the Gambling Act 2005, remote gaming will be 7
