WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 11:25 am Page 08 Group Chief Executives review This has been another momentous year for Wolseley as we achieved our ninth consecutive year of record results WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:36 am Page 09 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Group Chief Executives review 09 The year ended 31 July 2005 saw 26 acquisitions completed for an One good year is an achievement and two is aggregate spend of 431 million, with the split of acquisition spend impressive.
But consistently delivering record slightly in favour of North America with 60% versus 40% in Europe.
levels of growth in sales and profits over almost Each of these new businesses has real potential, offering substantial opportunity for future organic growth.
a decade is an accomplishment of some note and the cause of great pride for me and for my We started the year with a flourish with the 137 million acquisition of management team.
Brooks is the largest timber distributor and the third largest builders merchant in the combined Republic of Ireland and As well as delivering this performance we have, at the same time, Northern Ireland markets.
We have now owned Brooks for 12 months been building the foundations for continued growth and an improved and the integration is proceeding well, with business performance competitive position in the future.
We have invested and innovated, planned and executed, promised Then, after a steady year which saw a further nine acquisitions in and delivered.
And the result is a solid platform for sustained growth Europe, ten in our North American Plumbing and Heating Distribution across two continents.
and five in our US Building Materials Distribution, we closed the year with another large acquisition: Vegas General Construction.
This Our efforts are increasingly gaining external recognition.
We are currently company is a turnkey supplier of construction materials and services 341 in the Fortune Global 500, are positioned in Forbes top 500 and to the residential builder in the Las Vegas and Denver markets.
In 2004 merit inclusion on their A-List of The Worlds Best Big Companies.
it achieved sales of $231 million.
Vegas General Construction is a fine We were also ranked 14th in the European Business Week Fifty and example of how Wolseley is responding to changing customer needs as placed at Number 10 in the Most Admired Companies league table we increasingly offer a framing and installation service for housebuilders.
in the UKs Management Today magazine.
All of this recognition is a fine tribute to our people and our companies.
We look for our acquisitions to deliver product and geographic diversity.
In Ireland, for example, our purchase of Brooks means we can now Our consistent performance has also led to a satisfying advance up bring together their timber and building materials experience with the FTSE100, from being outside the Index in 2001 to Number 39 Heatmerchants expertise in plumbing and heating supplies so our Irish as at 31 July 2005.
We believe that this demonstrates the strength customers can benefit from a broader Wolseley offering.
We pursued of our business model and our strategy, which we are continuing to a similar route in France, where our plumbing and heating distribution deploy in order to maintain that success and deliver continued growth business Brossette was complemented by the acquisition of building and constant improvement.
supplies and timber specialist PBM a little over two years ago.
Proven strategic drivers Sharing ideas across businesses We believe our strategy is working and is We continue to transfer the skills and knowledge providing the right impetus for present and future gained in one market to meet the challenges success.
We see no point in simply changing and opportunities encountered elsewhere.
Instead, we have continued North America, for example, Ferguson has taken to focus on the six key strategic drivers that have the concept of multiple small branches that work contributed so much to our success in recent so successfully in the UK and is rolling out their years: growing through acquisition and organic own version XpressNet branches to offer their growth: continuous improvement: leveraging our customers a new, more flexible service.
Across international position: enhancing our business Europe, companies are expanding their traditional diversity: developing our human resources: product bases by learning from their counterparts and creating innovative solutions to meet our in other countries.
PBM in France and AG in customers changing needs.
Austria, for example, have recently introduced a tool hire offering to their markets which has been Double-digit growth, year after year, is challenging, yet as our directly replicated from the Hire Center operation performance demonstrates, is also eminently achievable.
We look for half of our growth to be delivered by bolt-on acquisitions and currently in the UK.
aim to spend 225 250 million per year.
Exactly how much varies from year to year, depending on the availability of suitable targets that Continuous improvement is a way of life at Wolseley, as is working are aligned with our strategy and also meet our financial criteria.
We together and sharing ideas for growth and success.
We understand are constantly looking for new opportunities to develop our business, that there is always a better way to work and we invest time and both within our existing countries and elsewhere, as well as looking to resources to identify opportunities for improvement.
expand the range of products that we sell and the customer segments that we serve.
WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:16 am Page 10 10 Group Chief Executives review 239m spent on capital expenditure, up by 54% on 2004 Investing for the future Our investment in people continues at a record pace.
In 2005 we expect to recruit over 1,300 graduates, up from 754 in 2004 05 these are the To meet our targets for growth and performance talented, committed people who will underpin our future, ensuring that we can never be complacent.
We need to the huge investments we are making in the business will have the right constantly invest for our future and in this last leadership for the future.
year we have made many substantial business Current employees are equally important and we invest to support improvement investments designed to lay the wealth of talent amongst our leaders and managers.
In 2004 05 we the long-term foundations for an ever-sharper invested 12 million in training and, as part of this, doubled the number competitive advantage.
of places available at the Wolseley programmes we run at Darden in the USA and IMD in Switzerland.
Our objective is simple: to improve the The supply chain is being radically transformed by an ongoing major quality of our people in order to improve the service to our customers investment in Distribution Centres DCs which will allow us to better and grow our business.
We continue to expand our successful network of DCs in the USA, and in Europe and Canada we are making Our most recent Wolseley Cup the internal Group-wide competition significant investments to adapt and tailor the DC concept to meet that encourages innovation and best practice focused on Developing the specific needs of our customers in these very different markets.
What is clear to me from the entries this competition attracts each year is the energy, expertise and sheer Back up the supply chain, our global sourcing programmes have already spirit that exists across all our businesses.
The first three Wolseley Cup generated considerable benefits and there is potential for much more.
competitions have concentrated on three of the most important aspects There are currently around 30 co-ordinated programmes in Europe and of our business: on customers, on employees and, in the coming year, almost 70 in North America, with many more at the planning stage.
Adding Value to Internal Communications.
We are also making significant investments in technology that will We aim to meet customer demands by providing enable us to work faster and more efficiently.
The financial management the products and services they need, when and system, which will generate consistent financial data across the Group, where they need them, at prices that help them is now live at Wolseley Canada, Wolseley UK and Stock Building Supply Stock, with the remaining companies scheduled to follow within the achieve their objectives.
The Cup and the range next few months.
We are currently piloting a warehouse management of ongoing initiatives it has inspired is a snapshot system, developing a new HR system and are also considering other of how we are continuing to improve what software applications, including budgeting, business intelligence and customer and employee portal software.
we believe to be an impressive track record of achievement.
WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:16 am Page 11 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Group Chief Executives review 11 6.6bn combined Wolseley North American sales Re-organising for the future The establishment of the new North American organisation at the end of the year was an important step to building even further on At a time when we delivered record performance this success.
I am very excited by the prospect of all three Wolseley for the ninth year running, we also undertook businesses on the continent Ferguson and Stock in the USA together major organisational changes to position us well with Wolseley Canada working more closely than ever before to accelerate growth and improve customer service.
for the future, demonstrating yet again our ability to achieve today, while investing for tomorrow.
The new organisation will be led by Chip Hornsby Wolseley UK reported excellent results, recording double-digit growth.
until early 2006 when he will begin preparations During the year the business continued a major re-branding and to succeed me as CEO of the Group.
Chip is re-structuring programme, which included a transformation into one a man I have worked closely with for 24 years cohesive organisation, with a new headquarters and national distribution centre being built in Royal Leamington Spa.
The re-organisation has and in whom I have total confidence.
In his been carried out swiftly and efficiently and we expect it to have a very North American role, Chip is able to draw on positive impact on our future performance.
the experience and expertise of Fenton Hord, President and CEO of Stock, and of Paul Early in 2005 I was pleased to welcome Rob Marchbank as CEO of Wolseley Europe.
I have worked with Rob for over 20 years and he has Lachance, President and CEO of Wolseley been a key player in the development of the current Wolseley strategy.
Canada, and their respective management teams.
He knows the Group, he knows our objectives and I know he will It is important to emphasise that the three be able to work well with our European businesses.
We have been companies remain distinct businesses and retain restructuring and reorganising across the region and we are pleased that, despite this and fairly flat market conditions, we have nevertheless their individual strengths, cultures and identities, grown market share and most of our businesses have delivered improved but I know we will see definite benefits from the performance.
I am confident that under Rob and his management team new structure.
we will see even stronger performance in the future.
In North America, our businesses have again achieved excellent results and made big investments in process, distribution and supply chain improvements.
Ferguson aggressively outperformed in its markets, and delivered a stellar performance with exceptional organic growth.
Stock had a terrific year with double-digit growth and an expanded market share.
Wolseley Canada grew market share, and achieved yet another year of growth in double digits something they have done every year since they joined the Group.
WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 11:26 am Page 12 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 % 16.8 growth in Operating Profit while investing for the future Achieving today while investing for tomorrow Our people are at the heart of everything that We have recently announced that I will retire we do and it is their skill and enthusiasm that from the Company in July 2006, by which time is behind our ability to sustain growth, year I will have spent almost 40 years of my life with on year on year.
I thank them for their support, Ferguson and Wolseley.
During that time the their ability and above all for their commitment.
Company has gone from strength to strength I am proud of every one of them, proud of and I am really confident that under Chips our businesses and immensely proud of our leadership we will see even further growth achievements during the past year.
This has been a momentous year and I am It is an honour to lead this fine Company and confident that the investments we are making I am focused on ensuring that when I handover today will ensure an even more successful future.
to Chip next year, he will have the strongest platform from which to continue to build.
I am excited about the investments we are making and confident that we are positioned to be even more competitive in the years ahead.
Charles A Banks Group Chief Executive Doubtless there will be challenges, but I am upbeat about our prospects, buoyed by the knowledge that our European and new North American organisations will continue to focus on our key strategic drivers and strive for our constant pursuit of double-digit growth.
WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 11:27 am Page 13 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Group Chief Executives review 13 Q.
How are we sustaining our growth?
By investing in our infrastructure, by developing our people and by delivering a broader range of products and services to an ever expanding customer base WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:16 am Page 14 INVESTIN WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:16 am Page 15 Investing for our customers 15 FOR OUR NG: CUSTOMERS We succeed in markets across 13 countries because we meet the needs of a wide range of customers.
We are never complacent and we constantly look for ways in which we can operate faster, more efficiently and deliver greater value to our customers.
From new distribution centres to our global sourcing programme, we invest in assets, organisational structures, technology and systems that provide benefits to our customers and ensure we have the foundations for long-term sustained success.
WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:16 am Page 16 16 Investing for our customers Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Stock Building Supply Distribution Centres Ferguson Distribution Centres Proposed Ferguson Distribution Centres US Distribution Centre locations 77,000 % different items available from our new Distribution Centre in Iowa 95 our aim for on-time complete deliveries NEW DISTRIBUTION CENTRES ARE HELPING US MOVE MORE PRODUCTS, MORE QUICKLY AND EFFICIENTLY, TO MORE CUSTOMERS WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:16 am Page 17 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Investing for our customers 17 Investing in logistics management In Europe we are implementing a logistics strategy that We are continuing to evolve and develop the concept will result in a more strategic approach to supply chain of our Distribution Centres DCs being at the heart management across the Continent.
Wolseley UK has of our integrated supply chain.
We are now rolling begun work on a new 100 million distribution network them out across the Group and they are integral to in the UK to complement our three large, existing DCs.
our ability to improve service and reduce costs.
During the last year we completed work on four DCs in the Investing in international synergies USA that provided a further 1.2 million sq ft of space.
We search the world for the best products at the best prices.
In Waterloo, Iowa, USA, we have opened a 15 million over 600,000 sq ft DC that is helping us improve As part of our global sourcing programme, we are service to our branches and therefore our customers.
currently rolling out a Common Supplier Strategy With 225 employees and around 60 truck loads for Europe to help standardise quality, lower costs coming in or going out each day, the DC is already and improve product availability and choice for our processing products worth some $40 million per customers.
During 2004 05 we signed a number month and provides our branch network with access of international agreements with suppliers.
Our Front Royal, Virginia, DC has been expanded and is now serving over 100 In tandem with this initiative, our European businesses locations in the Eastern USA with more than 29,000 are working together to co-ordinate brands across discrete items from 200 different suppliers.
Increasingly, customers in trucks and 1,200 courier packages pass through its locations from Paisley to Paris will see similarities doors daily.
We generally achieve our 95% target for amongst our family of low-cost, high-quality brands on-time complete deliveries which gives us a real including Wolseley own-brand products on ranges competitive advantage.
Our Canadian business opened the first of three We are also looking at ways to leverage our global planned Regional Supply Centres RSCs during buying power and expect to put in place an increasing the year.
The 42,500 sq ft facility in Burlington, number of supply contracts on a global level.
Ontario will be followed by a 61,715 sq ft RSC in Quebec in October 2005.
Locations in Western Canada are currently under review.
42,500 square feet in new Ontario RSC WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 2:27 pm Page 18 WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 2:27 pm Page 19 Developing our people 19 OUR PEOPLE Our customers know that our people are amongst the brightest, most knowledgeable and customer-focused in the business and we constantly invest in recruitment, executive education and training schemes to keep it this way.
WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:17 am Page 20 20 Developing our people Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 WITHOUT THE BEST PEOPLE WE CANNOT SUCCEED.
THATS WHY IN 2004 05 WE CONTINUED TO OPERATE PROGRAMMES THAT ATTRACT, DEVELOP AND RETAIN THE HIGH QUALITY INDIVIDUALS WHO HAVE THE EXPERTISE AND LEADERSHIP QUALITIES THAT WILL UNDERPIN OUR GROWTH PLANS 754 graduates recruited in 2004 05 12m invested in training to develop talent amongst our managers and leaders at all levels.
For our executives we offer programmes at Darden at the University of Virginia and IMD in Switzerland.
In 2004 05 149 executives attended these courses.
WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:17 am Page 21 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Developing our people 21 Sharing talent across companies Developing talent across boundaries The International Assignment project is Across Wolseley, we currently have in excess of 1,500 people in leadership an important way in which expertise can and management positions who joined through graduate programmes.
be shared across the business whilst also providing individuals with the opportunity to develop their careers.
For example, Now moving into its second year, our European Graduate Programme the team responsible for Project SWIFT EGP is one of the Groups initiatives to cross international boundaries.
our Group-wide IT initiative has included Graduates, who are all multi-lingual, are recruited onto a two-year a number of Europeans moving to the programme, spending half their time in the UK and the remainder project head office in Newport News, in another European operating company.
The objective is to build Virginia, USA.
an  management cadre able to move effortlessly between cultures as well as between languages.
The EGP complements a range of dedicated, successful and rapidly expanding, business-specific graduate programmes.
In 2004 05 we welcomed 754 graduates to the Group, an increase of 228 on the previous year.
In 2005 06 we expect to recruit over 1,300 graduates.
Encouraging talent across the Group The 2005 Wolseley Cup focused on Developing our Human Resources, reflecting the Group-wide commitment to people and HR-related issues.
The team from Stock took the trophy for its Race for Excellence project, against stiff competition from a further 41 entries.
Race for Excellence was developed to enhance employees understanding of their individual role within the Stock business at 11 branches around Atlanta, Georgia.
In second place, the team from Wolseley Austria used youth, enthusiasm and their understanding of their peer group to create a new approach to school leaver recruitment.
Investing in the talents of our 60,000 people The Group has a strong commitment to training, with our operating companies running programmes ranging from product knowledge to leadership development.
75,250 training days provided in 2004 05 WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:17 am Page 22 DELIVER WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:17 am Page 23 Delivering growth 23 RING: GROWTH We deliver our products and services on time and on budget to thousands of different customers every day.
We deliver growth over the past 20 years our business has doubled in size every five years.
This impressive performance is appreciated by all our stakeholders, from employees, customers and suppliers to investors and the communities in which we operate.
WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:17 am Page 24 24 Delivering growth Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 WE ARE FOCUSED ON GROWING OUR BUSINESS, ORGANICALLY AND THROUGH ACQUISITIONS 431m acquisitions spend for the year ended 31 July 2005 3,920 branches in 13 countries as at 31 July 2005 WO40004 Wolseley R&A 01-45 7 10 05 12:17 am Page 25 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 60 XpressNet stores in 2004 05 5.5% growth through acquisitions 8.7% growth through organic means During the year we invested a total of 431 million More than 160 Wolseley locations were added in the on 26 acquisitions.
These acquisitions and those last 12 months, and around 10,000 new employees from last year contributed 5.5% of our sales growth have been welcomed into the Wolseley Group.
At the same time, our businesses have teamed, In Ireland we completed the acquisition of Brooks for shared and supported each other to expand product 137 million.
Brooks is the best-known timber and ranges, learn new skills and meet customer needs in builders merchant in Ireland and is a superb fit with new, different and better ways.
Heatmerchants, the leading Irish lightside distributor.
In Italy, we purchased Iser Zauli, a long-established In Calais, PBM and Brossette have opened their first family business in the Romagna and Marche regions joint branch, enabling customers to source building south of Venice.
Iser Zauli is an excellent complement materials and plumbing and heating supplies from a to our Manzardo business and extends our footprint single location.
Wolseley UK is following a similar route in Italy.
and has opened new super sites in Middlesbrough and in Highgate, London, where customers can Further notable acquisitions included Parnell-Martin, access all the companys offerings, across all a plumbing distributor with 17 locations in the Eastern operating brands, on one site.
USA, Record Supply Company of Nevada and California and Duval Matriaux fide Construction of In the USA, our Ferguson and Stock businesses are France.
At the end of the year we acquired Vegas increasingly sharing branch premises, benefiting from General Construction, a turnkey supplier of construction lower costs and access to a broader customer base.
This is Stocks first entry into Since the Stock store in Little River, South Carolina, the Las Vegas market one of the largest and incorporated a Ferguson Express counter in 2004, fastest-growing housing markets in the USA.
the location has experienced organic growth of 18% driven by a 10% increase in walk-in traffic.
Ferguson is making good progress with the roll-out of the XpressNet concept.
55 have come on stream during 2004 05, with even more due next year.
