Operating and financial review Chief Executives review progress to make good contributions when they transition from design to production.
Alongside the good operational execution now being delivered we continue to strive to further embed a high performance culture across the Company.
The formation of the Centre for Performance Excellence will help ensure consistency of performance measurement and provide leadership and focus for the sharing of best practice across the Company.
In December, the Company welcomed the publication by the UK government of the Defence Industrial Strategy following extensive consultation with industry.
The strategy paper recognises the need for government and industry to work in partnership to secure the best technologies to meet the needs of the UKs armed forces.
The paper also identifies the skills and capabilities required to equip and support the UK armed forces whilst ensuring the UK maintains a world class defence industry.
BAE Systems recognises that implementing the Defence Industrial Strategy sets challenges for both the MoD and industry.
Mike Turner Chief Executive Addressing pension deficits is a challenge.
Reduced discount rates used to value scheme liabilities and the need to address changes in assumptions for increased lifeexpectancy combined to create a significant deficit in the funding of the Companys BAE Systems has performed well has resulted in a single US headquartered pension schemes.
against its objectives in 2005. global land systems business with Financial results have been operations in the US, UK, Sweden and The Company has recently finalised a delivered in line with our plan South Africa.
plan for the largest of its funds, the Main and further significant steps Scheme.
The plan addresses the deficit have been taken to implement In 2005, the Company has continued through increased contributions and benefit the Companys strategy.
In to improve performance through a concessions from employee scheme particular, the acquisition of combination of good project execution, members and contributions of cash and United Defense builds on our cost and productivity improvements within property assets from the Company.
These strong defence technology the business operations together with the actions enable the Company to maintain business in the United States benefit of actions over recent years to this defined benefit pension scheme for and complements our established eliminate inappropriate risk and improve existing scheme members, at a cost position as the largest defence returns, especially in our UK Ministry of acceptable to the Company, eliminating the company in the UK and Europe.
substantial funding deficit and introducing flexibility into the benefit structure to selfThe United Defense acquisition has The outlook for our UK Programmes fund any further increases in employee elevated BAE Systems to the second largest business is now good.
Following agreement longevity going forward.
supplier in the global land systems market.
on the way forward for the Typhoon The former United Defense activities have programme, it is now making a significant A continuing success for the Company is been integrated with BAE Systems Land contribution to the Companys performance.
the provision of defence support solutions.
Systems, which comprised the former Other UK platform programmes, such as the The Company has a large and growing RO Defence and Alvis activities including Type 45 destroyer, Nimrod MRA4, Hawk and business providing support for armed Hagglunds.
Integration of these operations Astute submarine, are also expected to forces and government agencies.
6 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 Financial results have been delivered in line with our plan and further significant steps have been taken to implement the Companys strategy.
Through-life support and upgrades for Support is also now a substantial MBDA continues to perform well with in-service defence equipment is expected component of our business in the US.
A further step in the to become an increasingly important activity Following the acquisition of United Defense, consolidation of the European guided for BAE Systems as air, naval and land its marine repair business has been added weapons industry was achieved with the sector platforms are expected to remain to the Companys established US Navy and agreement to integrate fully the German in service for many decades and require federal systems support activities to form missile business LFK into MBDA.
progressive upgrades in capability with an integrated support solutions business in advances in technology.
Airbus produced another strong financial performance despite a continued high level In partnership with the MoDs Defence Drawing on the depth of experience now of investment in new product development.
Logistics Organisation DLO the Company residing on both sides of the Atlantic, a Order intake was substantially ahead of has continued to develop and grow its cross-company support solutions council plan, benefiting from strength in a number support solutions activities for the UKs has been formed to share best practice.
of markets including China, India and the armed forces.
The successful delivery Middle East.
Aircraft demand has also of cost savings, together with improved A number of actions have been taken to been stimulated by the enhanced equipment availability across a number rationalise the Companys portfolio of operating economics of new products of pilot air systems activities, has enabled activities in Europe and to manage nonsuch as the A380 and A350 airliners the Company to broaden the scope of its strategic businesses for optimum value.
DLO support activities to the UK land sector.
Further support opportunities have been In March 2005, BAE Systems agreed a In summary, we have had a good year, identified with the potential to deliver reduced involvement in marketing the Gripen delivering a strong set of financial results further cost savings and improved system combat aircraft and reduced its equity and meeting our overall objectives for 2005. availability for our UK customer and to interest in Saab AB from 34.2% to 20.5%.
deliver future profitable growth for the We are successfully executing our strategy.
The AMS joint venture was restructured We have further strengthened our position in with BAE Systems acquiring the UK based the United States, restructured our portfolio BAE Systems continues to provide extensive operations of AMS and Finmeccanica of business interests in Europe and, through support in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, acquiring the Italian operations.
In a related a combination of factors, we now have a principally to the Royal Saudi Air Force, transaction BAE Systems sold its UK based much enhanced outlook for our business in building on a relationship spanning several sensor systems and electronic warfare the UK.
We are delivering shareholder value decades.
We employ some 4,600 people avionics activities to Finmeccanica.
by being the premier transatlantic defence within the Kingdom on wide-ranging The agreement includes the deferred sale and aerospace company.
activities including flying training and of a retained 25% interest in the resulting support for aircraft previously supplied.
The We are now a very well balanced Company, The Company has recently invested in wholly owned UK activities of the former not overly dependent on any one sector but facilities to enhance in-Kingdom capability AMS business have been combined with generating good returns for shareholders for the maintenance and sustainment of BAE Systems other C4ISR activities to form from a broad base of operations in the capability of in-service aircraft.
worlds key defence and aerospace markets.
In December 2005, the governments of The integration of systems into digital BAE Systems is set to deliver good growth the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and the UK networks, or Network Enabled Capability and we look forward with confidence to signed an Understanding Document, NEC, is transforming defence capabilities.
building on our particularly strong intended to establish a greater partnership Insyte is working in partnership with the UK performance in 2005 with continued in modernising the Saudi Arabian armed MoD, to deliver transformational capabilities good progress through 2006. forces and developing close service-toto the UK armed forces through the service contacts especially through joint application of emerging NEC technologies.
Under the terms of the Understanding, the two governments The sale of Atlas Elektronik, the naval recognise the requirement to provide systems business based in Germany, enhanced capabilities to existing military jointly to ThyssenKrupp and EADS was Mike Turner assets and ensure that they can be agreed in December 2005 and is expected Chief Executive supported by local industry.
It is also to complete in the first half of 2006, intended that Typhoon aircraft will replace subject to regulatory approval.
22 February 2006 Tornado Air Defence Variant aircraft and other aircraft in service with the Royal Saudi BAE Systems has valuable interests in Air Force.
The details of these arrangements the MBDA guided weapons joint venture are confidential.
