Chief Executives review Ian Tyler We are clear about our priorities for the continued development of the business in both the medium and long term and have the proven management capability to deliver.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 14 Financial results Sector performance There were other major wins for road maintenance In 2005, pre-tax profits from continuing operations in Scotland and Essex, the A421 road scheme in Building, Building Management and Services before exceptional items rose by 25% to 134m Bedfordshire and infrastructure work for Gammon Profit from operations, before exceptional items, 2004: 107m.
Revenue, including the Groups share in Hong Kong, including a major portion of the new in this sector improved by 3% to 35m 2004: 34m.
of joint ventures and associates, was up by 16% at Kowloon Southern Rail Link and the Venetian Hotel There was another good performance from Mansell 4,938m 2004: 4,239m.
and Casino complex in Macau.
and satisfactory progress in other operating Adjusted earnings per share before exceptional companies, including Balfour Beatty Construction, Rail Engineering and Services items rose by 9% to 24.1p 2004: 22.1p, reflecting whose profits recovered strongly in the second half Profit from operations, before exceptional items, an increased tax charge following Advance of the year following some contract losses in the first in this sector fell by 27% to 32m 2004: 44m.
Basic earnings per half largely as a result of exceptional raw material Performance was affected by the loss of rail share stood at 24.9p.
cost inflation between contract and project execution.
maintenance profits arising from Network Rails There were a number of exceptional items, We continued to add to our order book with decision to take this discipline in-house in 2004. resulting in a net exceptional profit of 4m.
good-quality work, including major PPP schools The fine incurred by Balfour Beatty Rail Infrastructure Profit for the year after tax and exceptional projects in Scotland and Nottinghamshire, social Services in respect of the Hatfield rail accident of items amounted to 106m.
In 2004, the comparable housing and office accommodation contracts and 2000, following its plea of guilty to charges under figure of 246m included a 160m profit from the major mechanical and electrical works in the public the Health and Safety at Work Act, was provided sale of Andover Controls.
Operating cash flow was, once again, strong The first phases of University College London In the UK, otherwise, performance was steady, and in line with profits.
Year-end net cash stood at Hospital and Blackburn Hospital were handed over helped by settlement income on old renewals 315m 2004: 311m, before taking account of on time and progress was good on all major schemes.
contracts and good progress on the West Coast Main the consolidation of 14m non-recourse net debt Line, London Underground track renewals and work 2004: 244m held in PPP PFI subsidiaries.
Civil and Specialist Engineering and Services at Heathrow Terminal 5.
Performance improved in The year-end order book increased by 12% to Profit from operations, before exceptional items, Germany, where the major electrification project 7.6bn 2004: 6.8bn, with well in excess of 1bn in this sector more than tripled to 49m 2004: 16m.
from Ingolstadt to Nuremberg and the Berlin Tunnel of further work at preferred bidder stage.
This excellent performance reflected the return to contract were completed, and continued to be good in The Board recommends a final dividend profit of our US civil engineering business as well Italy.
There were, however, continued difficulties on a increased by 23% to 4.6p 2004: 3.75p per ordinary as good progress elsewhere, particularly in RCS, major signalling contract in the US and further losses share, making a total dividend for the year of 8.1p the road manager and maintainer, and Balfour Beatty have been sustained.
The order book was augmented by new contract Order books grew substantially, with a number wins on the West Coast Main Line electrification of major contract wins in the gas and water sectors programme in the UK and for a major rail link in for Balfour Beatty Utilities.
Activity levels under major track renewal contract to renew all the gas mains in Greater contracts for Network Rail and under the London Manchester for National Grid and major new Underground PPP were satisfactory.
contracts and contract renewals for Anglian Water, United Utilities, Severn Trent Water, Yorkshire Water and South West Water.
including the impact of IAS 32 and IAS 39 on 2004 numbers Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 15 Chief Executives review continued Investments and Developments Exceptional items UK infrastructure Profit from operations, before exceptional items, There was a net exceptional profit of 4m.
The majority of the businesses in which we make in this sector improved by 18% to 20m 2004: 17m.
Balfour Beattys share of the distributions made by the our best and most reliable margins are in UK After taking into account PFI PPP net finance income administrators of TXU in respect of Barking Power Ltd infrastructure markets.
Many of those markets have and subordinated debt interest income, profits stood and a gain on the sale of a 15% interest in three of positive growth momentum.
Connect Roads PFI concessions were partially offset is set to grow substantially on the back of PPP PFI Operating concession performance was by the costs of settlement of a legacy legal issue in and a buoyant social housing market.
During 2005, new concessions came on the US: an adjustment to the carrying value of our water and electricity markets, expenditure is strong stream for the M77 GSO in Scotland, major schools interest in Romec: a goodwill impairment charge in and growing.
The regional civil engineering market, schemes in North Lanarkshire and Bassetlaw, respect of Balfour Beatty Rail Inc: exceptional finance in which we have strong but not comprehensive Nottinghamshire, and the South Tyneside street costs in respect of retirement of fixed rate debt and coverage, is also buoyant.
We anticipate that our 521m the purchase of preference shares: and tax on We will expand further our presence in UK hospital scheme in Birmingham will reach financial exceptional items.
Preferred bidder status was Strategic priorities Growing in professional and technical services achieved for the Pinderfields and Pontefract and The Board and management of Balfour Beatty There is a clear trend amongst our key customers to Northern Batched hospitals schemes.
are committed to continue to deliver the reliable, demand a broader and more proactive role from us The operational performance of Metronet was responsible growth which our shareholders have than that represented by our established construction broadly satisfactory.
Detailed plans are in hand to enjoyed over recent years.
During 2005, we have and maintenance services.
We will develop a more address the delays which have occurred on some undertaken an in-depth analysis of our current substantial upstream capability in project and aspects of the capital expenditure programme, business and established a clear strategic context programme management and technical consulting most particularly in stations upgrade.
We are at for the future development of the Group.
The creation of Balfour Beatty Management a preliminary stage of this very complex, long-term We are confident that, in the short term, in 2002 has been an excellent start in developing project.
There will, inevitably, be many challenges appropriate growth will be delivered from the this process.
for Metronet to address in conjunction with London momentum inherent in our existing mix of businesses.
Underground as the scope of the major system Extending our reach in private finance However, double digit compound growth is not upgrades becomes clearer.
Our UK PPP PFI business has substantial skills an inherent characteristic of most of our markets, Barking Power performed strongly with excellent and in-built growth momentum, much of it already which grow in line with GDP at 2 4%.
To secure availability and strong open market electricity prices.
contained in our existing portfolio.
The potentially medium and longer-term growth at our target levels, In two separate transactions, the Groups rapid development of PPP markets outside the UK, we will develop further in areas adjacent to our shareholding in Consorts Edinburgh Royal Infirmary particularly in the US and Germany, and the existing areas of core capability.
PFI concession was increased from 42.5% to 73.9% emergence of new UK investment opportunities Our analysis clearly demonstrates that market and a 15% interest in three of Connect Roads projects, outside PPP offers further scope for growth.
We will leadership is critical to sustained success.
We have previously 100% owned, was sold.
take our PPP skills beyond their current boundaries.
positions of leadership in many of our markets, For the first time, we have produced a Directors excellent people, a strong portfolio of long-term valuation of the Groups PFI portfolio, based largely These three areas of growth, successfully customer relationships, well-developed supply chains on a discounted cash flow methodology.
At a blended addressed, offer us ample scope to continue the and a very substantial order book a powerful basis average discount rate of 8.2%, the valuation at growth momentum of recent years in the on which to build.
We also have the cash resources 31 December 2005 was 289m 2004: 243m.
to invest in growth and to ensure that we continue to have a dynamic organisation.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 16 Growing in overseas markets Also in August, we acquired SBB, the German rail Safety The development of our engineering and construction signalling specialist.
Renamed Balfour Beatty Rail It is gratifying to be able to report a further 23% businesses outside the UK is an important part of our Signal, the company strengthens our offer to Deutsche reduction in the Groups accident frequency rate strategy, but not an urgent priority.
This affords us Bahn and broadens our signalling capability following following the 17% and 14% reductions achieved the opportunity to move carefully and sure-footedly the acquisition in 2004 of Bombardiers solid-state in 2003 and 2004 respectively.
However, we treat in developing our presence in the markets outside the interlocking signalling business in the UK.
further improvements as a high priority and our UK which offer us the best long-term growth potential.
On 12 December, we announced that we Group-wide system for reporting and tracking health, In growing in overseas markets, we will apply were considering making an offer for Mowlem plc.
safety and environmental incidents of all types is now four key criteria.
The markets must be large enough On 18 January 2006, we announced our decision fully bedded in and enabling far better performance to make a substantial difference: offer an acceptable not to proceed with an offer.
We also announced benchmarking, trend identification and action plan business environment and one which does not punish that we had reached a binding agreement, subject development.
A wide range of other initiatives is foreign ownership: and have substantial numbers of to due diligence, with Carillion plc that, following being progressed.
sophisticated customers who will pay for superior their acquisition of Mowlem, we would acquire Outlook levels of quality, safety and innovation.
The markets two of Mowlems businesses.
These are Charter, We have record order books and a number of must also offer us the opportunity to achieve market a construction management, design and build and preferred bidder positions.
Our major markets are leadership without undue risk.
construction services company based in Texas, and healthy and continue to offer substantial opportunity.
Our key target markets will be the United States, Edgar Allen, a UK rail track systems and components We are clear about our priorities for the continued Western Europe and South-East Asia, the latter based manufacturer.
The combined consideration for these development of the business in both the medium on our strong presence in Hong Kong.
and long term and have the proven management In December, Balfour Beatty Capital Projects Acquisitions, investments and disposals capability to deliver.
increased its shareholding in Consorts Edinburgh In February 2005, we acquired JCM Group, a project I am confident that we can continue to make Royal Infirmary PFI concession from 42.5% to 73.9% management company in Southern California, for progress in 2006. for a consideration of 31m.
This transaction reflects approximately $10m, which has further strengthened Balfour Beattys confidence that the project will Heery International Incs already strong US market continue to deliver attractive returns and will further position.
consolidate our position as the market-leading In order to strengthen our UK infrastructure developer and investor in healthcare PFIs.
At the same operations, in August, we acquired Pennine Group, time, in a separate transaction, we sold 15% of three the UK ground engineering specialist for 8m.
of the concessions in Connect Roads for 13.5m.
We are already a leader in the piling sector, Ian Tyler Chief Executive During the year, financial close was achieved through Stent, and the acquisition of Pennine gives on PPP PFI projects for schools in North Lanarkshire us a strong complementary presence in ground and Bassetlaw, and for South Tyneside street lighting.
engineering and provides a comprehensive range These projects represent a total equity investment by of foundations solutions for UK and overseas Balfour Beatty of 18m.
The four PPP projects we have markets.
Growth prospects in the UK and export at preferred bidder stage involve equity investments opportunities are attractive and the integration totalling 54m.
Balfour Beatty plc Annual report and accounts 2005 17
