group chief executives review David Pretty, Group Chief Executive, Barratt Developments PLC with the 2005 Major Housebuilder of the Year Award, presented by the influential Building magazine.
Our teams across the country successfully adapted to a more demanding and competitive market place, achieving yet another record result for the Barratt Group - our 13th consecutive year... yet another of organic growth.
record result for the Barratt We built more new homes in total Group - our and more homes on regenerated brownfield land than any other 13th consecutive housebuilder for the third consecutive year.
We also strengthened our year of organic leading position in the provision of social housing.
does more to create sustainable communities than Barratt.
In addition, during the year, we had the pleasure of handing over the keys to the 300,000th Barratt home completed since our Group was formed in 1958 by Sir Lawrie Barratt.
At the same time as growing our business, our work has been recognised this year by a record number of design, quality and environmental awards.
6 UK HOUSING housing activity increased to We continue to benefit from the A total of 14,351 new homes were 395.7m, up 8%, with the operating strength of our long-standing completed, an increase of 2%, margin increasing again from 15.7% national purchase agreements with helping increase UK housebuild to 16.0%.
These helped us turnover by 6% to a new record of maintain our stringent control of 2,472.4m 2004: 2,327.6m.
A Our average selling price increased costs.
We are also taking positive further improvement in our margin, by 4% to 172,200.
Total private action to reduce costs further in combined with the 15.9m completions were 1% down, at every part of our business.
exceptional profit from the sale of 12,591 units, with an increased our freehold ground rent portfolio selling price of 182,100, up 5%.. and low gearing, produced a record Social housing completions Group pre-tax profit of 406.6m, an increased by 35% to 1,760, at an increase of 11%.
The underlying average selling price of 101,700, operating profit from our core UK up 14%.
This award-winning development is creating 150 apartments, including affordable housing, live-work units and commercial and leisure space.
HOUSING MARKET The housing market throughout our financial year was certainly one of the most challenging for years, but one which we had anticipated and prepared for.
As a result, and despite the weaker general economic situation and buyer hesitancy, we were able to compete well in all of our operational areas.
Forward sales at the year end stood at a healthy 774m.
Whilst down on last years all time record, which reflected the previous years over- 1 heated market, in percentage terms this remains at the upper end of our historic norm.
This has now increased to 900m which together with completions to date, secures 52% of our full year requirement, with 9 months of the financial year yet to come.
The fundamentals of the housing market remain sound, supported by low interest rates and good employment levels.
These are underpinned by restricted supply caused by constant planning delays, and the enormous need for new housing which will have to be met in due course.
Quite apart from these factors, our Group greatly benefits from a number of core strengths which continue to boost our performance and provide valuable protection from market fluctuations.
On a former school site, this development provided a wide mix of 2, 3 and 4 bedroom homes to meet local housing needs.
This project is creating a vibrant new community of up to 1,000 homes, plus shops, restaurants, and offices on a 37-acre derelict waterfront site.
3 Inset: Harold Walker, Deputy Group Chief Executive, and the local MP for Leicester West Patricia Hewitt, then Trade and Industry Secretary, at the official opening of Freemens Meadow.
An award- 3 winning development which forms part of the Colne Harbour regeneration project.
It is one of five schemes we currently have in and around the town.
8 4 GEOGRAPHIC AND PRODUCT DIVERSITY Our wide geographic spread and year and we would expect this new been relocated to Sevenoaks and product range are just two of our division to produce circa 400 homes renamed Barratt Kent.
These ensure we per annum by 2010. operating area has been avoid an over-dependence on any redistributed between our two major We have always had a strong one geographic area or market West and East London divisions, both presence in the area known as the sector and enable us to adjust of which have excellent track records Thames Gateway and have currently production, sales and land buying in in all aspects of urban renewal.
3 operating divisions covering that line with market conditions.
Today, These changes will improve both our area.
However, due to the increased we have 450 sites in production specialist urban regeneration complexity of urban regeneration, being built by our 34 operating opportunities in the capital and our and the need for more focus, we divisions working throughout Group coverage for all types of have formed a new Thames England, Scotland and Wales.
Gateway operation to act as a are able to serve all sectors of the specialist facilitator for our local Other areas of the country have market at prices currently from divisions.
Already, two large sites, been identified where we can, at the 72,000 to 2m.
Together with our totalling circa 600 homes have been appropriate time, increase coverage affordable average selling price of agreed with English Partnerships and market share.
These will be 172,200 this maximises our appeal under the London Wide Initiative.
actioned when the time is right.
to the widest range of buyers.
Construction is due to commence We have identified areas where we during 2006, with completions consider both coverage and market following from 2008 onwards.
At the same time, we have taken the Accordingly, we have established an opportunity to redeploy our East Anglia division and land has resources to ensure greater coverage already been acquired for this new of expansion areas in Kent.
The first homes are former South London division has targeted for completion this financial 9 URBAN REGENERATION AND BROWNFIELD DEVELOPMENT We lead the industry in the Leicester, Cardiff, Bristol, Brighton West Hendon Regeneration Scheme.
regeneration of Britains cities and and Southampton.
This should produce over 2,000 new urban areas with a track record homes, again over the next 10 years.
In addition, important new projects based on 30 years of experience.
totalling over 4,000 homes have We have also been selected, again 82% of our homes in the year were recently won planning approval and as preferred developer, for the built on brownfield sites, which are underway or soon to start.
regeneration of East Central equates to over 11,700 homes, These include Aberdeen, Edinburgh, Rochdale.
Together with our partner rising to over 95% in London.
This Stockton-on-Tees, Hull, Liverpool, Artisan, we will be commencing the significantly exceeds the Rochdale, Wolverhampton, Bedford, first phase of 80 new homes in 2006 Governments 60% target and, once Torquay, Southampton and in with a potential of 1,500 new homes again, is more than any other London.
Many other brownfield over the next 10 years.
projects, large and small, are in the Brownfield development has massive Whilst much of our urban planning pipeline and others are at potential and we continue to commit regeneration has been undertaken in an advanced stage of negotiation.
substantial resources to this growing the South, our brownfield activities in All of these will help boost our future sector.
With our unrivalled track other towns and cities across the rest production.
record we remain very well placed to of the country continue to expand Furthermore, we have been chosen contribute to, and benefit from, the and prosper.
Apart from London by the London Borough of Barnet, Governments ongoing emphasis on and the South East, we are currently together with our partner urban regeneration.
active in many towns and cities, Metropolitan Housing Trust, as including Edinburgh, Glasgow, preferred developer for the major Newcastle, Leeds, Birmingham, SOCIAL HOUSING PARTNERSHIPS Our social housing partnerships Currently, we have 91 partnerships continue to prosper.
We have underway across Britain, with a reinforced our leadership in the further 87 due to start.
As with provision of affordable housing, be it urban regeneration, the provision of low cost homes for sale, rent, shared much needed affordable social ownership or for those with special housing is receiving much greater needs.
In the year just ended we Government priority.
This key sector significantly increased output, is likely to grow further and, with our building 1,760 homes for our long experience in this field and housing association partners, an local network, we are well placed to increase of 35%.
this key sector has increased 116% over the past 4 years and we are now the largest provider of social housing from the private sector.
1 1 Steven Boyes, Chairman of Barratt 2 Kingston Quay, Glasgow.
This stylish 3 The Grange, Harrow.
This 138-home Northern left with Keith Hill, then development of 372 apartments is on a project on a former hospital site involved Housing Minister, at Thornaby, Teesside, former office site in a prime location at both new-build townhouses and the where we are a partner in a 100m the heart of the citys riverside careful refurbishment of Edwardian Grade brownfield regeneration scheme to provide regeneration.
II listed buildings into apartments.
10 2 3 1 2 1 The Chambers, Friern Barnet, London N11.
The restoration of this listed former town hall created 49 homes and also involved the conversion of an old fire station.
A mix of distinctive new homes on a former hospital site close to the town centre, which features traditional Essex architecture and materials.
This mixed-use development transformed a former gasworks on a Thames-side site and recently won a Greenleaf environmental award.
4 Clive Fenton, Chairman of Barratt Southern centre at Circle Court, London NW9 with, 3 left to right, Darrell Mercer and Susan Price of Dominion Housing Group, councillor Reg Colwill and London Borough of Brent's Martin Cheeseman.
4 LAND AND PLANNING Our land acquisition and planning 94m over the year.
This increase On the back of our planning skills continue to serve us well in a largely represents the redeployment progress, we would expect our difficult planning environment.
We of the 85m proceeds from the USA average outlets to continue their remained prudent in the land market disposal.
steady increase, which will help throughout the year, but were able to mitigate the effects of a more Notwithstanding the serious planning acquire 19,059 plots which was moderate market.
Subject to delays bedevilling the industry, we 4,708 plots, 33%, more than we planning approvals being obtained secured an increased level of used.
These extra plots increased on programme, we would expect planning approvals for 16,400 plots.
the land bank to 54,063 plots and, outlets to increase over the new This is 6% more than the previous including 7,000 further plots agreed, financial year to an average of year.
As a result, we have all the this brings our total UK land bank to circa 465, up from an average of necessary approvals in place to over 61,000, the highest ever.
achieve our requirements for this is 4.25 years supply at current year.
Furthermore, over 90% of the volumes.
land required for 2006 07 is already owned or contracted, with over 70% During the year we spent 745m on for the following year, 2007 08. land acquisition, an increase of ADVANCE HOUSING homes were supplied to our housing Our joint venture operation, association clients on 2 Advance Housing, increased developments.
production of steel framed modular housing from its automated The concept is beginning to realise production facility in Daventry, its potential reflecting, as it does, the Northamptonshire.
Governments continuing emphasis It is now in its second year of on modern methods of construction.
production, increasing output from We aim to increase output again this 81 homes to 151 homes.
Of these year, subject to achieving the 128 homes were occupied by private necessary planning approvals.
purchasers on 9 Group developments and a further 23 13 SKILLS TRAINING CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT We have further developed our very positive and will assist us in Once again we have significantly Corporate Responsibility Strategy controlling risks and delivering increased our investment in skills over the last 12 months across all continual environmental training with over 50% of our areas of the business, including improvement on our development construction employees already governance and risk, environmental sites.
achieving the CSCS Construction management, human resources, Skills Certification Scheme standard health and safety, community issues in the past year.
This excellent and supply chain management.
progress puts us ahead of industry targets to have a fully carded and Corporate Responsibility is qualified workforce, including our increasingly becoming integrated subcontractors, by 2010. into our decision making process on issues such as resourcing, bidding We have built up our apprentice for Government contracts, land training programme, to be the purchase and remediation.
This largest in the industry, making a real year, Insight Investments and WWF contribution to addressing the undertook their second sustainability national construction skills shortage.
survey of major housebuilders in the Currently, 536 apprentices are UK and our performance rating receiving on-site skills training on our improved dramatically from 31% to developments nationwide.
Another major success has addition, we have 59 graduates on been the achievement of the fast-track career paths.
An international standard ISO 14001 increasing number of our for Environmental Management in six managerial and supervisory staff, Group Divisions.
This standard will 1 both on-site and office based, began be implemented in a further 8 their careers on our apprentice and Divisions in the coming year.
This augurs feedback on this project has been well for our future prospects.
HEALTH AND SAFETY year we have had no legal breaches The continued focus of senior of health and safety legislation and management on health and safety, no statutory notices have been served and the ongoing development of our by the HSE in relation to our risk-based Occupational Health and development activities.
We are not Safety Management System OHSMS complacent, however, and our has transformed the standards and dedicated health and safety team are performance achieved across our continuing to monitor health and operating divisions.
safety performance across the For the third year running the business to identify scope for further independent health and safety audit improvement.
inspections on our development sites, undertaken every three weeks by the NHBC, confirmed that our performance rating remains ahead of the national housebuilder average.
Laurence Dent, Corporate Director, with We are pleased to report that this Marion MacDonald, Assistant Company Secretary at Melbury, Newcastle Great Park.
14 2 3 1 Our second Corporate Responsibility Report, to be published shortly.
These steelframed modular homes are built with pre-finished pods manufactured at our Daventry production facility.
4 3 Graduates Ifty Yasin left and Anthony Philips joined our Graduate Trainee Scheme, designed to encourage high achievers into the Barratt Group.
We regenerated a former hotel site to create this contemporary waterfront development.
15 2 1 1 We recently celebrated the completion of our 300,000th home, bought by first-time buyers Damian Corneal and his wife Christine Lee Wing.
2 West End Mews, Kirkbymoorside, North Yorkshire.
This rural brownfield development provided 31 homes and won recognition for its positive design features.
A 16-storey tower crowns this development of 159 apartments in the heart of Hackney.
4 Geoff Hester, Chairman of Barratt West back row, centre, with 15 of our 51 award-winning site managers in the NHBC Pride In The Job campaign for quality workmanship.
3 CUSTOMER CARE Improving customer care is very provide to our customers.
We are and suppliers aspiring to and important to us.
Good progress has also developing a Customer Care achieving similar standards of been made over the last three years Personal Code of Practice for all our quality, service and customer care to in comprehensively overhauling our staff, suppliers and sub-contractors, ourselves.
A major area of focus in quality and customer services pledging our commitment to the our sub-contractor and supplier procedures and our independently core values of integrity, respect and partnerships in the year ahead will audited buyer survey responses show courtesy upon which the delivery of be to ensure that all who work for, continuing improvement.
We remain quality and service depend.
A and supply to, the Barratt Group are focused on targeting further, and comprehensive staff training aware of our increased expectations lasting, improvement in all parts of programme for the new Charter is and are fully committed to our operation.
underway and a similar programme compliance with our new Customer will be put in place for the Code of Charter and Code of Practice.
Last month we launched our new 10 Practice.
point Customer Charter setting out unequivocally the standards of Like all in the sector, we are highly quality and service we strive to dependent on our sub-contractors AWARDS Our construction teams produced an Our leading contribution to design In addition, the Group won 13 excellent performance in this years innovation in housebuilding was also Greenleaf environmental awards NHBC Pride in the Job campaign, recognised in the 2005 House which was, for the fourth year securing 51 Quality Awards, up from Builders Federations publication running, the most in the industry.
40 last year, and a new record.
This Designing Homes for Life.
No less secured 19% of the total nationwide than 9 of our developments were NHBC awards compared to our showcased for their positive design market share of 9%.
features, more than any other national housebuilder.
The Group also did well in the Daily Express British Housebuilder Awards.
KingsOak secured the Best National Builder Award 2005 and a further 6 top awards went to Barratt and KingsOak Divisions.
It is very pleasing to report that for a record fourth time we were voted Major Housebuilder of the Year in the 2005 Building awards, one of the most prestigious awards in the construction industry.
The award recognises the Groups leading role and outstanding contribution to housing and urban renewal.
We were also recognised by the Design Council as one of an elite group of quoted British companies, which use good design as a management discipline and tool at 4 the strategic heart of our business.
However, should the performance in the future.
These We have produced another set of market improve, we also have the core strengths, together with our record results, and achieved our land bank with planning permission healthy forward sales, quality land 13th consecutive year of progress, in and the capacity to immediately bank, strong finances and a challenging and competitive respond and increase volumes.
experienced management team, market place.
leave us well positioned for the The short-term economic outlook Notwithstanding the short-term future and poised for further growth remains unclear and with only three economic outlook, the underlying once market conditions allow.
months of our financial year elapsed, fundamentals of the housing market it is too early to assess the market for are sound and there will be many the rest of the year.
We shall be growth opportunities for us in the operating on the assumption that the future.
Our long-term growth market will remain challenging but strategy therefore remains are targeting to maintain volumes.
Our national We have the benefits of a healthy geographic spread and wide product forward order book, increasing range, together with our urban outlets, a growing social housing regeneration and social housing programme and our proven skills, have all contributed to a good David Pretty Group Chief Executive 28th September 2005 marketing ability to achieve sales in result this year and will boost our 1 The Coppice, Reigate, Surrey.
We are providing traditionally-styled new homes reflect the almost 1,000 new homes in two West design of local properties, but utilise London town centre regeneration schemes modern materials and construction at Feltham and Hounslow.
creating 342 homes, plus shops, offices, leisure amenities and medical centre.
