Minerva plc 06 Annual report and accounts 2005 Chief Executives statement Introduction I have arrived at Minerva with what is essentially a clean canvas and a clear vision for the future SALMAAN course and direction for the Group.
I am fortunate to have worked closely with HASAN the Company for many years having nanced a number of its key projects including The Walbrook, Park Place, The Minerva Building and 90 High Holborn.
I therefore have a close knowledge of Minervas asset base, corporate structure and management team.
Crucial to my approach is the need for independence and freedom to operate and, with the support of the Board, to make the key decisions that are essential to drive performance.
I am pleased that the Board has unanimously agreed that such authority is forthcoming.
WE HAVE DEFINED A CLEAR VISION FOR THE FUTURE COURSE AND DIRECTION OF THE GROUP.
So, what is it that attracted me to take on the role of Chief Executive officer and how do I propose to take the Company forward?
It is by answering both of these questions that I hope to give you an insight into the essential qualities of the Group and my plans for its future.
Minerva plc 07 Annual report and accounts 2005 Attractions of Minerva The Group owns three of Londons most THE STRENGTH prestigious development opportunities.
OF OUR TEAM The potential upside that is inherent within The Walbrook, Park Place and The Minerva IS CRITICAL IN Building is significant particularly in light of the progress that has been made on each over DELIVERING the past year.
I will refer in some detail to these developments later on in my report but the OUR PLANS FOR collective prospect of developing and extracting substantial future shareholder value from THE FUTURE.
The Walbrook, one of the nest sites in the City of London: Park Place, one of the United Coming as I have from a banking background Kingdoms last remaining regional shopping I believe that the management team that will mall opportunities and The Minerva Building, drive value from our assets is in many ways as one of Londons tallest skyscrapers and largest important if not more important than the assets single consented building in the City, is a truly themselves.
We at Minerva have a talented, unique opportunity.
highly experienced and dedicated group of professionals, each of whom have a proven track By virtue of the sales programme that has now record and will provide an important ingredient been completed and which, taking into account in the process of unlocking value from the real post balance sheet sales totals 634 million, estate that we own and which we hope to we have been able to virtually eliminate the acquire as we expand our activities.
My plans Groups debt on a net basis and as a by for the Company are already being implemented product create a cash reserve extending to and the importance of the team that I have around 200 million.
At the year end and prior around me cannot be emphasised enough.
to the sale of Sampson House and Ludgate House the Groups net gearing was 67 per cent.
The way forward After taking into account the sale of these two I have a very clear vision for the future growth properties and the completion of property sales of this business which will be centred around exchanged before the year end our net gearing, four pivotal elements.
These are: on a pro forma basis, has reduced to around Maximising the Groups position from 6 per cent.
This puts Minerva in a very strong our three major development projects.
position to implement its development programme and to reinvest cash resources Embarking upon a programme of in new deals, which I believe will generate new investment.
I will Engaging and expanding the management elaborate on my plans for future investment team in line with the growth of the business.
Embracing the opportunity to communicate in more detail with shareholders, analysts and other stakeholders.
I would now like to address each of the above in more detail.
Continued Chief Executives statement continued Minerva plc 08 Annual report and accounts 2005 The three major developments: WE ARE The Walbrook, London EC4 We have today announced our intention to EXAMINING WAYS commence development of The Walbrook, London EC4.
This project is in a prime location TO ENHANCE in the City of London being equidistant from Bank and Cannon Street Stations and is by THE APPEAL TO any standards a rare commodity.
The site is owned freehold, extends to 1.6 acres and A WIDER RANGE spans three highly visible and well-known OF POTENTIAL City streets Walbrook, Cannon Street and St. Swithins Lane.
During the year we have TENANTS.
been able to renew our planning consent for a headquarters ofce building totalling Accordingly the plans incorporated two large 452,000 sq.
ft. of ofces and shops designed by trading oors each of 51,000 sq.
ft. that would world renowned architects Foster and Partners.
be served by a separate traders entrance on St. Swithins Lane.
It is quite clear to me that Fundamental to the development of this site most of the large scale dealing requirements has been the agreement that was announced have now been satisfied and as a result we in June of this year, with our principal ofce are re-examining the internal design with a view tenant Barclays Bank, which has enabled us to creating a footprint that has a wider appeal to secure vacant possession of the entire site.
in terms of its divisibility to a single occupier Under the terms of the agreement Minerva can but moreover could also provide for a multiple require Barclays to surrender its lease at any occupier prole.
This will also widen the time, having served three months notice, range of potential tenants to include not only prior to 31 December 2006.
In exercising the the financial sector but also the expanding option it has been agreed that Minerva will professional sector.
receive a substantial reverse premium from Barclays, which at its maximum would be I would now like to address the nancing 29.0 million reducing to 22.5 million by the structure for this project.
We have always final date at which the option can be exercised.
made it clear that we would not embark upon There is therefore a significant financial development unless the Group secured a advantage to Minerva in taking this project satisfactory non-recourse debt structure, which forward particularly in an improving City adequately facilitated the cost of development ofce market.
and the ability to hold the asset, if necessary, I have been fortunate to have been involved for the long term.
In this regard I can confirm in a number of major ofce developments and that we are in discussions which, if concluded, I have therefore been able to bring my market should enable the renancing of our existing experience to bear in evaluating the physical facilities on the site and provide for the conguration of the building.
The scheme as development of the new building on a originally designed envisaged a likely occupier speculative basis and subsequent hold.
coming from the financial sector who, it was assumed, would require large trading oors.
Minerva plc 09 Annual report and accounts 2005 Developments update The City ofce market is clearly showing signs of improvement and this development is a rare TIM GARNHAM combination of high quality product situated on a prime site.
Therefore our commitment to develop speculatively whilst not precluding a pre-letting of the building will enable us to deliver in a timescale which we believe will fully optimise the rental and capital value of the completed investment.
Park Place, London Borough of Croydon In March we announced that we had entered into an in principle agreement with Lend Lease The Walbrook, London EC4 for the development of our major shopping The redevelopment of The Walbrook represents centre, Park Place.
This was followed in July an important milestone for Minerva and by conrmation that, subject to and conditional demonstrates our strong commitment to upon shareholder consent, we had concluded The City of London and its property market.
This transaction has now The building is admirably located in the heart of been formally approved by shareholders at the square mile with all the transport infrastructure an Extraordinary General Meeting held on associated with such a prime area.
Park Place, Croydon The development arrangements that we LEND LEASE have entered into with Lend Lease in respect of Park Place provides us with an excellent WILL ADD THEIR platform to take this project forward.
They have an undoubted reputation in creating high quality PROVEN AREAS assets and it is an excellent opportunity for OF EXPERTISE us to work with one of the Worlds leading shopping centre developers.
The Minerva Building, London EC3 The Minerva Building has iconic status and moving forward we will be refining the internal design of the building, considering leasing opportunities, together with the provision of high quality services.
This will assist us in determining the most appropriate method of funding the development.
Tim Garnham Development Director Continued Chief Executives statement continued Minerva plc 10 Annual report and accounts 2005 Under the terms of the agreement Lend Lease Lend Lease will, through a subsidiary Bovis will provide its development, construction and Lend Lease, undertake the construction of the asset management expertise.
It has also been development and preparatory work is already granted a call option enabling it to acquire underway which will enable a seamless up to a 50 per cent interest in the Park Place transition as we implement the construction development at the net asset value one year process.
It is our joint intention, subject to after practical completion.
appropriate project nancing, to commence on site in 2007 with completion during 2011.
The way is now clear for us to implement those plans that the team has worked so hard The Minerva Building, London EC3 to achieve and to take this project forward The Minerva Building represents the largest working alongside one of the worlds leading planning permission ever granted by the shopping centre developers.
Lend Lease have Corporation of London for a headquarters ofce an undoubted reputation for creating high building.
The development, designed by British quality assets which are innovatively managed architects Grimshaw, will provide 1 million sq.
ft. to create significant asset value and future of accommodation on 50 storeys rising to a growth potential.
The building is widely The development will comprise approximately considered to be of a world-class standard, 900,000 sq.
ft. of retail accommodation at the cutting edge of architectural and located at the heart of Croydon town centre.
occupational design capable of being let to It has been designed by leading international a wide range of different tenants or a single architects, RTKL, and will provide a range occupier.
An important part of the development of large and medium sized shop units is the creation of a major new City square which anchored by a 340,000 sq.
in itself will dramatically change this important This development will re-establish Croydon as location within the eastern sector of the City.
a significant retail destination within the United Transport links to the development are excellent Kingdom accessible by car, rail, tram and bus.
with Liverpool Street and Fenchurch Street It will signicantly increase the towns total sales Stations within 400 metres of the site.
turnover, create new jobs and regenerate this important area of the town centre.
During the course of the next year the team at Minerva will, in association with Lend Lease, be actively engaged in progressing with the compulsory purchase process which will culminate in an inquiry scheduled to take place next year.
In parallel with this activity we will be working with Lend Lease to nesse the design of the scheme, to implement our letting strategy which will be focused upon a range of key milestones and to work with key stakeholders so as to ensure a successful outcome.
Minerva plc 11 Annual report and accounts 2005 Programme of new investment With around 200 million of unutilised cash THIS WORLDat our disposal and an experienced executive CLASS, CUTTING team well versed in real estate and banking, it is my intention to enhance the Companys EDGE BUILDING performance through a new programme of investment in assets which we believe will IS CAPABLE provide enhanced returns for shareholders.
OF BEING LET Although I wish to continue the overriding philosophy of buying assets with an underlying TO A WIDE RANGE income stream which have the potential for value enhancement through redevelopment OF DIFFERENT or refurbishment, we will also consider other scenarios that involve planning gain potential TENANTS OR TO A and where underlying income may be limited or in some cases not relevant.
investments will also focus on smaller projects with a wider sectoral and geographical spread.
The Minerva Building design offers a range of I am confident that we will invest in a range of opportunities for occupiers and we are currently opportunities, whether as principal or in joint engaged in a detailed analysis aimed at venture, which meet our criteria and which will optimising the developments letting prole, play to our management strengths.
which in turn will assist us in determining the most appropriate method of funding for development.
Once this review has been WE INTEND completed we will be in a position to evaluate the viability of implementing the planned TO BEGIN A programme of demolition, excavation and NEW INVESTMENT construction of the substructure.
As I have already stated earlier, the City PROGRAMME occupier market is showing distinct signs of improvement and this provides us with an FUNDED BY increasing sense of optimism for the creation SUBSTANTIAL of significant shareholder value from this project.
Nonetheless, my experience leads me to CASH RESOURCES conclude that we must be cognisant of our mid to long-term objectives and capital requirements THAT WE HAVE along with a need to manage the concentration of risk.
As we move forward we will be focusing AT OUR DISPOSAL.
on our nancing options which may in due course involve partial diversication through the funding process.
Continued Chief Executives statement continued Minerva plc 12 Annual report and accounts 2005 Our overall purpose will be to establish a Ivan Ezekiel has been with Minerva for eight diverse spread of risk with a logical theme and years and has joined the main Board as Finance an average life for the investments of no more Director.
As Minervas activities expand and than five years, which provides for a shorter as our developments progress it is important turnaround than our larger schemes.
By adopting that, in addition to putting in place appropriate such an approach we will apply the rigours of nancings, the financial discipline of this cost of capital analysis in order to maximise the business is prioritised, particularly with a view internal rate of return on our capital.
to the imminent introduction of International Financial Reporting Standards.
Ivan maintains a rigorous approach which will be of undoubted WE WILL FULLY importance in our stated endeavour to achieve greater transparency.
UTILISE THE Tim Garnham has been with Minerva for seven BROAD RANGE years and his appointment to the Board was fundamental to my philosophy of management OF EXPERTISE and project integration.
Tims role as Development Director will, for the first time, THAT OUR TEAM combine responsibility at Board level for each of our developments and provide us with the HAVE TO OFFER.
opportunity to create a coordinated approach Engaging and expanding the management team across the Group from which we will be able As we move into a period of significant activity to manage risk and create opportunity.
both in terms of our existing development The appointment of Christopher Mackenzie programme but also new investment it is to the Board is significant.
It is, in my view, important to involve the entire management important that as we move forward, that Board team at Minerva.
This will create an atmosphere members contribute with a broad range of of inclusiveness, which will by its very nature skills and expertise.
In Christopher we have combine the broad range of expertise that we someone who possesses a level of experience as a team have to offer.
both in terms of real estate and finance that With this in mind I am pleased that we have, will be invaluable as the Company grows.
since March, made three key appointments I am delighted that he has joined us and I am to the Board.
sure that along with Christopher Sheridan and Clive Richards we have non-executive Directors who are ready to meet the exciting challenges that lie ahead.
Minerva plc 13 Annual report and accounts 2005 Communication and transparency The next 12 months As a former banker I have always understood This is an exciting time for the Group and my the need to clearly communicate financial plans for the future represent a fundamental information, both corporate and transactional.
change in policy and approach.
Against a stable It is my experience that the provision of clarity economic backdrop with a relatively benign to key stakeholders is of undoubted long-term interest rate environment, the UK commercial benefit to the Company.
From a financial property market is in my view well positioned reporting perspective I believe that we as a for further growth.
Our development projects Group provide an acceptable level of financial provide us with an opportunity to unlock value disclosure although I recognise that the method for shareholders and our low gearing and and regularity of communication needs to be substantial cash reserves place us in a strong enhanced.
With this in mind I have taken the position to invest in new opportunities as and step of adjusting the Groups policy of annual when they arise.
property valuations to semi-annual valuations I look forward to a period of positive activity and this procedure will commence from for the Group.
Having mind to our redevelopment plans which will clearly gain momentum during Salmaan Hasan Chief Executive the course of next year I feel that the timing of this new policy is appropriate.
It is also my intention to engage shareholders on a regular basis and to provide an improved level of disclosure in respect of our property assets as we move forward.
OUR FUTURE PLANS ADOPT A FRESH POLICY AND APPROACH THAT REFLECT THIS EXCITING TIME FOR THE BUSINESS.
