Chief Executives statement My role as Chief Executive is to deliver Realisation proceeds were 1.3 billion performance from the present business and these were generated at good uplifts while building for the future.
The portfolio performed I am pleased to report a strong well and health remains sound, reflecting set of results and good progress in the both improved investment processes and acceleration of 3is development as a the relatively benign economic backdrop.
truly international private equity firm.
To assist understanding of our Total return for the year was 15.9% on current business model, we have restated opening shareholders funds.
decided to report separately the returns Both Buyouts and Growth Capital from our SMI portfolio which, in fact, has performed well, with gross portfolio been run by a dedicated team since returns of 22% and 24% respectively, 2001.
This team continues to make and Venture Capital showed an improved excellent progress in realising value from performance with a gross return for the this part of the portfolio.
At the time of our interims in Although, during the year, November, I spoke of the opportunities investment conditions were competitive I saw for the Group to continue to for Buyouts, with increased funds flowing improve our returns but also to increase into European private equity and the the level of our investment.
In view of the high availability of debt, our teams opportunities within our Growth Capital invested 532 million, of which business to invest at a larger deal size, 338 million was from 3is own which quite often involves investing in resources.
Growth Capital had a companies with cross-border ambitions, slower year in terms of the amount of we have decided to operate this investment 263 million but the business line on a more integrated pipeline going forward is encouraging.
Our Venture Capital business continues We are accelerating the to be selective and disciplined in its development of our Asian business investment approach and invested by opening an office in Shanghai 143 million.
and starting the recruitment of a high quality team to develop a business in India.
We are also actively building relationships to access the market for infrastructure investment in the UK and the rest of Europe.
These steps are the A strong set of results and good prelude to achieving a higher level of investment over the next few years progress in the acceleration without diluting our returns.
of 3is development as a truly international private equity firm 3i Report and accounts 2005 06 Our vision: to be the private equity firm of choice Over the following pages we explain how we are working to achieve this.
In his new role as Head of Group As we develop our resources in new Although we intend to increase the Markets, Chris Rowlands has taken a markets, we anticipate a modest amounts we invest, particularly through number of important steps to improve increase in our cost base but, over the accelerating investment in growth the agility with which we bring our medium term, would expect our costs capital opportunities and expanding our resources to bear in the market.
as a proportion of our gross returns business lines and geographic footprint, Our central sector group of to decline.
we are committed to maintaining financial industrialists has been strengthened to Following Michael Queens move efficiency by returning cash when it is support the greater emphasis being given from Finance Director to head up our surplus to our investment needs.
to sector specialisation in the origination Growth Capital business, and the Our strategic opportunities are of investments.
We have also taken appointment of Simon Ball as his clear and much change is under way to specific opportunities to add to the successor, the announcement in January accelerate their delivery.
At the same quality of our existing teams by bringing that Jo Taylor would succeed Rod Perry time, our teams are maintaining their in fresh, relevant experience from outside, in heading our Venture business has focus on continuing to deliver high quality including Managing Directors for our completed the series of changes required investment opportunities.
Despite the German speaking and Indian businesses to implement our immediate plans.
Rod hesitancy apparent in the financial and our Group Marketing Director.
has made a major contribution to the markets, I intend to report further good The creation of partnership style Group in this and other roles and I have progress towards our performance and structures within each of our business asked him to continue his association strategic goals in the year ahead.
lines has been supported in recent years with us by heading up an international by the introduction of carried interest advisory board for our Venture business.
These reward our teams for At the interims, we took the step successful realisations.
The continued of making public the gross cash to cash success of our business line model within returns that we are targeting for each our international network is critically of our business lines, as well as the Philip Yea dependent upon the quality of our people volatilities that we expect to experience Chief Executive and how well we deliver partnership over given time periods page 78.
At the 11 May 2005 models across the Group as a whole.
mid-point of these ranges and with an Denise Collis, who joined our Executive appropriate level of leverage to our equity Committee as Group Human Resources base, we would expect to achieve an Director in November, is having a major average return on equity of 20%.
impact on how we further improve our The good returns we are employment proposition and progress achieving, and particularly the high the development of our people to deliver level of realisation proceeds we have a true culture of partnership across the generated over the past two years, have Group as a whole.
given rise to a higher level of financial resources than we can profitably reinvest in the near term.
By reference to the level of gearing we believe is appropriate for the business and, having reviewed our medium-term projections of cash flows, we have decided to take immediate steps to return capital to shareholders.
