Chief Executives Review The main event of the year has been the Deutsche Asset Management DeAm acquisition, which provides substantial scale and diversification.
Within the existing Aberdeen business, new business flows have exceeded last years and overall investment performance remains good.
business, such as administration, to in ows of 1.6 billion into our pooled Integration of DeAM enable us to focus on core investment funds.
In addition to increasing the range issues.
We have been expanding the of products we can offer clients Our client base has continued to range of such activities to include and potential clients, the DeAM diversify with the majority of new fund data and, shortly, performance acquisition enhances our geographical clients coming from outside the UK, measurement.
Other areas are reach, particularly in the US.
For the in particular Continental Europe.
Some activities, first time we will be able to combine large proportion of new business has meanwhile, are being migrated to all our US businesses, including our been into Asian equities, which led to lower cost of ces, such as in Asia, but North American-listed closed end the soft closure, in June, of our Asia retained in-house.
funds and US institutional marketing, Paci c ex Japan equity product to under one roof in Philadelphia.
This Over the long run the cumulative new segregated clients.
should greatly increase client coverage effect of such moves should result The decision re ects our commitment and referrals.
The to ensuring that existing client rationale behind any deal, however, Managing the integration of DeAM requirements, in terms of strong is really about the potential to build inevitably presents some execution performance and high service and extend pro table customer risk.
Client retention is our number standards, are not compromised by relationships.
For the first time we one priority, and we have been the take-on of new business.
Our have a genuine global spread to working very hard to meet all pipeline of new business continues to our business lines, based primarily DeAMs clients and discuss their be very strong.
around our London, Philadelphia and needs.
Providing continuity in terms The emerging market equities team Singapore of ces: we have the depth of servicing and reporting is an and experience of investment staff were rewarded for their hard work and important part of this and we aim and we have exceptional continuity strong performance with a number of to run our investment teams with as among our functional heads, which mandate wins.
Many of these were little disruption as possible, facilitated is vital for a smooth transition.
by the relocation of DeAM staff to Combined with our distinctive our London of ces by the end of Whilst the majority of new investment style and product breadth, 2005.
Fixed interest clients have in segregated business has been into we now have a very powerful message general welcomed their teams move Asian and emerging market equities, to transmit to clients.
to Aberdeen, and retention rates have encouragingly we have also received been extremely high.
Equity and interest in our UK equity product.
multi-asset clients, whose investment Review of activities In September 2002 we overhauled performance has typically been less Institutional business our UK product offering as part strong in recent years, have posed Our institutional business has of our decision to standardise the more of a challenge, but we have continued to see strong growth both equity process in all regions across nonetheless been encouraged by the through segregated mandates and the Group.
Three years on, the level of support we have received.
Over the year we combination of a proven process, have won 1.5 billion of net new strong team and attributable past We always aim to outsource the segregated business and saw net more process-driven tasks of our Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 5 Chief Executives Review continued performance is beginning to attract included awards from high pro le expanding American operations.
interest from existing and new clients.
The period had started brightly with the launch in November 2004 of a Within xed income our European high In Singapore, the main challenge new closed end fund, the First Trust yield bond and emerging market debt has been to build scale in support Aberdeen Global Opportunity Income products continued to see in ows.
functions, including administration, Fund which now has gross assets of dealing, and reporting as well $485 million.
Meanwhile our existing as client services.
In terms of Fixed income closed end funds in North America performance the core funds have Our xed income capability has provided solid investment returns in once again comfortably outperformed been enhanced signi cantly in 2005 the period for their shareholders.
benchmarks thus far in 2005. with the acquisition of DeAMs Excellent progress was made during xed income teams in London and Within the region, we have expanded the year in Chile, where we are Philadelphia.
These former Morgan on several fronts.
In February, we now the 14th largest international Grenfell teams have strong in-house bought out our Thai joint venture manager for Chilean pension funds.
A research and bring expertise in credit, partners, thereby becoming the rising ow of subscriptions has seen duration and currency management.
first wholly-owned foreign fund funds under management here more This has enabled them to attract manager in the kingdom.
In Malaysia, than double from almost $300 million and retain a blue chip institutional meanwhile, we became the first and, to over $610 million and our market client base across the following so far, only licensed foreign fund share has also increased signi cantly.
products: US, UK, Euro, Global and manager.
Encouragingly, we have We received our first investments Emerging Debt.
DeAMs capability already negotiated three mandates from pension funds in Peru and is supplemented by Aberdeens for institutional business investing continue to monitor developments existing European High Yield and Asiain domestic and regional equities.
in other parts of Latin America as the Paci c bond teams to form a global Lastly, we appointed a representative pension market becomes more open xed income platform with over 75 in Korea, where pension deregulation to international money managers.
investment professionals based mainly similarly holds promise.
It has been a very successful year in London, Philadelphia, Singapore and Across the region our main sales have for our North American institutional Sydney.
been in regional equity mandates, business with several new institutional In addition to our traditional xed which has been helped by attractive mandates won in both the United income product offering, we have relative valuations and foreign States and Canada.
These mandates made further progress this year in the liquidity.
Markets have been reaching included Global Emerging Markets areas of liability driven investment multi-year highs.
In Thailand and equity, Asia ex Japan equity and SRI Australia, our expertise has helped and total return strategies.
expect this momentum to continue differentiate ourselves in crowded Finally, the acquisition of DeAMs domestic markets.
Our Hong Kong in the future as clients demand more xed income business in Philadelphia innovative xed income solutions to sales of ce enjoyed strong fund considerably increases our presence ows: importantly, too, much of this meet their objectives.
Extensive and has come through insurance-linked in the United States both in terms of specialised xed income resource is assets managed and staff employed.
channels where holding periods are vital to implement these developing longer.
Demand for single country As a result the Philadelphia of ce has strategies successfully and Aberdeen become our main of ce in the United products is another aspect of this is one of the few houses with the development, with our dedicated States.
China and India vehicles a focus.
UK closed-end funds Asia Paci c US operations Our UK closed-end fund business has Our Asian operations continue to The financial year under review was witnessed another busy year, with ourish.
The strong track record of very encouraging for our rapidly new mandate wins via Singapore, those investment trusts investing in 6 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Asian equity markets, in particular, was re ected in the successful rollover whereby the investment operation attracting most investor attention in of Edinburgh Income and Value Trust has been split into two teams, one the UK.
A number of our trusts have and Edinburgh High Income Trust, into working on the larger mid-market a new split capital vehicle, Edinburgh been trading at a premium during the deals for our limited partnership New Income Trust.
clients, the other working on the period allowing them to issue shares to meet ongoing demand.
Aberdeens smaller deals for our venture capital Looking forward, there is continuing trust VCT and specialist fund pro le has continued to be high in demand from the UK investment trust the sector with further awards for clients.
sector to deliver income, particularly performance received during the year.
from non-traditional sources, such as Despite the loss of three of the from overseas or from property.
This former Murray VCTs, the division Strengthening equity markets partly re ects an ageing investor base, currently manages around 275 favoured many of the investment but equally there is a demand for million of client funds, and during trusts managed by the Group.
For diversi cation of risk from traditional the year won the mandate for the instance, the largest investment trust long-only UK equity investment.
In Talisman VCT, as well as successfully managed by Aberdeen in the UK, the early December we launched a new launching Aberdeen Growth 570 million Murray International Asian income closed end fund, raising Opportunities VCT 2.
Aberdeen Trust plc, grew its assets by 35 100 million of new investment.
Development Capital PLC, the per cent over the year, against its first closed-end fund launched by benchmark of 23.8 per cent.
A Finally, boards quite rightly continue Aberdeen back in 1986, successfully tightening discount raised its share to expect very high levels of re nanced its 2005 zero dividend price total return by 44 per cent over performance and shareholder services preference shares with a 17 million one year to the end of September.
This was an excellent are well positioned in this regard, Aberdeen won mandates from two achievement in challenging market as we have dedicated considerable existing investment trusts during the conditions.
Planning is well under resource to support our closed-end year.
In December 2004, Deutsche way for a top-up C share issue in fund business.
Latin American Companies Trust the Aberdeen Growth Opportunities PLC changed its name to New VCT for the current tax year.
The Private wealth The team has developed an excellent board appointed Aberdeen Asia as The private wealth division has seen capability in the AIM market, which its new managers and successfully funds under management rise over has contributed strongly to good reconstructed the company, changing the year to 459 million.
The rise performance across the VCT portfolios its mandate to invest in Indian represents both market and organic this year.
This included the placing growth.
Signi cant new high net partnership LP client, AMJPEF, is of shares with new and existing worth mandates have been won becoming more fully invested, and shareholders.
In March 2005, the including charity and private unit planning will begin shortly on the Board of Foreign & Colonial Paci c trust accounts.
Investor con dence next LP fund.
Investment Trust plc announced the is returning and looking ahead, the results of its search process for new divisions efforts will be directed investment managers.
As a result, towards maintaining the momentum Property Aberdeen Asia was appointed as coand further capitalising on it.
Our specialist European property portfolio manager.
That trust has investment management subsidiary, renamed itself Witan Paci c Trust plc Aberdeen Property Investors, has Private equity and follows a mandate of investing in witnessed exceptional growth, with Our private equity team recently Asia, including Japan.
assets under management up 39% to completed both a re-branding, Sentiment towards split capital e7.9 billion.
We have also continued whereby they are now known as investment trusts in general was on our strong track record, with an Aberdeen Asset Managers Private the turn in 2005.
The improvement outperformance of 2.5% compared to Equity, and an internal restructuring, Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 7 Chief Executives Review continued the IPD benchmark during 2004 8.9% associated with the newly acquired vs 6.4% : average outperformance DeAM businesses: and attracting over the last 10 years has been 1.2% new clients to Aberdeen with our per annum.
The outlook for markets is mixed, with equity Institutional allocations to real returns over the coming twelve estate have picked up, re ecting a months unlikely to equal those seen requirement for diversi cation and in 2005.
Nonetheless, investment also for new vehicles such as property opportunities remain in many asset funds.
This is a new and fast growing classes around the world, and we segment of the asset management look to continue to take advantage of industry where we aim to become them as they arise.
the leading European property fund manager.
In response to this demand we successfully launched the first ever Martin Gilbert European fund of funds.
Meanwhile Chief Executive we attracted e800 million of new 12 December 2005 capital during the year into domestic property funds in Norway and Denmark.
We have also expanded operations geographically via new of ces in Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands and Luxembourg during the scal year.
Finally, we gained several new mandates from new institutional clients across Europe, all of which are blue chip names.
Looking ahead, we believe the market for international niche property funds will remain rm with an increase in allocation towards real estate generally by institutions.
We therefore plan to introduce new products as demand requires, and this is likely to hasten our entry into new markets elsewhere in mainland Europe.
Outlook Our challenges for the coming twelve months are clear: maintaining high levels of client service and investment performance for existing clients: successfully integrating the middle and back of ce functions 8 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Our pipeline of new business remains very strong
