BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Chief Executives statement 4 We have a strong track record of delivery and a strategy for sustained growth.
Frank Chapman Chief Executive BG Group moved forward significantly But a significant part of our activity also In India, we achieved strong growth in in 2005.
In the face of increasing revolved around developing future projects: distribution volumes and profits.
But it competition, we delivered exceptional for example, we increased our gross was our Comgas business in Brazil that 2 results while at the same time adding exploration acreage by over 45 000 km, provided the Transmission and Distribution significantly to our exploration acreage T&D highlight for 2005, where operating acquiring blocks or succeeding in licence and expanding our portfolio of bid rounds in Brazil, Canada, Egypt, India, profit rose 53% and double-digit volume opportunities for longer-term growth.
Libya, Nigeria, Norway, the UK and the We expect to meet or exceed our 2006 USA.
We also agreed to expand further Our Power portfolio, which covers the UK, targets and we are currently outperforming the storage and throughput capacity at Italy, the Philippines and Malaysia, the framework for growth to 2009 that the Elba Island regasification terminal and continues to realise good returns.
we outlined two years ago.
With our acquired full ownership of the Brindisi distinctive long-life, low cost asset base, STRATEGY FOR SUCCESS regasification project in Italy.
we are increasing the value derived from Our core strategy is to secure SEGMENTAL PERFORMANCE our current portfolio of assets and making competitively priced gas and connect it to In Exploration and Production E&P, total good progress towards delivering material customers in high value markets.
We are operating profit was up again by 63% new projects.
We are confident that we experts in gas and have the people, the to 1 942 million.
This increase was largely can continue to drive our earnings growth skills and the experience to participate due to higher prices, and higher output trajectory to 2009 at a multiple of global and compete anywhere along the gas from Kazakhstan and Egypt.
We have energy demand growth.
I believe that the evidence of increased our E&P targets for 2006 for the 2005 is that this is a strategy that OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE second successive year to reflect the continues to create value and to provide BG Group delivered another very progress we have made.
BG Group with a compelling proposition strong operating performance in 2005.
In the course of the year, we had exploration and strong competitive position, doubly Revenue and other operating income success in Canada, Egypt, Mauritania, important at this time when cost increased by 39% and total operating Trinidad and Tobago and the UK.
Our pressures are rising and competition profit was 2.38 billion up 57% on 2004. underlying three year proved reserves within the gas market is growing.
At constant UK US$ exchange rates and a replacement rate is now 172%, which we upstream prices, total operating profit As our Chairman has noted, the business believe will once again be a top quartile increased by 15% for the year.
environment will be more challenging in performance compared with our peer the future but there is little doubt that the As our Chairman remarks in his statement, a group.
Our annual unit operating cost was prospects for natural gas remain very good.
the strength of our cash flows enabled us $4.04 boe, which we also believe will once And it is in this more competitive but to fund a substantial capital investment again be an industry-leading performance.
opportunity-rich gas context that I believe programme, adding 900 million to our This was also an outstanding year for the our strategy will continue to provide existing plans for new growth projects.
Liquefied Natural Gas LNG segment of our At the end of the year, we had net funds competitive advantage and potential for business.
We doubled the number of growth for some years to come.
We announced plans for a operating liquefaction trains in the course 1 billion share repurchase in part due to Over the past year, in spite of high oil of the year with Egyptian LNG Trains 1 and 2 the aggregate pre-tax cash consideration prices, we have seen the global economy and Atlantic LNG Train 4 coming onstream.
of US$1.8 billion received from the hold up and support increasing demand Phase 1 of the expansion of our Lake Charles disposal of our 16.7% stake in the North for gas.
In our key developed markets Caspian Sea Production Sharing capacity was also completed, nearly of Europe and the USA, declining doubling the Groups regasification capacity.
Agreement and we also re-based indigenous supply will boost demand our dividend.
We continued to demonstrate that there for gas imports.
BG Group is already well For BG Group, 2005 was once again is value downstream, by making further placed to respond to these structural progress in fast developing markets.
characterised by excellent project delivery.
supply changes and we continue to BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 develop options for strengthening our stakeholders.
I see our sharp focus on Executive Vice President and Managing that position further.
creative thinking as an essential Director for Europe and Central Asia, and 5 component of BG Groups success.
Stefan Ricketts, who is our General Counsel.
I have mentioned our acquisition of significant new exploration acreage CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY LOOKING FORWARD Safety has always been a high As I have indicated above, I believe BG during 2005: our aim in forthcoming years is exploration success in countries ranging priority both operational and occupational Groups strategy is proving robust in and in 2005 the rate of our lost time todays dynamic and fast-changing global from Canada and Libya to Norway and Brazil, and of course in our home territory injuries for employees and contractors was gas market.
More than that, it is delivering 0.5 per million hours worked.
This compares competitive advantage in increasingly of the UK North Sea.
with 0.6 in 2004 and 6.7 back in 1998 the challenging conditions.
I believe that in In 2004, LNG accounted for 7% of the point at which we embarked upon a 2006 BG Group will continue to develop its worlds gas supply.
However, rapid growth refreshed approach to safety management.
already strong position because we have: in inter-regionally traded gas is expected to see worldwide LNG trade more than However, it is with great regret that I have a distinctive, compelling strategy and double by 2015 with the most rapid to report six fatalities in three events portfolio of high quality assets: growth in the Atlantic Basin, which is during 2005.
Five were in Egypt and one in the people, the experience and the forecast to show a compound annual Kazakhstan.
Our response was a full skill sets to participate anywhere along growth rate of more than 20% out to 2010. review of our approach to safety the gas chain: We have turned our first mover advantage management throughout the Group, in acquiring Lake Charles capacity in 2001 notwithstanding the progress we have a long-life, low cost asset base with into real competitive advantage using our embedded growth: made in recent years.
position to secure new supplies and opportunities and plans in place to We introduced a comprehensive STEP UP develop our customer bases.
In just a few sustain growth to 2009 and beyond: and safety programme with an emphasis on short years, we have become a leading behavioural change throughout the player in Atlantic Basin LNG, having the a strong track record of delivery.
This requires all employees to largest LNG import market share in the Pulling all this together are the mindsets, reassess their behaviours and to ensure USA.
And we have a number of commitment and dedication of our that safety is reinforced as their highest opportunities in hand both to extend employees and it is these, I believe, that priority.
Everyone is required to take action supply and markets in the coming years will in time prove to be the most personally to contribute towards a and we believe this will underpin important source of our competitive heightened safety drive across the Group.
continuing strong earnings growth in this advantage and the source from which This work has been supported by business segment.
significant changes to standards and Our T&D businesses are in acknowledged management systems and a large number growth markets.
For example, the low of employees have already participated in levels of gas penetration to date in Brazil, Behavioural Based Safety training and the investment we have made in programmes: more will follow.
We believe recent years in building the infrastructure that all injuries are preventable: our Group network in So Paulo, mean that we can safety goal is zero injuries.
continue to build Comgas customer base, Alongside safety, our corporate particularly in the higher margin residential responsibility agenda in 2005 continued and commercial market segments.
Responding to the increasing India too, new gas discoveries and Frank Chapman diversity of the environments in which Chief Executive supplies will help realise the huge latent we are operating, we commissioned an potential of its gas market.
independent survey of community Of course, the major driver for gas relations practice and performance across demand growth around the world is the Group.
This survey produced some power generation and we will continue to reassuring results and some important monitor closely developments in power to recommendations, which we are now see where opportunities emerge.
We also decided during the year to transfer responsibility for social One of the factors contributing to BG investment programmes to the Groups success has been our constant management teams in our countries of search for innovative use of technology to operation.
Our aim is for the decisions to ensure maximum operational be taken close to the communities effectiveness.
With a view to reinforcing concerned.
This is a reflection of our innovative thinking, we introduced the determination to build positive community Chief Executives Innovation Awards back in relations and contribute to sustainable 2002 and I am pleased to say that the development as the basis for a successful strength of the submissions in 2005 was long-term collaboration with communities better than ever.
Our aim is to focus not and governments.
In all of our operations, just on the innovative application of we are committed to meeting technology but to encourage fresh thinking internationally accepted good practice.
in other spheres for example, in the way we develop more efficient processes for our GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE See presentation of non-GAAP measures, page 152. day-to-day business operations and in the This year we have welcomed onto the a See page 153 for an explanation of how way we create value through alliances with this figure is calculated.
Group Executive Mark Carne, who is our
