Business Overview 04 Chairmans Statement 05 Group Chief Executives Statement 1 08 Strategic Overview Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005 3 Business Overview Business Overview Chairmans Statement Alliance & Leicester has a very focused and clear strategy of building the UKs leading direct bank.
Sir Derek Higgs, Chairman In my first statement to shareholders as Chairman, it is management with N M Rothschild & Sons has brought rewarding to present such a good set of results.
The year valuable additional perspective to the Board.
At the end 2005 was an encouraging one for Alliance & Leicester and of the year, Rod Duke joined the Board after a distinguished a tribute to the hard and effective work of our Group Chief banking career of over 33 years with the HSBC Group.
Executive, Richard Pym, his management team and all I believe the Board comprises a balanced group of our staff.
experienced directors, well equipped to bring relevant Alliance & Leicester has a very focused and clear strategy insight and understanding to the issues that matter of building the UKs leading direct bank, a strategy backed to the Group and your investment as shareholders.
Much by a national retail branch network, and a Wholesale more information about how we as a Board give leadership Banking operation providing a comprehensive service to the Group starts on page 31 under Corporate Governance.
In 2005 both Retail and My own approach, shared by my colleagues, very much Wholesale Banking made real progress and delivered emphasises the importance of people as well as strong franchise growth.
appropriate process in governance matters.
Dividend Per Share pence In Retail Banking, our market share of new business I would also ask you to read the statement on Corporate volumes in our Core 4 products of mortgages, savings, Social Responsibility beginning on page 14.
It is inescapable current accounts and personal loans was greater than common sense that, as well as our responsibilities to our share of the stock of these products.
Our Wholesale shareholders for their investment, as a major employer Banking operations also saw strong business volume with millions of customers our actions can and will have growth in its core products of cash sales, commercial an impact on the communities in which we all live.
This lending and business accounts.
is not about bolt-on gestures: it is part and parcel of running a successful modern business.
The Board I believe there is a real opportunity for Alliance & Leicester is committed to continuing to develop a management as a reliable provider and sympathetic partner for our culture which recognises and delivers responsible customers in a marketplace too often defined by mistrust, business practices in the community, the workplace, cynicism and big battalions.
Surveys show we are appreciated the marketplace and in our environmental impacts.
by our customers, who are more willing to recommend us to friends and relations than other banks.
This is the true I have been Chairman only since the end of October 2005, test of whether we are succeeding, and we are.
but as I have toured our operations and met many people at all levels in the Group I have been impressed by the Our strategic course was set by the Board under the friendliness, enthusiasm and capability which they are leadership of my predecessor, John Windeler.
John had bringing to their roles, and by the welcome they have been a director since 1995 and Chairman from 1999 until given me.
his retirement at the end of October.
The Group owes John much and we wish him well for the future.
In a business where trust and reputation with customers is built on both our people and our products, it bodes During the year there were a number of other changes well for the future success of Alliance & Leicester.
David Brougham, a non-executive director since May 2000 retired in May and we thank him for his Sir Derek Higgs, wisdom and counsel over five years.
We welcomed two Chairman new non-executive directors.
Malcolm Aish joined the Board in May 2005.
His background in banking risk 4 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005 2003 43.9 2004 48.3 2005 51.5 Business Overview Group Chief Executives Statement This is an exciting time for Alliance & Leicester and I believe the bank has never been in better shape.
Richard Pym, Group Chief Executive Alliance & Leicester delivered a good set of financial We opened 254,000 new accounts in 2005, the majority results in 2005, achieving strong growth in business of which are salary funded, and our active account base grew to 1.52m accounts.
We are particularly pleased with volumes and improved cost efficiency.
our performance in attracting customers who switch their Our core operating profit was 548m, 8m higher than current account provider via the internet or telephone.
2004, and underlying basic earnings per share were Market research shows this is the fastest growing segment 87.1p, up from 84.3p in 2004.
The Board is proposing of the market and we are the market leader with a market a final dividend of 34.7p per share, making a total share of around 20%.
dividend of 51.5p, an increase of 7%.
Our unsecured personal loan gross advances were 2.5bn, We achieved each of our strategic objectives in 2005, slightly higher than in 2004.
In June 2005 we launched delivering strong franchise growth, improving our a second brand Moneyback Bank, which has been operating efficiency, maintaining above average asset successful in generating new online business and quality and delivering an underlying return on equity assisted in increasing the proportion of unsecured tier 1 capital of 21.5% within our target range.
Core Operating Profit m lending generated via the internet to 40%.
We also continued to plan and to implement initiatives Our savings balances continue to see growth, with most to achieve our longer term goal of improving the Group of our activity in 2005 focused on the direct segment cost:income ratio to below 50% by 2010.
Personal customer deposit balances improved from 57% in 2004 to 55% in 2005. increased by 700m during the year to 20.6bn.
We have achieved these results against a backdrop of both The Alliance & Leicester brand is increasingly recognised slower growth in our markets, as we expected, and a as providing customers with good value.
For the second modest decline in the quality of personal sector credit.
successive year our products received more best buy mentions in national newspapers than those of any Retail Banking of our competitors, with over 2,000 mentions.
Retail Banking core operating profit was 438m proforma During 2005 we have seen significant improvements in 2004: 436m.
Revenues from our Core 4 products grew by our customer service standards, and an increase in our over 5%, and in each of these products our share of new customers using self service technology to carry out basic business in 2005 was above our market share of stock.
Our own regular customer opinion surveys In recent years we have made a number of improvements show excellent levels of overall satisfaction, with on within our mortgage business to our product range, and average over 94% of customers of our Core 4 products sales and operational processes.
These, together with the rating themselves satisfied or better with our service.
more proactive approach to customer retention we have The same survey also shows a satisfaction rating of introduced, helped make 2005 a very successful year.
more than 85% for our interactive voice response We are building real momentum, with gross advances systems, which we continue to refine and improve.
of 11.1bn 2004: 8.7bn and lower mortgage The planned restructuring and modernisation of our redemptions than in 2004, together resulting in record current account back office processes will further improve net lending of 4.9bn, a market share of 5.4%.
Call centre operators will We continue to see current accounts as a key product be able to deal with a wider range of queries whilst the Underlying Basic Earnings to attract new customers and build strong relationships.
customer is on the telephone.
