6 Chief Executives Statement The Alliance Trust has the opportunity to react to changing circumstances in order to deliver added value to stockholders.
During the past year, we have concentrated on creating the by 6.4% to 46.9m.
Our net assets grew by 149m, an increase conditions that will allow us to grow and benefit from a range of 10.1% over last year.
We have invested in infrastructure, reorganised how we manage our assets, built up our financial Expenses services subsidiary and introduced ways to enhance our The Alliance Trust has always taken a disciplined approach to performance as individuals and as a company.
total expenses and cost management.
As an investment company, the Alliance Trust has the opportunity Last year expenses rose by 24.4% to 5.4m bringing our total to react to changing circumstances in order to deliver added expense ratio to 0.33%, still among the most favourable in the value to stockholders.
We will draw on this adaptability sector.
We believe in investing for the future.
We have to increasingly as we go forward and seek to use more fully the modernise our Company to take full advantage of current options available to us for the benefit of our stockholders.
We are strengthening compliance, audit and risk management, which are essential to meet industry best practice We are investing in our subsidiary, Alliance Trust Savings, in in an increasingly regulated environment.
We also need to order to develop its financial services activities.
ATS began as a compete and this means growing the Company.
We are means to generate wider access to our stock.
This goal has committed to investing in people and building an infrastructure been achieved with more than 17% of the ordinary stock now that meets the highest standards, particularly in information held through ATS.
This subsidiary has developed into a technology, which will form the backbone of our modernised profitable business in its own right as an administrator of structure and the springboard for future expansion.
customers investment portfolios and one that, with further investment, has considerable potential to grow.
This does not mean, however, that we are diluting our focus on costs.
Even with increased spending in its last financial year, We will work to realise that potential to generate income for the Alliance Trust has one of the lowest total expense ratios ATS parent companies while still delivering value to its among the investment trusts in the global growth category.
To increase clarity of purpose, fulfil regulatory are committed to investing in our own infrastructure so that we demands and meet our business goals, therefore, we will are not left behind by developments and we believe we can develop the investment company and the financial services position ourselves strongly to deliver value for stockholders company on two different, profitable and complementary tracks.
and, at the same time, manage costs tightly.
We aim to grow We believe this will be in the long-term interests of stockholders.
our Company and stockholder return consistently while ensuring I will explore some of these themes in this, my first major that our total expense ratio remains in the lowest 25% of our report to you.
The Investment Company Allocation of Assets The Alliance Trust is an investment company with an extremely During the past year we reorganised the way we manage the flexible investment policy.
The Company invests worldwide Companys assets.
On pages 10 and 11 in this report we explain across a wide variety of sectors and this diversity gives it its in detail how we allocate corporate capital through a new strength.
Last year saw continuing growth with core income committee called the Asset, Liability and Income before special dividends which are unlikely to recur increasing Committee ALICo.
7 During the year we also reviewed how we manage the global We have also started to overhaul the business solid, but equity portfolio of the Company.
We concluded that we can outdated, technology.
When this is completed we will be able enhance our performance with a simple and transparent to meet more of our customers needs.
For example, customers geographical approach.
We have already started to see the will be able to transact almost all their business using any results of this approach in our home markets.
Both the UK method they prefer whether online, by post or by telephone.
We Large Cap and UK Small and Mid Cap portfolios had an will also be able to process orders by value rather than by outstanding year.
We intend to have these services available as quickly as possible.
We want our systems to match the superior service already given by ATS staff.
That excellence has been Asian Office recognised this year in customer service awards from Investors The overall review of our Company also led us to identify other Chronicle.
We will continue to introduce further improvements ways we can enhance performance in each area to which the to our technical capability over the next two years and because corporate capital is allocated.
of this in the short term the costs of ATS will increase.
We are Asia is an exciting region that presents enormous potential for very excited about the medium and long term growth prospects growth in capital and income and we have been increasing our for ATS business and are convinced that the current level of investments there for some time.
At the end of January we investment will be more than justified by future returns.
owned assets of 241.5m in the region, 15% of our total portfolio.
In Asia we face cultural, language and time-zone Our People differences when doing business.
Also, many of the companies Our Companys primary resource is our people, with their skills, we invest in now depend significantly on the Chinese, Japanese commitment and excellence.
We are developing a people plan and other Asian markets.
Together, these form a powerful that will make us an employer of choice.
We want to provide a argument for having expertise on the ground to enhance our world-class environment in which our people can succeed.
A performance as these markets expand and mature.
In the second major ingredient for this is an appropriate and modern quarter of 2005 we are, therefore, opening an office in Hong remuneration programme.
To this end we have introduced a Kong and will be deploying staff from Dundee and locally to performance based bonus scheme that is designed to reward look after the relevant parts of the portfolio from that base.
those who really add value above demanding targets.
An The Asian markets today bear a striking similarity to those in important point to note is that reward is indeed results based.
North America where, over a hundred years ago, my Under the senior managers and executives incentive plan, if predecessors took the courageous decision to invest and ensure stockholders do not benefit, then staff do not receive that the Company had representatives locally.
We are confident performance awards.
that the benefits we can generate by increases in our capital and income in Asia will more than compensate for the related Looking Forward expense and believe this initiative is in line with our overall At the end of a very exciting year for all of us at the Alliance goal of growing total stockholder return.
Trust we look forward to a future in which we will continue to build on the reputation and excellence of this Company.
Next Subsidiaries year we will seek to: Last year was a very good year for Group subsidiaries, with an Enhance the performance of the capital and income accounts increase in aggregate net income of 29.1% to 5.8m.
ATS had Strengthen the way we manage our equity assets through a another profitable year with income rising by 19.8% to 4.9m.
clearer geographical focus Profit before tax, however, fell to 622,000, down 41.4%, Build a technology platform that helps deliver performance because of increased investment costs.
During the year, we and growth cost-effectively made it simpler for customers to invest through ATS and Increase the range and reach of the financial services removed some of the hurdles in the terms and conditions.
company to take advantage of opportunities in the UK Transactions grew notably after we launched the pricing savings market simplification in July.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank those customers of ATS who wrote to me after July Promote our reputation by maintaining the highest standards in everything we do.
We noted all comments and in October we announced that customers would be able to Alan J Harden choose variable investment levels within their plans.
