Chief Executive Officers Report In most of our businesses we have been operating at full capacity or better, extracting efficiencies that have enabled us to sell record volumes of products in our markets.
Chip Goodyear, Chief Executive Officer For the past few years, we at BHP Billiton have had the privilege In most of our businesses we have been operating at full of sitting in the front row of a new and, possibly, multi-decade capacity or better, extracting efficiencies that have enabled phase of world economic and social development.
While this us to sell record volumes of products into our markets.
is exciting, our role as the worlds largest diversified resources Our project pipeline company brings with it an enormous responsibility to ensure we are running the business in a sustainable way, from Across the resources industry, increasing numbers of projects environmental, health and safety, community, customer, are being developed to provide greater capacity to meet growing employee and shareholder value perspectives.
During the year we completed eight major projects, we must constantly look at how to maintain and build on our but our pipeline of projects continued to be refreshed and now position in a rapidly-changing world.
stands at US$11.9 billion worth of projects in either feasibility stage or development.
Our continuing global programme of We achieved strong outcomes against our Health, Safety, project development means we have dedicated and highlyEnvironmental and Community HSEC targets, which measure experienced teams able to move between projects and bring our progress on our journey towards sustainable development.
to each their skills and expertise.
However, there is no doubt A detailed analysis of our fatalities, incidents and accidents from an industry shortage of skilled labour and materials is impacting the previous financial year found that our systems and processes costs and schedules.
This places additional stress on our are robust and, in many instances, leading practice.
opportunity for improvement identified relates to our operating discipline ensuring that the systems we have in place are Despite these pressures, the response from our people has understood and followed by everyone and that we share across been excellent.
Their commitment and alignment to our values the organisation what we learn from each incident.
As a result demonstrate the increasing maturity of the BHP Billiton culture.
we have identified necessary HSEC leadership attributes and This commitment has enabled us to progress projects and integrated these into our leadership model for the organisation.
exercise growth options that allow us to increase capacity from Strong performance in HSEC is now a prerequisite for promotion.
low-cost, high-quality assets as we see demand for products Despite our efforts, three of our colleagues lost their lives at materialise.
Our project pipeline and our development efforts work during the reporting year and we have suffered further ensure that we have the growth options available to us.
All of us are impacted by these needless deaths: planning, preparation and robust assessment processes inherent our resolve is even stronger to provide a workplace that delivers in this pipeline have paid dividends for the past four years.
Today, we have a proven track record both in project delivery and in capturing the opportunity presented by a strong demand Operating performance environment.
We will continue to invest in value-adding growth Across the businesses, our financial and operational opportunities throughout the economic cycle as this is a key performance has been excellent with many records set during driver of value for our shareholders.
In a climate of strong prices, the record volumes made possible through operational excellence and expanded capacity laid the groundwork for record profits.
4 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Meeting customer demand Meeting our customers requirements remains a critical objective.
While the 2005 financial year was characterised by tight supply coupled with strong demand, our interests and those of our customers will be best served in an environment of greater stability and certainty.
We must maintain our day-to-day focus on operational performance and maximising production and build solid relationships with customers.
These relationships with customers lead to mutually beneficial arrangements and a shared understanding of future demand requirements.
The acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd this year adds to our portfolio a set of high-quality, long-life existing operations that fits well with our existing portfolio and aligns with our business strategy.
In addition, the future expansion and development options inherent in the Olympic Dam copper uranium gold asset and the Western Australian nickel business, assist us in being able to capture our share of future demand.
We are very fortunate as well to have been able to welcome some excellent people who joined us from WMC.
Capital management We have consistently said that our priorities for using our cash flow are to reinvest in value-adding growth opportunities, manage the balance sheet appropriately and return capital to shareholders.
During the year, excess capital was returned to shareholders through a US$2 billion capital management programme that comprised an off-market share buy-back of US$1.78 billion and a rebasing of the underlying level of our dividend from 9.5 to 13.5 US cents.
In the past four years, the Company has returned a total of US$8.3 billion to its shareholders, including buy-backs, spin-offs and dividends.
We believe that the revised dividend base is supported by the earnings and cash flow outlook for the Company.
Our people It is important that we recognise the efforts of our 36 000 people who are the foundation of the Company.
They have been an integral element in delivering this years performance and positioning the Company to meet our future objectives.
Our people are the face of our Company and our success would not be possible without their commitment and dedication.
Chip Goodyear BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 5 REACH NEW MARKETS at a time when the economy is experiencing significant growth.
We constantly 6 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 7 SEEK OUT OPPORTUNITIES and work closely with our customers to help grow their businesses.
Our integrated approach allows us to organise our production to suit customer requirements and assist them in meeting the needs of our changing world.
We aim to 8 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 9 10 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 LEAD THROUGH INNOVATION in every facet of our operations.
From the way we create value for shareholders, to our commitment to the communities we operate in, to the mutual respect we have with our most important asset, our people.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 11
