Aviva plc 2005 Overview 6 Group chief executives statement Overview Resilient UK long-term This sustainability, allied to confidence in our During 2005, we delivered another set of savings performance operating model, has allowed us to announce strong results that are a reection of our In the UK long-term savings market, a worldwide Combined Operating Ratio COR balanced portfolio and composite structure.
we have demonstrated our strength and target of 98% for the forseeable future.
This provides us with exibility, strength, resilience during 2005.
We have seen new Group results resilience and reliability.
It is not just in entrants attempting to grow their market Our pre-tax operating profit of 2,904 million the split between long-term savings and share, which has meant a more competitive 2004: 2,224 million reected another general insurance or our geographic spread market.
Our approach has been to focus strong performance as most businesses that we achieve balance.
Every major on value while maintaining market share.
Our return on business has the advantage of a broad We are able to write all new business at capital employed was 15% 2004: 13.7%.
product range, trusted brand and balanced returns exceeding our cost of capital.
Worldwide long-term savings new business distribution model that meets the needs of We have maintained our broad product sales were 24.6 billion 2004: 22.3 billion, the local market.
Additionally, 2005 saw offering and have a wide range of reecting strong international sales growth the acquisition of RAC.
This has created distribution channels, and this combination and continued success in the bancassurance a powerful combination with our general puts us in a unique position.
insurance business and will deliver that customer service is vital to the future of substantial shareholder value.
our business and we are actively addressing Pre-tax life operating return on a European service standards provided to individuals and embedded value EEV basis was Growth in our international businesses intermediaries.
We are now starting to see 1,814 million 2004: 1,611 million.
During the year, we continued to grow our the benets of these actions.
During 2005, international long-term savings portfolio Our general insurance operating profit of our bancassurance joint venture with the and it now generates over 60% of our 1,551 million 2004: 1,259 million is Royal Bank of Scotland has seen significant worldwide gross new business contribution.
another excellent result in a year were we growth and is demonstrating the benets of Our international portfolio comprises large have also acquired and integrated the RAC.
Additionally, we launched established businesses in mature markets, We have achieved a combined operating our Lifetime wrap product, an innovative bancassurance-led distribution in developed ratio of 95% 2004: 97%, beating proposition that we expect to be the preferred markets, direct sales force businesses that our target of 98%.
platform for leading investment solutions.
are moving towards a multi-distribution Our fund management operating profit of model and smaller well established A strong and sustainable general 92 million 2004: 40 million, reected business with high growth potential.
insurance performance good income growth as a result of We have ambitious plans to grow Our general insurance business has a uniquely investment market conditions and the across this portfolio.
We now have over balanced distribution range covering benets of cost initiatives.
30 bancassurance relationships across the brokers, partnerships and direct sales.
world and are generating excellent growth This mix means that we are less dependent On an IFRS basis, the group operating profit through this channel.
These relationships on any one product or distribution channel before tax was 2,128 million 2004: genuinely benefit both parties and we are than our competitors, enabling us to take 1,669 million.
The group delivered an fast becoming the partner of first choice.
The purchase, in overall profit before tax attributable to This is highlighted by our new joint May 2005, of RAC further enhances our shareholders of 2,528 million 2004: venture with Allied Irish Banks within Ireland.
options and provides significant growth 1,642 million.
We have invested further in our partnership potential.
The integration is on track and, Capital and financial strength with UniCredit Group in Italy and have in October, we announced that we expect Shareholders funds increased to 18 bancassurance partnerships in India.
the total pre-tax profits arising from the RAC 14.9 billion 2004: 11.7 billion as a result However, bancassurance represents only acquisition to reach 250 million per annum of the strong operational performance and part of our international story and we have on a like-for-like basis by the end of 2008 the impact of investment markets in 2005. strength in our intermediated businesses through cost savings and significant Net asset value per share was up by 22% and direct sales forces.
Our businesses in to 622 pence 2004: 511 pence.
Canada and Ireland continue to deliver strong results and, in the UK, we are The solvency position in our main trading generating significant growth in our direct operations remains robust.
Excess capital sales, particularly online.
We have consistently measured according to the Insurance Groups proved that our general insurance business Directive is 3.5 billion 2004: 3.6 billion.
is able to produce sustainable profits which, The orphan estate of our UK life businesses in turn, provide capital to fund new business was 5.2 billion 2004: 4.6 billion, based growth and acquisitions.
on a realistic assumption of liabilities.
2,528m IFRS profit before tax Richard Harvey Group chief executive Aviva plc 2005 Overview 7 Our dividend grew by 7.5% to 27.27 pence, During 2005, in my twin capacity as chairman In November 2005, we conducted our first and we have recommended to the pension of the Association of British Insurers ABI global employee survey.
It is important to scheme trustees that the group makes and Aviva group chief executive, I hosted listen to the voice of our staff and the survey an additional deficit funding contribution a number of high-level focus groups to has helped us to gain a clear picture of of 700 million to the Aviva and RAC identify the main issues affecting the personal views across the group.
In turn, pension schemes over the next two years.
long-term savings industry and to agree this information will enable us to focus The dividend and the funding contribution what we need to do to resolve them.
on the issues that are most important to reect our capital strength, and will benefit The meetings involved politicians, regulators, our employees.
employers, charities, consumer groups and We have also been running an internal people from the financial services industry.
Reporting developments think again diversity campaign.
The starkest messages were that young The 2005 financial statements are our The world is more competitive than ever, people are not sufciently aware of the first full set that have been produced and we regard the diversity of our business need to save and that there is a lack of trust using International Financial Reporting and the people we employ as key strengths.
It was also clear that Standards.
This is a change to the reporting Our employees are responding positively employers have a key role to play in and presentation of our results: however, to the changes in our markets, technology, encouraging savings in the workplace and it does not reect a change to the products, regulations and the needs of that the current pensions system in the UK underlying economics of our business.
To retain our competitive is seen as being too complex.
In response, advantage in these challenging As a market leader, it is essential that Aviva the ABI set out a five-point programme environments, we are embracing diversity engages actively with external regulators, of action to address the main concerns.
Our future success professional bodies and industry groups on It is clear that many of the issues raised depends on business teams that include technical issues affecting financial services.
are equally applicable to our other markets, people with different backgrounds, We need to understand these issues and particularly in Europe.
There is no single, experiences and perspectives and who inuence how they will affect our external simple solution and much remains to be identify with, and respond to, our customers.
reporting and hence how we are viewed by done.
However, I am determined that Aviva the market.
will play a full part in improving products Outlook and services, and restoring confidence in We have a balanced portfolio that benets External view long-term savings.
from diversication of distribution, products It is vital that Aviva plays a leading role in and geography.
Our business model shaping industry opinion and developments Across Aviva, we recognise the importance provides capital to fund new business in our important markets.
of listening and responding to our growth and acquisitions, and to support customers.
In addition to the ongoing In Europe, the Solvency II Directive will play a dividend growth.
work in our business units, we undertake key part in setting out the future framework an annual survey across many countries Our international long-term savings for the allocation of insurers capital.
to track consumers changing needs and operations continue to grow strongly, Consequently, it will have a significant attitudes to savings.
The findings provide and we have a positive outlook on our impact on the formation of a single market valuable insights that underpin our competitive position in the UK.
We continue that delivers wider choice for the consumer.
strategic thinking and support new to deliver sustainable profits from our We are supportive of the move towards product development in our businesses.
general insurance businesses and are a transparent and risk-based approach to creating significant momentum in our capital allocation for insurers and are actively Our people asset management operations.
Across engaging with regulators to achieve the I am delighted to welcome Lord Sharman all businesses, we have a track record of best results for the industry.
We are also of Redlynch, who became our chairman delivering on our commitments.
supportive of the European Commissions on 1 January 2006.
He has wide White Paper on financial services policy international experience and an outstanding We continue to focus on managing for the next five years, with its over-riding track-record in international finance.
our business for value, have laid strong theme of dynamic consolidation.
We are fortunate to have him as successor foundations to achieve further growth to Pehr Gyllenhammar, and I am looking with improving profitability, and continue forward to working with him on the next to explore value-driven inorganic growth stage of Avivas development.
Combined operating ratio COR broadly expresses the total of claims costs, commissions and expenses as a percentage of premiums.
On an EEV basis, excluding preference shares, direct capital instrument and minority interests.
0 % 28% 2,904m ROCE Increase in equity Operating profit before tax shareholders funds During 2005, we have produced another set of excellent results, while acquiring and integrating RAC into our general insurance business.
We continue to create strong returns for our shareholders and are in a good position to generate further growth.
