Group Chief Executives review I am pleased to report that 2005 was ensuring that we have a good spread of another record year for Barclays.
Profit activities both by business and by geography.
This We have a clear view about sources of performance is the consequence of having growth in the financial services industry a well-grounded and robust strategy, and over the coming years.
We see significant implementing it well.
growth opportunities in the UK but we see at least as many internationally.
Our selective Our ambition is to position Barclays as one diversification by geography, by product, and of the handful of universal banks leading the by customer segment helps us improve global industry.
Our portfolio helps us to financial performance, manage risk, and achieve this, through diversity in both create opportunities for synergies in product business and geography.
We have a simply stated business purpose: Our performance in 2005 has been to help our customers and clients achieve underpinned by three strong pillars: our their goals.
Our strategic priorities are portfolio of businesses: our geographical derived from that business purpose.
presence: and the talent and skills of our They are: building the best bank in the people.
UK: accelerating the growth of our global businesses: developing retail and Our portfolio commercial banking activities in selected UK Banking is a bellwether business for us.
countries outside the UK: and enhancing If Barclays is to achieve its ambitions, then operational excellence.
UK Banking must perform well.
We made good progress in UK Banking during 2005, In executing our strategy, we are clear about and both of its components UK Business what we are seeking to achieve on behalf of Banking and UK Retail Banking achieved our owners: higher earnings growth.
This is encouraging profit growth.
We have made what drives our investment priorities, and a public commitment to improve the what has guided us towards further productivity of this business by two international expansion.
The acquisition of a percentage points in each of 2005, 2006 controlling stake in the South African bank, and 2007, and we outperformed that goal John Varley Absa Group Limited, which we completed in in 2005.
Group Chief Executive 2005: the development of our other International Retail and Commercial Banking We know that UK Retail Banking presents businesses: and the continued rapid growth us with a significant growth opportunity.
Our of Barclays Capital, Barclays Global Investors recruitment of customers was good in 2005 and Barclaycard International all of these 400,000 new current account holders, are designed to enable us to grow faster by 250,000 new savings customers, and over Our strategy Build the best Accelerate bank in the UK growth of global businesses Barclays PLC 8 Annual Report 2005 1.3 500,000 new registrants for online banking.
Barclays Global Investors achieved prospects here are underpinned by the rapid The business is not yet performing as outstanding results.
Assets under development of Barclaycard US previously strongly as we intend, but we have identified management now exceed US$1.5 trillion.
Juniper which we acquired at the end of opportunities for improvement and have We are seeing brisk growth in the areas of 2004, by our joint venture in Scandinavia enhanced the resource and skill that we are exchange traded funds, fixed income and with Swedbank launched in 2005, and by directing towards these.
2005 was a year of the Zaragozano and Absa acquisitions.
strong headcount growth in Barclays Global UK Business Banking had a good year.
Investors BGI, which reflects our The customer base of International Retail Its business model based on relationship confidence in the position which BGI has in and Commercial Banking grew significantly management and industry sector the industry.
This position is underpinned by during 2005 as a result of the acquisition of specialisation positions it well to BGIs investment performance track record Absa, which added over 7m new customers capture business, and 2005 was busy which is outstanding and by demographics to the Group.
This transaction was the and successful.
and the fiscal pressure on governments to largest investment we have ever made provide retirement solutions for their citizens.
Absa is a very good bank, Barclays Capital had another record year.
and it is performing strongly.
The expected Barclays Capital is a client-focused business.
Our goal is to position our Wealth synergies with our pre-existing South Its performance is not particularly sensitive Management business as a leading African activities, and the introduction into to the direction or absolute level of interest European wealth manager.
This is a business Absa of specialist skills in the areas of rates but rather to levels of client activity.
The pickinvestment banking, small and midWe have taken the simple formula of offering up in profits in the last two years has been corporate banking and credit cards, make us financing and risk management services to striking, but the most important feature of confident that Absa represents a significant clients, and applied it with discipline to a our progress is good growth in the client source of earnings growth for our steadily expanding array of activities.
The base, in assets under management and shareholders in the future.
business base has expanded quickly through lending balances.
the investment of the last two years.
As a Outside Absa, the rest of the International result of growth in Asia, in continental In Barclaycard, the challenging consumer Retail and Commercial Banking portfolio Europe, and in North America, over 70% of environment and consequent rising performed strongly.
In particular, we continue Barclays Capital income comes from outside impairment in the UK contrasted with stable to make rapid progress in our Spanish the UK.
We have expanded the business in a credit conditions and very good growth in business, where the integration of Banco way that demands both short-term other markets.
Our strategy has been to Zaragozano, acquired in 2003, is proceeding performance and medium-term returns.
diversify our cards and consumer lending well.
Spain represents another good example Profits have grown very strongly.
Meanwhile, business, adding a partnerships business in of where we can take a strong retail and we have increased the range of our the UK in recent years providing Sky TV commercial banking platform, develop it investment banking activities through the customers with a credit card offering would by acquisition, and use it to introduce development of significant income streams be a good example of this in 2005 and additional service offerings to our customers in the areas of mortgage backed securities, rapidly expanding Barclaycard International.
through collaboration with Barclays Capital, equity products, commodities, and derivative Barclays Global Investors and Barclaycard.
products across all asset classes.
We now have nearly 4.5m cards in issue in the International business.
Growth Develop retail Enhance and commercial operational banking activities excellence in selected countries outside the UK Barclays PLC Annual Report 2005 9 Group Chief Executives review continued Our presence operate, we are in a position to compete significantly to the societies in which we The second pillar of our activities is the with the best in the world.
It is important for all our stakeholders business spread and geographical presence be they pensioners, employees, customers that we continue to build.
We have two Our people or governments that Barclays does well.
principal sources of earnings diversification: The third pillar of our business our people the first is in core banking activities outside is fundamental to what we do.
Barclays Long-term success, as well as good short the United Kingdom, of which Africa and has been in business for over 300 years.
term performance, depends on having the Spain would be the best examples.
The common thread running through its right strategy and executing it effectively.
The second is through the development of long history is that of relationships, and Our performance in 2005 shows that we our global businesses: investment banking, strong business relationships depend on are doing what we said we would.
We have asset management, wealth management talented people.
Recruiting, developing and accelerated the pace at which we execute and credit cards.
retaining the best people is a strategic our strategy because the strategy is a good imperative for us, and we direct a lot of one, and it is serving our shareholders and In 2005, about 40% of our profits came from time and effort at nurturing what we call customers well.
Over time we franchise health: in other words, the would like to see this percentage increase.
standing of Barclays in the minds of our It is good to be able to report record profits We expect the plans we have for our existing people, our customers and the communities in 2005.
However, it is more important portfolio of businesses to enable us to in which we live and work.
We measure our still to be able to say that a portfolio of achieve an approximately even balance peoples level of engagement regularly good businesses, along with a growing between UK and international profits over through our employee opinion surveys.
geographical presence and the talent of the next three years.
The results of the 2005 survey continued great people, position us well for the future.
the positive trend of recent years, with good We believe that we should ensure that progress in employee engagement and pride our shareholders, through investing in in Barclays.
John Varley Barclays, have appropriate exposure to the Group Chief Executive fastest growing economies in the world.
Our investment in people reflects a broader By consequence, we continue to invest in cultural change in our business.
As we grow Asia through Barclays Capital and Barclays and as we diversify, it is important that the Global Investors, which represent our people of Barclays reflect the customers, principal sources of activity in that part of clients and societies which we serve.
During 2005, we opened a branch Central to the service ethic are two things: in Shanghai, adding to our representative first that we must lift our performance, office in Beijing: and our Indian business month by month and year by year.
This is grew quickly, in particular in the area of debt an intensively competitive industry, and issuance on behalf of Indian companies.
our customers and clients have the right to expect us to be good at what we do.
We are and will continue to be selective Second, we take pride in being successful, about where we do business.
The standard because if we are successful as an we set ourselves is that where we choose to organisation, then we contribute Barclays PLC 10 Annual Report 2005
