6 BRADFORD & BINGLEY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 WWW.
CO. UK GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Positioned for growth Steven Crawshaw We have continued to build GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE on our strong track record in the specialist lending sector.
Our chosen markets performed very well during the second half of 2005 and we started 2006 in a good position with a stable, healthy lending environment.
2005 was a challenging and successful year for the Group, a year of two halves in the residential lending market and a period where we have consolidated on the intense changes that we went through in 2004.
My ambitions for the Group in 2005 have been fullled.
The Lending business has shown good growth, Retail continues to improve and the cost cutting programme has been completed with a new, ongoing vigilance against unnecessary cost ination now embedded in the business.
I am delighted that the actions we undertook to simplify and reinvigorate Bradford & Bingley are showing such success.
We have become a stronger, healthier organisation and have driven profit growth off that improved platform with underlying profit increasing 11% to 310.1 million over the year 2004: 280.4 million.
The Groups profit before tax and loss on sale of discontinued operations also increased to 263.5 million 2004: 231.9 million.
During the year, I was pleased to welcome, Chris Gillespie and Chris Willford to the Group.
Their experience from careers in financial services and other industries brings added strength and depth to our Board.
CO. UK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 7 WE ARE UNIQUE AS A LENDING INSTITUTION IN OUR PREFERENCE FOR HIGH QUALITY SELECTIVE ASSETS WITH A FULLY SECURED LOAN PORTFOLIO AND NO EXPOSURE TO UNSECURED CONSUMER LENDING.
Lending This was not a phenomenon confined to Credit quality and impairment We have continued to build on our proposition Bradford & Bingley.
The overall mortgage The UK secured lending credit cycle appears to of lending in more profitable, specialist market also had its highest ever half year for have turned for the better.
Record high segments of the residential mortgage market.
gross lending in the second half of 2005. employment and low interest rates over the last We believe that good growth and attractive However, within the wider recovery, it is highly few years conspired to generate an margins are available in our markets and, by significant that buy-to-let and self-cert, two of exceptionally benign credit environment that balancing innovative product design with our main products, grew particularly strongly.
deteriorated in the first half of 2004.
Since then prudent risk management, Bradford & Bingley This supports our view that the growth of a combination of base rate rises, slight will continue to prosper.
We are unique as a these markets is likely to keep on deterioration in employment levels and other lending institution in our preference for high outperforming the wider mortgage market.
stresses on the UK consumer and economy quality selective assets with a fully secured loan These specialist areas continue to be have led to a modest rise in arrears across the portfolio and no exposure to unsecured supported by strong demographic drivers, a market.
This upward trend represents a, return consumer lending.
fundamental shortage of housing stock and, in to more normal levels of credit default rather the case of buy-to-let, good demand from than a material deterioration.
The absolute Our Balance Sheet has continued to show landlords for property, as well as from tenants.
numbers of distressed loans in the market healthy growth with total assets increasing 7% The market for buy-to-let loans remains remain very low by historical standards.
Total new competitive, but we have not seen any advances were 8.8 billion 2004: 9.2 billion fundamental change in the nature of the We have seen a similar movement within the including acquired assets.
The bulk of this was market or pricing of loans.
Group to that reported in the external market.
attributable to our residential lending activities Arrears levels across all our portfolios have with the remainder coming from our We remain committed to strengthening our been showing a modest upward trend well Commercial and Housing Association business.
position as a leading player in the specialist within management expectations.
Our share of the buy-to-let this to continue alongside trends in the overall The residential lending market went through a market was around 20% in the second half of mortgage market and, specically for Bradford significant change during the course of 2005. the year and we are building on our strong & Bingley, as the significant new lending growth In the first half of the year the mortgage market positions in the self-cert and lifetime markets.
we have achieved in the past three years experienced very low lending volumes and translates into a more mature balance sheet.
We had run down business Mortgage portfolio acquisitions have continued levels in the autumn of 2004 to reduce to play a part in our lending business with the At 31 December 2005 residential loans more operational pressure over M-Day when Group acquiring 1.4 billion of loan portfolios than three months in arrears stood at 1.19% mortgage regulation was introduced and as we over the period 2004: 1.3 billion.
Our 2004: 0.77% for the whole book and 1.06% implemented a major operational upgrade that primary focus for growth is our organic 2004: 0.52% for our buy-to-let book.
included switching our residential lending lending.
However, mortgage portfolio operations to a new mortgage system.
As we acquisitions will continue to provide an We are confident that our arrears and bad tried to rebuild volumes in the first quarter of opportunistic, alternative channel.
debts will remain low as a direct result of our 2005, the market slowed markedly and we conservative underwriting processes and took a decision to preserve credit quality rather The environment for our Commercial and lending policies ensuring that the quality of our loan books is maintained.
Increases in arrears than compete for the light volumes that were Housing Association lending businesses stayed available in an uncertain credit environment.
ercely competitive during the year, as it had do not necessarily translate into losses.
Commercial property has been have a high equity cushion in our portfolio, the In the second quarter the market started to a popular asset class for investors throughout average loan-to-value LTV of the whole recover and we became more comfortable 2005 and is expected to remain so in 2006. residential book was 50% 2004: 45% on an with the credit outlook.
We delivered a steady We made new loans where margins and credit indexed basis taking account of house price improvement in the level of applications and terms were at acceptable levels and protected ination and 68% 2004: 67% on an original new loans as we moved through the year to the loans we already held on our balance basis at the time the loan was made at achieve record lending in the second half, sheet.
At 31 December 2005 the Commercial 31 December 2005.
The average LTV of new moving back to a more natural position in the and Housing Association book stood at lending remained steady at 73% 2004: 74%.
new lending market compared to the first half.
5.0 billion 2004: 5.3 billion with 1.6 billion In addition, we remain well provided for with This change is particularly clear from our new 2004: 1.5 billion new lending in the year.
an impairment allowance representing 0.18% residential lending performance 2.5 billion in of residential assets 2004: 0.16%.
the first half and a record 4.7 billion in the second, representing a share of the total We continue to have a fully secured balance market of 2% and 3% respectively.
sheet and, as such, have no exposure to the current deterioration in the consumer credit market.
8 BRADFORD & BINGLEY ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 WWW.
CO. UK CORE COSTS REDUCED BY GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 7% diminish in absolute terms and as a percentage cost:income ratio down to 45.6% compared to of the book.
60.7% in 2004 for the Group and 49.8% for the continuing business.
As a consequence, Group net interest margin improved in the second half of the year relative These improvements have come about as a to the first half and only reduced slightly on consequence of simplifying the organisation 2004 2005: 1.21%, 2004: 1.25%.
Looking around fewer lines of business, a smaller forward, our balance sheet and net interest central overhead and more efficient front and margin are expected to be more stable.
The number of employees in the Group now stands at 3,043 As a regulated bank, we are required to hold compared to 3,152 for the core business at the reserves of capital and the amounts are dened end of 2004, with a reduction of nearly 500 in as the tier 1 and total capital ratios.
In line with the average number of people employed to our conservative approach to lending, we 3,062 2004: 3,530 in the continuing business.
remain a well capitalised bank with our year end tier 1 capital ratio at 7.9% 2004: 7.5%, well Our formal cost cutting programme has above the regulatory minimum.
This is further now concluded and we have exceeded the bolstered when taken in the context of our 50 million target that we set in May 2004. relative lack of life assurance, proprietary trading, We now have a stronger, more vigilant stance commercial and unsecured lending activities.
We toward costs in the operating businesses.
It is will continue to manage our tier 1 capital within this dynamic that will drive our cost our stated range of 7% to 8%.
Our total capital performance in the future rather than another ratio also increased to 13.5% 2004: 13.2%.
Retail Market outlook We have continued to improve efficiency by The housing market is in good shape.
After simplifying our sales and distribution processes.
the lull seen in the first half of the year, Our relationship with L&G continues to develop confidence has returned to the market and Balance Sheet and capital and this arrangement offers good growth and demand has been buoyant.
House price We worked hard during 2004 and 2005 to income prospects for the coming year.
General ination has stabilised over the past eighteen improve the diversication of our funding insurance sales stabilised as we have successfully months, with the risk of a wholesale fall in structure to promote a stronger balance sheet.
moved new sales to the counters in our house prices now remote, which will boost At the end of 2005 our success in this task is branches rather than being related to our old confidence in the market for the year ahead.
evident from our more balanced funding mix Building Society mortgage sales.
43% of total liabilities and equity from retail The housing market will also continue to be deposits, 34% wholesale and 14% from Savings showed an excellent performance supported by the structural pressure arising secured funding sources 2004: 42%, 39%, and during 2005.
Balances have increased 9% to from the UKs shortage of housing supply 11% respectively.
relative to household creation, although it will 17.7 billion 2004: 16.2 billion.
The bulk of this increase has come from our eSavings offering be limited on the upside by current This does not tell the whole of the 1.2 billion with a strong performance from affordability constraints.
We have our operation in the Isle of Man 0.3 billion.
broadened our presence in the capital In our branch-based accounts we managed a We expect the mortgage market to remain markets, targeting the full spectrum of significant volume of maturities during the year robust.
The favourable social, demographic investors in a geographically diverse spread and improved our customer retention rates.
and economic factors that underpin our of financial markets.
We have seen good I am particularly pleased with our Savings specialist markets will continue to drive appetite from investors for our securitisation performance because of the funding it provides their outperformance.
master trust, covered bond and wholesale to the Lending business and the customers it borrowing programmes.
generates for the other Retail businesses.
Risks from prudent mortgage lending continue to be low.
We continue to believe that the Although we have experienced some pressure Costs independent management of monetary policy by on our net interest margin as a consequence The Groups cost base was 264.8 million in the Bank of England will prevent any marked of this diversication process, a combination of 2005, 167.4 million down on the whole swings in interest rates.
Although the favourable changes in the relative cost of these business and 20.1 million down on the employment level, a major driver of secured different types of funds and a more stable mix continuing business in 2004.
This is a material lending arrears, appears to have passed its has reduced this effect.
On the asset side, the improvement and brings our underlying cyclical peak, the UK economy remains relatively run-off of the back book has continued to healthy and significant deterioration is unlikely.
CO. UK ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 BRADFORD & BINGLEY 9 We expect our arrears levels to continue to remain low in a historical context but to show a moderate upward trend.
This partly reects the mild increases in credit stress from the Housing & rental market extremely benign conditions experienced in the recent past, but is also due to the overall growth in the Groups assets and the Both the housing and mortgage markets showed a strong seasoning of our lending book.
recovery in the second half of 2005 following sluggish Overall, we expect the environment to be demand in the first half.
Indeed, gross mortgage lending stable in 2006. reached new record levels by the end of the year.
Business outlook House prices, which had shown little increase in the latter part of 2004, were at in Our Lending business began the year in a very the first half of 2005.
However, there was a modest rise in prices towards the end of good position.
The momentum of record the year, indicative of the increasing confidence in the market.
In 2006 we expect the lending volumes in the second half of 2005 has market environment to remain stable with the soft landing achieved in 2005 being continued with a strong pipeline in early 2006. sustained.
The main drivers of the housing market, the mortgage market and Margins are stable and we are competing mortgage arrears seem unlikely to show any material change in the near-term.
This should translate into good growth of lending income.
We are operating in a robust mortgage market and see good prospects for our chosen specialist segments, which positions us well for future growth.
Retail is now better placed to deliver profitable growth and will support our Lending business through continued improvement in savings balances.
Costs remain under tight control and we have a sound capital base for future expansion.
We have had a strong start to 2006.
Our The UK economy, although currently growing slightly below trend, is in a relatively business is stronger, leaner, and better able to strong position and is expected to improve through 2006.
Interest rates are low and convert growth into profit.
stable with market consensus currently suggesting room for some small cuts in interest rates.
Employment levels seem to have peaked, but with growth only marginally below its trend rate, we expect the rise in unemployment will have little material impact on levels of demand in the market.
Earnings are expected to show steady growth, potentially helping to improve mortgage affordability, although the growth in disposable income will be limited by price rises including larger council tax and utility bills.
The UK private rental sector is healthy with demand from tenants looking for rental property remaining strong.
As a consequence, interest from people wanting to become landlords continues at high levels.
Social changes toward renting, demographic movements and some affordability issues in the housing market all remain positive for the buy-to-let sector.
We conduct regular surveys of our customers to give us insight into the views and intentions of borrowers who invest in the private rental sector.
The most recent set of results are extremely positive.
Demand amongst landlords and tenants for property is healthy moving into 2006.
