Caledonia Investments plc 04 Annual report 2005 Chief executives report This is the second year that we are reporting our results as an investment trust.
Last year we reported that for 2003 we had been named the Brightest Newcomer by the Investment Trusts magazine and, this time, we can report that for 2004 your company won an award as Best Global Growth Trust.
Performance The year ended 31 March 2005 has again seen strong growth in the value of our investment portfolio.
Net asset value NAV per share, before accrued final dividends, has grown from 1282p at the beginning of the year to 1554p at 31 March 2005 a growth of 21%.
As the FTSE All-Share index has grown by nearly 12% during this period, this represents a 9% outperformance.
The table below analyses this outperformance into its component parts.
One year performance attribution Return % Tim Ingram Chief executive Market FTSE All-Share index 11.9 Stock selection 7.6 Sector allocation 0.5 NAV per share enhancement elective special dividend 2.3 Management and other expenses 1.1 Caledonias NAV per share 21.2 We have continued to Of particular note, given our style to back strong management teams, is that over 7% of the outperformance can be attributed to our having, in aggregate, invested in companies which have make new investments themselves outperformed within their sectors.
Also of note is the NAV per share enhancement of 2.3%, which resulted from and to disinvest where the elective special dividend and reduction of capital that was completed last July.
This exercise, which is mentioned more fully in the chairmans statement, both resolved in full a potentially appropriate in an unstable situation within our largest shareholder, The Cayzer Trust Company, and directly created additional value for our remaining shareholders through the NAV per share enhancement.
environment in which Notwithstanding our good shorter term performance, our attractive opportunities approach continues to be long term and we believe that a more pertinent measure for our shareholders is our total shareholder return TSR, measured over five and ten year periods.
The table remain available to the below shows this performance.
Five and ten year relative TSR performance longer term investor.
Caledonia FTSE All-Share To 31 March 2005 TSR Total Return Outperformance %%% 5 years 124.5 8.2 132.7 10 years 229.7 118.4 111.3 Caledonia Investments plc 05 Annual report 2005 We have signicantly outperformed our benchmark and this During the course of our financial year, our investment committee performance again puts us in the top quartile when measured evaluated around 150 potential new investment opportunities.
against the Global Growth sector for all investment trusts over These were short-listed down to a more manageable number, these periods.
The above table also shows that, as for last year, which were then intensely evaluated and from which we made we have been producing positive returns over the last five and seven new investments for a total amount of 60m.
In addition, ten year periods, the former when our benchmark has been in we invested a further 64m as follow-on funding in existing negative territory.
This we will continue to strive to do.
This is a similar level to the previous year when a to enhance our ability to produce positive returns in times when total of 108m was invested in new and follow-on investments.
equity markets are at or falling, as well as being prepared to Both new and follow-on investments for the year ended hold cash, we also invest in other classes of assets such as 31 March 2005 are shown in the table below.
unquoted investments 22% of the portfolio at 31 March 2005, property 13% and hedge funds 3%.
In all these cases, our A second distinctive characteristic of our investment style is our business policy is the same: to back, with long term capital, hands-on approach after we have made the investment.
As stated carefully selected management teams.
above, it is our normal policy for a Caledonia investment executive to join the board of the investee company as a non-executive Investment activity director, and considerable time is spent in working supportively Our investment style remains consistent.
We only invest when with management to achieve long term shareholder value we are confident that we are backing management teams that creation.
A large portion of the investment executives time is should be able to create good medium and long term value for spent in this way, and we believe that such an approach is a their shareholders.
We look to take significant shareholdings in significant contributor to our performance.
During the year, we such situations, usually with a Caledonia executive taking a have had a Caledonia executive as a director on the boards of position on the board of the investee company, and where we 24 of our top 30 investments.
Whether we have representation are aiming to be a long term supportive and involved investor.
on the board or not, efforts are made to inuence constructively This is a distinctive but unusual style, particularly in relation to the operations and strategies of each investee company.
quoted companies, and one that brings us a strong ow of investment opportunities.
Considerable time is spent analysing these opportunities and we are very discerning in our final selection, especially in relation to the quality of the management.
The entry price is obviously a further major consideration, as we need to be confident that there is room for good value creation over the medium term.
New and follow-on investments Resultant Investment Cost holding Category Country Business m % New investments Cobepa 22.8 9.4Unquoted Belgium Investment company Incisive Media 10.6 8.8 Quoted UK Business publisher Omniport 6.0 39.2 Unquoted UK Regional airport owner Indian securities 7.4 Quoted India Portfolio of quoted Indian securities Berkshire Capital 5.1 30.0 Unquoted USA Investment banking advisor Terrace Hill 4.1 7.5 Quoted UK Commercial property developer Seven Publishing 3.5 21.7 Unquoted UK Magazine publisher 59.5 Follow-on investments General Practice 16.9 30.0 Unquoted UK Health care property developer and owner Oval 12.5 27.4 Unquoted UK Insurance broking consolidator 1 Polar Capital funds 9.3 24.6 Hedge funds Cayman Paragon and Asia ex-Japan hedge funds Tribal Group 9.2 7.4 Quoted UK Support services for the UK public sector Melrose Resources 0.9 6.7 Quoted UK Oil and gas exploration and production Other 15.5 Includes private equity fund draw downs 64.3 123.8 1.
Holding in the management company was unchanged.
Caledonia Investments plc 06 Annual report 2005 Chief executives report continued Although we are a long term investor, we believe that there comes Shareholders a time when it is appropriate for us to disinvest, or partially sell We believe that putting our efforts into growing NAV per share down, from an investment.
In addition, there may be redemptions is the best way to achieve our financial objectives for our within funds in which we have invested which give rise to capital shareholders.
However, we are aware of the continuing desire of ows back to Caledonia.
During the year, we realised some 218m shareholders also to see a narrowing in the discount of our share through such events as listed in the table below.
price when compared with NAV per share.
We reported last year on initiatives we were taking to create an environment which Full and partial disinvestments would encourage a narrowing of this discount.
These initiatives m are bearing fruit in that our discount, which was around 21% at 31 March 2004, had narrowed to around 12% at 31 March 2005.
Kerzner International 62.0 It is our belief that our shareholder objectives are in line with the Close Brothers 57.1 aspirations of many retail investors, and we are continuing to Aberforth LP fund 23.8 increase the awareness of Caledonia as an investment trust amongst potential retail shareholders.
As part of this initiative, Radio Investments 13.7 we arranged from 1 November 2004 for our shares to be listed Polar Capital and funds 12.4 on the stock exchange in New Zealand, where UK incorporated Distributions from private equity funds 8.1 investment trusts currently offer a more tax efficient means of investment for New Zealand resident individuals when compared Redleaf II 7.0 with other collective investment vehicles.
As a result of this and Paladin Resources 6.5 other initiatives, we estimate that, during the course of the year, Hill & Smith Holdings 5.2 the percentage of retail shareholders has increased by around 7% to about 23% at 31 March 2005.
Active Capital Trust 5.1 Offshore Logistics Bristow capital reorganisation 3.7 Recent activity Amerindo Internet Fund 3.0 The only significant changes to our portfolio in the six weeks since our year end have been the sale of all of our shares in Other 10.1 F&C Asset Management for 20m and the purchase for 18m 217.7 of a 22% stake in Satellite Information Services, an unquoted company specialising in the distribution of betting related media.
As a general rule, we disinvest when we believe that, going forward, the funds released can achieve a higher return for our The future shareholders through being employed elsewhere, or when Since our financial year end, stock markets have experienced concentration of risk considerations mean it is prudent to reduce some turbulence, justifying our stance to be cautious and our holding.
However, when disinvesting, particular care is taken ungeared.
We are confident that the resilience of our long to ensure that we do not damage our valuable reputation as a term approach should continue to prove to be of value in these long term supportive investor.
We are continuing to see a strong ow of good business opportunities, and our approach to these remains cautious Treasury but consistent.
Over the last eighteen months, we have spent We started the year with net liquid funds of 34m.
Although some significant amounts of time looking at the higher growth markets borrowings were incurred during the year to finance the elective in Asia and the Far East, and during the last few months have special dividend which was paid in July, by the end of the year, as initiated a small portfolio of quoted Indian shares these were a result of our net disinvestment activity, we again had net liquid valued at 8.4m at 31 March 2005, which represents a 13.5% funds of around 40m and, thus, no external borrowings, reecting gain on cost.
We believe that the fast growing Indian economy our conservative approach in the present market conditions.
offers good opportunities for our long term approach and, although we would not expect this area to become a particularly At our extraordinary general meeting in June last year, we sought significant part of our portfolio in the short to medium term, and obtained authority to buy our own shares on the open market, we are hoping to increase our investment activity in that country.
which we can now hold in treasury, when we believe this is We are also looking at opportunities in China, but with added beneficial to our shareholders.
During the year, we bought into caution in view of the linguistic, legal and cultural challenges treasury 100,000 of our shares at a price of 1015p per share.
for a financial investor in that area.
We are, of course, also We will be seeking approval at our forthcoming annual general continuing to look at opportunities in our traditional markets.
meeting to extend this authority for a further year, as we believe there may be further opportunities for us to enhance shareholder By carefully selecting the right opportunities where there are value in this way.
strong management teams, by continuing our active involvement in investee companies and through disinvesting when appropriate, We have taken a cautious approach to our structural US dollar we seek to maintain our distinctive performance.
currency exposures, which arise because some of our investments are denominated in US dollars.
During the year, we increased the extent of our dollar hedging so that by the end of the financial year these structural dollar exposures were fully hedged.
Costs Keeping overhead costs down is an important objective for us.
Every pound of overhead cost is a pound reduction in our Tim Ingram shareholders net assets.
We believe that being a self-managed Chief executive investment trust with direct control over costs signicantly helps this objective.
Our overhead costs for the year were about 1% of our net assets, which compares favourably against a pre-tax weighted industry average of 1.5% particularly in view of the time-consuming hands-on approach that we take with our investment portfolio.
