6 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Sen P Mahon Chief Executives Review I am very pleased with the groups revenue and receivables growth, Finances WCF smaller branch performance during 2005, which has careful management of credit quality network.
again delivered double digit profit and further improvements in our growth and at the same time cost income ratio.
During 2005 we managed a particularly satisfactory improvement in the groups maintaining stable credit quality.
It is particularly pleasing that against a During the last year many lenders have cost to income ratio, reducing from continuing background of challenging announced a deterioration in their bad 32.5% last year to 30.1%.
Our conditions in the UK consumer credit debts and arrears levels.
It is therefore investment over the past few years in a pleasing to report that the divisions new generation of business systems markets, the group has increased its profits before tax by 12.6% to continued investment and increased and supporting back office processes, 115.1 million 2004: 102.3 million.
focus on credit quality has ensured that together with greater centralisation of direct repayment arrears levels have customer selection and underwriting This strong performance reflects the remained just below the groups target activities is beginning to bear fruit.
groups many years experience in the range of 8% to 10% at 7.6% Direct operating costs are being non-standard consumer finance 2004: 7.2% of gross receivables.
The successfully reduced as a result of real market and our significant investment divisions direct repayment loan loss and sustainable efficiency savings in in bespoke credit profiling software, provisioning charge for the year has key areas, both in the branch network underwriting technology and collection remained stable at 8.9% of net and at our specialist Central Processing processes.
This has enabled the group receivables compared to 9% reported Units CPUs.
to maintain stable credit quality, arrears last year.
levels and bad debts during a The division has continued to Total revenue generated by the strengthen its overall management demanding year.
divisions lending activities increased by of risk and operational control over Consumer Credit 4.5% during the year to 620 million underwriting and regulated activities, Profits before tax of the consumer 2004: 594 million.
Interest income by transferring the selection of new credit division, which comprises mainly increased by 4.9% to 505 million customers away from the branch Welcome Financial Services, have 2004: 482 million and insurance, network to the divisions specialist increased significantly during the year brokerage commissions and other CPUs, located in Nottingham and Hull.
by 13.9% to 117.9 million, compared income increased by 2.6% to The centralisation of these processes to 103.5 million reported last year.
has also provided national distributors Sale of goods reduced by 23.3% to with the speed and consistency of This profitable expansion of the 51 million 2004: 67 million, underwriting and service they require, divisions activities has been achieved reflecting a reduction in the sale of in an increasingly competitive and through a combination of controlled motor vehicles by Welcome Car regulated environment.
Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 7 After a loan has been advanced by the the year is reflected in a decrease in 254 million to 1.4 billion at CPU, the majority of customers are new direct repayment business written 31 December 2005.
Average contacted by an account manager in the period which, at 867 million, is customer balances increased by based in their local branch to begin 5.4% lower than 2004.
In addition, 10.8% 2004: 12.3% during the year the process of establishing a close customer numbers continue to be to 4,700 2004: 4,300. working relationship.
Maintaining these adversely affected by early settlements relationships is a key element of the as consumers continue to take Secured Loans groups overall arrears management advantage of the buoyant re-mortgage The Finance & Leasing Association FLA has reported a reduction in processes and is now the major role market and greater choice in the of the divisions branch network.
consumer credit sector to consolidate UK secured lending volumes during their borrowings with other providers at 2005 of 25.6% to 3.0 billion, There have been no significant changes finer rates.
compared to growth of almost 5.0% during the year in the product mix and in the previous year.
This decline in average advances made to customers Against this background, it is pleasing 2nd mortgage secured lending in the by Welcome Financial Services.
The to report that the number of direct UK has been driven primarily by a business continues to provide repayment customers has increased significant increase in the availability of relatively small, unsecured personal by 6.2% during the year to 358,000 lower rate 1st mortgage products and loans, typically of around 1,500 2004: 337,000, with 111,000 2004: larger balance unsecured loans.
2004: 1,400 to around two thirds of 133,000 new customer agreements its new customers.
The number of Against this backdrop, the consumer where the typical advance of around customers settling their agreements credit division has seen a relatively small reduction in its 2nd charge secured 4,800 remains unchanged from the early remained constant at 45,000, previous year, were provided to around which represents an early settlement volumes, down 4.4% in the year to 18% of new customers for the ratio of around 13% 2004: 14% of 390 million 2004: 408 million.
In purchase of motor vehicles.
The division continues these changing market conditions, the division has continued to develop its loan advances, with an average to make progress in understanding the advance of 7,700 2004: 6,700, and evolving needs of those customers distribution network with a number of superior secured loans, with an average most likely to settle early and in refining key secured brokers and introducers, advance of 12,300 2004: 12,200, its product range to meet their which has resulted in the divisions market share for these products were granted to the remaining new requirements.
Direct repayment loans and receivables, As previously reported, the groups after allowance for loan loss provision, We are delighted that Alliance & cautious approach to lending during increased during the year by Leicester has established a partnership 8 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Chief Executives Review continued with the groups consumer credit party dealers.
The division has much of this business would fall outside business, Welcome Financial Services, continued to expand its hire purchase Welcome Financial Services tighter to launch their new secured business in the UK used car market underwriting criteria, introduced in Homeowner Loan product in the first by increasing loan volumes by 2.8% July 2004. quarter of 2006.
Alliance & Leicester will to 210 million during 2005.
This undertake the marketing activity for this compares with an overall reduction of The division has continued to develop product and Welcome Financial 2.1% for the industry as a whole, as its external distribution network in the Services will manage the application reported by the FLA. UK used car hire purchase market, whilst ensuring there is no over process and subsequent account management.
Secured personal loans The primary objective for the formation dependence on any single introducer.
which meet Alliance & Leicesters of WCF was the replacement of lost The success of this strategy is reflected criteria, will be written on their balance hire purchase volumes, following the in the significant increase achieved in acquisition of two key third party third party hire purchase volumes, sheet, with the remaining applications being passed to Welcome Financial introducers by competitors in 2003. which have grown by 11.2% to Services for underwriting consideration Having achieved this objective, the 152 million during the year.
against the consumer credit divisions location and effectiveness of WCFs branch network and the cost of new Unsecured Personal Loans qualifying criteria.
Demand for the consumer credit customer acquisition compared to The reorganisation and integration of other introducers was reviewed in divisions unsecured personal loan Dial4aloan into the consumer credit July 2005.
This review resulted in a products remains well ahead of the division was successfully completed reduction of WCF branches from corresponding period last year.
However, against a continuing during the year.
WCF remains the provides the consumer credit divisions consumer credit divisions largest background of difficult trading existing customer base with third party introducer of hire purchase customers, conditions in the UK unsecured lending re-mortgage facilities and is currently with 7,209 2004: 10,028 vehicles markets, the division has continued to maintain its cautious stance on the introducing new business volumes of being sold in 2005. around 10 million per month to selection of new customers and its mortgage lenders, in return for The recent closure of a major distributor policy of not making larger loan commissions.
in the non-standard used car market advances which are not secured.
should assist WCF in maintaining This policy, together with the on-going Hire Purchase current levels of new customer The consumer credit division generates introductions to the division.
However, refinement of the divisions bespoke hire purchase business from its own we do not expect any significant uplift in credit profiling systems, utilising latest internal introducer, WCF and from third volumes, because we believe that customer performance data, continues Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 9 to strengthen the divisions control over The number of home collected the year 2004: 6.5 million.
Collections the selection and approval of new customers has also been reduced on behalf of external clients to the customers.
Tighter lending criteria during the year by 29,000 2004: group accounted for 85% of Lewis for the divisions unsecured personal 73,000 to 308,000 at 31 December commission based activities.
loan products has contributed to a 2005 and the planned consolidation of 12.2% reduction in unsecured loan the home collected branch network As previously reported, there has been volumes during the year to 267 million from 112 to 52 branches has now been a noticeable increase during the year in 2004: 304 million.
We expect the managed pricing competition for the purchase of debt portfolios.
Although there are early undoubtedly assisted in delivering rate of customer reduction to continue on-going stability in the divisions in the current year and to contribute to signs that prices may be stabilising, customers arrears and bad debt ratios.
an increasing loan loss provisioning Lewis has maintained a prudent charge as the home collected loan approach and focused the majority of Progressive Insurance its investment in acquiring a further book is run down.
The home collected We are delighted that a new agreement loan loss provisioning charge for 2005, 28 million 2004: 17 million of was entered into with Norwich Union, prior to the gross-up adjustment, was portfolios under existing contracts and which extended our successful 29 million 2004: 21 million.
4 million 2004: 4 million in new debt relationship for a further five years.
The company anticipates a has resulted in all insurance risk being Home collected loans and receivables similar level of investment in 2006. commuted to Norwich Union, including at 31 December 2005 amounted to policies written prior to 2005 and 123 million 2004: 148 million Corporate Services additional and on-going benefits for and now represents less than 8% As reported last year, Cattles Commercial Finance was sold on both the group and customers.
2004: 12% of the total consumer Consequently, Progressive Insurance, credit divisions receivables, with an 14 January 2005, for a total cash the groups reinsurance company, has average customer balance of 521 consideration of 70 million, to Close ceased to trade.
During 2005, Cattles Invoice Finance Home Collected Credit Debt Collection The division continues to migrate from Lewis, the groups debt recovery performed well, with profits of those customers in the home collected specialist continued to perform well in a 4.3 million reflecting an increase of credit market which it believes are competitive market, delivering pre-tax 20% over last year.
The company focused on growing its client base, uneconomic to serve.
Consequently, profits of 2.8 million, up 3.5% on last home collected advances have been year.
This business provides clients with reflecting the investment made in new reduced during the year by 42 million a full debt recovery service, generating regional offices during the last two 2004: 38 million to 133 million.
commission income of 6.4 million in years, whilst maintaining strong control 10 Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Chief Executives Review continued over credit quality.
The companys bad the continuing development and growth thank them for the strong support we debt ratio remained stable at less than of the groups business.
continue to enjoy in both the bank and 1% of receivables which, at the year bond markets.
Under these new end, amounted to 66 million.
Group borrowings increased during the arrangements, the groups gearing ratio year by 131 million net of the covenant has been increased from Information Technology 70 million sales proceeds of Cattles 5 times to 6 times.
Project Phoenix, the development of Commercial Finance to 1.4 billion at our next generation of IT and customer 31 December 2005.
Balance sheet Since the year end, we were also relationship management systems, liquidity remained strong and delighted to conclude our second US which began in 2003, remains on shareholders funds increased in the private placement, which raised the schedule for implementation by the year by 25 million to 361 million, equivalent of $119 million at fixed rates end of 2006.
This major new system with net receivables increasing by for an average term of nine years.
In will enable the consumer credit 189 million to 1.7 billion at accordance with our treasury policy, all division to segment more accurately 31 December 2005. associated currency and interest rate its customer database and, as a risk was immediately hedged through consequence, to refine its marketing The groups long standing treasury the derivative markets.
This enhanced ability to strategy of limiting its exposure to volatility in interest rate movements, At 31 December 2005, the groups match the evolving credit status and needs of customers to the groups through appropriate financial hedging gearing ratio stood at 4.4 times products should continue to improve instruments, remains in place.
At 2004: 4.2 shareholders funds, the divisions processes for 31 December 2005, approximately excluding goodwill and other intangible 84% of the groups total borrowings assets.
The groups credit rating recruitment, selection and retention of customers.
were protected against future interest remains unchanged at BBB.
rate volatility, for an average period of Funding Position around five and a half years.
Future At 31 December 2005, the group had I am delighted with the groups In December 2005, we were pleased to progress this year and its continued available headroom of 274 million within its existing funding facilities, announce the agreement of all our success.
These excellent results reflect which had an average maturity of over lenders to the amendment of the the tremendous efforts and total four years.
We believe that this level of groups borrowing covenants to the commitment displayed by our new IFRS accounting convention and management and staff and I should headroom remains sufficient to support Cattles plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 11 very much like to offer my personal institutions, provides further thanks to all our employees for their opportunities for successful growth.
The profitable expansion of the groups As previously reported, Barrie activities continues to be underpinned Cottingham will retire as Chairman and by our strategy of responsible lending, as a director of the company at the controlled growth and careful conclusion of the Annual General management of credit quality.
Barrie has trading is in line with our expectations been an outstanding member of the and, together with my senior Board for over 10 years.
As Chief management team, I look forward to Executive, I know that I speak for the another successful year in 2006. whole of the groups senior management when I say that Barries wise counsel and guidance has been invaluable to the successful development of the group.
Barrie leaves with our grateful thanks and our very Sen Mahon best wishes for the future.
Chief Executive 16 March 2006 Demand for the groups products remains strong, with the consumer credit division continuing to receive an increasing number of potential customer loan applications from many of the UKs major credit brokers and hire purchase dealers.
The development of new distribution channels and strategic alliances, such as Alliance & Leicester and recently agreed pilots with two other financial
