Close Brothers CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW The total goodwill charge for the year was 23.1 million 2004 17.6 million.
Overview The group remained well capitalised and soundly The spread of the groups operating income financed.
The consolidated risk asset ratio at 20 reflects the diversity of its activities.
remained income increased by 21 per cent.
represented an increasing proportion of our operating income as we grew our asset Risk Management management division.
Risk management is the process of identifying 2004 2005 the principal business risks facing the group, establishing appropriate controls to manage % % those risks and ensuring that appropriate Net interest income 33 31 monitoring and reporting systems are in place.
Net fee income 40 43 The groups process, which balances cost Net dealing income 25 22 against risk within the constraints of the groups Other income 2 4 risk appetite, is consistent with the prudent Expenses continued to be tightly controlled and management required of a large financial our overall expenses income ratio increased only organisation.
modestly compared to last year.
The group is exposed to a wide range of risks.
2004 2005 These can be categorised as reputational, Operating income 401m 448m financial, operational and compliance risks and are inherent in many of our businesses.
Since Administrative expenses 249m 284m each of our main operations is managed separately and there is little or no integration of Administrative expenses as systems, management or customers, risk % of operating income 62.0% 63.3% management is carried out by the local Number of staff at year end 2,252 2,440 management of each business.
This is overseen on a regular basis by senior group management Staff numbers increased principally as a result of supported by group control and is reviewed by acquisitions.
the audit and compliance committee which reports to the board.
Our customer loan book, including securitised receivables, increased by 11 per cent.
during The board considers reputational risk to be the the year to 1.95 billion.
It remained well spread, most significant risk in a business operating in both by type of asset over which we took the financial services sector.
Awareness of the security and by number of loans.
importance of the groups reputation underpins our control culture.
This risk could crystallise as Analysis of Group Loan Book a result of a failure in our financial, operational or by Asset Security compliance controls.
2004 figures in brackets Financial risk is mitigated by the group having a Property 9% 9% Insurance well established reporting structure for agreeing premiums Cars and strategy, risk appetite, planning and budgets.
22% 26% motorbikes Detailed monthly group management accounts 22% 19% are produced and variances and trends are closely monitored.
Divisional heads report to the group board each month on the performance of, Debt factoring and key issues affecting, their division.
Detailed 7% 6% budgets and three-year plans, which are based upon group strategy, are flexed to take account Other Transport, of potential adverse conditions and are subject 9% 10% engineering Printing to rigorous testing at divisional and board level.
& plant machinery 19% 14% 12% 16% Operational risk includes credit, market and liquidity risks as well as other risks specific to The loan book represented some 442,000 each of our businesses.
There are clear separate advances, only three of which exceeded reporting lines and defined areas of responsibility 5 million, the largest being 12 million.
at board, divisional and business level.
This structure is designed to ensure, amongst other Impairment reviews of goodwill resulted in a things, that key issues and developments are reassessment of the carrying value in certain of escalated on a timely basis.
our banking and asset management businesses.
