Close Brothers CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT FINANCIAL REVIEW The total goodwill charge for the year was 23.1 million 2004 17.6 million.
Overview The group remained well capitalised and soundly The spread of the groups operating income financed.
The consolidated risk asset ratio at 20 reflects the diversity of its activities.
remained income increased by 21 per cent.
represented an increasing proportion of our operating income as we grew our asset Risk Management management division.
Risk management is the process of identifying 2004 2005 the principal business risks facing the group, establishing appropriate controls to manage % % those risks and ensuring that appropriate Net interest income 33 31 monitoring and reporting systems are in place.
Net fee income 40 43 The groups process, which balances cost Net dealing income 25 22 against risk within the constraints of the groups Other income 2 4 risk appetite, is consistent with the prudent Expenses continued to be tightly controlled and management required of a large financial our overall expenses income ratio increased only organisation.
modestly compared to last year.
The group is exposed to a wide range of risks.
2004 2005 These can be categorised as reputational, Operating income 401m 448m financial, operational and compliance risks and are inherent in many of our businesses.
Since Administrative expenses 249m 284m each of our main operations is managed separately and there is little or no integration of Administrative expenses as systems, management or customers, risk % of operating income 62.0% 63.3% management is carried out by the local Number of staff at year end 2,252 2,440 management of each business.
This is overseen on a regular basis by senior group management Staff numbers increased principally as a result of supported by group control and is reviewed by acquisitions.
the audit and compliance committee which reports to the board.
Our customer loan book, including securitised receivables, increased by 11 per cent.
during The board considers reputational risk to be the the year to 1.95 billion.
It remained well spread, most significant risk in a business operating in both by type of asset over which we took the financial services sector.
Awareness of the security and by number of loans.
importance of the groups reputation underpins our control culture.
This risk could crystallise as Analysis of Group Loan Book a result of a failure in our financial, operational or by Asset Security compliance controls.
2004 figures in brackets Financial risk is mitigated by the group having a Property 9% 9% Insurance well established reporting structure for agreeing premiums Cars and strategy, risk appetite, planning and budgets.
22% 26% motorbikes Detailed monthly group management accounts 22% 19% are produced and variances and trends are closely monitored.
Divisional heads report to the group board each month on the performance of, Debt factoring and key issues affecting, their division.
Detailed 7% 6% budgets and three-year plans, which are based upon group strategy, are flexed to take account Other Transport, of potential adverse conditions and are subject 9% 10% engineering Printing to rigorous testing at divisional and board level.
& plant machinery 19% 14% 12% 16% Operational risk includes credit, market and liquidity risks as well as other risks specific to The loan book represented some 442,000 each of our businesses.
There are clear separate advances, only three of which exceeded reporting lines and defined areas of responsibility 5 million, the largest being 12 million.
at board, divisional and business level.
This structure is designed to ensure, amongst other Impairment reviews of goodwill resulted in a things, that key issues and developments are reassessment of the carrying value in certain of escalated on a timely basis.
our banking and asset management businesses.
6 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT Credit risk is controlled by a number of local whose certificates of deposit or floating rate credit committees within centrally set limits of notes we buy are monitored by the treasury authority.
For transactions above such limits, committee which establishes specific limits.
there is a group credit committee.
As a general Interest rate mismatch policy is established by principle, the group avoids the risk of multiple the treasury committee with mismatches being exposure to one counterparty for example, monitored daily.
we do not normally lend to a corporate finance We continue to be able to finance our customer advisory client, nor does one lending subsidiary loans and advances by capital and reserves, seek to lend to customers of another lending longer term deposits and committed facilities.
Our loan book is also generally well the year end the banks committed facilities spread, short term, secured and with a low amounted to over 1.9 billion, of which 1.1 average loan size.
We continued our long Market risk mainly relates to Winterflood established policy of broadly matching interest Securities Limited WINS and Close Brothers rate liabilities whereby we swap variable rate Seydler AG.
The senior management of each is financing into fixed rate, particularly in regard to closely involved in its risk management process, our asset financing book.
The groups funding which is also regularly monitored at group level.
position is reported to the board each month.
There are controls, supplemented by cash limits, Returns from the groups capital and reserves on individual large and slow moving equity and are necessarily subject to interest rate fixed income positions.
WINS also maintains fluctuations and as a matter of policy these are real-time controls on the size and risk profile of not hedged, as reflected in the interest rate its overall trading book and of individual books repricing table shown in note 24.
The groups exposure to market price position of each division is compared to risk resulting from market-making is shown in regulatory capital requirements and reported to note 28. the board monthly.
Each of our operations is responsible for its own We have minimal currency exposure, since liquidity within specified guidelines.
Each is most of our business is transacted in sterling.
properly capitalised for its own business Non-sterling financing is funded by liabilities in normally comfortably above the regulatory the relevant currency or swapped into sterling to minimum and, where necessary, has hedge currency exposure.
Most of the groups appropriate borrowing facilities from the activities are located in the British Isles.
Since company, the bank or external lenders.
The currency exposure resulting from our investment liquidity of each division is reviewed at its in overseas subsidiaries, although increased, is monthly board meeting and the groups liquidity currently relatively small, the extent to which the is regularly reviewed by its board, assisted by groups consolidated balance sheet is affected treasury.
by movements in exchange rates is minimal.
Our asset management division has a range of We have a central group control unit which controls to support the quality of the investment comprises internal audit and group compliance, process, including asset allocation and and also financial control and, where regulated, investment committees, in which its senior compliance functions at subsidiary level.
This central management participates where unit oversees and periodically examines the appropriate.
These are backed up by rigorous quality of the operational procedures of our controls to safeguard clients stock and money separate businesses.
The frequency of and regular review of investment performance.
examination depends upon the perceived risk Apart from operational risk inherent in any and prevailing issues within each operation.
Our advisory business, our corporate finance division central group control unit reports to the audit is exposed principally to reputational and and compliance committee and has unrestricted underwriting risks.
These are controlled and and direct access to the chairman of the board.
monitored by the risk committee in which senior management of both corporate finance and International Financial Reporting group participate.
Underwriting risk is decided Standards upon and monitored by a specific committee of The company is required under European the bank, which includes group directors who legislation to adopt International Financial are not directly involved in corporate finance.
Reporting Standards IFRS for its consolidated accounts for the year ending 31st July, 2006.
Our treasury operations do not trade actively in money market instruments since these are A project working party was established by the normally held to maturity.
Nor do we trade company in 2003 to assess the impact of speculatively in derivatives as a principal.
conversion from UK GAAP to IFRS and to Counterparties with whom we place deposits or prepare for the implementation of IFRS.
