06 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Chief executives review In the year, the biggest structural change in the Group was the 2005 was a year of underlying strong reduction in our ownership of Afrox hospitals.
Elsewhere, among performance punctuated by events that the highlights, we continued our penetration of the north American refinery market with a string of new hydrogen orders, maintained the challenged and brought out the best in pace of our developments in China, and saw BOC Edwards enter BOC and its people.
We continue to see an into an important customer relationship in Korea.
In contrast, events such as the Asian tsunami, the London bombings, hurricane Katrina accelerating rise in energy prices, the move of and most recently the Pakistan earthquake saw BOC businesses manufacturing activity from higherto lowerhelping where they could, notably with medical gases, and BOC people giving freely of their time and money.
cost economies and relatively slow growth in Against this background BOC produced good results, with turnover an historical context for the semiconductor similar to last year at 4,605 million, adjusted operating profit down industry.
Faced with these long-term trends three per cent to 564.2 million, adjusted profit before tax down one per cent at 505.7 million and record adjusted earnings per share of we have responded by investing for growth 67.5p.
Adjusted figures eliminate exceptional items.
Year-on-year while concentrating on energy efficiency, comparisons at constant currency show the performance of our businesses in the markets where they operate without any distortions cost containment and high levels of from changes in the sterling exchange rate.
Our statutory results customer service.
include exceptional items and reflect currency movements and on this basis turnover was similar to last year with operating profit down by three per cent and profit before tax up by 44 per cent.
Our two gases lines of business, Process Gas Solutions and Industrial and Special Products, contribute over 80 per cent of Group operating profit and both of them made good progress.
Process Gas Solutions continues to increase the percentage of its business that comes from long-term tonnage schemes, with the emphasis recently on winning hydrogen contracts and building on our strong position in Asia, and particularly in China.
There has been a steady flow of new orders with some 500 million of new plant due to enter service over the next couple of years.
Our Process Systems team works closely with customers to identify and deliver solutions for their industrial gases needs.
This approach has seen us win a disproportionate share of the new business available.
In China our success has been founded on our willingness to enter joint ventures with our key customers, enabling us to share the risks and rewards of Chinas industrial growth.
Our joint venture plant building operation, Linde BOC Process Plants, gives us reliable and cost-effective plant to fulfil our customers needs.
This year Process Gas Solutions grew turnover by 16 per cent and adjusted operating profit by nine per cent.
Chief executives review 07 Industrial and Special Products continues to extract value from its We had another good year for cash generation, helped by the Afrox extensive distribution network and its high standards of product Healthcare disposal.
With our strong balance sheet we are in a good stewardship.
The core industrial business continues to evolve as position to fund our growth projects, notably the ones already won by manufacturing processes change.
We now offer a wider range of Process Gas Solutions and those still in the pipeline.
products and services to our industrial customers.
We have Safety remains our number one priority.
It is unacceptable that anyone developed sizeable businesses based on liquefied petroleum gas is hurt in the course of our business and we continue to emphasise LPG and in several of our markets we are taking advantage of similar that safety must be 100 per cent of our behaviour, 100 per cent opportunities for safety products.
Our medical business, which serves of the time.
At the start of this report we set out our objectives as a hospitals and delivers oxygen therapy to patients in their homes, is Group.
We intend to outperform our competitors and to do this we continuing to grow, particularly in Asia.
The special products portfolio must be the employer of choice for talented people.
We are working is also developing well, serving growth markets with products such hard on all aspects of our business to achieve these objectives.
as helium, packaged chemicals, refrigerants and propellants.
Industrial and Special Products saw turnover decline by four per cent following Three members of the executive management board resigned the sale of the US packaged gas business last year, while adjusted this year.
Ren Mdori became group finance director for Anglo operating profit rose by six per cent as profitability improved in American plc while John Walsh and Rob Lourey returned with their the US.
families to new jobs in their home countries of the United States and Australia respectively.
I wish all of them success in their new BOC Edwards core semiconductor market remained broadly stable careers and thank them for their contributions to BOC.
Kent Masters without returning to the activity levels seen last year.
Despite this, was appointed chief executive, Industrial and Special Products, in BOC Edwards continued to improve its market position and March and James Cullens joined the executive management board in embarked on a restructuring programme to achieve cost savings.
April as Group human resources director.
Alan Ferguson joined us as It saw an increase in turnover of two per cent with adjusted operating Group finance director in September from Inchcape plc.
I thank our employees for their hard work over the past year and for Gist saw some organic growth from new and existing customers their continued emphasis on high standards of customer service.
and towards the end of the year it expanded into Europe I thank our customers, our shareholders, our suppliers and those with with the acquisition of Van Dongen, a  whom we work on a daily basis.
BOC contributes to the economic transport business operating in a number of countries.
life of many countries around the world and I thank you all for helping In November 2005 it extended until 2011 its contract to us to do so.
manage the distribution of Marks & Spencers chilled and ambient food.
This provides long-term security for a significant portion of Gists business.
Gists turnover for the year rose eight per cent while adjusted operating profit fell by two per cent, impacted by higher pension and compliance costs.
In March we disposed of most of our shareholding in Afrox Tony Isaac Healthcare Limited to a consortium led by two major black Chief executive empowerment investors.
Our African Oxygen Limited subsidiary retains a 20 per cent interest in the business.
We received the disposal proceeds in March.
Afrox Healthcare was a large employer and its disposal has reduced the number of Group employees by over 10,000.
The disposal also had the effect of reducing the Groups earnings per share by approximately one penny this year and an expected further one penny in 2006.
