Letter to shareholders CUSTOMER FOCUS UNDERPINS POSITIVE FINANCIAL RESULTS Over the last three years, we have achieved positive growth in sales, pro tability and cash ow through the successful creation of a customer driven culture with a strong focus on execution.
Overview than double this year.
We will build on this in South East Asia 14%, Hong Kong 2005 is our third consecutive year of strong experience to broaden e-commerce coverage 12%, Taiwan 11% and Australia 4%.
growth in operating pro t and earnings per into other key markets over the next two Japan achieved an improved performance share.
Over the last three years, we have years.
Our multi-channel strategy is improving 2%, although Korea continued to show achieved positive growth in sales, pro tability our brands positioning with our customers a negative trend in comparable store sales and cash ow through the successful creation and proving accretive to all channels.
-8% given the highly competitive nature of a customer driven culture with a strong of this market.
The Europe, Middle East and Africa The Body Shop is today The Body Shop is today a well-balanced region also improved sales trends, with a well-balanced global global business and we now have the strong comparable store sales in the Middle opportunity to build on our strong trading East 12% and the Nordic countries 5%.
business and we now performance through a major growth and In central Europe, France performed well have the opportunity to expansion strategy.
The first phase of this 7%, whilst Germany showed signi cant build on our strong trading expansion strategy is the 100 million improvement to -1% despite the overall retail investment programme in new stores, store environment.
In Southern Europe, sales performance through refurbishments and information systems that improved in Spain 1%, but Italy continued a major growth and we began last year, which will signi cantly to prove a dif cult market -8%.
expand our existing retail business over the Progress in the UK has been particularly expansion strategy.
signi cant, with comparable store sales In addition, we are planning entry into Results Summary improving from 13% in scal 2004 to at new markets and further development of We are pleased to report that sales trends in this past scal year with 4% in the the complementary sales channels of improved across all four regions during the second half of the year.
The UK team have The Body Shop At Home and e-commerce past year, with total retail sales growth up by achieved this through a strong focus on that enable customers to access The Body 5% to 708.7 million and comparable store distinctive customer service, complemented Shop in a variety of ways.
Signi cant new sales up by 2%.
The improvement in trend by improved in-store execution and targeted market opportunities include Russia, where accelerated in the second half of the year, marketing initiatives.
we are close to signing an agreement with a with comparable store sales up by 4% on A net 38 new stores were opened during business partner and anticipate opening our the same period in the previous year.
Sales the year, bringing the total to 2,045 in 52 first store in September.
We are also working through The Body Shop At Home continued countries at the year end.
Of the total, 733 on entry into China and other markets in to show positive growth during the year, with were company-owned 2004: 596, with Europe and the Middle East.
127 stores having being acquired through Through strong expansion of The Body The Americas region recorded at the purchase of the Canadian and Hong Shop At Home and e-commerce, alongside comparable store sales, with growth of Kong head franchise businesses and other ongoing store development, our customers 1% in the USA.
Canada continued to see a individual franchised stores, primarily in will have access to The Body Shop as a negative trend -3% through the acquisition the UK.
New store openings will accelerate multi-channel global business.
The Body Shop process, but this trend is now improving as signi cantly in the current year, with around At Home continues to achieve strong growth the integration of the Canadian business 120 openings planned across the four regions and will be extended into new markets.
progresses and we can begin to capitalise of which approximately two thirds will be Our new e-commerce business in the USA on the strong brand equity.
com performed well Asia Paci c continued to bene t from Operating pro t increased by 19% to ahead of expectations in its first few months a strong brand positioning in these markets 36.2 million, with pro t before tax 21% of trading and sales are expected to more with positive comparable store sales growth higher at 34.5 million 2004: 28.5 million.
02 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Adrian Bellamy Executive Chairman and Peter Saunders Chief Executive Of cer This result was achieved after a reduction dedicated shops, our customers homes and the recently launched Spa Wisdom of 3.1 million in pro t before tax due to the and on the internet, our customers can shop range of home-spa products contains six weakness of the US dollar.
Earnings per share grew by 22% to Our masstige positioning is underpinned The positive customer response to our 13.1 pence, after a lower effective tax rate by our strong commitment to the wellbeing product innovation is underpinned by some of 20.9% compared with 23.9% in 2004. of our fellow humans and preservation of the of the awards we have received in recent This rate re ects bene ts from the continuing planet.
This repositioning of The Body Shop months, which include: a Cosmopolitan utilisation of brought forward operating losses brand has required product innovation, a Beauty Award 2005 for our Almond Oil Daily in the US business, the majority of which new brand identity and new shop design, the Hand & Nail Cream in Sweden: Elle Beauty have now been fully realised.
As a result, development of a multi-channel service and Awards for our Almond Oil Hand Rescue the effective tax rate is expected to rise to compelling values campaigns to ensure we Treatment, Papaya Body Scrub and Cocoa around 26% in the current year, with a further better meet our customers needs now and in Butter Body Scrub in Canada: @Cosme increase likely to occur in the subsequent year.
2004 number one awards for our Create Me We achieved strong growth in operating Pact Powder Foundation and Body Butters in cash ow to 66.7 million 2004: 41.4 Japan: and In Style magazines Best Beauty We have created million as a result of the 5.9 million Buys 2005 Best Inexpensive Brush Line for a new brand identity increase in operating pro t, together with our make-up brushes in the UK.
a cash in ow of 10.2 million from continuing for The Body Shop... Our global marketing programmes are attention to the management of working designed to support the masstige positioning it features both internally capital.
After a more than doubling of capital of the brand.
Promotions are developed to and externally in new expenditure to 25.5 million and a net cash offer added value, sampling opportunities and out ow of 19.3 million for acquisitions gifts with purchase to encourage customer stores, on all in-store primarily associated with the purchase loyalty.
The Love Your Body loyalty programme promotional material and of the Hong Kong and Canadian head is proving highly successful in building franchise businesses, we achieved a net on product packaging customer loyalty, with approximately 860,000 cash in ow of 4.7 million.
Net debt therefore members in the USA, 500,000 in the UK and reduced to 4.7 million 2004: 9.4 million Product and Marketing Development more than 160,000 in four countries across at the period end.
In support of our masstige brand strategy, Europe.
The programme has recently been The Directors are proposing to hold the we have delivered to our customers over launched in Canada and Singapore and will final dividend at 3.8 pence per share 2004: the past year a range of new innovative be extended into Hong Kong and 12 more 3.8 pence.
products that deliver bene ts and ef ciencies European markets in the current year.
comparable with those associated with Brand Repositioning prestige brands at surprisingly more Store Development Over the last three years, we have pursued affordable prices.
These new product A new store design has been developed a strategy of repositioning The Body Shop introductions have been a key driver of our to offer customers an improved in-store brand to the masstige sector of the sales growth.
experience at The Body Shop, with a strong consumer market.
This masstige positioning Particular successes include a focus on product merchandising and differentiates The Body Shop by offering performance Hair Care range including customer service.
The new design has been customers a shopping experience that Community Trade natural ingredients: successfully trialled during the second half combines excellent service with a Skin Focus, a high performance skin of last year in eight key locations around comprehensive range of naturally-inspired treatment range: and Invent Your Scent, the world, receiving a positive response from personal care products that offer an innovative concept that allows customers our customers.
The financial performance performance, indulgence and great value.
to blend their own fragrances.
We continue is well above our hurdle rate for capital We communicate to our customers to be highly committed to sourcing investments, with similar t-out costs to with passion, integrity and humour in an ingredients through our Community Trade those of our existing stores and an improved exciting, inspiring and informative shopping programme.
Olive is a major new ingredient return on investment.
With our points of sale in in our core moisturising Bath and Body range: The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 03 Letter to shareholders continued We are planning for the new store design Our new e-commerce business in the this project will be marked by the upgrade of to be rolled out to some 250 stores in the USA www.
com performed well our US business in mid 2006 to the global current year, of which broadly half will be ahead of expectations in its first few months version of SAP for The Body Shop.
new stores and half will be refurbishments.
Sales are expected to more than Having successfully implemented an Of the total, 75-80 will be located in each of double in the current year, which will enable earlier version of SAP into the USA over the UK and European regions, approximately the business to produce a small pro t in its five years ago, our team has valuable 65 will be in the Americas and 30-35 will be first full year of operation.
We will build on experience for implementation of the new in Asia Paci c. the valuable experience we are gaining global system.
The 15 million capital We have created a new brand identity in multi-channel retailing to broaden investment is supported by a robust best for The Body Shop to further improve the e-commerce coverage into other key markets in class business case process driven by customer experience and this is now being such as the UK.
the operational management teams, with progressively introduced across the business.
a high level of buy-in from all parts of the The new identity consists of a new logotype, business.
Through this detailed approach, A new store design has typography and colour speci cation, together we believe that we have mitigated the risk been developed to offer with a MADE WITH PASS!ON umbrella of non-performance or low return.
customers an improved for our values and product stories.
It now The implementation of our systems features in all new stores both internally and projects, including SAP, is on course.
in-store experience at externally, on all in-store promotional material We are con dent of achieving the expected The Body Shop with a and on product packaging.
bene ts, which are reviewed and challenged We have also developed a new make-up on a monthly basis.
These bene ts include strong focus on product merchandising xture that is more sensitive increased ef ciencies across the business, merchandising and to customer shopping habits as it displays ranging from reduced operating costs and our cosmetic product ranges more effectively.
customer service improved stock turn to sales and pro t The new xture has been successfully trialled growth.
Together, they more than justify the in the eight new design stores and in eight Systems Development cost of the investment.
Other current projects other stores around the world.
We plan to We are in the process of implementing a include the implementation of updated point roll it out to all stores during the current major investment programme in information of service systems in the UK and the USA.
The strategy behind this investment Total capital expenditure will increase programme is to gain maximum ef ciencies Franchising and Acquisitions by over 18 million to 44 million in the by leveraging one back of ce system across Franchising continues to be a very important current year, of which some three quarters the three sales channels, ensuring that the part of our global organisation, with franchised will finance new stores, refurbishments and same processes are used across the global stores representing some 60% of total retail relocations.
We believe strongly in measuring sales.
We deeply value the contribution made are amply covered by the new 130 million our performance and using that intelligence to by our franchisees around the world, as they revolving credit facility.
better look after our customers and manage have brought market experience and leverage our business.
well beyond the level that we could have Developing a Multi-Channel The most signi cant element of this accomplished without them.
Organisation systems investment programme is the From time to time, we have the opportunity We believe that The Body Shop At Home will global implementation of SAP an Enterprise to make strategic acquisitions in key markets be a signi cant driver of total growth over Resource Planning system.
The first three where a franchisee is interested in selling the next few years in both existing and new phases of SAP have been successfully the business to pursue other interests or markets.
We will continue to build on our implemented over recent months, of which retirement.
During the past year, we have successes in the USA and the UK through the first module introduced groundbreaking made two strategic acquisitions with the increased cross-channel marketing and use of technology for both The Body Shop purchase of the head franchise businesses recruitment drives.
We are also planning to and SAP in the collection and storage of in Hong Kong and Canada.
Both have extend the model into new markets this year, point of sale data.
The final phases are due performed ahead of our expectations and including Germany.
Completion of will positively contribute to earnings per share 04 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 in the first year of ownership.
We have also the Wireless Foundation and Amnesty Against this background, we are planning acquired a number of individual stores from International.
In Canada, in-store activities for a 15-20% growth in operating pro t in franchisees in our company-owned markets, raised funds for local Stop Violence Against the current financial year, with a somewhat including 41 in the UK.
Women SVAW partners and the Canadian slower growth in earnings due to an increase Since the year end, we have purchased Womens Foundation.
The Asia Paci c region in the effective tax rate.
As the proportion the companies operating The Body Shop in supported campaign groups in securing of company-owned markets and stores has the Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg improvements in legal rights and protection grown over recent years, our business has from the head franchisee.
The cost of this for women in countries such as Indonesia.
gained an increased seasonal bias towards acquisition is 2.35 million 1.6 million and Across Europe and the Middle East, stores the second half of the year.
The acquisitions includes 24 company-owned stores, with a recycled mobile phones to help those in need of Canada, Hong Kong, individual stores further 32 stores operated by franchisees.
call for assistance and sold campaign key in the UK and now Benelux have further The Body Shop has been established in the rings.
In the UK, the campaign funded a pilot increased this bias, with pro t previously Benelux region for the past 24 years and we programme to provide vulnerable women achieved through wholesale sales in the look forward to building on this success with with recon gured mobile phones as first six months moving to retail sales in the further growth and development of the brand.
second six months of the year.
This increased We expect to gain bene ts from these The Americas region also supported vital seasonality is likely to produce a reduction of acquisitions in the current year and beyond work in HIV AIDS carried out by Until Theres around 25% in underlying operating pro t for as we achieve the synergies to be realised A Cure, with stores in the USA and Canada the first six months of the current year which with the existing regional structure and raising US $300,000 in partnership with our will be recovered in the second half.
further develop the strong brand recognition customers through the sale of bracelets.
Our principal objective is to serve our that our franchisees have generally fostered.
customers with passion and commitment, Our multi-channel strategy thereby growing comparable store sales Our Values Making a Difference across the global store portfolio.
In parallel, is improving our brands The Group donated 1.3 million to charitable we are now implementing an aggressive positioning with our organisations last year, of which 0.7 million investment programme in new stores, was donated to The Body Shop Foundation The Body Shop At Home, e-commerce customers and the remaining 0.6 million to other and new markets.
We continue to be organisations.
This includes a donation Current Trading and Outlook committed to delivering value to all of our of 100,000 to the Disaster Emergency In the first eight weeks of the current year, stakeholders and would like to thank all of Committee in response to the horror of the sales trends have continued to improve with our employees, our business partners and Asian Tsunami.
Recently, we have pledged total retail sales up 8% and comparable store our Board of Directors for their contribution an additional 100,000 to Children on the sales up 6%.
UK comparable store sales are and commitment to the successful Edge to help rebuild the lives of children in showing a particularly strong performance development of The Body Shop.
Aceh, the Indonesian province worst hit by the at 9%.
A further 200,000 has been raised Retailers around the world are facing a for the Asian Tsunami through the generous more challenging trading environment as contributions of customers in our markets consumer spending patterns soften, energy around the world.
prices rise and store occupancy costs come Our customers also helped us to raise under increasing pressure in certain markets.
Adrian Bellamy over 500,000 through our global Stop Additionally, there are two signi cant factors Executive Chairman Violence in the Home campaign last year, impacting our pro tability: our continuing of which approximately one third was raised exposure to movements in the US dollar through company-owned stores.
In the exchange rate: and a higher effective Americas, where the campaign first started, taxation rate which will rise towards normal the US programme was extended through UK corporate tax rates as the bene ts from Peter Saunders partnerships with the National Coalition brought forward operating losses in the US Chief Executive Of cer Against Domestic Violence, Lifetime TV, business are fully utilised.
28 April 2005 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 05
