04 Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 chief executives 200m invested in lower review prices in the last two years We are now coming to the end of the first product made there.
And while all this was Over the last year we have tackled a phase of our journey as we start to bed down going on we took more than 1,000 jobs out all the changes we have made over the last of head ofce: that is one in three of the series of huge projects designed to bring 12 months to make sure they are really people there.
this business up to date and set it back robust.
We are well on the way to being a That is not, however, the end of the change.
on the path to long-term sustainable Many of these projects are ongoing.
There is We now have prices that are sustainable more work to do on the supply chain: there growth.
When I look back over the period and we have got a better buying programme will always be more work in IT: we have to in place that means we can continue to continue to offer value to our customers.
I am amazed by what we have achieved compete profitably.
This is the model that We must always look to be more efficient and proud of all our people who have the worlds most successful retailers use and we need to ensure that our shops are and it is the model we will use at Boots as sited where customers want to shop and worked so hard to make sure things went we strengthen our position as The Health open when they want to visit them.
Any one of the projects we and Beauty Expert.
The expert health and beauty So, as we take the changes we are making retailer in the UK have undertaken had the potential to to this business up to the next level, I am That full change programme is one thing.
really affect trading if they went wrong.
confident that we can successfully change But what I am perhaps most proud of is the Boots for the better.
success we have been having in our stores.
Instead, most went better than planned.
We have continued to grow in the areas of Building a better Boots health and beauty and even in the very At the same time we are seeing early Let me list some of the things we have competitive environment of toiletries.
done to build a better Boots.
We have encouraging signs that our strategy of lowered more than 3,300 prices that is What has been particularly pleasing is the offering customers value, convenience a 200m investment.
We have worked reaction to our efforts and investments to to buy better, taking 30m off our cost of revive our healthcare business.
Health is the and expertise is starting to work.
goods from a standing start a year ago.
It is central not just to We have got 80% of the way through a what customers think of the company but complete overhaul of the supply chain to also to its economics making up 40% of ensure that the right goods are on the our sales and 50% of our profits.
That is shelves at the right time.
We have put why I am delighted that we have had the 14,000 new tills in our stores.
We have best year in our core pharmacy business for redesigned our IT systems.
This is a strong platform for the biggest store opening programme for years, significant growth opportunities ahead.
The with a new outlet opening on average each first and most significant of these will be the week, many of them edge-of-town.
We change to the new pharmacy contract this closed our Airdrie manufacturing plant, year, designed to take some healthcare work transferring all the work to our Nottingham off GPs and transfer it to pharmacists.
We and European factories at the same time are already starting to do some of this work.
o as we successfully relaunched N 7, the Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 05 20% 30m o increase in N 7 reduction in our sales since cost of goods February relaunch Richard Baker Our stores are running classes to stop surrounded our performance in the last with Marta, people smoking.
We can sign people up to quarter of the year, it is important not o N 7 consultant, managed weight loss programmes which to lose sight of some important facts.
High Street include the ability to supplement with We have continued the top line sales Kensington medicines where necessary.
momentum in spite of a difficult market.
We had our third successful Christmas on In beauty our success has been marked.
And our margins, at 10%, are still have strengthened our range authority with above almost all our high street rivals.
o a major relaunch of the N 7 cosmetics brand one that has led to a 20% increase in its The next phase sales.
We have pushed further into the Looking ahead the strategy is clear to premium end of the market with more continue building a better Boots.
We will beauty halls and won more contracts focus on our core healthcare market, with with prestige brands.
Our fragrances all the potential for growth it contains.
performance has been outstanding, driven We will continue to develop products that by lower prices and new in-store displays.
customers know they can only get from us.
We will continue to ensure that we offer The toiletries market remains as competitive value.
We will do more to ensure that our as ever and a lot of our investment on price stores are where our customers want them has been here.
This is part of the reason and are easy to shop.
We will continue to why our performance has picked up.
Growth focus on the expertise of our people and up 0.1% reects the deation in the market the customer care they offer.
Underpinning and represents held market share.
A key all this will be a constant drive for further factor in our performance has been our efficiencies.
We have only just embarked management of product mix with a greater on our journey.
But I believe that we have emphasis on own-brand and exclusive the right strategy and the right people ranges.
In particular, we enjoyed success united behind a simple aim: to be the with a relaunch of our Soltan sun care range Health and Beauty Expert.
as it regained the number one position in the market.
Financial results achieved All of the changes we have made have, of course, had an impact on our financial results.
Operating profits have fallen from 549m to 501m.
This Richard Baker was a vital investment to make sure that Boots can compete in the future.
The old economic model, with Boots The Chemists trading on margins of up to 14%, was not sustainable.
With the negative headlines that 06 Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 modern modern competitive efficient Over the last year we have done a great deal to make sure that our stores reected modern retail practice.
For the second year in a row we extended our trading hours opening earlier, shutting later and adding Sundays and some Bank Holidays to our normal working days.
Meanwhile, the programme to give all 1,400 stores new, modern tills was completed and we worked to improve store layout and signage.
But being modern is not just about our existing stores.
We have had the biggest store opening programme for years, with the bulk of the new outlets on edge-of-town sites.
More and more, customers expect the convenience that comes with one-stop shopping in bigger stores and Boots will continue to do all it can to meet this demand.
Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 07 competitive efficient We have spoken before about creating better We have spent much of the last year making value for our customers through the Lower sure that our business is running as efficiently Prices Youll Love campaign.
This year we as possible with one aim in mind: making it pushed harder than before lowering the prices easier for our people in stores to focus on of 2,000 lines by 14%.
That means that since customers.
We took a totally fresh look at our we started, we have invested 200m reducing supply chain and decided it had to be overhauled the prices of more than 3,300 lines by more than to make it store-friendly.
And there is further to go.
But value is not way through that process and our stores say they all about price it is also about quality.
At Boots can really see the difference.
They now get six that means investing in product development to deliveries a week instead of three and the goods make sure we are selling things our customers come to them in new crates which makes it know they can only get from us.
Our own-brands quicker and easier to get them on the shelves.
are key and over the last year we have relaunched The long-term work on our information technology o two of our leading lines N 7 in cosmetics infrastructure is now three quarters complete and and Soltan in suncare.
Both had a complete we are already seeing the benets with simpler overhaul, with new ingredients, better packaging working processes.
We also implemented a better and fresh marketing and both are selling buying programme central to our plan to carry better than ever before.
on cutting prices taking 30m off our bills from a standing start.
