These results reflect not just a positive operating environment but were the consequence of the long-run strategic position of the company and improvements in each part of our business.
That performance is described in the Group chief executives review following pages.
BP now produces more than 4 million barrels of oil equivalent per day of oil and gas for customers across the world.
To sustain supplies and meet the growing levels of demand that population growth and prosperity are generating, we continue to invest for the future.
Our profits fund not only DEAR SHAREHOLDER We start from the view that the purpose the dividends, which we are delighted to have been able to of business is to satisfy human needs and, in doing so, to increase once again during 2005, and the buybacks of shares, generate profits for investors.
For BP, that means providing which totalled $11.6 billion during the year, but also the energy to fuel human progress and economic growth.
It also investment in new developments that will form the basis means satisfying the need for a sustainable environment.
of the groups business for years to come.
On many fronts, our performance in 2005 was very strong Capital expenditure in the exploration and production but the year was overshadowed by the industrial accident at segment totalled $10.1 billion in 2005, bringing the total our Texas City refinery in March, which caused 15 deaths and so far since the turn of the century to more than $50 billion.
That incident has been the subject of That investment is aimed at providing sustainable supplies of rigorous and thorough investigation both by our own team and oil and gas and enabling us to develop the extensive base of by external authorities and lessons have been learned.
We are proved reserves and identified resources that we have built up determined to do everything possible to ensure that no such in recent years.
In 2005, we added 662 million barrels of oil accident recurs.
and 4.6 trillion cubic feet of natural gas to our booked reserves In addition to safety, the primary challenge for BP during for subsidiaries and equity-accounted entities.
That success 2005 was the maintenance of the flow of secure supplies of made 2005 the 13th consecutive year in which we have energy to our customers in the face of volatile markets and replaced, in accordance with UK generally accepted the instability caused by continued conflict in the Middle East, accounting practice Statement of Recommended Practice terrorism and extreme weather conditions in the US and SORP, 100% or more of the oil and gas we produced.
Our success in meeting this fundamental element Exploration success continues to augment this base.
Major of our purpose was due to the talent and dedication of our new discoveries were made in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico staff, often working under conditions of severe difficulty.
We have a strong and successful trading business and FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE In terms of financial performance, a growing presence as a producer and supplier of natural gas, 2005 was an exceptional year for BP, with profits of with a daily output averaging 8.4 billion cubic feet during 2005 $19.3 billion, representing a return on average capital from fields in Trinidad and North Africa, as well as the US and employed of 20%.
High oil prices, which averaged $54.48 the North Sea.
during 2005 against $38.27 in 2004 dated Brent, contributed We are also investing in the refining and marketing to the result but the underlying performance of the company businesses, developing new and strong positions in those 4 Making energy more areas of the world where energy demand is increasing most HUMAN TALENT The other element essential for the long-term rapidly.
Worldwide, we supply some 13 million customers a health of the company is the development of human talent.
Our supply links, including a growing fleet of ships and In all the places in which we operate, we are committed to the the extensive networks of pipelines we operate in many development of people.
Within BP, that is reflected in our policies different parts of the world, helped to sustain global supplies of inclusion and meritocracy and our determination to develop through all the disruptions experienced in 2005. individuals, regardless of their background, creed or colour.
Beyond the company, we are committed to the EXTERNAL CHALLENGES The oil and gas markets remain volatile.
development of enterprise and education in the communities While we expect prices to remain above the long-run average in which we work.
Our aim is that they are better able to for some years to come, we have taken care to ensure that take advantage of the wealth created by natural resource the business is robust and capable of responding flexibly to development.
In 2005, we appointed our first director of unpredictable events.
education, whose role will be both to co-ordinate our existing Volatility is not the only challenge we face.
No company activity and to develop a continuing programme to maximize in the oil and gas industry can fail to recognize that, as the our contribution to the development of human capacity.
demand for our products rises, so too does the risk that their Over the last 10 years, the group has broadened its base use will contribute to the environmental challenges associated of activity extending beyond the North Sea and Alaska and with an increasing concentration of carbon in the atmosphere.
developing resources and markets across the world.
In places The science of climate change may be incomplete but we as diverse as Russia, Angola, Germany, China and Egypt, would be foolish to ignore the mounting evidence and the BP is now a leading player.
In those countries and in all conclusion of the worlds most eminent scientists that the places in which we now work, we are committed to precautionary action is necessary.
the principle of mutual advantage.
BP, as a large multinational Over recent years, we have taken steps to reduce company, can only earn the privilege of operating on a global emissions from our own operations and to improve further basis if in each and every case we can demonstrate that what the quality of our products.
In 2005, we took an important we do benefits those with whom we do business as well as step with a substantial investment in the development of the company itself.
an alternative energy business that will offer our customers We have much to do and much to learn, but our aspiration new choices of low-carbon energy.
BP Alternative Energy remains unchanged to be a company that works consistently is focused on the power generation sector the largest and universally in ways that help to sustain the development single source of emissions from the use of fossil fuels of the world of which we are part.
through investments in solar power, wind, gas and hydrogen power, where the latter employs the new technology of sequestration, in which carbon is captured and stored, allowing hydrogen to be used to generate clean, carbonfree electric power.
This is a long-term, but very exciting, development that we believe can help meet the energy needs of The Lord Browne of Madingley a growing world while minimizing the impact on our Group Chief Executive common environment.
6 February 2006 BP Annual Review 2005 5 REPLACEMENT COST PROFIT RETURN ON AVERAGE Measuring our progress PER ORDINARY SHARE cents CAPITAL EMPLOYED % We have three targets: 05 91.41 05 20 To underpin growth by a focus on performance, 04 70.71 particularly on returns, investing at a rate 04 16 appropriate for long-term growth.
03 56.06 03 15 To increase the dividend per share in light of our policy.
To return to shareholders all free cash flows in excess of investment and dividend needs.
The charts opposite provide some measures of our progress in 2005.
SHAREHOLDER DISTRIBUTION DIVIDENDS PAID PER SHARE 34.85 05 19.152 27.70 $19 billion 04 15.251 25.50 returned to shareholders 03 15.658 through dividends and Cents per share share buybacks in 2005.
Pence per share 6 Making energy more a EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION REFINING AND MARKETING GAS, POWER AND RENEWABLES GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 78 million tonnes Mte compared with 81.7Mte in 2004.
We have replaced 100% We are number 1 or 2 in 85% Planned investment in a BP share of emissions expressed as or more of our production of the retail markets in which BP Alternative Energy an equivalent mass of carbon dioxide.
for 13 consecutive years we operate.
TNK-BP emissions are not included.
CONTRIBUTION a a a SAFETY RIF OIL SPILLS DIVERSITY % TO COMMUNITIES 0.41 17 05 05 0.62 20 15 0.49 04 04 541spills $96 million 0.56 19 a 0.57 15 a 03 03 Including UK charities $0.8 million.
of 1barrel 0.65 18 Employees Contractors compared with 578 in 2004.
Female Non-UK US a a a Recordable Injury Frequency RIF : 1 barrel 159 litres 42 US gallons.
Senior management in 2005 number of reported work-related includes the top 606 positions in BP.
incidents resulting in a fatality or injury apart from minor first aid cases per 200,000 hours worked.
BP Annual Review 2005 7 WHAT THE WORLD DEMANDS 2005 was a year more characterized by questions than answers.
The price of fuel, the availability of supply and the profits of energy companies dominated public dialogue and political debate.
Science produced more studies emphasizing the risk of climate change.
At the same time, extreme weather and an explosion at our Texas City refinery in the US affected our ability to produce consistently and perform safely.
8 Making energy more At BP, we constantly ask: What more could we be?
Because, more than ever, In other words, from the effective choices weve made in the past, how can we be a leader in securing the future means our industry and contribute to global economic leading the future.
progress while maximizing shareholder returns?
