ANNUAL REVIEW CHAIRMANS STATEMENT GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ABOUT THE FRIENDS PROVIDENT GROUP UK LIFE & PENSIONS Group Chief Executives Review A year of significant progress on many fronts 2005 has proved to be another good year for the ongoing development of the Friends Provident Group.
We have continued to grow and diversify.
We now operate in more territories.
Our profits are up significantly.
We have once again attracted record levels of new life and pensions business, both in the UK and abroad, and have brought together two sizeable asset management businesses.
We continue to deploy technology innovatively.
We remain utterly focused on providing solutions that our customers value, coupled with service that stands out from the norm.
And we continue to receive recognition through external awards.
New distribution partners for the new UK marketplace The UK life and pensions marketplace is very competitive, pressuring margins, and continues to adapt to depolarisation, although perhaps more slowly than we and others expected.
Over the year, distributors continued to select Friends Provident as either their exclusive provider or as one of the companies they wanted to have on their multi-tie panels.
We have demonstrated time and again the superiority of our systems and service, and we are now delighted to include banks and building societies amongst our new partners.
Of course, panel positions do not guarantee a flow of new business: we have to merit that.
Our service has, for the second successive year, attracted the highest 5 Star ranking in the largest annual survey of Independent Financial Advisers.
Although gratified by this recognition, we acknowledge that we operate in an industry not renowned for good service and we are therefore lifting our sights again.
We aspire to become the standard by which all life and pensions providers are judged, and have embarked on an internal change programme to focus on this challenge.
A stronger International Life & Pensions business In January 2005, we completed the acquisition of Lombard.
This was undoubtedly a highlight of the year, and Lombard has quickly become an established part of the Group, which reflects great credit on our new colleagues.
Through Lombard, we now have another hub, in Luxembourg, to complement our Isle of Man-based international operations.
New territories have opened up to us, as well as the ultra-high net worth customer segment.
Growth of our combined international operations has been rapid.
In last years Annual Report, we predicted that about 35% of our 2005 total life and pensions new business would come from the international cross-border market, compared with less See page 14 6 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 INTERNATIONAL LIFE & PENSIONS ASSET MANAGEMENT GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE CONCLUSIONS AND OUTLOOK than 10% in 2001, the year we became a listed company.
This turned out to We remain utterly focused be 41% and, more significantly, over half of our total new life and pensions on providing solutions that business profits now derive from cross-border business, for the first time in our customers value, our history.
coupled with service that We have also transferred the Isle of Man business onto the Groups single stands out from the norm.
This not only provides industrial strength systems for this growing business, enabling the writing of higher business volumes, cost-effectively, but also will deliver service efficiencies.
Integrating 2004s biggest asset management merger Following the 2004 merger of ISIS with F&C, the integration timetable we set ourselves was challenging but has been substantially achieved, enabling the Group to benefit from synergy savings which will rise to 33 million in 2006 and annually thereafter.
Integration activities dominated the year, but the key to building a successful business is to remain focused on investment performance.
The merger itself, supplemented by recruitment successes since, has strengthened significantly our capabilities for providing superior investment performance, and that remains integral to F&Cs Performance First programme aiming for excellence in everything.
It was clearly a disappointment that the merger of Resolution Life with Britannic resulted in F&C losing the mandate to manage some 25 billion.
This is always a potential outcome of a consolidating marketplace.
However, the significant growth of our asset management operation over recent years has given it the scale to absorb this loss without serious long-term implications.
I am delighted formally to welcome Alain Grisay to the role of Chief Executive of F&C and as a member of the Group Executive Committee.
Alain succeeded Howard Carter, who is to retire in May this year.
Howards contribution to the Group has been immense and I thank him, both personally and on behalf of his fellow directors and colleagues.
I look forward to working with Alain as he leads the next stage of F&Cs development.
A workforce with an appetite for winning Each year since our public listing on the Stock Exchange in 2001, it has been my pleasure to report significant growth of the Friends Provident Group, often in stark contrast to the fortunes of many other companies in our sector and certainly against a challenging industry backdrop.
Everything we have achieved, and aspire to achieve, is underpinned by the talented and determined people who work for us.
It is only because they have the appetite to be leaders rather than followers that we have been able to press ahead with many of the initiatives that have delivered the significant progress of recent years, and that will sustain our journey of success.
I pay tribute to them all and thank them warmly.
Keith Satchell, Group Chief Executive Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2005 7
