Group Chief Executive Officers Review Our combination of voice and electronic ICAP has had a consistent broking brings clear benefits to both of strategy for several years: these businesses.
We have four years the development of an valuable experience of managing these activities in parallel, controlling costs and integrated voice and electronic motivating our staff.
The development of interdealer broking business electronic broking platfor ms requires a with strong market positions long-ter m view with a flexible and rapid reaction to changes as the markets evolve worldwide and the potential for and grow.
Further investment has been further growth, whether made in the integration of our electronic or ganic or by acquisition.
broking systems with the banks internal systems which has created an invaluable e-broking franchise.
The per for mance of ICAPs electronic broking businesses has continued to be outstanding with rising volumes and increasing market share.
Further more, electronic broking of fers huge economies of scale and our early expectations of the BrokerT ec acquisition in 2003 have been exceeded.
ICAPs operations combine voice and electronic broking but we now consider our competitors in two distinct groups: those who have traction in electronic broking and the remainder who have only voice broking capabilities.
We have demonstrated our market leadership in both these sectors, which will develop at dif ferent rates.
The interdealer electronic broking market is estimated to have grown, at constant exchange rates, by 14% in the past year compared with a steadier 3% growth from voice broking.
ICAP Global Executive Management Group David Gelber Jim Pettigrew Group Chief Operating Officer Group Finance Director Stephen McDermott Chief Operating Officer Americas 04 ICAP plc Annual Report 2005 The established electronic broking If you were to get the impression that at We are here at the cutting edge of another operations in many of the bond markets ICAP we are proliferating our electronic transfor mation in the market place.
We have shown the importance of first mover products then you would be have seen the cycles of change in the past advantage as well as volume growth and absolutely.... 100%.... right with credit affect first foreign exchange and more market share advantage successful derivatives, credit Repo and forward foreign recently bonds.
The next wave will take in platfor ms can achieve.
We know from first exchange all added recently.
Our belief is OTC interest rate derivatives as well.
I have hand experience that extending electronic that client appetite for electronic in my minds eye a view of the future.
It is broking into new markets like European transactions is accelerating rapidly and the electronic.
interest rate derivatives is a long-ter m range of products suitable for e-broking is investment and we can expect no early much wider than previously assumed, Looking ahead our strategy remains returns!
I am convinced the time has come especially in a hybrid voice-electronic unchanged: to grow both or ganically and for the euro interest rate swap market to go environment.
through selective acquisition to take our electronic and as customer demand grows share of the combined voice and electronic we at ICAP want to lead the way.
I envisage a day not too far distant when market from an estimated 28% to exceed the majority of ICAPs services, apart from 35% over the next few years.
We cannot In September 2004 we launched in short a few very illiquid or structured products, control the direction or the levels of activity dated interest rate swaps EONIAS and will be available electronically as well as in the financial markets which are currently now have 21 banks installed on our i-Swap through voice brokers.
We will see an enjoying a reasonably volatile period driven platfor m with 18 more in the pipeline.
evolution of the voice brokers role.
More by the recent corporate bond downgrades Our next move will be the extension of customer coverage: more cross selling: and doubts about the direction and scale of i-Swap euro maturity out to 50 years.
We more value added: higher revenue interest rate moves by the central banks.
plan to do this in autumn 2005 which productivity.
Our task is to extend our voice and involves building a link into the London electronic businesses across these markets Clearing Houses Swapclear facility to The ramifications of a big multi-product and increase profit by leveraging the scale ultimately of fer Swapclear members the platfor m with liquidity in all cash bonds and economies of our businesses.
ability to novate electronically executed Repo, as well as derivatives in many trades straight through from i-Swap to the currencies, are huge.
The ability to cross London Clearing House.
With this trade spreads and products would be functionality for longer dated interest rate massively enhanced.
Market ef ficiency swaps, credit issues would be minimised would be taken to a new level.
It is not and could potentially generate very rapid impossible to imagine that a trade in a Michael Spencer volume growth.
2-year swap might, through a chain of other Group Chief Executive Officer linked deals, trigger a transaction in a 30-year bond.. in a dif ferent currency!
Do not underestimate the empower ment that this cross market trading will bring.
Bruce Collins George MacDonald John Nixon Chief Executive Asia Pacific Chief Executive UK and Europe Global Head of Information Services Ron Purpora Doug Rhoten Jay Spencer Joint Chief Executive Americas Joint Chief Executive Americas Global Chief Information Officer Annual Report 2005 ICAP plc 05
