3,000 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC DTH REVENUE ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Since 2002 DTH revenue has 2,500 Operating and Financial Review grown at an average annual rate of 15%, reflecting strong 2,000 PAGE 2 subscriber growth and 1,500 increased yield through new products and pricing.
1,000 500 02 03 04 05 CAGR 15% Operating and Financial Review James Murdoch CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT Chief Executive Officer CHOICE, FLEXIBILITY, QUALITY, CONTROL THESE ARE THE KEY ELEMENTS OF THE SKY CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE.
THIS YEAR WEVE BUILT ON THESE STRENGTHS WHILE ALSO INVESTING OUR EFFORTS IN ENSURING THAT THE BUSINESS IS WELL EQUIPPED IN A MARKETPLACE THAT IS EVOLVING RAPIDLY Revenue m 1 1 OPERATING PROFIT 1,000 EARNINGS PER SHARE 30 The growth in operating profit After completing the transition 25 800 demonstrates the success of to digital, the Group is in a 20 Skys business model.
new phase of superior 600 financial health, delivering 15 strong growth in profitability.
10 400 5 02 0304 05 200 0 02 03 04 05 -5 CAGR 61% 1 1 Before goodwill and exceptional items Before goodwill and exceptional items In August 2004, British Sky 425 million, generating earnings Broadcasting Group plc the per share before goodwill and Company and its subsidiaries exceptional items of 29.0 pence, AFTER 15 YEARS OF PAY-TV, CHOICE IS the Group, Sky outlined a an increase of 58% on the new long-term strategy to drive comparable period.
During the STILL CITED AS THE NO.
1 REASON WHY year, we have focused on These figures highlight the progressing a number of key operational gearing of our NEW SUBSCRIBERS JOIN SKY.
initiatives that will deliver this business and the profitability plan in a highly competitive and of adding new subscribers dynamic environment.
and increasing the yield per existing subscriber.
Given the WE ARE CONTINUOUSLY ENHANCING OUR The early signs are encouraging.
attractiveness of new subscribers During the year, we increased the and the scale of the potential OFFERING THROUGH A BROADER RANGE total number of DTH subscribers growth opportunity, we have in the UK and Ireland by 6% to concentrated on raising the 7,787,000 and more than doubled rate of subscriber growth by OF CONTENT, MORE FLEXIBLE PACKAGES the number of subscribers to Sky addressing remaining barriers and Multiroom.
As at 30 June to consumer adoption through TO SUIT DIFFERENT CUSTOMERS AND 2005, 11% of DTH households the launch of several initiatives.
subscribed to Sky and 8% of These have included the rePRODUCT INNOVATION.
DTH households took two or introduction of the Sky brand, more subscriptions.
more effective and targeted marketing, greater emphasis Significant growth potential on increasing the range of entry We believe the pay television points to pay-TV and continued pay-TV sector in the UK and investment in high-quality Ireland has significant growth programming.
In the long term, penetration levels Setting the pace can increase to around 80%, Innovation is at the core of our consistent with the development of future success, as demonstrated the pay-TV market in the US.
Thats by new products and services a further 10 million homes yet to launched last year, and to be take pay-TV services.
launched over the coming year.
The hard work and commitment A few highlights: of the executive management In August 2005 we introduced team and all of Skys employees the Sky Gnome, an innovative over the last twelve months have portable and wireless device that ensured that we have made a will enable customers to listen to good start towards executing the audio output from their Skys long-term strategy.
Both favourite digital TV and radio operationally and financially the channels throughout the home.
Group is in a good position to continue to make progress In September 2005, we will towards its goals.
simplify our pricing and packaging structure to offer Total revenues for the year customers increased choice and increased by 11% year-on-year to flexibility.
Total operating entertainment packages costs before goodwill and proposition will be replaced exceptional items increased by by offering new and existing 6% to 3,243 million, generating customers a choice of six distinct operating profit before goodwill genre-mixes, from which they and exceptional items of 805 may select various combinations million.
The operating profit of basic-tier channels to create margin before goodwill and their own package.
Customers exceptional items increased will still be able to add premium to 20% from 16% for the sports and movies to these comparable period.
Whilst increasing the year, we improved our investment number of available packages grade credit rating and have fivefold, the number of price distributed 551 million to points will reduce from 96 to 15. shareholders, through our ordinary dividend and a share Before the end of the 2005 buy-back programme.
Profit calendar year, customers who after tax for the period grew to subscribe to a top-tier package 1 Operating profit m 1 Earnings per share pence BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Operating and Financial Review PAGE 4 and have a broadband internet approximately 50% of UK exclusive live rights from the and schedule when it begins connection will be able to households who either cannot Rugby Football Union to broadcasting from its recently download movies on-demand receive Freeview or who require broadcast Englands Autumn completed state-of-the-art studio and enjoy Sky Sports an aerial upgrade to do so.
Internationals and Guinness complex at Skys main campus in programming through their PC Premiership matches until 2010: Osterley.
Initially planned Following on from the success of to launch with over 200 movies, Sky, we plan to launch Europes exclusive live rights in the UK Sky One relaunched in September which will increase over time, most comprehensive HDTV to the Heineken Cup, European 2004 with a new on-air look and customers will be able to browse service in the first half of calendar rugbys major club competition, strong line-up of acquired and movies, trailers, behind the year 2006.
Good progress was until 2010: and commissioned programming.
The scenes footage and reviews at any made during the year building the channels commitment to offering time through a readily accessible, required broadcast infrastructure exclusive live rights from the modern, quality programming is easy to use application.
From day and facilities and developing the Football League to broadcast reflected by a 3.9% increase in one, over 5 million Sky Sports HDTV box, which has the around 70 matches per season, the share of viewing by ABC1 subscribers will have access to connectivity and flexibility to offer from the Leagues competitions adults in network homes in the highlights from all their favourite advanced services in the future.
until 2009. first half of calendar year 2005. sports, including Barclays This service will initially include a The upcoming Autumn schedule Premier League and UEFA number of high definition HD In addition to these, Sky Sports features a strong line-up with Champions League football, channels, including sports, movies added coverage of equestrian Nip Tuck returning in a two rugby, golf and cricket.
As an and documentaries and will events, international netball, series agreement exclusive in the added benefit, our top tier offer customers an enhanced badminton and yachting to UK, the second co-produced series customers will also be able to TV experience.
further increase the range of of The 4400 and new US drama receive the latest video updates programming on its dedicated series Weeds and Threshold.
from Sky News and Sky Sports Must-see programming channels, which now includes News via their mobile phones.
According to viewing figures coverage of over 150 different Targets from the Broadcasters Audience sporting disciplines.
We are confident that continued Last October, we added Sky 160 Research Board BARB, Sky execution of our strategy will to our product portfolio.
Sky Sports share of viewing in UK During the year, Sky made deliver on our long-term growth enables customers to pause live television homes increased in the progress in the renegotiation plan.
In the medium term we TV, programme a series link for last quarter of the year by 12%, of three major movie studio have established targets of their favourite series, and with England playing Australia contracts, focusing on better achieving 10 million subscribers effectively build a personalised in crickets NatWest Challenge quality, better rights and in 2010, with 25% taking Sky TV channel to watch what they and the British and Irish Lions improved value.
Sky Movies and 30% taking our Multiroom want, when they want.
The new tour of New Zealand both screens over 450 different films product, as well as delivering Sky 160 offers customers around achieving record audience every week across its 11 multiplex substantial and sustained profit four times as much storage as the figures.
During the year, Sky screens, offering unrivalled choice and cash flow.
We are confident standard Sky box and has two concluded a number of and convenient viewing.
that, through the initiatives set USB connections.
major sports agreements out above, we will achieve our including: Named as News Channel of the growth targets whilst delivering At the same time, we launched Year by the Royal Television substantial and sustained profit a new freesat service offering exclusive live rights from Society for the fourth year and cash flow throughout.
consumers around 200 television the England Cricket Board running, Sky News remains the and radio channels and interactive to broadcast all international UKs leading news channel both services for a one-off fee.
The and domestic cricket in England in terms of ratings and critical service provides an attractively and Wales from 2006 until acclaim.
Later this year, Sky News priced option, particularly for 2009 inclusive: will unveil a new on-air look SKYS AIM IS TO BE THE NO.
THIS AMBITION UNDERPINS OUR COMMITMENT TO IRREPRESSIBLE INNOVATION, QUALITY PROGRAMMING AND LEADING-EDGE CUSTOMER SERVICE FOR MILLIONS OF FAMILIES ACROSS THE UK AND IRELAND.
