Review by the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director - Stephen Koseff and Bernard Kantor us holding 47.7% of the merged company, which has been Overview of performance renamed Rensburg Sheppards plc.
The merged entity has approximately 10.3 billion in funds under management, Our strong financial performance over the past year is making it the seventh largest private client fund manager in evidence of the strategic actions taken by the group to the UK.
streamline and sharpen our focus on core activities.
Within these core activities and geographies, we benefited from an ongoing drive to achieve profitable growth, with performance further supported by favourable economic conditions.
Strong operating performance All of our operating areas contributed to our strong results.
Strategic accomplishments Private Client Activities We are pleased to report that we achieved the majority of Our Private Client Activities reported substantial growth in our financial targets and made significant progress towards operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation of reaching others.
We are required to prepare our financial goodwill of 57.5% - up to 84.8 million from 53.9 million.
statements in accordance with International Financial Strong performances were recorded across the majority of the Reporting Standards IFRS for the year ending Private Banking activities, with notable performances from 31 March 2006.
The results relating to the six months to Specialised Lending, Structured Property Finance, Growth and 30 September 2005 will be presented under IFRS, and we will Acquisition Finance and Investment Management.
Improved revise our financial targets, recognising the difference in the equity market conditions and strict cost control benefited both accounting standards, to ensure that they are appropriate with Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite in the UK and Private Client the required degree of stretch.
We are strategically focused on ensuring that we only enter Treasury and Specialised Finance into business activities that are expected to earn appropriate returns on our capital and satisfy the demands of our The Treasury and Specialised Finance division achieved an shareholder base.
Consequently, we took several strategic operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation of steps to ensure that we remain niched and focused: goodwill of 47.9 million, an increase of 33.9% from 35.8 million.
The South African business benefited from a We sold our 80.28% stake in Investec Bank Israel Limited relatively stable interest rate environment and an improvement to The First International Bank of Israel as we did not believe in dealing profits, following a disappointing performance in the that we would be able to generate an acceptable return on prior period.
The advisory and structuring businesses in the UK investment given the competitive framework of that market.
and South Africa performed well, especially the Project Finance, Resource Finance, Structured Finance and Financial We exited the Traded Endowments business in the UK, Products divisions.
These results were somewhat offset by an which was not a core activity and had been underperforming unsatisfactory result from the Commodities and Equity for some time.
Derivatives trading operations in the UK.
We significantly reduced our exposure to the life assurance Investment Banking business through the sale of our group risk business to Capital Alliance Holdings Limited CAL and the sale of our For Investment Banking, operating profit before exceptional investment in CAL to Liberty Group Limited.
Our focus items and amortisation of goodwill grew by 25.0% - from going forward will be on delivering appropriate investment 37.7 million to 47.2 million.
The Institutional Stockbroking products to our target client base.
operations did well against a backdrop of favourable equity markets and the Corporate Finance divisions achieved sound We bolstered our Private Client Activities in South Africa results, with a solid performance from the UK team.
The Direct with the purchase of the South African private client Investments and Private Equity divisions continued to benefit business of HSBC, resulting in additional funds under from the good performance of their underlying portfolios.
Since year end, our private client portfolio management and stockbroking business in the UK, Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite, merged with Rensburg Plc.
In terms of the transaction, Rensburg Plc issued 25.5 million new shares and a 60 million subordinated loan in settlement of the purchase price for Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite resulting in 07 Asset Management Sustainability Asset Management delivered substantial growth in operating Our commitment to sustainability is entrenched in our belief profit before exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill of that it is in the long-term interests of the business, employees, 55.1% to 38.2 million from 24.6 million, benefiting from shareholders and broader stakeholders that a tangible favourable market conditions.
The profit of the UK and responsibility to sustainability is embraced and embedded into International operations improved significantly due to strong all our activities.
Consequently, a dedicated Corporate Affairs net inflows across their product ranges, with investment function was established at the beginning of 2005, to align the performance remaining strong.
The Southern African different components of sustainability with our overall strategy.
operations delivered solid financial results boosted by a combination of performance fees and additional revenue from We demonstrate our contribution to society by playing an rising portfolio indices over the period.
active role in supporting corporate social investment activities focusing on projects that are entrepreneurial and sustainable, Property Activities such as The Business Place which is a one-stop shop for emerging entrepreneurs.
We also believe in supporting Operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation of developments that empower people through education and goodwill of the Property Activities division rose by 21.5% from training and hence continue to support the internationally 10.1 million to 12.3 million.
The division benefited from an renowned CIDA City Campus.
increase in funds under management in South Africa and realised gains earned in the UK.
In South Africa, we have been recognised for our sustainability endeavours and were included, for the second year running, in Assurance Activities the JSE Socially Responsible Investment Index, the first index of its kind in an emerging market.
We were also acknowledged Our assurance activities, conducted by Investec Employee for our support of black economic empowerment BEE Benefits in South Africa, reported an increase in operating transactions and were awarded the Top Commercial Financier profit of 69.5% from 4.6 million to 7.8 million.
The business of BEE Transactions by the BusinessMap Foundation.
benefited from growth in embedded value as a consequence of improved efficiencies.
As mentioned above, this activity was significantly reduced during the year and we will no longer Strategic direction independently categorise this income stream.
Through a carefully crafted strategy, we have delivered solid financial results for our shareholders and distinctive solutions Capital management for our clients.
We have also sharply focused and grown our business and maintained strict control of our cost structure.
We are strategically focused on ensuring that we only enter into business activities that are expected to earn appropriate We believe that our core growth should come from building returns on our capital and satisfy the demands of our our existing activities organically.
However, we will continue to shareholder base.
Our objective is to increase shareholder evaluate and consider bolt-on acquisition opportunities that value through a group-wide discipline that links capital deliver competitive advantages quickly and efficiently, allocation and structuring, performance measurement, recognising that they must meet our required return on investment decisions and capital-based incentive compensation investment criteria at all times.
Our strategy for growth includes: Investing in our people by identifying and rewarding talent and inculcating them into our culture and values system.
Basel II Strengthening our businesses to enhance our ability to produce growing, sustainable earnings over the long-term.
The revised international capital adequacy framework Basel II Maintaining a client centric approach.
was published during the year.
This framework is designed to Managing our capital efficiently by deploying it on key differentiate minimum regulatory capital requirements in a risk opportunities and business units, which enable us to achieve sensitive manner and incentivise and recognise sound risk our return objectives.
management, internal control and governance practices.
We have actively concentrated on ensuring that we will be ready for the implementation of Basel II in all our activities around the world.
The framework is expected to be implemented at the beginning of January 2007 for the UK and a year later for South Africa.
Review by the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director - Stephen Koseff and Bernard Kantor Acknowledgements Our success is directly attributable to the expertise of our management team, the quality of our people and the strength of our culture.
The board joins us in thanking all our management and staff for their tenacity, resolve and commitment enabling us to achieve these results.
We would also like to extend our gratitude to the Chairman and the Board of Directors who, individually and collectively, provided the necessary guidance and support, playing an important role in contributing to our success.
Outlook for 2006 We continue to operate in a competitive environment where ongoing innovation and rapid, yet careful, response to competition is crucial.
Within this challenging context, we believe that we are strongly positioned to compete.
The overall quality of the organisation has improved significantly and we have a far more balanced portfolio of businesses.
We have built scale in a number of our businesses, which together with our dedicated managers and employees, provide a solid platform for future growth.
Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Chief Executive Officer Managing Director
