Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chief Executives Statement Chief Executives Statement Dominic Burke Chief Executive 6 I am pleased to make my first statement as resources to serve large multinational companies and to Chief Executive following my appointment last December.
advise on and handle very complex and substantial insurance programmes.
I joined the Group when JLT acquired Burke Ford in May 2000.
Since 2002 I have been responsible for the Groups At the same time however, we are small enough for UK Insurance Broking and Employee Benefits businesses.
our staff to collaborate across disciplines and across I joined the Group Executive Committee in 2004, was continents without the need for obstructive bureaucracy.
appointed to the board at the start of 2005 and most Our financial performance over the last two years has recently also appointed Chief Operating Officer.
As a not reflected our undoubted strengths.
This is partly consequence, on my appointment as Chief Executive explained by factors outside our control: the competitive Officer, I already had a good understanding of the Group.
insurance market, the impact of currency transactions, JLT is a Group with tremendous strengths.
Perhaps chief the loss of the majority of our PSA revenue and the among these is our distinctive style proactive, energetic intense fee competition that has followed the Spitzer and customer-focused, committed to working with clients investigation.
However, being external in nature does not to resolve their issues.
Around the world and across our make them acceptable excuses for our recent financial various activities we have first rate people, expert and performance.
We will manage our businesses taking enthusiastic in their roles.
One consistent characteristic is account of the current and future environment the commitment that extends from the most junior to in which we operate.
The 2005 financial performance also reflected the JLTs approach is to focus on those segments of the considerable scale of the investments we have recently insurance and employee benefits markets where, by virtue made in recruiting highly talented professionals who have of our market position and specialist expertise, we rank chosen to join JLT.
We are justly proud of our strengths.
The expansion of our reinsurance broking capability They include, for example, advising and broking risks on a through JLT Re has been an important feature of 2005 multinational basis in industries such as energy, and will continue into 2006.
Some of these investments construction and telecommunications to managing are already bearing fruit, others are still at the stage municipal insurance programmes in Australia and where the initial cost outweighs the returns sought.
administering pension portfolios for UK life assurers.
It is important that we ensure that we achieve a proper Our network of retail insurance brokers constitutes the return on our investments made in individuals, teams or strongest grouping outside the three global insurance companies both in the UK and overseas.
Our wholesale broking capabilities into London In the year ahead one of my first tasks is to ensure that and Bermuda are unequalled.
our resources and cost structure are both better aligned The positioning of the largest smaller participant in a to our revenues.
Furthermore it is essential that we make services sector offers great advantages.
JLT has the optimum use of our assets and capabilities.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Chief Executives Statement 7 Our focus will be to build upon our areas of strength This objective will be achieved through the long-term and not to seek size or coverage for their own sake.
There is real value in the balance of activities in the JLT today has many strengths but faces many challenges.
Group between our Employee Benefits and Risk & I am delighted to lead the team as CEO, to set the Insurance businesses.
Our Employee Benefits business strategy and manage the Group.
It is a great opportunity, has a broad customer base and is recurrent by virtue of privilege and honour.
I share my passion for JLT with my market practice, or length of contracts.
Our Risk & many colleagues throughout the Group and I embark on Insurance operations have many significant business this new journey with enthusiasm and confidence.
However, these are less predictable as they renew annually and earnings can be more sensitive to Our staff are our most important asset and I would like market conditions.
to thank them for their hard work and dedication.
Although we face many challenges in 2006 I am confident Setting out a route map for our development is one of the that together our commitment will ensure that our goals objectives of an extensive review of our operations that is are achieved.
This project is not intended to be a static process.
There is no specific completion date prior Finally, I would like to thank Ken Carter on behalf of all to which all important management actions are put on my colleagues at JLT both past and present.
Where appropriate, we intend to implement actions Lloyd Thompson in 1986 and was the driving force immediately, the merits of which are clearly demonstrated behind its flotation the following year and the subsequent by strategic analysis.
We have, for example, announced merger with JIB Group plc in 1997.
In Kens 20 years our intention to bring together the UK based insurance with JLT, including a remarkable 17 years as CEO, he has broking businesses through the merger of JLT Risk undoubtedly been the single most important influence Solutions and Corporate Risks.
This will allow us to over JLTs successful development.
present a single brand to existing and prospective clients, to improve the management structure and to ensure that no opportunities for cost reduction and operational efficiency are overlooked.
These actions exemplify the approach that JLT will take in 2006, a combination of thorough analysis and planning with decisive action.
There is a good deal of groundwork to be done and the Dominic Burke benefits will not flow through to the Group results in the Chief Executive short-term.
Our key priority is to ensure we achieve a 21st March 2006 sustained and substantial increase in the value of the Company.
To secure this, we need to enable our staff to fulfil their individual career and financial goals.
