Chief Executives Review Executing a clear strategy, Bunzl delivers strong growth organically and through the successful integration of acquisitions Operating performance of revenue growth of 34% and continuing operations operating profit improvement In my first set of results since of 31%.
becoming Chief Executive, I am pleased to report that the Group Adjusted earnings per share, after achieved excellent results across eliminating the effect of intangible all its business areas in 2005.
In amortisation, were 38.7p, an this review references to operating increase of 21%, while basic profit are to operating profit before earnings per share were 35.4p, intangible amortisation.
Return on average improved performance was a operating capital rose from 59.3% reflection of good organic growth to 61.4% and, after acquisition and the successful integration of expenditures of 124 million, acquisitions.
Overall revenue was our strong operating cash flow up 20% and operating profit resulted in a drop in gearing from increased 20%.
In North America revenue Acquisitions rose 18% with operating profit The Group spent 124 million on increasing by 10%, largely as acquisitions during 2005 with the a consequence of the lower majority of the investment being margin acquisitions made in 2005. made in the US.
We also added Return on average operating capital % UK & Ireland showed a revenue businesses in the Netherlands, UK GAAP increase of 4% while operating Central Europe and Australia.
IFRS Continuing operations profit rose 10%.
In Continental In total these acquisitions will add Europe we experienced a 59% about 270 million to annualised increase in revenue with operating revenue.
Since the year end profit up 89% driven by the we have announced further sizeable acquisition of Groupe acquisitions in the UK and the US.
Pierre Le Goff in 2004 and major 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 improvements in our other In January 2005 we completed businesses.
Australasia showed the acquisition of Gelpa, a 6 Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 29.4 32.2 33.0 36.5 38.9 39.0 41.1 45.1 59.3 61.4 distributor principally supplying the September we purchased retail and food processor sectors A W Mendenhall based in Chicago with packaging and consumables with revenue of $98 million in in the Netherlands, thereby 2004.
Mendenhall serves the extending our product range and redistribution sector principally customer base in Benelux.
Gelpa supplying foodservice, janitorial, is based in Arnhem and had industrial packaging and revenue of 43 million in 2003. disposable products in the Following the acquisition of Beltex Midwest.
In October we in late 2004 we continued our strengthened our position in the expansion into Central Europe non-food retail sector with the with the acquisition of Tecep in purchase of Retail Resources, Image above: early July.
Tecep has operations a business providing distribution We provide packaging for many types in Hungary, the Czech Republic, services to retail stores across of food including bakery products.
Slovakia, Romania and Poland, the US including store supplies primarily serving the retail, such as checkout and foodservice, catering and food merchandise bags, jan san items, processor markets with packaging labels, boxes and other paper supplies and catering and food products as well as specialised processing equipment and had expense control systems.
Retail revenue of 41 million in 2004.
Resources had revenue of $29 million in 2004 and is based in In July we also purchased New York.
We also acquired Sanicare, strengthening the grocery and food processor our growing position in the distribution business of Weiss 3x healthcare sector in Australia Brothers in October.
Based in business is based in West Point, revenue and operating New South Wales, Sanicare Pennsylvania and had revenue profit in 10 years supplies disposable products of $42 million in 2004. principally into the healthcare sector and had revenue of In January 2006 we announced A$22 million in the year ended the acquisition of Midshires, April 2005. a UK vending business with Revenue bn revenue in 2005 of 12 million, Our momentum of acquisitions in and Master Craft, a US business 2004 in North America continued servicing the redistribution and in 2005 as we brought significant foodservice sectors, with new businesses into the Group.
These acquisitions strengthened our position in the redistribution, Organisation non-food retail, healthcare and In November we reorganised 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 industrial markets and provide the Group into four business From continuing operations us with opportunities to develop areas: North America, UK & further into these markets as well Ireland, Continental Europe and as enhance our position in the Australasia.
This change reflects Operating profit m traditional grocery market.
the significant growth in UK GAAP these areas and will allow the IFRS In September we completed the management in each geography acquisition of SOFCO based in to drive organic growth, integrate New York State with revenue of acquisitions and evaluate $175 million in 2004.
The distributes disposable supplies creation of a Group purchasing to a number of sectors including position will enable us to source 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 grocery, foodservice and our products in a more effective From continuing operations before amortisation and corporate costs healthcare.
At the end of manner and share information Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 7 68 0.9 72 1.1 84 1.2 100 1.4 128 1.8 158 2.1 164 2.2 171 2.3 183 2.4 218 2.9 Chief Executives Review continued seamlessly among the business acquisitions were made.
higher potential sectors of areas.
This key function will work We expect Australasia to see redistribution, jan san, food closely with the businesses to another year of good progress processor, non-food retail and ensure that our customers have with higher than Group average convenience stores.
access to the best products growth driven both organically globally to meet their needs.
While this Our grocery business, which business area is not as large as is the largest of our customer Prospects the others, it is showing a lot of categories, continued to perform In spite of rising interest rates and promise as it develops a broad well.
Revenue, while ahead an upward and volatile trend footprint in the grocery, healthcare, of 2004 both organically and in commodity prices, the world foodservice, food processor and through incremental acquisitions, economies performed reasonably safety sectors.
decreased as a proportion of well in 2005.
The input prices the total due principally to our on plastic resin based products A more focused outsourcing strategy of concentrating our experienced upward movement Group that has recently been growth and acquisition activities in the latter part of 2005 since reorganised into four business in the other sectors.
when they have remained firm.
areas moves forward with a We expect North America heightened sense of confidence.
Rising fuel costs, increased to continue to grow due to We are fortunate to have regulation on drivers hours acquisitions in addition to the experienced management in each of work and greater traffic normal levels of organic growth.
area who have clear strategies congestion has provided While the recently acquired and have demonstrated their additional stimulus to the growth businesses have had the initial ability to execute their plans.
Our Images from top: effect of lowering our margins, Consequently we have every recent acquisitions, particularly Through our own brand, Prime Source, we believe that our management expectation that we will be able A W Mendenhall in Chicago, we supply a wide range of jan san initiatives will have a positive impact to advance organically bolstered have broadened our geographic products including air fresheners.
We are by our existing acquisition coverage and improved our We provide supermarkets with pleased that our previously stated momentum while keeping our ability to service customers in packaging for ready to eat foods strategy to grow in the jan san, eyes open to new opportunities this sector.
Our low cost and from salads to hot roast chicken.
food processor, redistribution, to grow our business successfully.
highly efficient operating platform convenience store and non-food offers an economic solution retail markets is bearing fruit as to both our customers and we see our revenue breakdown North America suppliers.
We believe that reflecting higher growth in these A combination of organic our potential in this sector will areas.
Our broad group of growth and acquisitions grew continue to grow as our suppliers businesses in the UK & Ireland revenue by 18% to 1,665.2 see the value of redistribution.
move confidently into 2006 after million while operating profit a strong performance in 2005. rose by 10% to 116.0 million.
Although the processor business Continued growth combined with We successfully integrated the felt the effects of the various ongoing sales mix improvements acquisitions made during the bans on US beef throughout the should enhance the top line while fourth quarter of 2004 and world, it had another year of cost savings and efficiency announced four further sound growth in most categories.
improvements should benefit acquisitions in 2005: SOFCO, As we continue to demonstrate profits.
The significant growth in A W Mendenhall, Retail to our customers the value in the revenue and profits for Continental Resources and Weiss Brothers.
one stop shop concept, we are Europe in 2005, principally Though these new businesses able to increase the breadth of bolstered by a major 2004 came into the Group with on items we sell while helping them acquisition, will return in 2006 to average lower margins, we have control their operating costs and more normal growth levels.
All of confidence in our integration working capital.
our businesses have developed and cost rationalisation plans plans to improve their operations which are currently being The successful integration of including the upgrading of our IT executed.
These additions TSN, which we acquired in 18% systems in France and Central reflect our strategy to October 2004, provides us with revenue growth Europe which was part of the reorientate our business mix opportunities to sell disposable integration plans when the towards the higher growth and packaging and jan san products in North America 8 Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Bunzl delivers a full range of goods not for resale to grocery stores across North America Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 9 Chief Executives Review continued Bunzl delivers cleaning solutions, a growing sector of the market in North America 10 Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 in addition to selected retail the positive response by our course will be attended by all of items into the growing employees to these events.
our sales personnel and a select convenience store sector.
These hurricanes not only created group of other managers.
We believe this will grow in direct operational challenges for us, our correlation with the expansion customers and suppliers, but also Our private label program, in size of the convenience directly impacted the lives of Prime Source, continues to grow stores as they begin to compete many of our employees.
Due to as we add more items and offer with grocery stores and fast their determination, commitment our customers a less costly food restaurants.
and hard work we continued alternative without sacrificing to service our customers and quality.
This program has The acquisition of Retail through teamwork, flexibility and expanded significantly again Resources in October will allow our common IT platform all their in 2005 as we broadened our us to grow faster in the non-food needs were met, often by shifting product offering and increased retail sector.
Our logistics the work among our branch our international sourcing.
platform can provide customers network.
These difficult times A Shanghai warehouse an opportunity to increase the tested our operational capabilities consolidates many of the Chinese number of packaging items but we believe that our sourced products and allows for without increasing their performance has strengthened efficient delivery even to our investment in inventory.
our relationships with both our smaller warehouse locations.
We believe that the expense customers and suppliers.
management system offered Despite rising costs of both fuel by Retail Resources is unique We continue to invest in and employee benefits, we believe and provides our customers technology and our new that we have managed our cost Images from top: with a management tool enabling e-commerce supply chain platform effectively and are The acquisition of SOFCO has them to manage and control initiative is increasing sales by confident that the improvements strengthened our business in the their expenses in every store.
providing added value to our to our IT capabilities, facilities, Northeast of the US in a number of Our import program can also customers.
Self-service features logistics platform, supply chain sectors including grocery, foodservice and healthcare.
provide packaging solutions include internet based 24 7 and delivery routes will contribute to these customers that will access to electronic ordering to long term efficiency gains and The acquisition of A W Mendenhall reduce operating expenses with other features including lead to an even more competitive complements our existing business without a reduction in quality.
inventory and pricing information, cost base in the future.
We are in the Midwest in redistribution to the foodservice and jan san markets.
order and delivery status and also confident that, as we deepen 2005 provided plenty of customer history.
Training our ties with both our customers operating challenges and one and technical support from and suppliers, we will continue of those was the significant experienced personnel is also to provide a product and increase in fuel costs.
As a provided to our customers.
consolidation service offering result, our management carried that is of the highest level in out a complete analysis of our In order to meet the demands the market.
transport operations to mitigate of an evolving marketplace we the cost impact.
We re-examined implemented a new VIP value, routes, improved our drivers integrity and performance sales UK & Ireland education programs and training and development Since our first acquisition in the implemented new vehicle initiative.
The program is UK in 1993, our UK & Ireland tracking technology to monitor customised to our needs and business has expanded to provide trucks en route.
Furthermore the enables our sales professionals a wide range of consumables utilisation of enterprise systems to learn and apply state-of-theinto a broad range of customer and metrics helped customers art sales techniques and tools.
During 2005 the business and suppliers to clearly identify The program content includes continued to develop with revenue operating costs while increasing sales maximisation, sales increasing by 4% to 664.2 million internal effectiveness.
strategies, communicating and operating profit by 10% to effectively, successful sales calls, 56.1 million.
On a more sombre note, it would negotiation skills, responding to be hard to overestimate the customers needs, understanding This increase has been 664m havoc wreaked by the hurricanes buyer motivations and handling predominantly organic with sales revenue in UK & Ireland Katrina, Rita and Wilma and queries.
This comprehensive growth coming from new contract Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 11 Chief Executives Review continued wins and range extensions, new products in other categories Across the UK and Ireland particularly from businesses and gained operating efficiencies we will maintain our segmental adding products available from the reorganisation of the focus.
The market oriented from other Bunzl operations.
supply chain in 2004. businesses will provide that In addition to revenue growth, focus while we will leverage our profit has been enhanced Overall sales were flat within our overall scale where appropriate through increased efficiencies cleaning and safety business to gain competitive advantage from rationalisation and following rationalisation of the and increased efficiencies while improvement in our operations cleaning and hygiene branch sharing best practices.
which more than offset increases network.
The subsequent in fuel and raw material prices.
reduction in operating costs more than offset the reduction Continental Europe The Horeca hotel, restaurant in local sales around the closed We successfully achieved and catering markets remain branches and we still have a substantial growth in both challenging with ongoing national network capable of revenue and operating profit in consolidation and customers servicing contracts anywhere 2005.
Our top line increased 59% deferring non-essential spend.
Greenham continued to 490.0 million and operating Sales growth was underpinned to develop business with local profit rose 89% to 37.9 million.
by the full year impact of authorities and construction This was driven by the impact of significant contract wins in the companies.
Increased importing a full year of trading from Groupe hotel, restaurant and pub sectors via our National Distribution Pierre Le Goff, acquired in in the second half of 2004.
We Centre and sales of own label May 2004, as well as from further also won and fulfilled contracts to products offset pricing pressures, acquisitions in 2005 and some Images from top: supply light and heavy equipment while operating costs and working strong performances from Through the acquisition of Gelpa we for the fit out of two new sports capital remained tightly controlled.
With supply packaging and consumables stadiums in England and Wales.
increasing oil prices and higher to the retail and food processor sectors Operationally we introduced our Within Ireland we continue costs of raw materials, all of our in the Netherlands.
standard IT system into the to develop.
Our largest area, businesses have had to place a The acquisition of Tecep expanded our catering equipment business the catering supplies business, greater amount of effort into gross presence in the retail, foodservice, which now allows the increasing benefited from new hotel margin management and tight catering and food processor markets number of customers we serve construction activity driven control of operating costs.
with both disposables and by available capital allowances.
equipment to receive consistent We were also successful in In a period of challenging management information.
winning new public sector economic conditions in France, accounts in our cleaning supplies our cleaning and hygiene In a difficult high street business.
We continue to grow our business has delivered a robust environment, our retail supplies two smaller sectors, safety and performance whilst our personal business, which provides goods retail, by leveraging our resources protection equipment safety not for resale, grew through in the UK, an approach that the products business has a combination of new contract new regional structure will facilitate.
wins, notably a three year Throughout the year we have contract with a leading high Within the vending business, reorganised the operational street retailer, and by adding the market trend away from infrastructure of the businesses new ranges to existing customers purchasing machines at Groupe Pierre Le Goff, with customers.
Our approach with to having operating companies the merging of a number of the new ranges and services is such as Bunzl charge for them smaller operating units to create to prove the concept with one as part of a fee, left overall operating efficiencies and improve customer and then proceed revenue level with the previous service.
This reorganisation to offer it to others.
However account wins programme will continue healthcare market, increased in the hotel and retail sectors throughout 2006.
An IT system imports and budgetary pressures mean a higher proportion implementation commenced at 59% within the NHS resulted in price of the sales is repeatable the end of 2005 in the cleaning revenue growth deflation in examination gloves.
and hygiene business and this in Continental Europe Shermond maintained its sales This, together with good cost will harness further synergies to 490 million momentum through sales of control, improved profitability.
12 Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 In the UK & Ireland Bunzl delivers an extensive line of personal protection equipment Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 13 Chief Executives Review continued Bunzl delivers a complete range of consumables to hotels in Continental Europe 14 Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 In January 2005 we completed strengthened by the acquisition creates opportunity to expand the acquisition of Gelpa in the of Tecep in July.
Tecep is a into other healthcare markets Netherlands which has provided leading distributor of packaging with a wider range of disposable us with a route into the retail supplies and catering and food consumables and leverage and food processor sectors.
processor equipment to the our position in the UK In difficult market conditions the retail, foodservice, catering and healthcare sector.
business has integrated well with food processor markets, largely our existing operations.
The in Hungary and the Czech Our principal business completed two businesses have achieved Republic but also throughout the successful integration of synergies enabling them to Central Europe.
We are gaining acquisitions made in 2004 as exceed our expectations in 2005. synergies in a number of areas well as winning new contracts and at the same time investing within our targeted growth In similarly difficult market in the IT systems to create sectors, including healthcare, conditions, our German further operating efficiencies.
business has developed its Lesnies continued to focus on national accounts program We continued to expand our developing core business within as more customers realise geographic footprint in 2005 the food processor markets.
the benefits which derive from and we remain optimistic about During 2005 we introduced a our strong operating platform.
further expansion through range of specialised production This, combined with ongoing acquisitions.
Reorganising consumables to complement cost control, has been a key Continental Europe into a our already strong position with driver in delivering profitable separate business area will specialist equipment into this organic growth.
enable us to put the focus and sector.
The business has added Images from top: resources behind the pursuit of resource to drive growth within Through Lesnies, we provide a wide Following its relocation to a these additional opportunities.
these markets and this will range of supplies to the meat industry purpose built warehouse in continue throughout 2006. in Australasia from packaging to 2005, our business supplying protective wear.
retailers in Denmark has taken Australasia Our strong growth and leadership The acquisition of Sanicare expanded advantage of a stronger The combination of acquisitions in the marketplace creates our position in the healthcare sector operating platform to offer in late 2004 and mid 2005, as opportunities for purchasing in Australasia by providing a range an improved service to our well as organic growth in the synergies and the ability to of products for the elderly.
This has enabled underlying business, contributed leverage our global sourcing to the business to perform ahead to an increase of 34% in revenue improve our competitive position.
of expectations and also sets to 105.0 million and 31% in We will continue to invest a good base for further operating profit to 8.4 million.
in our business through the positive development in 2006. establishment of new warehouses The operations at MultiLine, The business strategy is for and the upgrading of existing our business supplying Horeca continued development of our facilities and further enhancement customers in Denmark, consolidation platform, providing to our IT systems.
All of these continue to prosper, partly aided a greater offering to our many initiatives will enable us to by a significant contract win in new and existing customers.
continually improve our customer the second half of the year.
This will gain momentum service offering which is the through the development of principal driver of our strong 2005 was the first full year acquisition opportunities within growth in this market.
of our activities in Central our core markets.
Our Beltex business, a distributor of cleaning and In July we completed the safety products, has taken acquisition of Sanicare which advantage of growth in expands our position and industrial activity in the region.
product offering into the With operations in Hungary healthcare sector and and Romania the business complements our growing 34% has performed well ahead of position within aged care in the our expectations.
In addition the clinical Michael Roney increase in revenue in Central Europe was expertise within this business Chief Executive in Australasia Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 15
