Chief Executives review Our corporate culture is one of cost efficiency and we are proud of our record as a low cost operator During the year we completed seismic under construction in China and is expected to interpretation in Turkmenistan, Congo and Egypt be available in Q3 2006: it is likely that this rig will giving us a prospect inventory going forward initially be deployed in Turkmenistan.
The second totalling 400 million barrels of potential unrisked rig will be available early in 2007. working interest reserves across 15 different prospects.
This has the potential to add material Finally, in February 2006 we completed the partial value to Burren.
We are now actively exploring in sale of our shipping business to the Italian shipping all three countries and will be drilling the large part group Pietro Barbaro SPA for a cash consideration of this inventory over the next 18 months.
The sale involved three tug and barge combinations together with associated Exploration drilling in Turkmenistan commenced leasing obligations, and relieves the Groups in October last year with two deep wells on the balance sheet of all shipping related liabilities other Nebit Dag East prospect, located toward the than working capital.
Burren retains its interest Finian OSullivan middle of the PSA area.
NDE001 failed to in eight bareboat chartered vessels for a further Chief Executive Officer encounter commercial hydrocarbons, yet 10 years, which have 12 month charters for 2006 NDE002 flowed on test at over 400 bopd from in place and continue to operate profitably in the a shallow horizon that is now a focus for further Black Sea and Russian river system.
The 2006 deep drilling programme will target several potentially highStRAtEGY AND OBJECtIVES 2005 was another year of exceptionally strong impact prospects lying closer to Burun field.
Burrens strategy is to build a valuable portfolio of growth for Burren.
the tripling in our net profits The first two of these wells, on the south flanks oil and gas assets in four key hydrocarbon regions came from the combination of increased of the Burun and Nebit Dag fields, were spudded of the world: the Caspian and Southern Russia, production, higher oil prices and tight cost in March.
West Africa, Middle East and India.
Burrens net production has increased strike a balance between diversity and materiality, by an average compound annual rate of 70% In Congo we have identified six targets within the in order that individual assets can significantly per annum over the last four years, an enviable Kouilou licence area for exploration drilling this impact shareholder value, whilst avoiding an record, which has driven our net profit from year, following the proven oil trend indicated by undue concentration of political and geological uS$3.7 million in 2001 to uS$220.9 million the MBoundi and Kouakouala fields.
We also aim to achieve a balance in terms in 2005. we will test the potential extensions of the of the portfolio life cycle, acquiring early stage MBoundi field to the south-east and north-west.
exploration and appraisal opportunities in order REVIEW OF tHE YEAR The first of these step-out wells, to the south-east to provide future growth potential to complement Over the year we accelerated development of the MBoundi field, was spudded in March.
drilling on our two main assets and prepared for a significant exploration programme in 2006.
In Egypt, the first exploration well on the East We seek to build close relationships with We drilled 38 appraisal and development wells Kanayis block, Washka Southwest, spudded and governments and with domestic partners, often on the Burun and MBoundi fields, compared with completed in March 2006, was dry.
The second involving joint ventures with established local 27 in 2004.
Of these 38 wells, 33 were placed well, Washka South, targeting a neighbouring entities who can provide local knowledge and on production and a further two are awaiting prospect, has just spudded.
We aim to achieve sufficient critical mass workover.
Working interest production increased is about to commence over a 540 km area to in each region to leverage these relationships by 72% to 31,380 bopd 2004: 18,270 bopd, the south of the block with a view to identifying into new opportunities.
We have a preference for whereas our entitlement production increased deeper Jurassic targets for drilling in 2007. majority stakes in our assets, to provide control: by 58% to 22,440 bopd 2004: 14,170 bopd, as where only a minority stake is available this stronger crude prices increased the government We currently have eight rigs contracted and in should generally be of a sufficient size to give share of production under the terms of our PSAs.
operation in these three countries.
However, given us material influence.
We finished the year with average December that we see rig availability as a potential constraint working interest production of 35,150 bopd to growth, we have decided to purchase two of Burren aims to add value to assets by applying compared with 26,450 bopd in January 2005. our own drilling rigs.
The first of these is currently our technical, commercial and operational 08 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005 A Burren geologist conquered Everest and raised the turkmen flag expertise.
The production growth achieved in the movements, with the objective of providing some operated licences.
The addition of Yemen and Congo and Turkmenistan is a testament to this.
protection against a possible oil price collapse.
Oman broadens our exploration portfolio and Our philosophy is simple: we look to acquire Now that these hedges have finally run off, we are extends its potential into 2007 and beyond.
assets below their potential value and to monetise entirely unhedged going into 2006 and, unless them at the appropriate point in the development circumstances change, we intend to remain In relation to HOEC, Burren continues to monitor cycle when their value to prospective purchasers that way.
It is our belief that our shareholders its investment and support the company, and materially exceeds our own risked valuation.
If wish to retain exposure to the oil price and it considers that HOEC will provide valuable suitable re-investment opportunities cannot be is not our role to take views on future oil prices exposure to oil and gas investment opportunities found we would look for tax-effective ways to on their behalf.
return such proceeds to shareholders.
Burrens principal internal resource in achieving With net cash of US$125 million at year end Our corporate culture is one of cost efficiency our goals is its people, and we place great and 2006 operating cash flow at current oil and we are proud of our record as a low cost emphasis on recruiting and retaining the best prices expected to be well in excess of that operator.
We have reduced the Groups individuals.
To this end we attach importance in 2005, Burren has the financial strength production cost per barrel on a working interest to individual career development and provide to allow us to pursue our business agenda basis by some 27% over the last three years to appropriate training, both internally and using with confidence.
In Turkmenistan, where we external sources, to allow them to achieve their full are operator, our working interest production cost potential.
We aim to provide all employees with a was US$1.73 bbl last year.
We consider control competitive remuneration package, benchmarked of costs to be a key part of shareholder value against peers and participation in an incentive generation and do not intend to lose sight of scheme which offers annual awards in cash and this goal in an era of high oil prices.
deferred shares related to the performance of Finian OSullivan the Company.
Chief Executive Officer In pursuit of this strategy our operational objectives for the coming year are as follows: OutLOOK We expect working interest production this year Drilling of up to 20 exploration wells on to average between 36,000 and 37,000 bopd, prospects in Turkmenistan, Congo and Egypt.
Whilst Implementation of pilot water injection production growth this year will continue, programmes on the Burun and MBoundi exploration drilling will be a key area of focus.
The fields to assess the potential for enhanced introduction of secondary recovery water injection oil recovery.
programmes in both the Burun and MBoundi Acquisition of seismic data on the North fields, should increase well productivity.
If these Hurghada Marine block in Egypt and on the water injection programmes prove successful it new blocks in Yemen and Oman, with a view should enable us to raise the recovery factor on to identifying prospects for drilling in 2007. these two fields, with a consequential positive Progress in negotiations with government impact on our booked reserves.
agencies and other regional operators on the construction of a gas pipeline with a view to Our principal challenge this year will be to deliver commercialising our Turkmen gas resources success from our exploration drilling programme, by 2008. which is a key driver for Burrens future value Continued search and evaluation of new growth.
We intend to drill at least six deep development and exploration opportunities exploration wells in 2006 on each of our core within our stated geographic focus regions.
assets, the Nebit Dag and Kouilou licences.
In Egypt, we have commenced a four well exploration Over the past few years we have hedged a small programme on the East Kanayis block, which will percentage of our production against oil price be expanded in 2007 to all three of our Egyptian 09 Burren Energy plc annual report and accounts 2005
