CHIEF EXECUTIVE S REVIEW This year marked a large step towards our goal of Londons qualities of high liquidity, robust facilitating an increasingly innovative environment governance and trusted regulation attracted through leadership in technology and market record numbers of companies to our markets, services.
Our customer led product development while a gradually improving environment helped and pricing model has become a big driver of our us achieve record trading volumes.
Our global brand, increasingly liquid for equity market data generated an increase markets and trusted regulatory environment in professional terminal numbers for the first are powerful commercial advantages which time in over three years.
continue to support our growth.
Market activity Financial performance UK equity market volumes continued their Turnover increased four per cent to 259.7 million upward trajectory on last year, reaching 68 million while costs rose six per cent mainly due to bargains, with the average daily number of trades expected increases in depreciation.
SETS, our electronic profits before exceptional items and goodwill order book, enhanced its impressive growth amortisation fell one per cent to 82.0 million prole.
The average number of order book trades while operating profits declined ten per cent, due per day reached 170,000, an increase of to exceptional costs of 6.8 million.
Primary market conditions showed in part, the effects of the special dividend and a definite improvement as we admitted 514 share consolidation in 2004, basic earnings per companies to our markets, including 366 IPOs, share increased seven per cent to 23.1 pence.
while real-time data terminal numbers ticked up Adjusted basic earnings per share excluding over the year, increasing by 5,000. exceptional items and goodwill amortisation rose 11 per cent to 23.5 pence per share.
Issuer Services The Main Market nally appeared to shake off Operating performance the effects of a three year downturn, posting The performance of our core business this 82 new issues and raising 6.0 billion in new year illustrates the success of the Exchanges capital.
The Main Markets leadership in strategy in positioning itself as the premier international listings in Europe is without peer, source of liquidity, benchmark prices and data as demonstrated by the listings of Air China and for equity markets in the European time zone.
Kumho Tire, the first Korean dual listing, and 06 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005 Sistema, the largest ever Russian IPO.
In all, Global financial markets are in constant ux we outstripped all other European exchanges as new instruments, vehicles, strategies and with 80 per cent of IPOs in Western Europe.
investment trends emerge and our focus on customers is key to our continued success.
The extension of our business into new markets This year our Primary Account Managers was boosted with the opening of our Asia-Pacic and Product Specialists continued to develop ofce in Hong Kong in October.
Companies from stronger relationships with our clients.
This client that region now have direct support as they partnership approach is critical to the evolution seek to raise their prole and access Londons of existing products and to the creation of new international investment funds.
Our international products that are relevant to our clients changing strategy remains focused on the growth priorities.
Such intense customer focus helps us economies of India, Russia and China, where design and deliver products that solve problems Londons deep pools of capital are needed to or create opportunities for our customers and help fund the growth of these thriving economies.
so maximise revenue generating opportunities AIM in particular attracted a significant number for the Exchange.
of international companies, a total of 134 at the end of the year.
Information Services The delivery of information services and This year was the first year of the full impact products is crucial to the integrity and success of the settlement with the OFT over our annual of the market.
Having transformed our internal and admission fees.
This inevitably reduced databases last year, the roll out of our new fee income in what otherwise was a good exible and scalable technology continues performance, underlining the resilience of with core information applications next in line.
Shortly we will launch Infolect, the enhanced replacement for the link that carries the AIM Exchanges real-time data to customers.
AIM extended its lead over its rivals and again The new technology will be faster, with improved demonstrated why the exible choice of markets bandwidth and, importantly, the capacity that we offer provides the Exchange with to provide for increases in market demand, a significant advantage.
Reaching the milestone making it easier for us to develop new products.
of over 1,000 companies in December, AIM By designing products that anticipate market saw 432 new issues this year raising a total of demand we have increased product penetration 2.8 billion.
With growing research coverage and and expanded our customer base.
institutional investment, AIM has made the leap towards becoming a mainstream asset class.
The recovery in professional terminal numbers this year appears to mark a welcome end to the Broker Services more than three year decline in the data vendor This was a strong year on our markets.
Several market, reecting the improved performance of initiatives were responsible for stimulating the the global securities market.
Towards the end of the financial year we saw a series of record As well as the improvements in our core days on SETS, our automated order book for Information Services business, the new products more liquid securities.
that have diversied our revenue base have had a good year.
Additional services added to In January there was an average of 298,284 total Proquote, our low-cost trading and market data trades per day a short-lived record before supplier, have helped to drive screen numbers February achieved an average of 308,932 total upwards.
Proquote now has an international trades per day, and then March with 323,152 version and we are adding new data sets that total trades per day.
This was the first time that will increase its attractiveness, particularly for the total average daily number of trades topped the buy-side.
We are a year into the SEDOL 300,000.
The average daily value traded was Masterle service and the level of customer 18.7 billion, up 17 per cent on last year.
support has more than met expectations.
Our global securities identier, launched in This was also the first full year for SETSmm, March 2004, has attracted more than 1,000 the hybrid platform that brings an automated customers, almost a third of whom are first time order book to midcap securities, with support customers to the Exchange.
As with many of from committed market makers.
In its first our new initiatives, the benefit to the market full year, trading in SETSmm securities saw in this case the reduction of cross-border trade a 14 per cent increase in the value of midcap failures is matched by the positive impact stocks traded.
But SETSmm has done more on our business.
With growing customer than simply grow the market: by centralising support and plans to extend the service to new liquidity and increasing transparency SETSmm instruments and further geographical regions, has reduced headline spreads by more than the prospects for SEDOL Masterle are good.
07 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005 CHIEF EXECUTIVE S REVIEW CONTINUED Derivatives Services Outlook EDX London has put in a steady performance Trading conditions in the new financial year thanks to the core Scandinavian derivatives have remained positive: new issue activity business.
Finnish derivatives were added to the on both the Main Market and AIM remains products offered by three exchanges in Sweden, good: trading volumes on SETS have Denmark and Norway linked to EDX.
As market continued strongly: and, professional conditions have improved the covered warrants terminals have increased since the financial market has grown, with an increase in the year end.
number of brokers offering to trade them for their clients, and our OTC clearing service saw As we await the outcome of the current its first trades.
Competition Commission review of the possible approaches for the Exchange, we continue to Technology Roadmap focus on the good and improving operational Leadership in technology will continue to drive performance of the business.
change in the market place, facilitating easier, cheaper and much quicker access to our We are confident that our technology roadmap market.
We are currently engaged in rolling programme will lay the foundation for a new out a programme of technology renewal that period of growth for our markets.
This, together has already successfully migrated many of our with more positive trading conditions and our internal systems onto commoditised hardware successful focus on customers and opportunities and more exible software.
The next step will in the increasingly international marketplace, see the real-time data link to the market replaced underpin our confidence that the Exchange is with a faster, more exible service.
The final well positioned for growth.
stage will be the migration of our trading system onto next generation applications the most significant advance to exchange technology this decade.
The completion of our technology roadmap programme will enable us to increase capacity at marginal cost and diversify our product range more simply.
We aim to maintain our exceptional reliability record, while signicantly reducing the cost of operating Clara Furse our market on new.
Chief Executive 08 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005
