Chief Executives review We have defined a clear path for our business based around key Francesco Caio trends in customer demand and the rapid shift in technology.
Chief Executive Officer It is key to our success to manage margins in traditional services and to be able to invest for profitable growth in new services.
In 2005 we made solid progress in strengthening Cable & Wireless competitive position: we have focused the Group on markets where we have a relevant presence and can develop and maintain a sustainable position: we completed the US exit and the sale of our domestic business in Japan: Focusing on margin we committed to invest 190 million over three years in a UK Next Generation Network to increase competitiveness and investing in profitable and enhance financial performance: growth we focused National Telcos to compete in the growth areas of mobile and broadband and continue to reduce costs: we reshaped our UK business into four customer-focused segments, Enterprise, Business, Carrier Services and Bulldog, each led by experienced telecom professionals: and in May 2005 we completed the first phase of Bulldogs unbundling programme to cover 30 per cent of UK households, just a year after acquisition.
We streamlined central management and relocated our head office to Bracknell, reflecting our reduced cost base and a culture where the centre drives performance across the Group.
Worldwide we are a leaner organisation, in line with our aim to be the lowest cost provider in all our markets.
Industry context The telecoms industry is experiencing profound structural changes.
There are common challenges and opportunities across the Group that have shaped our strategic priorities.
Revenues from traditional services continue to decline, so we must protect margins by further forcing down costs.
At the same time, we are pursuing growth.
As new broadband, IP and mobile services replace legacy services we are investing to win customers in these highly competitive growth areas.
UK Group Our UK operations are focused around the customer segments of Enterprise, Business and Carrier Services.
At present, 67 per cent of our revenues in the UK are generated by switched voice services, however, we have adopted targeted strategies for each customer segment as they migrate to new technologies.
These customers are also supported by our operations in Europe, Asia, and the US.
Profile Chief Executives review Enterprise We continue to develop new services for mobile carriers and Enterprise provides integrated telecommunication services to large launched MMX, a platform to exchange pictures and multimedia corporations and central government departments.
The convergence messages developed with Vodafone.
We operate one of the largest of voice, data and internet access on IP-based services is reshaping Global 3G roaming exchanges and support email roaming for a the way many businesses operate.
Migrating to IP offers lower costs third of the worlds mobile networks.
We also launched our Global and more sophisticated services, such as video-streaming, multi-party Carrier multi-protocol label switching MPLS service, which can conferencing and remote access into corporate IT systems.
transmit any type of traffic in IP format, including time-sensitive and business-critical information and we have already signed up eight Enterprise won a number of new contracts with major customers.
Although our current revenue is still generated primarily by traditional services which are subject to continued decline we have made Revenue declined following a fall in mobile termination rates, solid gains in winning IP business, which now accounts for 13 per imposed on all carriers in the UK by Ofcom, but had no impact on cent of Enterprise turnover.
In Europe we downsized and refocused on the demands of a customer base of fewer, larger clients.
Cable & Wireless has the network and the capabilities to support our biggest customers as they make the transition to new generation, Bulldog IP-based technologies.
The acquisition in May 2004 of Bulldog, the broadband operator, was an important step in advancing our UK access strategy.
Business Local loop unbundling LLU strengthens our presence in the Business addresses a market that includes a wide range of customers.
valuable access network, while Bulldogs appeal to the residential In the last year we have focused on the top end of the segment and and small home office market the so-called SoHos broadens saw new business wins with Damovo, easyJet, Lothian Health Board our UK customer base.
This additional traffic increases use of the and Littlewoods.
Overall, however, revenue was reduced by severe existing core network and can, in future, migrate very simply to competition.
Pressure on revenues in legacy services has been higher our Next Generation Network.
than in Enterprise reflecting the fact that, as many customers only buy switched voice, they have higher price sensitivity and propensity Through LLU, Bulldog puts its own equipment inside BTs local to switch.
exchanges to take control of the last mile copper link the local loop into the customers home or office.
Access to this last mile Take-up of IP is growing among our small business customers.
We improves our end-to-end control of the network resulting in lower are developing a new portfolio of packaged and bundled products outpayments to BT and, hence, higher gross margins.
It also allows such as Intelligent Voice and Straight Talk.
The services, including IP, us to innovate, differentiate and control the end-to-end quality of are being designed for ease of implementation and use.
our services to business and residential customers.
Carrier Services LLU enables Cable & Wireless to redefine its position in the Cable & Wireless has worldwide coverage across 200 countries and telecom industry away from the alternative network model.
We is one of the worlds largest carriers of international voice and data.
have the capability, the core network, and the funding to exploit Carrier Services generates 45 per cent of UK revenue and operates unbundling.
LLU enables us to make the most of these advantages in a highly competitive market that continues to suffer from overto differentiate our business from our competitors.
capacity and declining margins, although these have been partially offset by increased volumes.
Our innovative customer solutions have Our unbundling programme has made rapid progress.
We reached won notable contracts.
We now enable the Post Office to provide our initial target of 400 exchanges in May 2005, seven months ahead a fixed phone line service, and won an international termination of the original timetable.
The Bulldog team, under its new Chief deal with Skype, the Voice over IP VoIP operator for which Executive, is now progressing with plans to extend its UK coverage we now transport around 100 million minutes a year.
This year and intends to unbundle an additional 200 exchanges by March 2006 we will expand our services to international customers by offering and a further 200 exchanges in the first half of 2006 07 bringing the wholesale VoIP.
By taking a Group-wide view of network assets, total number of exchanges unbundled to 800.
This will increase Carrier Services aims to improve utilisation of our international planned investment and start-up losses in 2005 06. network.
8 9 2005 Annual Report Bulldogs dual super-fast 4Mbps broadband and voice telephony Over the next three years UK voice and data traffic will continue offer attracted early customer enthusiasm in the residential and SoHo to migrate to IP.
Cable & Wireless has the scale to lead this markets and we quickly followed this with the release of 8Mbps transformation.
Our infrastructure size, combined with the efficiency across all 400 exchanges.
As the roll-out progresses we have of putting all traffic onto a single IP-based core network, will deliver supported it with a broader commercial marketing programme.
Our Next Generation Network will offer With the largest non-incumbent telecom network in the UK, our customers greater functionality and customised solutions, at an new end-to-end infrastructure has offered customers a real choice attractive price.
The benefit for Cable & Wireless will be lower of total fixed voice and broadband provider for the first time.
operating and maintenance costs, and a more flexible network that can accommodate significant growth in traffic at a much lower Bulldog has similar characteristics to a start-up in the early days of capital cost, offering the potential to achieve a higher margin.
mobile: it is marketing led, innovative, and offers customers a fast, convenient, good value service.
For clarity of management and Ofcom transparency, we are therefore reporting the results of Bulldog The regulatory framework is fundamental to our business and our separately in our segmental analysis.
The strategic review by Ofcom, the telecom and media regulator, provides an opportunity to create a more Next Generation Networks and Operations transparent and effective regulatory regime in areas where BT In all our markets, we are an infrastructure-based competitor.
still controls access to customers.
The promised level playing field Control of our own network is a key source of competitive must become a reality.
Establishing the appropriate structure and advantage through which we can provide high-quality, cost-effective processes to obtain equality of access to BTs local loop assets will innovative services.
The creation last year of an integrated enable the market to take the lead in setting prices for products management structure for network systems and operations has and services where there is already competition.
enabled us to enhance quality of service, identify investment priorities, reduce hand-offs and target cost reductions.
We are encouraged by Ofcoms emphasis on infrastructure-based competition.
We are also pleased that the regulator has adopted the We have carried out a review of our existing UK network, and principle of equivalence as the tool to deliver parity in the market.
launched a programme to address operating costs, interconnection Successfully implemented, this would require BT to offer regulated costs and loading.
The first phase of this programme will cut costs products to competitors at exactly the same price and quality of by 50 million in 2006 enabling us to mitigate, to some extent, the service as it does to BTs own businesses.
There should be no continuing effects of price pressure.
discrimination between non-BT customers and BTs own operations when purchasing products such as wholesale broadband capacity The network review also demonstrated the significant benefits and call origination.
Our recent experience has shown considerable of moving to an IP-based Next Generation Network architecture, room for improvement in, for example, BTs co-operation over local and the associated IT systems and processes.
In April we announced loop unbundling.
investment of 190 million over three years to transform our core UK network into a single integrated IP platform, carrying voice, data It is critical that equivalence is designed into BTs planned 21st and internet services.
Century Network so that new barriers to entry are not created by BTs migration to next generation systems.
Fair infrastructure-based This decision was driven by the shift in demand in all customer competition must be at the heart of the UK telecoms market if segments towards IP-based products, and the rapid advance in IP customers are to benefit from the variety of services that new technologies.
The development of new services will be supported technologies can offer and the UK is to recapture its pre-eminent by Bulldogs expanding broadband access network, which will feed position as a business location.
We expect our new IP architecture to be in place by the end of 2008.
A large proportion of the anticipated 190 million capital expenditure on our Next Generation Network will replace expenditure that would otherwise have been needed to maintain our legacy system, leaving a net increase in planned investment over the three years of 35 million.
Profile Chief Executives review National T elcos The future Cable & Wireless is the market leader in integrated fixed, broadband Over the last two years we have created a more focused and and mobile services in 34 countries.
Our National Telcos have streamlined platform, better equipped to face the challenges and delivered solid results in the context of an increasingly liberalised opportunities from the rapidly transforming telecommunications environment.
As at 31 March 2005 88 per cent of our National industry.
Telco revenues were generated by companies operating in liberalised markets although not all of these are yet fully competitive.
Revenues Our markets will remain very challenging, but I believe that we increased by 10 per cent due to good performances in Panama and can build on our early achievements.
In the UK, our reorganisation Rest of the World and the acquisition of Monaco Telecom.
Mobile will sharpen our customer focus and strengthen our competitive revenues grew by 26 per cent and data and IP revenues grew by position.
The investment in Bulldog and our Next Generation 13 per cent year on year.
All revenue changes are expressed at Network will further distinguish us from other UK operators.
In our overseas businesses, we will strive to maintain profitable market leadership.
Our new leadership team aims to take advantage of the National Telcos breadth of operations.
We believe that this increased crossbusiness co-operation, and sharing of knowledge and expertise Francesco Caio across our geographies, will continue to sharpen performance.
Chief Executive Officer Our National Telcos markets are at different stages of liberalisation.
Each has its own customer profile but the competitive challenges they face are similar, and so must be the response: reducing the costs of legacy services, where margins are under pressure: investing further in the key growth services of broadband, IP and mobile: and developing sales and marketing skills to stay ahead of the competition.
In broadband and IP we are leaders in most of our markets and are investing to meet growing demand.
Many of the countries in which we operate still have relatively low take-up of broadband and IP services, and we are well positioned to offer services that assist customers in the transition.
We have started to invest in IP backbones in countries where traffic volumes justify the expenditure, including in the Caribbean where hurricane damage has accelerated infrastructure replacement.
Upgrades are underway in Monaco, Macau, the Cayman Islands and Grenada.
Across all the National Telcos, we have established tight financial discipline and control over investment.
This has sharpened our focus on initiatives that produce results.
We intend to expand broadband and mobile services and this strategy will determine our investment decisions.
