4 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Sir Bill Gammell Chief Executive In a little over two years, since discovering the world class Overview Cairn is making good progress in Rajasthan, with various key Mangala eld, we have explored the basin extensively and milestones being achieved over the last few months.
The Field now believe there are more than 3.5 billion barrels of oil in Development Plans FDPs for the Mangala, Aishwariya, place within our Rajasthan acreage and this resource base Saraswati and Raageshwari fields have been agreed by the can still grow.
At current oil prices the Rajasthan elds are joint venture Operating Committee OC and are awaiting capable of generating many billions of dollars of revenue final approval.
These approvals are a precursor to formal over the project life for Cairn, the State of Rajasthan and the sanctioning of the project by the Cairn Board which is Government of India GoI, whilst also helping to meet Indias anticipated during Q2 2006.
The initial development growing import requirements.
investment for Mangala and Raageshwari gas by the joint venture to first oil is estimated to be in the region of $800 OUR VISION, FOCUS AND EDGE million and we are on track to have financing in place to fund our share of the project.
Our estimate of the Rajasthan reserve base for the three main northern fields Mangala, Bhagyam and Aishwariya has grown significantly.
We believe these reserves can be further increased by applying enhanced oil recovery EOR techniques to reach our current estimated gross resource base of 795 million barrels of oil mmbbls.
The combined southern fields estimated gross reserve base is 102 mmboe of which 42 mmboe is attributed to Raageshwari gas.
This results in a combined resource base of 897 mmboe with further potential upside in fields with low permeability reservoirs.
The evaluation of many of these fields continues and only for those fields under active development planning It is our vision to establish commercial reserves from have initial reserves been currently booked.
strategic positions in high potential exploration plays resulting in the creation and delivery of shareholder wealth.
Only 18 months ago we said the key fields in Rajasthan Mangala, Bhagyam and Aishwariya could produce between 60,000 and 100,000 barrels of oil per day bopd.
Today we We focus on material opportunities that are capable of believe that these discoveries have the potential to produce providing real growth to the Cairn Group.
Our focus on at a peak of 150,000 bopd.
South Asia has already resulted in a number of oil and gas discoveries and still offers the prospect of signi cant further Primarily as a result of the growth in the reserve base and the value creation.
requirement to tie in additional discoveries but also as a result of global factors such as delays in availability of equipment Our edge is the ability to combine our commercial and and services, and shortages of skilled labour, Cairn currently considers the most likely start up date for Mangala is now technical expertise and experience to leverage value from in 2008. material opportunities.
Every part of the Cairn Group is concentrated on supporting that expertise to ensure that Cairn has clear alignment with the GoI to bring the nationally we are creating and realising value from the successful important Rajasthan fields on stream as soon as possible in implementation of our strategy.
We encourage innovation order to help meet the countrys energy needs.
With the GoI and teamwork as key values in the process.
projecting an economic and gross domestic product growth for India of up to 10% per annum, current estimates for crude oil imports, according to the GoI, will rise from 70% to 85% by 2020.
The GoI is highly supportive of both international and OUR FOCUS IS... domestic oil companies increasing E&P efforts to augment current production.
Growing the value of the Company 5 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Our focus on South Asia for more Our Assets Include: Three processing plants: than a decade has put Cairn in a Suvali in Western India strong strategic position, particularly Chillimpur in Bangladesh as India develops as a hydrocarbons Ravva in Eastern India and investment destination.
12 platforms 250 kilometres of pipelines Results Outlook Cairn has implemented IFRS in 2005 and has also adopted a With a substantial increase in the reserve base for the successful efforts based accounting policy in preparing its northern fields in Rajasthan and a growing resource base we 2005 Annual Report & Accounts.
Comparative figures have believe now is the time to examine the potential to create two been restated to reflect these revised accounting policies.
world class businesses, one based in the United Kingdom and Cairn is also reporting its financial results in US dollars for the one in India.
first time as this aligns the presentational currency of the Groups financial statements with the principal underlying In the coming year an evaluation of the potential for a partial functional currency of the business.
IPO of the Groups Indian operations will be a key activity.
Average daily entitlement production for 2005 was 28,240 The future offers us challenges and opportunities and we barrels of oil equivalent per day boepd 2004: 22,789 boepd.
always work in a spirit of partnership and co-operation with Governments and our joint venture partners.
Cairn has a clear The 2005 results include the first full year of production from and consistent strategy and, with the growing industry and the 37.5% interest in Sangu acquired from Shell transaction investment interest in South Asia, has an optimal opportunity completion date 30 June 2004.
Field deliverability from both to capitalise on its competitive edge.
Sangu and Lakshmi has been enhanced following successful infill drilling campaigns in the latter part of 2004.
Due to the Groups current entitlement production being heavily gas Sir Bill Gammell biased and the existence of contractual caps on the price Chief Executive received for this gas, the average price realised for 2005 was 14 March 2006 $25.44 per boe 2004: $24.06 per boe.
Revenue for the year was $262.6m 2004 restated: $172.9m.
VALUE ADDED Operating profit pre exceptional items and operating cash flows were $55.6m and $139.6m respectively 2004: $12.8m 2000p loss and $138.5m.
The exceptional gain on sale of $15.3m arising in 2005 was in relation to the ONGC transaction that 1600p completed in March 2005, realising $135m gross proceeds.
The Group made a profit for the year of $79.1m 2004 1200p restated: loss $15.7m.
0800p Initial Rajasthan reserves for Mangala, Saraswati and Raageshwari oil have been booked at the year end.
As the 0400p depletion and decommissioning charge is calculated on a field basis no charges arise in the Income Statement until 0000p production commences.
Exploration appraisal costs Jan 04 Jan 05 Jan 06 associated with the booked reserves have been transferred to development producing assets.
OUR ATTITUDE At the year end the Group had net funds of $95.5m 2004: net funds $138.3m.
The Group currently has $240m The attitude of the Cairn team of people is critical to our of unutilised unsecured revolving credit facilities.
We seek above all to: Cairns discoveries in Rajasthan, the Group is currently give and earn respect progressing the refinancing of its debt facilities required to empower our people fund the associated developments.
seek win win relationships be pioneers in our thoughts and actions challenge conventional thinking build long term relationships
