CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT In 2005 Northern Rock delivered excellent results including: RECORD UNDERLYING ATTRIBUTABLE PROFITS OF 308.1 MILLION AN INCREASE OF 13.6% OVER 2004 PROFORMA RESULTS UNDERLYING ASSETS OF 81.1 BILLION AN INCREASE OF 24.9% RECORD NET LENDING OF 14.6 BILLION AN INCREASE OF 12.6% AND A MARKET SHARE OF 14.5% Adam J Applegarth RATIO OF COSTS TO ASSETS IMPROVED TO 0.34% 2004 0.37% UNDERLYING RETURN ON EQUITY OF 20.8% TOTAL UNDERLYING EARNINGS PER SHARE 74.3P AN INCREASE OF 13.1% OVER 2004 PROFORMA RESULTS TOTAL DIVIDEND PER SHARE 30.1P AN INCREASE OF 13.6% THE NORTHERN ROCK FOUNDATION SUPPORTING CHARITABLE CAUSES TO RECEIVE 24.7 MILLION OVERVIEW 2005 has been another good year for Northern Rock.
In a competitive environment, we have continued to deliver against our strategic targets and we are pleased to announce results that once again show strong growth, record profit and improved underlying earnings per share.
These results reflect our clear strategy.
Our focus is to deliver shareholder value through high quality growth, driving down unit costs to improve cost efficiency, and delivering a strong return on equity.
This has been achieved whilst maintaining high credit quality, through responsible lending and our commitment to retaining existing customers.
We have also kept good customer service levels.
The principles of transparency and treating customers fairly are well embedded in the culture and operations of our business.
Cost efficiency remains key to our strategy.
Effective cost control drives down unit costs, which allows us to offer an excellent range of innovative, price driven products that enhance our ability to attract and retain high quality customers.
Our core products, mortgages and retail savings, all performed well in 2005, supported by our multi-channel distribution strategy.
We continued to expand our franchise throughout the year, opening several specialist mortgage branches in key cities.
We strengthened links with mortgage clubs and expanded our mortgage operation to Northern Ireland, where we offer our full range of competitive lending products.
Our core products are complemented by the sale of protection products, offered in conjunction with our insurance partners.
These are sold on a needs-driven basis, offering choice and transparency to our customers.
We back England's finest from Durham and Middlesex CCC 6 7 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT continued During 2005, we invested significantly in people, systems transparent product stance and competitive pricing will enable and premises, to support increased business volumes.
We us to attract and retain a high proportion of these customers.
have continued to expand our e-business links with both Appetite to lend must be adapted to economic conditions intermediaries and direct customers.
At the end of 2005, and as a result, we adopted a more cautious approach to over 50% of all mortgage applications were being submitted both commercial and personal unsecured lending during online, enhancing customer service and further improving 2005.
Even so, we achieved growth in both of these books, cost efficiency.
maintaining good quality and an appropriate balance relative The introduction of the new Northern Rock Online system to our overall assets.
for intermediaries offers instant online decisions and FUNDING excellent case tracking facilities, which improves service and 2005 saw a strong performance in each of our four funding efficiency.
Our aim is to have the majority of intermediaries arms retail funding, wholesale funding, securitisation and using the system as their main channel for business with covered bonds.
Retail funding remains important to us.
We attract funds In addition to the expansion of our Gosforth headquarters, through our broad distribution platform, offering attractive we announced the development of a new office complex at savings products through branch, postal, telephone and Rainton Bridge, in Sunderland.
When the first phase opens online channels.
We funded strongly during the year, in 2007, the new facility will have potential for up to attracting 2,809 million of new retail funds a record 2,500 new jobs.
full year performance resulting in total retail balances LENDING of 20.1 billion at the year end.
We displayed particular During 2005 we once again delivered record levels of low risk strength in fixed rate bonds and Silver Savings accounts lending.
Gross lending was 26,879 million, an increase of for the over 50s.
Our contractual guarantees and unique 15.2% over the previous year, with net lending of 14,555 savings pledge ensure we remain at the forefront of the million, an increase of 12.6%.
We achieved gross residential industry in treating customers fairly.
lending of 23,618 million, an increase of 17.8% over 2004 Our Treasury operations achieved a good balance of and net residential lending of 13,350 million, an increase of traditional wholesale funding.
It is not a separate profit 17.3%, which represented 14.5% of the UK market.
centre and is predominantly engaged in managing interest In residential lending, we continued to apply the proven rate risk and currency risks for the business.
We have stance of mixing competitively priced mortgages with lifestyle continued to develop our non-retail funding in international and bundled credit products.
Our mix during the first half of markets setting up a Canadian Commercial Paper programme 2005 reflected customers preference for fixed rate products, in May 2005, to complement our established programmes in which shifted in the second half towards our lifestyle range, Europe, the US and the Asian markets.
Our securitisation programme continued to provide a strong We expect the gross mortgage market to remain competitive source of funding, reflecting investor appetite and the high and whilst interest rates remain low by historical standards, quality of our loan books.
During 2005 we issued 13.5 there is still a considerable incentive to refinance existing loans.
billion of securitised notes, with issuance from residential and As a result the remortgage market, which accounted for around commercial loan portfolios.
We also enhanced our ability to 45% of UK gross lending in 2005, will remain strong.
Our fund by issuing our first private placement.
Advances to 8 customers subject to securitisation now amount to 39.1 Our strategy is predicated on high quality asset growth billion, representing 56% of our lending portfolios.
In addition, supported by low operating costs and low cost of bad we also undertook two Covered Bond transactions broadening debt.
We do not compromise the stance on quality to the geographical distribution and timespan of our funding.
As leading innovators, we executed Whinstone a first deal of BASLE II its type in the UK securitisation market during 2005.
This Northern Rock expects to benefit from the new capital involved the transfer of a substantial proportion of the residual requirements of Basle II and we continue to make good risk in securitisations, completed up to the end of 2004, progress towards meeting all of the necessary criteria.
We are committed to continue this We intend to adopt the Internal Ratings Based IRB process going forward.
In recognition of this and the low risk approach for credit risk and have implemented the core nature of our assets, Standard & Poors rating agency moved credit models to ensure compliance with Pillar 1 of the Northern Rocks long term credit rating to positive outlook.
The models are now embedded within our risk management processes.
Given the high quality of our CREDIT QUALITY balance sheet and our responsible lending policies, we The credit quality of our assets remains strong.
Asset quality continue to expect a reduction in risk weightings under is key to our strategy and therefore, our asset growth has not the new rules.
been achieved at the expense of quality.
Through well controlled, targeted lending, we have achieved high growth, OUTLOOK whilst maintaining quality and controlling arrears.
As we expected, the housing market has been resilient.
UK economic fundamentals are set to remain supportive.
We use scorecards in residential and personal lending, Interest rates and unemployment are both likely to remain at with rigorous underwriting controls focussed on higher low levels.
Household incomes should continue to grow and risk and marginal cases.
These are supported by tests for housing demand is likely to outstrip supply in the mediumconsumer indebtedness and affordability.
Low debt servicing costs means that mortgage rescoring models ensure that emerging default and loss affordability remains good.
Against this background, we profiles are identified quickly and fed back into the front anticipate little change in the overall credit quality and end underwriting process.
No significant credit performance of our lending.
Remortgaging is likely to remain deterioration was identified in 2005. active going forward as borrowers continue to manage The arrears performance of our residential lending book household budgets.
reflected this combination of sound lending controls, with I am pleased to be able to report another year of sustained 0.39% of accounts three months or more in arrears business performance.
We are focussed on delivering our compared with 0.37% in December 2004.
Our residential strategic targets, which remain unchanged.
We continue to arrears remain below half the industry average.
build on the foundations of our unit cost advantage, The proportion of personal unsecured loan arrears and together with our proven ability to attract and retain high commercial loan arrears also remain very low, reflecting quality customers.
Our international funding platform, our consistent policy of attracting only high quality multi-channel distribution platform and sustained investment lending in these areas.
Our provisioning policies using in buildings, systems and people give us confidence that our data from our Basle II capital models remain prudent.
business model will continue to deliver high quality growth and enhanced shareholder value.
9 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS C Taylor D F Baker R F Bennett A M Kuipers K M Currie A J Applegarth Company Secretary Deputy Chief Executive Group Finance Director Commercial Director Treasury Director Chief Executive 10 THE BOARD During 2005, the number of meetings attended by each Director was as follows: Board Audit Nominations Remuneration Risk Number of meetings held in 2005 11 6 1 2 4 Non Executive Directors Dr M W Ridley, BA, D. Phil Chairman 11 1 Sir George Russell, CBE, D. Eng.
BA 8 1 2 Senior Independent Director N A H Fenwick, MA 11 6 2 Sir Ian Gibson, CBE 9 6 1 2 3 N Pease, BA 10 5 2 M J Queen, BA, FCA 10 6 2 Appointed 5 January 2005 R A Radcliffe, CBE, MA, MPhil, FIMC 10 1 4 Appointed 1 March 2005 Sir Derek Wanless, MA, FCIB, MIS 11 6 1 2 4 Executive Directors A J Applegarth, BA 11 4 D F Baker, BSc, FCIB 11 4 R F Bennett, FCA, ACMA, IPFA 11 4 K M Currie 11 Appointed 5 January 2005 A M Kuipers 11 Appointed 5 January 2005 11 THE BOARD Dr M W Ridley, BA, D. Phil N A H Fenwick, MA Matt Ridley aged 48, was appointed Chairman of the Company Adam Fenwick aged 45, was appointed to the Board as a Nonon 27 April 2004.
He was appointed as a Non-Executive Director Executive Director in November 2003.
He is Group Managing of Northern Rock plc in November 1996 having previously joined Director of Fenwick Limited and a Non-Executive Director of the Board of Northern Rock Building Society on 1 June 1994.
John Swire and Sons Limited.
He is also a Trustee of Newcastle Dr Ridley is an author and businessman who also holds other NonTheatre Royal Trust Limited.
Mr Fenwick is a Member of both the Executive Directorships which include Northern Investors Company Audit and Remuneration Committees.
PLC, Northern 2 VCT plc and P A Holdings Limited.
He is Chairman Sir Ian Gibson, CBE of both the Nominations and Chairmans Committees.
Sir Ian Gibson aged 59, was appointed to the Board as a NonA J Applegarth, BA Executive Director in September 2002.
He is a Non-Executive Adam Applegarth aged 43, has worked for Northern Rock for 22 Director of GKN plc.
He was also a member of the Court of the years.
He became an Executive Director of Northern Rock Building Bank of England from 1999 to 2004.
Sir Ian is a Member of the Society in January 1996, was appointed as an Executive Director of Audit, Nominations, Risk, and Remuneration Committees.
Northern Rock plc in October 1996 and subsequently became the N Pease, BA Companys Chief Executive in March 2001.
Mr Applegarth is a Nichola Pease aged 44, is Chief Executive of J O Hambro Capital Non-Executive Director of Persimmon plc and a governor of the Management Limited.
She was appointed as a Non-Executive Royal Grammar School, Newcastle upon Tyne.
Mr Applegarth is a Director of Northern Rock plc in February 1999.
Ms Pease is Member of both the Chairman's and Risk Committees.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and is a Member of the D F Baker, BSc, FCIB Audit Committee.
David Baker aged 52, was appointed as the Company's Deputy M J Queen, BA, FCA Chief Executive in September 2005.
He became an Executive Director Michael Queen aged 44 is Head of Growth Capital of 3i Group of Northern Rock Building Society in January 1996 and was plc.
He was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in appointed as an Executive Director of Northern Rock plc in October January 2005.
Mr Queen is a Member of both the Audit and 1996.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
present role he is responsible for the direction and management of the Company's operations and in particular, Retail Savings, R A Radcliffe, CBE, MA, MPhil, FIMC Credit, Customer Services, Personnel, Premises and Legal and Rosemary Radcliffe aged 61 was appointed to the Board as a Compliance.
Mr Baker is Chairman of The Newcastle Employment Non-Executive Director on 1 March 2005.
She is currently the Bond Limited and a Trustee of the University of Newcastle upon Tyne Chairman of NIAL Holdings plc and Newcastle International Airport Development Trust.
Mr Baker is a Member of both the Chairman's Limited and a member of the Guernsey Financial Services and Risk Committees.
Until July 2001, she was a Partner with , and served as a member of PwCs Global R F Bennett, FCA, ACMA, IPFA Board.
She also acted as the first independent Complaints The Group Finance Director, Bob Bennett aged 58, is a Chartered Commissioner for the UK Financial Services Authority.
He became an Executive Director of Northern Rock Radcliffe is currently a member of the Remuneration and Risk Building Society in November 1993 and was appointed as an Committees.
Executive Director of Northern Rock plc in November 1996.
In his present role, he is responsible for Finance, Treasury, Securitisation, Sir George Russell, CBE, D. Eng.
BA Internal Audit, Risk Management and Institutional Relations.
Mr The Senior Independent Director, Sir George Russell aged 70, was Bennett is also a Trustee of the Northern Rock Pension Scheme and appointed a Non-Executive Director of Northern Rock plc in a Non-Executive Director of Greggs plc.
Mr Bennett is a Member of November 1996 having previously joined the Board of Northern both the Chairman's and Risk Committees.
Rock Building Society as a Non-Executive Director in 1985.
He is also Deputy Chairman of ITV plc.
Sir George is a Member of both K M Currie the Remuneration and Risk Committees.
Keith Currie aged 49, was appointed to the Board as an Executive Director in January 2005.
Mr Currie is responsible for the management Sir Derek Wanless, MA, FCIB, MIS of the Companys Group Treasury function including liquidity, wholesale Sir Derek Wanless aged 58, joined the Board as a Non-Executive funding, derivative portfolios and the management of the Company's Director in March 2000.
He was previously Group Chief Executive securitisation funding and covered bond programmes.
Mr Currie is a of National Westminster Bank plc from 1992-1999.
He is a NonMember of both the Chairmans and Risk Committees.
Executive Director of Northumbrian Water Group plc and will become Chairman after its 2006 Annual General Meeting.
Sir Derek A M Kuipers is Vice Chairman of the Statistics Commission and a Trustee of the Andy Kuipers aged 48, was appointed to the Board as an National Endowment for Science, Technology and the Arts.
Sir Executive Director in January 2005.
He is responsible for the coDerek is Chairman of both the Audit and Risk Committees and a ordination and direction of the Group's sales, marketing, products Member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Mr Kuipers is a Member of both the Chairmans and Risk Committees.
12 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Northern Rock plc the Company regards The Board has a written schedule of matters APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD adherence to the principles of good reserved for its review and approval.
It has The Companys Articles of Association corporate governance to be of the utmost also adopted a detailed procedures manual require that each Director stands for reimportance.
The Board is accountable to which covers the responsibilities and election at least every three years and that the Company's shareholders for corporate procedures of the Board, its Committees and Directors appointed by the Board should governance.
The following describes how its officers.
The reserved matters include: the be subject to election by shareholders at the Company applies the principles and setting of capital expenditure budgets, the the first opportunity after their provisions contained in the Combined declaration of dividends, the setting of appointment.
The Directors to retire by Code of Corporate Governance published policies for balance sheet structural risk rotation will be those in office longest since in July 2003 the Combined Code.
The management, the raising of Non Retail Funds, their previous re-election.
Non-Executive Listing Rules of the United Kingdom Listing Liquidity and Credit Risk, and the approval of Directors are appointed for a specified Authority require listed companies to the Annual Report and Accounts.
disclose how they comply with the Authority for the execution of approved The Company's policy is that NonCombined Code and, where they do not do policies has been delegated by the Board Executive Directors will stand down from so, to provide a clear explanation of why to the Companys Executive Committee and office at the conclusion of the next Annual they do not comply.
The Executive General Meeting following their seventieth For the period 1 January 2005 to Committee comprises the Chief Executive, birthday.
In accordance with this policy, 31 December 2005, the Company the other Executive Directors and the Sir George Russell will retire from office complied with all aspects of the Combined Company Secretary.
at the conclusion of the 2006 Annual Code except for the requirement that the General Meeting.
Within the parameters set out in the Senior Independent Director should attend Executive Committees terms of reference, the meetings with a range of shareholders.
In DIRECTORS Committee has responsibility for facilitating addition to the Corporate Governance Day More than half of the Board comprises the Companys effective operation to ensure in late 2004 held between shareholders, Non-Executive Directors all of whom have that it meets its objectives through the the Chairman and the Senior Independent experience in a wide range of commercial or implementation of the Strategic and Director, and the extensive programme of banking activities.
The Board is required to Operational Plans.
The Committee also contact between Executive Directors and determine whether each Director is monitors developments in the Companys shareholders, it was not considered independent in character and judgement core markets, and examines, appraises and necessary for Sir George Russell to and whether there are relationships or reviews defence initiatives, potential undertake an additional series of meetings circumstances which are likely to affect, or acquisitions and corporate finance initiatives.
He is available to could appear to affect, the Directors It also establishes processes to control, shareholders at all times and sees regular judgement.
The Board considers all of the appraise and review the implementation of feedback from them.
Non-Executive Directors to be independent any new procedures that are agreed upon.
for the purposes of the definition in the THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Management Board Asset and Liability Combined Code.
The Board of Directors meets regularly Committee is responsible for overseeing The Board has no hesitation in confirming throughout the year and retains full and the management and review of the Sir George Russells independence for effective control over the Company and its Companys balance sheet risk profile and Combined Code purposes.
Sir George subsidiaries the Group.
It is collectively processes, and the Companys balance Russell was appointed Senior Independent responsible for the success of the Group sheet, income statement and liquidity Director of the Company on 27 April 2004. and determines its strategy and policies profiles.
In addition, the Committee has He was elected to the Board as a Nonwhilst monitoring performance.
The Board authority to authorise use by the Company Executive Director in September 1997 met eleven times during 2005 and, of structured financial products and private immediately prior to demutualisation, having following the appointments of Mr Queen equity investments in accordance with the served as a Director of Northern Rock and Miss Radcliffe on 5 January and policies and procedures set down in the Building Society between 1985 and 1997.
1 March 2005 respectively, comprised the Corporate Finance and Structured Financial Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, Policy statement approved by the Board.
The Board is satisfied that his period of six other Non-Executive Directors, the service as a Director of Northern Rock A clear division of responsibility exists Chief Executive and four other Executive Building Society should not be aggregated between the Chairman, who is responsible Directors.
Where Directors were absent with his period of service as a Director of for running the Board, and the Chief from Board or Committee meetings, the the Company in view of the different legal Executive who has responsibility for running Board or respective Committee was structure and business objectives of the two the business.
This division is clearly set out satisfied with the apologies that were entities.
The Board is also satisfied that Sir in the Chairmans letter of appointment and offered on each occasion.
Georges membership of a Northern Rock the Chief Executives job description.
Building Society pension scheme does not 13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued affect his independence.
The ongoing training process is is proposed for re-election beyond six to accrue pension benefits after 30 June enhanced by the annual appraisal process, years, the proposal should be subject to a 1997 and became eligible to receive a where Directors are asked to identify areas particularly rigorous review, and should pension on 25 October 2005. where additional training is required.
take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
As a highly experienced company director, To enable the Board to function effectively, Sir Georges sound judgement and all Directors have full and timely access to All Executive Directors, Non-Executive challenging approach ensure that he makes all information which may be relevant to Directors and the Chairman were subject to a significant contribution to the work of the the discharge of their duties and an appraisal during the year under review Board and its Committees.
He and the other obligations.
The Company also arranges to ensure that their contribution continued Non-Executive Directors also provide close additional, specific training or support for to be of the highest standard.
scrutiny of the performance of management any Director who requests it.
The Chief Executive and all of the Nonand the reporting of its performance.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors are Executive Directors were appraised by the properly briefed on issues to be discussed Chairman whilst the appraisal of the Group INDUCTION AND TRAINING at Board meetings.
All Directors are able to Finance Director, Deputy Chief Executive It is the Company's policy that every obtain further advice or seek clarity on and other Executive Directors was Director should receive appropriate training issues raised at Board meetings from within completed by the Chief Executive.
After a when he or she is appointed to the Board, the Company or from external professional meeting of the Non-Executive Directors in and subsequently as necessary.
All Directors have access to the absence of the Chairman and having also 2005 Mr Queen and Miss Radcliffe both advice and services of the Company canvassed the opinions of the Executive joined the Board as Non-Executive Secretary who is responsible for ensuring Directors, the Senior Independent Director Directors whilst Mr Currie and Mr Kuipers that Board procedures and applicable rules conducted the appraisal of the Chairman.
For the year under review, the conclusion of A detailed induction process was completed Additionally, the Company Secretary the appraisal exercise was that each Nonfor each of the Directors to ensure that they provides regular reports to the Board to Executive Director, Executive Director and were able to discharge their responsibilities ensure that it remains up to date on the the Chairman continued to demonstrate a effectively: this included in the case of latest regulatory, legal and governance continued commitment and effective Mr Queen and Miss Radcliffe, attendance at developments relevant to the Company and contribution to their position.
The terms of the Companys Interim and Preliminary its officers.
Where necessary, the Directors appointment of each Non-Executive Director Results presentations, where they were are able to take independent professional have been renewed for a further year with available to meet with major shareholders.
advice at the Companys expense.
effect from 1 January 2006, subject to reThe Companys induction process is election where appropriate at the Annual designed to ensure that every new Director INDEMNITIES General Meeting to be held in April 2006. understands his or her responsibilities as a The Company's Articles of Association Director of the Company.
Where In addition to the appraisal of the individual provide an indemnity to Directors against appropriate, the process also enables Directors, an evaluation of the Board and its certain liabilities incurred as a result of Directors to build an understanding of the Committees was also completed.
The indemnities extend to Company, its business and the market in evaluation process consisted of a lengthy defending any proceedings in which which it operates.
It also assists with the questionnaire that canvassed the Directors judgement is given in the Directors' favour, formulation of a link with the senior views on a wide range of matters including, or in which they are acquitted or in any executives in the Company and facilitates an the effectiveness of the Board, its proceedings in which relief is granted by a understanding of the Companys main Committees and the Chairman.
The court from liability for negligence, default, relationships with its major customers, Directors were also asked to comment on breach of duty or breach of trust in suppliers and shareholders.
the Board meeting process, the composition relation to the affairs of the Company.
In of the Board, and the interaction between The initial induction programme is addition, the Company arranges Directors the Board and its Committees.
supported by an ongoing training and Officer's Insurance on behalf of its programme for all Directors to ensure that Directors in accordance with the provisions The Secretary reported to the Board on they remain fully up to date with legal, of the Companies Act 1985. the outcome of the evaluation exercise.
In The process was completed by the Board addition to this programme, at Board BOARD EVALUATION AND DIRECTOR considering and debating the Secretarys meetings during 2005, a number of the APPRAISAL report and reviewing the respective Companys senior executives provided The Combined Code requires that Nonstrengths and weaknesses of the Board, its presentations concerning their areas of Executive Directors, the Board and its members and its Committees.
This ensures that the Board Committees should be subject to annual remains fully up to date on the Groups appraisal.
Where a Non-Executive Director 14 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The Secretary reported to the Board that the external auditors and made a and its activities are reported to the Board.
the evaluation of the Board and its recommendation that they be re-appointed The Committee comprises the Chairman, Committees showed that they were for a further 12 months.
The Board the Executive Directors and the discharging their responsibilities effectively accepted this recommendation and an Company Secretary.
and confirmed that the process also appropriate resolution was passed at the provided useful feedback that would be used 2005 Annual General Meeting.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE to improve current practice and procedures.
The Nominations Committee comprises the The Audit Committee reviews the scope Chairman and two independent Nonand results of the annual external audit, its BOARD COMMITTEES Executive Directors.
The Committee met cost effectiveness, and the independence In accordance with the Combined Code once during 2005.
It monitors and reviews and objectivity of the external auditors.
It and the best principles of corporate the membership of, and succession to, the also reviews the nature and extent of any governance, the Board has established a Board of Directors and the Committee non-audit services provided by the external number of Committees to assist it in the makes recommendations to the Board in auditors.
The external auditors may attend way that it deals with matters that are this regard.
One of its functions is to all meetings of the Audit Committee and reserved for its consideration.
The identify potential Executive and Nonthey have direct access to the Committee Chairman and membership of each Executive Directors taking into account and its Chairman at all times.
Committee are set out on page 17. the requirement for the members of the Each Committee has detailed terms of The Chief Internal Auditor provides further Board to have an appropriate range of reference clearly setting out its remit and assurance that the significant risks skills and experience to understand authority.
In accordance with the identified by the business are properly the activities of Northern Rock and its Combined Code, the terms of reference of managed.
The Chief Internal Auditor also subsidiary undertakings.
the Audit, Nominations, Remuneration and has direct access to the Audit Committee During 2005, the Nominations Committee Risk Committees are available on the and its Chairman.
The Executive Directors assessed the size of the Board, the Companys website and on request in are not members of the Audit Committee attributes of the Board members, the writing from the Company Secretary.
but attend meetings by invitation of the continued growth of the Company and its Audit Committee, as necessary, to facilitate In addition to the meetings of the Board strategic aims.
Following the addition of its business.
and the Committees which took place two Non-Executive Directors and two throughout the year, the Chairman also held The Audit Committee reviews the internal Executive Directors in 2005, the meetings with Non-Executive Directors in control system on behalf of the Board and Nominations Committee believes that the absence of the Executive Directors and the is also responsible for reviewing the Board has an appropriate number of Non-Executive Directors met in absence of effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
Directors with a suitable range of the Chairman and the Executives.
At each meeting the Committee receives knowledge and skills and that, for the time reports of reviews conducted throughout being, the performance of the Board would The following paragraphs set out details of the Company by the Internal Audit and not be improved by the recruitment of the Committees and the particular work periodically Compliance functions.
The Combined Code requires the Board to During 2005, the Committee also AUDIT COMMITTEE be satisfied that at least one member of considered the succession to the position The Audit Committee comprises five the Audit Committee has recent and of Senior Independent Director, in independent Non-Executive Directors and relevant financial experience.
The Board is anticipation of Sir George Russells met six times during 2005.
It considers satisfied in this regard and, in addition, in retirement from the Board.
Having and, where appropriate, advises the Board the opinion of the Board the qualifications considered the duties and expectations of on all matters relating to regulatory, of each of the Audit Committee members the position, Sir Ian Gibson taking no part prudential and accounting requirements gives the Audit Committee the breadth in the debate, the Committee concluded that may affect the Group.
It also reports of financial experience to discharge that Sir Ian possessed the necessary to the Board on both financial and nonits responsibilities.
qualities of experience and business financial controls.
An important aspect of acumen.
The Committee therefore its role is to ensure that an objective and CHAIRMANS COMMITTEE recommended to the Board that the professional relationship is maintained with The principal function of the Chairmans appointment should be made, and at its the external auditors.
Committee is to review the Companys November meeting, the Board approved strategy and to consider any major this recommendation.
The Audit Committee has responsibility for operational issues or proposals for recommending the appointment, resignificant new initiatives that may arise.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE appointment and removal of the external The Committee only meets as a formal The Remuneration Committee comprises auditors.
In February 2005 the Audit Committee in exceptional circumstances seven independent Non-Executive Directors Committee reviewed the effectiveness of 15 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued and met twice in 2005.
It is responsible for assessment of risk management procedures significant risks faced by it.
This process considering and advising the Board on the for the identification, measurement and was in place for the period 1 January 2005 remuneration policy for Executive Directors control of key risk exposures in to 31 December 2005 and remained in and the Chairman, and for determining their accordance with changes in the operating place on the date that the 2005 Annual remuneration packages.
It is also primarily responsible Report and Accounts was approved by the responsibilities the Remuneration Committee for considering the major findings of any of Board.
As part of the Companys takes professional advice from within and the Financial Services Authority or continuing evaluation of internal control, outside the Company.
It is the Board's internal external audit's risk management the Board has reviewed and where responsibility to determine the remuneration review and management's response.
necessary updated the process for policy for Non-Executive Directors within the identifying and evaluating significant To assist the Board in discharging its limits set in the Articles of Association.
The risks affecting the business and the responsibilities for the setting of Risk Remuneration Committee also determines policies and procedures by which these policy, the Risk Committee periodically the level of remuneration for the Companys risks are managed.
reviews the Group's credit risk, interest rate Management Board Directors comprising risk, liquidity risk and operational risk The Company is committed to developing management at the level immediately below exposures in relation to the Board's risk and maintaining a control-conscious culture the Board.
appetite and the Group's capital adequacy.
This is achieved through a wellIn accordance with the requirements of the As part of the implementation of the defined organisational structure with clear Directors Remuneration Report International Convergence of Capital reporting lines and a commitment to Regulations 2002 further information may Measurement and Capital Standards: recruiting and training staff governed by be found in the Companys Directors Revised Framework commonly known as appropriate codes of conduct.
Basle II the Committee has responsibility the Group maintains procedure manuals for monitoring the performance of the that detail the procedures to control RISK COMMITTEE Companys Basle credit rating systems and physical and logical access, segregation of The Risk Committee comprises four reviewing reports prepared by the Credit duties and credit, expenditure and other independent Non-Executive Directors and Risk Management Group and the Basle authorisation limits.
There are wellthe Executive Directors, Keith Currie and Steering Group.
established budgetary and strategic Andy Kuipers having been appointed to the planning cycles, and the Board reviews the The Risk Committee also ensures that the Committee with effect from 1 January results monthly against budgets, forecasts public disclosure of information regarding 2006.
The Risk Committee met four times and prior year actual results, together with the Group's risk management policies and during 2005.
The main role of the Risk other key business measures.
key risk exposures is in accordance with the Committee is to review, on behalf of the statutory requirements and financial The Chief Executive reports to the Board Board, the key risks inherent in the reporting standards.
on behalf of the Executive Committee on business, the system of control necessary significant changes in the business and the to manage such risks, and to present their INTERNAL CONTROL external environment which affect findings to the Board.
The Board of Directors is responsible for the significant risks.
The Board also receives This responsibility requires the Risk Group's system of internal control and for monthly financial information, which Committee to keep under review the annually reviewing its effectiveness.
The includes key performance and risk effectiveness of the Group's system of system of internal control is designed to indicators.
Where areas for improvement in internal controls, which includes financial, manage risk rather than eliminate it and in the system are identified, the Board operational, compliance and risk this regard, the Board considers that considers the recommendations made by management controls and to foster a Northern Rock is a well-controlled, riskthe Executive Committee, the Risk culture that emphasises and demonstrates averse business that continues to adopt a Committee and the Audit Committee.
the benefits of a risk-based approach to prudent stance in the management of risk.
A detailed description of the Group's internal control and management of the Through the work undertaken in this area by approach to financial risk management and Group.
The Risk Committee fulfils this remit the Audit Committee and reported to it, the the related use of derivatives is set out in by reinforcing management's control Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the note 39 to the accounts.
Material risk consciousness and making appropriate system of internal control and is satisfied exposures are subject to Board policy recommendations to the Board on all that there is a sound system of internal statements that set out the exposure limits of significant matters relating to the Group's control that safeguards shareholders the risks and the hedges and control risk strategy and policies.
investments and the Companys assets.
In addition, regular Other responsibilities of the Risk In accordance with the guidance set out in reporting of all risk exposures is monitored Committee include keeping under review the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, throughout the Company by the Operational the effectiveness of the Group's risk the Company has an ongoing process for Risk Group whose membership is drawn from management infrastructure.
This involves an identifying, evaluating and managing the each of the Companys departments within 16 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued which operational risk may arise.
This Group the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director Companies Act 1985.
They are also reports to Management Board Asset and other Executive Directors have responsible for safeguarding the assets of and Liability Committee on a monthly basis extensive ongoing contact with the Company and Group and hence for and subsequently to each meeting of shareholders and feedback arising from this taking reasonable steps to prevent and Risk Committee.
is also reported to the Board.
Coupled with detect fraud and other irregularities.
presentations from analysts and brokers The Companys Internal Audit function The maintenance and integrity of the throughout the year, these arrangements provides a degree of assurance as to the Northern Rock plc website is the ensure that all Directors, both Executive operation and validity of the system of responsibility of the Directors: the work and Non-Executive, remain up to date on internal control and planned corrective carried out by the auditors does not involve the views of major shareholders.
actions are independently monitored for consideration of these matters and, timely completion.
As Senior Independent Director, Sir George accordingly, the auditors accept no Russell and after his retirement, Sir Ian responsibility for any changes that may have The Company has in place a formal Gibson is available to shareholders if they occurred to the financial statements since procedure by which staff can, in have concerns which contact through the they were initially presented on the website.
confidence, raise concerns about possible normal channels of Chairman, Chief improprieties in financial and other matters Legislation in the United Kingdom governing Executive or Group Finance Director has commonly referred to as whistleblowing the preparation and dissemination of financial failed to resolve or for which such contact procedures.
Details of these arrangements statements may differ from legislation in is inappropriate.
are set out in the Companys Standards of other jurisdictions.
The Companys To ensure that opportunities are offered to COMMITTEES whistleblowing policy is intended to major shareholders to meet with members Membership of the Board's Committees is encourage and enable staff to raise serious of the Board, a number of more informal set out below.
Employees reporting concerns in meetings are also held throughout the year AUDIT COMMITTEE this way are afforded certain rights through where investor feedback on strategy and Sir Derek Wanless Chairman legislation Public Interest Disclosure Act governance is encouraged.
N A H Fenwick 1998 and have access to a confidential Sir Ian Gibson N Pease whistleblowing telephone line.
GOING CONCERN M J Queen The Directors are satisfied that the Group The Audit Committee reviews this has adequate resources to continue in CHAIRMAN'S COMMITTEE procedure on an annual basis and remains business for the foreseeable future.
For this Dr M W Ridley Chairman satisfied that it incorporates arrangements A J Applegarth reason, they continue to adopt the going for the proportionate and independent D F Baker concern basis in preparing the accounts.
R F Bennett investigation of matters raised and for A M Kuipers appropriate follow up action.
K M Currie STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS C Taylor RESPONSIBILITIES COMMUNICATIONS The Companies Act 1985 requires the NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE A Summary Financial Statement is issued to all Dr M W Ridley Chairman Directors to prepare financial statements for shareholders and a copy of the Annual Report Sir Ian Gibson each financial year that give a true and fair Sir Derek Wanless and Accounts is available by written request to view of the state of affairs of the Company the Company Secretary or from the Northern REMUNERATION COMMITTEE and Group as at the end of the year and of Rock website: www.
The N Pease Chairman the profit or loss of the Group for the year.
N A H Fenwick Company communicates regularly with its Sir Ian Gibson shareholders who are given the opportunity The Directors consider that in preparing the M J Queen to raise matters for discussion at the Annual financial statements on pages 50 to 102 R A Radcliffe Sir George Russell General Meeting.
The Company also deals appropriate accounting policies, consistently Sir Derek Wanless with a number of written enquiries from applied and supported by reasonable and shareholders throughout the year.
prudent judgements and estimates, have RISK COMMITTEE been used and that applicable accounting Sir Derek Wanless Chairman The Company regards communication with Sir Ian Gibson standards have been followed.
institutional shareholders as important and R A Radcliffe Sir George Russell its Investor Relations department maintains The Directors are responsible for ensuring A J Applegarth a high level of contact throughout the year that the Company and Group keeps D F Baker with institutional shareholders.
accounting records that disclose with R F Bennett K M Currie appointed 1 January 2006 reasonable accuracy at any time the The Company Secretary also reports A M Kuipers appointed 1 January 2006 Company and Group's financial position regularly to the Board on feedback Non-Executive Director and that enable them to ensure that the Executive Director received from shareholders.
Additionally, financial statements comply with the Executive 17 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT SUMMARY determines on behalf of the Board, specific COMPLIANCE The Directors Remuneration Report is remuneration packages for the Chairman, The Company has complied with the presented to shareholders by the Board the Executive Directors and the provisions of the Combined Code relating and contains the following information: Management Board Directors, being the to Directors remuneration throughout level of management immediately below the year.
A description of the role of the the Board.
Remuneration Committee: REMUNERATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE The Committee meets regularly and takes A summary of the Groups DIRECTORS advice from both inside and outside the Remuneration Policy including a The Committee believes that the Group on a range of matters, including the statement of the Companys policy on continuing improvement in the scale and composition of the total Directors remuneration: performance of Northern Rock depends on remuneration package payable in individual contributions made by the Graphs illustrating the performance of comparable financial institutions to Executive Directors.
For this reason, the the Company relative to the FTSE 100 people with similar qualifications, remuneration policy is designed to provide Index and the FTSE 350 Index for the skills and experience.
competitive packages to motivate, reward last five years: The following persons and advisors and retain Executive Directors of high Details of the terms of the service provided advice or services that materially quality and to align their interests with contracts and the remuneration of assisted the Committee in its consideration those of shareholders.
each Director for the preceding of Directors remuneration matters during The Board has adopted, on the financial year: the year: recommendation of the Committee, a Details of the share options and awards The Committee consulted the Chief remuneration policy with the objectives set under long-term incentive schemes held Executive on matters relating to the out below: by the Directors: and remuneration of the other Executive i The remuneration packages for Directors who report to him.
The Details of each Directors interests in Executive Directors are designed to be Chairman was also consulted in Ordinary Shares in the Company.
competitive in terms of market practice: relation to the remuneration of all This Report complies with the Directors Executive Directors: ii Performance-related remuneration Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 should seek to align the interests of Internal support was provided to the the Regulations.
This Report also sets Executive Directors with those of the Committee by the Company Secretary: out how the principles of the Combined shareholders through the imposition of Code relating to Executive Director Watson Wyatt LLP advised the stretching corporate performance remuneration are applied by the Group.
Committee on a range of issues targets and the satisfaction of most including the benchmarking of short and longer term incentives in the A resolution will be put to Shareholders at Executive Directors salaries and the form of shares: and the Annual General Meeting on 25 April Chairmans fee.
In addition to providing 2006 inviting them to consider and iii To motivate for future achievement, a this advice to the Committee, Watson approve this Report.
significant proportion of remuneration Wyatt LLP advised the Board on the should be based on operational and benchmarking of Non-Executive THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE financial performance both in the short Directors fees and are the consulting The Remuneration Committee the and long term together with the actuaries to the Company who advised Committee consists entirely of individual contribution made by the on various pension issues: independent Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors.
and comprises Ms N Pease Chairman, Inbucon Administration Ltd was It is intended that this policy should Mr N A H Fenwick, Sir Ian Gibson, responsible for preparing Total continue to apply for 2006 and Mr M J Queen, Miss R A Radcliffe, Shareholder Return calculations for the subsequent years Sir George Russell and Sir Derek Wanless.
purposes of the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan and this Remuneration The Committee regularly reviews all aspects Where appropriate, the Chairman and Chief Report.
Inbucon Administration Ltd did of remuneration to ensure they remain Executive are invited to attend meetings of not provide other advice or services to appropriate.
The operation of share the Committee, save that they are absent the Company: and incentive schemes is kept under review when their own remuneration is under to ensure that they remain appropriate consideration.
The Committee operates Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer advised to the Companys current circumstances within agreed terms of reference and has the Company on various share plan and prospects.
responsibility for making recommendations matters and compliance with the to the Board on the Groups general policy Regulations.
They are the Companys This report sets out the Companys policy relating to executive remuneration.
It also main legal advisor.
on Executive Directors remuneration for 18 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued 2006 and, so far as practicable, for exceptional performance, whether to 5% of salary with a maximum of 100% subsequent years.
The inclusion in the corporate or individual, should be rewarded of salary by way of bonus for 20% increase report of remuneration policy in respect of through bonus and incentive schemes in profits with a sliding scale between years after 2006 is required by the rather than basic salary.
Payment of one-third of the Regulations.
The Committee is able to state bonus will be subject to the Committees Salaries are reviewed annually for each its remuneration policy for 2006 with view of the participants personal Executive Director, and revised salaries took reasonable certainty, and this policy will performance, and the remaining two-thirds effect from 1 January 2006 as follows: continue in subsequent years unless relates to the performance of the business.
The Committee A J Applegarth The bonus payable is reduced by the value considers that a successful remuneration 690,000 2005 - 625,000 of shares appropriated under the allpolicy needs to be sufficiently flexible to employee Inland Revenue Share Incentive D F Baker take account of future changes in the Plan for the year, to the extent needed to 455,000 2005 - 390,000 Companys business environment and in ensure that the relevant bonus cap is not remuneration practice.
Any changes in policy for years after 2006 will be described in future Directors K M Currie For 2006 and thereafter the Committee Remuneration Reports: such reports will 365,000 2005 - 270,000 will continue to operate the cash bonus continue to be subject to shareholder from 5 January 2005 scheme on the same basis as for 2005 save approval.
All statements in this report in that the level of bonus will be based upon A M Kuipers relation to remuneration policy for years increases in underlying profit attributable 365,000 2005 - 270,000 after 2006 should be read in light of to equity shareholders.
This will provide a from 5 January 2005 this paragraph.
more transparent method of performance The revised salaries of the Executive comparison under the new International ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION Directors have been benchmarked against Financial Reporting Standards and will more Remuneration comprises: basic salary, salaries paid for similar positions in banks closely align scheme payments to annual bonus, pension benefits and benefits in the FTSE 100 Index and for companies shareholder interests.
In addition, Executive Directors and in positions 63 87 in the FTSE 100 Index senior executives participate in certain share being the grouping of companies around BONUS MATCHING PLAN based incentive schemes, comprising the Northern Rock in the FTSE as of 30 June Participants are also encouraged to identify bonus matching plan, deferred share 2005, the date of the exercise.
with the interests of shareholders by scheme and long term incentive plan.
These investing some of their own funds in During 2005 the Companys 12 share-based incentive schemes, and the Northern Rock.
All of the Executive Management Board Directors were annual bonus, are performance-related, and Directors and certain other senior paid salaries ranging from 90,000 the Remuneration Committee regards them executives are entitled to elect for all or to 192,000. as a key element in the Executive Directors part of the after tax amount of their annual remuneration package.
cash bonus to be used to acquire shares SHORT TERM BONUS SCHEME which will be held for a period of three As a result of changes to the performanceNorthern Rock operates a short term cash years: alternatively they may elect to related elements of remuneration in recent bonus scheme under which payments are deposit their own shares with an aggregate years including, from 2005, the imposition made on an annual basis at the discretion value not exceeding the cash amount of the of a corporate performance condition on of the Committee.
All of the Executive after tax bonus.
The shares acquired or awards vesting under the bonus matching Directors and certain senior executives deposited will be eligible for additional plan and deferred share scheme, and the participate in this scheme.
matched shares at the end of the threeincrease in annual bonus potential as This cash bonus scheme relates to year-onyear period, provided the participant has described below, the performance-related year increases in the Groups statutory remained an employee of the Group.
element of total potential remuneration has profit before taxation, adjusted to exclude materially increased in recent years.
The plan is designed to achieve one-forthe effect of extraordinary and exceptional one matching on an after tax basis.
As the items and payments to The Northern Rock BASIC SALARY participants shares are invested in the plan Foundation, with increases in profit before The Committees objective is that Executive on an after tax basis, but the matched taxation generating a bonus payment equal Directors basic salaries should be paid at shares only attract income tax and national to a percentage of salary.
Only where there an appropriate level to take account of insurance contributions if and when they is an increase in profit before taxation will both personal performance and of salaries are released from the plan, the number of participants be eligible for a short term within a comparator group of financial matched shares is increased by reference bonus.
Every 1% increase in profit before institutions.
The Committee considers that to tax rates at the time the matching shares taxation generates a bonus payment equal 19 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued are initially awarded to reflect the fact that operate the deferred share scheme in There is also an earnings per share they will attract income tax if and when respect of 2006 and future years.
threshold, which requires that the Groups they are released.
Entitlement to the earnings per share growth over the three The beneficial ownership of the deferred matched shares will normally be lost if the year period must exceed the growth in the shares transfers to the participant on the participant leaves employment except in UK Retail Prices Index RPI by an average grant of an award.
The deferred shares will certain good leaver circumstances.
This be forfeited if the participant ceases to be performance condition is designed to For awards made under the bonus matching entitled to them except in certain good ensure that the vesting level of LTIP awards plan in 2005 and future years, the release leaver circumstances.
The participant will is dependent on satisfactory year-on-year of matched share awards is dependent on be entitled to any dividends paid on their financial performance as well as abovethe Group achieving average real EPS deferred shares during the restricted period.
growth of 3% per annum over the three financial years pending their release.
This LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN The LTIP was operated in 2005, resulting in performance target was also adopted for All Executive Directors participate in a long the share awards to Executive Directors set deferred share awards made under the term incentive plan LTIP, which was out in the table on page 29.
The deferred scheme referred to below and was approved by shareholders in 1998.
Awards Committee will continue to operate it for given shareholder approval at the Annual have been made in 1998 and each Executive Directors in 2006 and future General Meeting on 26 April 2005. subsequent year thereafter.
A separate share scheme, in involves the grant of share awards, which substantially the same terms as the LTIP, The bonus matching plan was operated in can only be released if demanding has been adopted by the Remuneration respect of 2005, resulting in the share performance targets are achieved and if the Committee and is extended to 36 awards to Executive Directors described participant remains in employment, except executives.
This is also now subject to the on page 26.
The Committee will continue in certain good leaver circumstances.
Executive to operate it in respect of 2006 and number of shares comprised in an award is Directors are not eligible to participate in future years.
calculated by reference to a percentage of this scheme, and awards under it will be The beneficial ownership of the matched salary, with the maximum award of shares satisfied with existing shares only.
shares transfers to the participant on the being 100% of salary.
The matched shares will ALL-EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES Performance is measured over a three year be forfeited if the participant ceases to be Executive Directors are eligible to period on the basis of total shareholder entitled to them except in certain good participate in the Companys all-employee return TSR, comparing the Companys leaver circumstances.
The participant share schemes on the same terms as other performance to that of the companies in an will be entitled to any dividends paid employees.
These schemes comprise: appropriate index at the date of an award.
on their matched shares during the The Remuneration Committee decided that, i The Sharesave Scheme, a savingsrestricted period.
for awards in 2005 and subsequent years, related share option scheme available the FTSE 100 Index would be used.
This scheme operates DEFERRED SHARE SCHEME previous awards, the FTSE 350 Index was within specific tax legislation including Under a separate element of the short term used because, at the time the LTIP was a requirement to finance exercise of the bonus scheme, the Committee may grant to approved in 1998, the Companys market option using the proceeds of a monthly Executive Directors and certain senior capitalisation placed it around the midsavings contract, and exercise of the executives who receive a cash bonus under point of the constituents of that index.
The option is not subject to satisfaction of that scheme an award of shares with a preCompany joined the FTSE 100 Index in a performance target: tax value equal to the pre-tax value of their September 2001.
The extent to which an cash bonus.
A participant who is granted ii The Employee Share Option Scheme, award is realisable depends on the an award must normally continue to hold an HM Revenue & Customs approved Companys ranking in this comparison.
these shares and remain an employee of share option scheme under which Awards are released on a sliding scale the Group for a period of three years from options have been granted to between median and top quartile the date of the award in order to retain the substantially all employees.
Under this performance with 25 per cent of an award full number of shares so granted to them, scheme the aggregate exercise value of being released for median performance and although shares will be released earlier in unexercised options may not exceed 100 per cent of the award being released certain good leaver circumstances.
Options under this scheme for a ranking within the top quartile.
If the may not be exercised unless real This deferred share scheme was operated in Groups performance is below the median, earnings per share of the Company has respect of 2005 resulting in the share none of the shares in an award will vest.
grown by more than 2% over the life of awards to Executive Directors described on There is no re-testing of targets.
The Committee will continue to is designed to ensure that the 20 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued exercisability of options is dependent in respect of income tax and National agreed that if Mr Applegarth or Mr Baker on satisfactory year-on-year financial Insurance.
The Company will re-imburse having attained age 55 retire with the performance on a sustained basis: and reasonable professional fees for advice to consent of the Company they will receive Executive Directors concerning the changes immediate payment of their accrued iii The Share Incentive Plan SIP, under to the pension regime.
pension without the application of an which the maximum value of free shares actuarial reduction.
awarded to employees cannot exceed Each of the Executive Directors currently 3,000 per year.
The value of share participates in the Northern Rock Pension If Mr Applegarth or Mr Baker elect to retire awards under this scheme is dependent Scheme, a contributory pension scheme after attaining the age of 55 without the on the Groups profits.
The SIP which provides a pension of up to twoconsent of the Company they will receive operates within specific tax legislation.
thirds of pensionable salary on retirement, an immediate pension being the accrued Any payment made under the SIP dependent upon service.
On death in deferred pension reduced by 3% for each together with any amount payable service the scheme also provides for a year or proportionate part thereof by under the short term cash bonus dependants pension and a lump sum of which retirement precedes age 60. scheme may not exceed the overall four times basic salary.
This pension and Post retirement increases to pensions arising bonus cap from time to time.
life assurance is provided from the scheme from membership of the defined benefit to the extent permitted by legislation and The Committee is satisfied that these scheme are guaranteed each year at the rate otherwise from separate arrangements.
schemes constitute a well considered overall of 3% per annum compound, subject to any plan for Executive Directors and senior The normal retirement age under the guaranteed minimum pension.
These pension scheme is 60 which enables benefits accrued after 5 April 1997 are schemes are kept under regular review, to members to achieve the maximum pension guaranteed to increase in line with inflation, take account of changing circumstances.
of 2 3rds of their salary at normal to a maximum of 5% per annum.
Bonus and share incentive scheme retirement age after 40 years service.
In addition to the normal scheme increases, payments are not taken into account for For death before retirement whilst in and subject to the defined benefit scheme pension purposes.
It should be noted that service, a capital sum equal to four times fund having adequate resources, the the Executive Directors elected not to the annual rate of basic earnings, excluding Trustees may award further discretionary participate in the last two grants made Directors fees, is payable, plus a return of increases each April.
Members of the under the Employee Share Option Scheme, members contributions.
In addition, a scheme have the option to pay additional namely those made in 2002 and 2005. pension of 50% of the members voluntary contributions to secure prospective pension at the age of 60, additional benefits within regulatory PENSION BENEFITS based on pensionable earnings at death, is limits, to which the Company does The following section describes the pension payable to a surviving spouse providing the not contribute.
arrangements currently in force for the couple were married before retirement.
These arrangements will The Company also operates an unapproved death before retirement after leaving the be affected by changes to the tax treatment unfunded arrangement for Mr Bennett scheme, a benefit of 50% of the members of the current UK pension regime contained which is provided for in the Companys deferred pension, re-valued to the date of in the Finance Act 2004 which is effective accounts and maintains pension death, is payable to a surviving spouse.
The Company entitlement from previous employment to death in retirement, a spouses pension of will not reimburse any additional tax provide additional benefits to the main 50% of the members pre-commutation burden that falls due to an individual scheme.
The unfunded arrangement is pension is payable.
In certain circumstances Executive Director.
"The Company has also designed to ensure that Mr Bennett or his a childrens allowance is payable, usually up agreed to pay those employees who elect spouse will receive the level of pension to the age of 18 or up to the age of 21 if to ""cap"" their pension at A Day a cash benefit in respect of his eligible earnings in they are in full-time education."
supplement in respect of the loss of future excess of the pensions earnings cap, pension accrual, on a cost neutral basis to Subject to the Trustees approval, early currently 105,600 2004 05 the Company.
As a consequence of these retirement may be granted from the age of 102,000 per annum, which are not changes, a principle of cost neutrality will 50, or at any age due to ill-health.
The pensioned by the Northern Rock Pension apply to those Executive Directors who, pension is calculated at the date of Scheme.
Mr Bennett contributes 5% of his with the Companys agreement, take early retirement based on accrued pensionable basic salary including those earnings in retirement at 55, without actuarial service and final pensionable earnings at excess of the earnings cap.
Mr Bennetts reduction of pension.
Where this occurs, that date.
The pension will then be pension will accrue at the rate of 1 36th of the money that would have been paid into actuarially reduced to take account of early pensionable earnings for each year and the Northern Rock Pension Scheme to payment by an amount of 0.25% for each pro rata for each part year of pensionable offset the actuarial reduction, will be paid complete month before normal retirement service from 1 November 1993 date to the individual and subject to deduction date.
The Company and the Trustees have joined pension scheme.
In addition, all 21 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued pension calculations shall include uncapped arrangement, would not have POLICY ON EXTERNAL NON-EXECUTIVE pensionable service brought forward from been paid by Mr Bennett, will be borne by DIRECTORSHIPS HELD BY EXECUTIVE previous employers of 19 years 5 months the Company up to two thirds of the DIRECTORS at a rate of accrual of 1 60th per annum contribution amount.
In addition, any Executive Directors are permitted to hold and 5 years 1 month at a rate of accrual of income tax or related tax due on the cash one external non-executive directorship 1 36th per annum.
sum commutation will be borne by the unrelated to the Companys business, Company up to two thirds of the provided that the time commitment is not The total of the pension provided for commutation amount.
Executive Directors are permitted Mr Bennett at normal retirement date or at to retain any fees arising from such a nonany age after his 55th birthday, where the BENEFITS IN KIND executive directorship.
On this basis, retirement is by mutual consent or at the Each Executive Director is provided with Mr Bennett is a Non-Executive Director of Companys request, shall be the maximum company car and medical insurance Greggs plc, and Mr Bennett was entitled to of two thirds of his uncapped final benefits.
The Executive Directors had, as fees of 28,000 from that company in pensionable earnings.
If retirement occurs employees of Northern Rock Building respect of 2005.
Mr Applegarth was prior to age 60 without the consent of the Society or in the case of Mr Currie and appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Company, he may elect to receive an Mr Kuipers as employees of the Company Persimmon Homes plc in May 2005 and immediate pension being the accrued prior to their appointment as Directors, was entitled to fees of 26,667 in respect deferred pension with a maximum of two entitlement to participate in a of 2005. thirds of his uncapped final pensionable concessionary mortgage scheme at the earnings reduced by 3% for each year and discretion of the Board.
No further new proportionate for each part thereof by loans may be made under the scheme which retirement precedes age 60. following conversion to plc status, but The aggregate of pension increases to be existing loans are not affected.
provided whether in deferment or in payment shall be the greater of 5% per POLICY ON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS annum or RPI, subject to any guaranteed SERVICE CONTRACTS minimum pension and the increases as It is the policy of the Company that granted by the Trustees of the scheme Executive Directors service contracts can inclusive of any discretionary increases.
be terminated by 12 months notice given to an Executive Director at any time.
Each Should Mr Bennett die in service or in Executive Director can terminate his receipt of benefits under the Companys employment by giving 6 months notice.
Permanent Health Insurance Scheme prior to age 60, a lump sum shall be paid of four All of the Executive Directors contracts times his earnings at death plus a return of may be terminated immediately by his contributions.
In addition, if he leaves a Northern Rock either with for Mr Baker surviving spouse she shall receive a pension and Mr Bennett the payment of liquidated of four ninths of his uncapped final damages equal to 12 months salary and pensionable earnings.
Any child or children the value of annual bonus and benefits under the age of 25 receiving full-time or for Mr Applegarth, Mr Kuipers and education would receive an allowance of Mr Currie a payment in lieu of notice one half of the entitlement of the surviving equal to such amount.
Should Mr Bennett die whilst in Mr Baker and Mr Bennett would, in the receipt of a pension prior to age 60, a event of a change of control of Northern lump sum of four times his earnings at Rock, be entitled to terminate employment retirement shall be payable.
On death in and receive a liquidated damages payment receipt of a pension, any surviving spouse calculated on the same basis.
The terms of would receive a pension of two thirds of reference of the Remuneration Committee the pension Mr Bennett would have been make it clear that the Remuneration receiving at death, ignoring any pension Committee seeks, in appropriate commuted for a tax free cash sum.
circumstances, to mitigate the amount of termination payments made to Executive Any income tax or other related tax due on Directors.
the Companys contribution to the unfunded arrangement which, under an 22 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued PERFORMANCE GRAPHS SERVICE CONTRACTS The performance graphs set out below illustrate the Groups Total Shareholder Return TSR Mr Applegarth is employed under a service performance over the preceding five years, 2001 to 2005, compared with that of the FTSE contract with the Company dated 1 March 100 Index of which Northern Rock has been a constituent since September 2001, and that of 2001.
His current annual salary is the FTSE 350 Index of which Northern Rock was a constituent prior to September 2001.
690,000, and he is entitled under the contract to participation in the Companys The FTSE 350 Index has been included because members of this index comprise the bonus scheme, a company car or allowance comparator group for long term incentive plan purposes for 2004 and prior.
The performance in lieu, membership of the Companys graphs have been prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
pension scheme, life assurance cover equal to four times salary, permanent health FTSE 100 insurance, private medical insurance cover and the continuation of a mortgage at a TSR % 60 concessionary rate which was granted 50 before the Companys conversion to plc status.
Mr Applegarths contract is for an 40 indefinite term ending automatically on his retirement date age 60, but may be 30 terminated by 12 months notice given by the Company and 6 months notice given by 20 Mr Applegarth.
The Company may at its discretion elect to terminate the contract by 10 making a payment in lieu of notice equal to: 0 i 100 per cent of basic annual salary: -10 ii The amount of annual bonus paid in respect of the preceding financial year: -20 and The FTSE 350 Index has been included because members of this index comprise the -30 iii The annual cost to the Company of comparator group for long term incentive plan purposes for 2004 and prior.
The performance providing pension and all other benefits 2001 % 2002 % 2003 % 2004 % 2005 % graphs have been prepared in accordance with the Northern Rock 51 8 12 13 25 to which Mr Applegarth is entitled Regulations.
In addition, Mr Applegarth may elect to FTSE 350 terminate the contract on one months TSR % 60 notice given within six months following a change of control of the Company.
In these 50 circumstances, Mr Applegarth would become entitled to a lump sum payment 40 equal to the aggregate of: 30 i 100 per cent of basic annual salary: ii The amount of annual bonus paid in 20 respect of the preceding financial year: 10 and iii The annual cost to the Company of 0 providing pension and all other benefits -10 specified in his service contract.
Mr Bennett is employed under a service -20 contract with the Company dated 26 August 1997, which was amended by a -30 supplemental agreement dated 12 March 2001 % 2002 % 2003 % 2004 % 2005 % 1998.
He is entitled to the same benefits as those specified above in relation 23 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued to Mr Applegarth, save that Mr Bennett is and expenses or a monthly car allowance, by Watson Wyatt LLP on the fees paid for entitled to special pension arrangements membership of the Companys pension similar roles at banks in the FTSE 100 which are described on pages 21 and 22. scheme, life assurance cover equal to four Index, and for Companies positioned 51- times basic salary and the continuation of a 100 in the FTSE 100 Index.
Mr Bennetts contract is for an indefinite concessionary mortgage which was term ending automatically on his retirement The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors granted to them before they became date age 60, but may be terminated by serve the Company under letters of directors of the Company.
Their contracts 12 months notice given by the Company appointment, which are terminable by the are for an indefinite term ending and 6 months notice given by Mr Bennett.
Company at any time without liability for automatically on their retirement age 60.
The Company may at its discretion elect to compensation: they do not have service The contracts may however be terminated terminate the contract early by making a contracts.
The Chairman and Nonby 12 months notice given by the payment of liquidated damages calculated Executive Directors are entitled to fees Company and six months notice given by in the manner set out above in relation to from the Company and it is the Companys the Directors.
Mr Applegarths post-change of control policy that they do not participate in liquidated damages entitlement.
The Company may at its discretion elect to bonus, incentive or pension schemes.
terminate Mr Curries and Mr Kuipers However, Sir George Russell, who also In the event of a change of control of the contracts by making a payment in lieu of served on the Board of Northern Rock Company, Mr Bennett may elect to notice equal to: Building Society, see page 25 is a terminate the contract and receive a lump member of a non-contributory pension sum payment calculated in the manner set i 100 per cent of basic salary: scheme established by Northern Rock out above in relation to Mr Applegarth.
ii The amount of annual bonus paid in Building Society under which pension Mr Baker is employed under a service respect of the preceding financial year: entitlement accrued for each complete contract with the Company dated and year of qualifying service subject to a 26 August 1997, which was amended by maximum of 60% of qualifying fees.
iii The annual cost to the Company of supplemental agreements dated 12 March This scheme ceased to accrue benefits providing pension and all other benefits 1998 and 1 July 1999.
His current annual after 30 June 1997. to which they are entitled under their salary is 455,000.
He is entitled to the contracts.
same benefits as those specified above in relation to Mr Applegarth save that The payment in lieu of notice payments Mr Baker has repaid the mortgage awarded may be made in phased instalments at the to him before the Companys conversion to Companys discretion.
plc status, and is not entitled to a further mortgage on concessionary terms.
REMUNERATION OF THE CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Mr Bakers contract is for an indefinite term The remuneration of the Chairman is ending automatically on his retirement date determined by the Committee and that of age 60, but may be terminated by the other Non-Executive Directors is 12 months notice given by the Company determined by the Board as a whole, on and 6 months notice given by Mr Baker.
the basis of external independent advice.
The Company may elect to terminate the The Chairmans annual fee is 300,000 contract by making a payment of liquidated 2005 250,000.
The Senior damages calculated in the manner set out Independent Non-Executive Directors above in relation to Mr Bennett.
In the annual fee is 67,000 2005 55,000. event of a change of control of the Non-Executive Directors receive an annual Company, Mr Baker may elect to terminate fee of 44,000 2005 40,000.
The the contract and receive a lump sum fee payable for membership of each of the payment calculated in the manner set out Audit, Nomination, Risk and Remuneration above in relation to Mr Applegarth.
Committees is 5,000 2005 3,500 Mr Currie and Mr Kuipers are each or, where a Non-Executive Director is employed under service contracts with the chairman of a Board Committee, the Company dated 5 January 2005.
Their additional annual fee payable to them is current annual salaries are 365,000, and 15,000 2005 13,000. they are entitled under the terms of their These revised fees for the Chairman and contracts to participate in the Companys Non-Executive Directors were determined bonus scheme, to receive a company car after consideration of an extensive report 24 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT The information set out below in the remainder of the Directors Remuneration Report has been subject to audit as required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
DIRECTORS INDIVIDUAL REMUNERATION Details of Directors individual remuneration is set out below: Non-Executive Directors 2005 2004 000 000 Dr M W Ridley appointed Chairman 27 April 2004 21 8 12 7 N A H Fenwick 43 36 Sir Ian Gibson 49 38 N Pease 53 43 M J Queen appointed 5 January 2005 43 R A Radcliffe appointed 1 March 2005 37 Sir George Russell 60 53 Sir Derek Wanless 69 51 Sir John Riddell, Bt.
retired 27 April 2004 50 Sir David Chapman, Bt.
retired 27 April 2004 12 572 41 0 Sir George Russell is also in receipt of a pension from the Northern Rock Building Society non-contributory pension scheme, which ceased to accrue benefits after 30 June 1997.
This pension came into payment on 25 October 2005 at the rate of 12,229 p. a. in line with the scheme rules.
Executive Directors Chief Executive Deputy Chief Group Finance Executive Executive Total Executive Director Director Director A J Applegarth D F Baker R F Bennett K M Currie A M Kuipers appointed appointed 5 Jan 2005 5 Jan 2005 000 000 000 000 000 000 2005 Salaries and fees 625 390 390 270 270 1,945 Bonus 529 330 330 229 229 1,647 Total remuneration 1,154 720 720 499 499 3,592 Non cash benefits 14 10 18 11 11 64 Total emoluments 1,168 730 738 510 510 3,656 2004 Salaries and fees 565 375 375 1,315 Bonus 368 244 244 856 Total remuneration 933 619 619 2,171 Non cash benefits 13 11 18 42 Total emoluments 946 630 637 2,213 There were no payments by the Company during the financial year for compensation for loss of office or payments in connection with the termination of qualifying services.
There were no amounts paid to the Executive Directors in respect of their qualifying services by way of expenses allowance that was chargeable to UK income tax.
The nature of the non-cash benefits is set out on page 22.
25 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued BONUS MATCHING PLAN Details of the Ordinary Shares over which the Directors have conditional rights under the bonus matching plan by year of grant are as follows: Rights under the bonus matching plan Date Rights held Rights granted Market price of Rights released Rights held Date of granted under plan during 2005 each share during 2005 under plan end of at 31 Dec 04 at date of grant at 31 Dec 05 qualifying period A J Applegarth Jan 02 23,723 6.66 23,723 Jan 03 52,253 6.10 52,253 Jan 06 Jan 04 53,208 7.40 53,208 Jan 07 Jan 05 47,618 7.73 47,618 Jan 08 D F Baker Jan 02 21,621 6.66 21,621 Jan 03 38,728 6.10 38,728 Jan 06 Jan 04 35,472 7.40 35,472 Jan 07 Jan 05 31,605 7.73 31,605 Jan 08 R F Bennett Jan 02 21,621 6.66 21,621 Jan 03 38,728 6.10 38,728 Jan 06 Jan 04 35,472 7.40 35,472 Jan 07 Jan 05 31,605 7.73 31,605 Jan 08 K M Currie Jan 02 9,383 6.66 9,383 appointed 5 January 2005 Jan 03 22,130 6.10 22,130 Jan 06 Jan 04 20,270 7.40 20,270 Jan 07 Jan 05 18,120 7.73 18,120 Jan 08 A M Kuipers Jan 02 9,383 6.66 9,383 appointed 5 January 2005 Jan 03 22,130 6.10 22,130 Jan 06 Jan 04 20,270 7.40 20,270 Jan 07 Jan 05 18,120 7.73 18,120 Jan 08 For 2004 and previous years, the release of matched share awards was not dependent on satisfaction of a further performance condition because the value of matched share awards was derived from annual bonus criteria and was therefore dependent on corporate performance.
The value, calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, of these awards is being charged to the income statement over the three year period to which they relate.
Further awards were granted on 26 January 2006 at 9.57 per share as follows: A J Applegarth 55,315 D F Baker 34,517 R F Bennett 34,517 K M Currie 23,895 A M Kuipers 23,895 Rights vested under the bonus matching plan during 2005 Number of Date on Market price Vesting date Market price ordinary shares which rights of each share at of each share were awarded award date at vesting date A J Applegarth 23,723 Jan 02 6.66 Jan 05 7.73 D F Baker 21,621 Jan 02 6.66 Jan 05 7.73 R F Bennett 21,621 Jan 02 6.66 Jan 05 7.73 K M Currie 9,383 Jan 02 6.66 Jan 05 7.73 A M Kuipers 9,383 Jan 02 6.66 Jan 05 7.73 Rights were released in January 2006 at 9.57 per share as follows: A J Applegarth 52,253 D F Baker 38,728 R F Bennett 38,728 K M Currie 22,130 A M Kuipers 22,130 26 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued The value of the bonus matching award is derived from the annual bonus criteria relating to the year on year increases in the Groups pretax profits on like-for-like ordinary activities and is therefore dependent on corporate performance.
At the 2005 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved a resolution amending the scheme terms and conditions to incorporate a performance condition for the release of bonus matching share awards.
For awards in 2005 and subsequent years the value of any bonus matching share awards will be dependent on the Group achieving real earnings per share growth of 3% per annum over the three years prior to their release.
DEFERRED SHARE SCHEME Details of the Ordinary Shares over which the Directors have conditional rights under the deferred share scheme by year of grant are as follows: Date Rights held Rights granted Market price of Rights released Rights held Date of granted under plan during 2005 each share during 2005 under plan end of at 31 Dec 04 at date of grant at 31 Dec 05 qualifying period A J Applegarth Jan 02 27,778 6.66 27,778 Jan 03 52,254 6.10 52,254 Jan 06 Jan 04 53,208 7.40 53,208 Jan 07 Jan 05 47,618 7.73 47,618 Jan 08 D F Baker Jan 02 21,622 6.66 21,622 Jan 03 38,730 6.10 38,730 Jan 06 Jan 04 35,472 7.40 35,472 Jan 07 Jan 05 31,605 7.73 31,605 Jan 08 R F Bennett Jan 02 21,622 6.66 21,622 Jan 03 38,730 6.10 38,730 Jan 06 Jan 04 35,472 7.40 35,472 Jan 07 Jan 05 31,605 7.73 31,605 Jan 08 K M Currie Jan 02 9,384 6.66 9,384 appointed 5 January 2005 Jan 03 22,131 6.10 22,131 Jan 06 Jan 04 20,270 7.40 20,270 Jan 07 Jan 05 18,120 7.73 18,120 Jan 08 A M Kuipers Jan 02 9,384 6.66 9,384 appointed 5 January 2005 Jan 03 22,131 6.10 22,131 Jan 06 Jan 04 20,270 7.40 20,270 Jan 07 Jan 05 18,120 7.73 18,120 Jan 08 For 2004 and previous years, the release of deferred share awards was not dependent on satisfaction of a further performance condition because the value of deferred share awards was derived from annual bonus criteria and was therefore dependent on corporate performance.
Further awards were granted on 26 January 2006 at 9.57 per share as follows: A J Applegarth 55,315 D F Baker 34,517 R F Bennett 34,517 K M Currie 23,895 A M Kuipers 23,895 27 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Rights vested under the deferred share scheme during 2005 Number of Date on Market price Vesting date Market price ordinary shares which rights of each share at of each share were awarded award date at vesting date A J Applegarth 27,778 Jan 02 6.66 Jan 05 7.73 D F Baker 21,622 Jan 02 6.66 Jan 05 7.73 R F Bennett 21,622 Jan 02 6.66 Jan 05 7.73 K M Currie 9,384 Jan 02 6.66 Jan 05 7.73 A M Kuipers 9,384 Jan 02 6.66 Jan 05 7.73 Rights were released in January 2006 at 9.57 per share as follows: A J Applegarth 52,254 D F Baker 38,730 R F Bennett 38,730 K M Currie 22,131 A M Kuipers 22,131 The value of any deferred share award is derived from annual bonus criteria relating to year on year increases in the Groups pre-tax profits on like-for-like ordinary activities and is therefore dependent on corporate performance.
At the 2005 Annual General Meeting, shareholders approved a resolution amending the scheme terms and conditions to incorporate a performance condition for the release of deferred share awards.
For awards in 2005 and subsequent years the value of any deferred share awards will be dependent on the Group achieving average real earnings per share growth of 3% per annum over the three years prior to their release.
LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN Details of the Ordinary Shares over which the Directors have conditional rights under the long term incentive plan by year of grant are as follows: Rights under the long term incentive plan Date Rights Rights Market Rights Rights Rights Date of granted held under granted price of lapsed released held end of plan at during each share during during under qualifying 31 Dec 04 2005 at date of 2005 2005 plan at 31 period grant Dec 05 A J Applegarth Jan 02 63,814 6.66 17,421 46,393 Jan 03 86,066 6.10 86,066 Jan 06 Jan 04 76,351 7.40 76,351 Jan 07 Jan 05 80,854 7.73 80,854 Jan 08 D F Baker Jan 02 47,297 6.66 12,912 34,385 Jan 03 57,377 6.10 57,377 Jan 06 Jan 04 50,676 7.40 50,676 Jan 07 Jan 05 50,453 7.73 50,453 Jan 08 R F Bennett Jan 02 47,297 6.66 12,912 34,385 Jan 03 57,377 6.10 57,377 Jan 06 Jan 04 50,676 7.40 50,676 Jan 07 Jan 05 50,453 7.73 50,453 Jan 08 K M Currie Jan 02 21,622 6.66 5,903 15,719 appointed 5 January 2005 Jan 03 32,787 6.10 32,787 Jan 06 Jan 04 29,054 7.40 29,054 Jan 07 Jan 05 34,929 7.73 34,929 Jan 08 A M Kuipers Jan 02 21,622 6.66 5,903 15,719 appointed 5 January 2005 Jan 03 32,787 6.10 32,787 Jan 06 Jan 04 29,054 7.40 29,054 Jan 07 Jan 05 34,929 7.73 34,929 Jan 08 28 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Rights vested during 2005 Number of Date on Market price of Vesting date Market price of ordinary which rights each share at each share at shares were awarded award date vesting date A J Applegarth 46,393 Jan 02 6.66 Jan 05 7.73 D F Baker 34,385 Jan 02 6.66 Jan 05 7.73 R F Bennett 34,385 Jan 02 6.66 Jan 05 7.73 K M Currie 15,719 Jan 02 6.66 Jan 05 7.73 A M Kuipers 15,719 Jan 02 6.66 Jan 05 7.73 The value, calculated in accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment, of these awards is being charged to the income statement over the three year period to which they relate.
Rights released during 2005 represent awards granted in 2002 which matured in January 2005.
72.7% of rights originally awarded were released to participants, the remaining 27.3% of rights have lapsed under the performance conditions of the scheme.
The awards granted in 2003 shown above, matured in January 2006 and led to no release of shares originally awarded under the performance conditions of the scheme.
Subject to the performance criteria being met, the other awards may be exercised during the three month period commencing on the third anniversary of the award dates.
The awards will lapse if they are not exercised during these times.
Further awards were granted on 26 January 2006 at 9.57 per share as follows: A J Applegarth 72,100 D F Baker 47,544 R F Bennett 47,544 K M Currie 38,140 A M Kuipers 38,140 There were no variations made in the terms and conditions of the plan interests during 2005.
The number of shares comprised in an award is calculated by reference to a percentage of salary, up to a maximum of 100% of salary.
Shares may only be released if demanding performance targets are achieved and if the participant remains in employment, except in certain good leaver circumstances.
In relation to awards granted in 2004 and previous years, performance is measured over a three year period on the basis of Total Shareholder Return, comparing the Companys performance to that of the other companies in the FTSE 350 Index at the date of the award.
For awards in 2005 and subsequent years, the Companys Total Shareholder Return will be compared to that of other companies in the FTSE 100 Index at the date of the award.
See page 23 for further details.
PENSIONS Set out below are details of the pension benefits to which each of the Executive Directors is entitled.
Age at Years and Accrued pension Accrued pension Additional Additional 31 Dec 05 months of entitlement at entitlement at pension entitlement service at 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 04 entitlement earned in year 31 Dec 05 Per Annum Per Annum earned in year in excess of inflation A J Applegarth 43 22 years 2 months 230,903 199,319 31,584 25,405 D F Baker 52 28 years 7 months 211,250 195,833 15,417 9,346 R F Bennett 58 12 years 2 months 260,000 250,000 10,000 2,250 K M Currie 49 25 years 5 months 130,125 99,437 30,688 27,605 appointed 5 January 2005 A M Kuipers 48 18 years 3 months 82,125 61,812 20,313 18,397 appointed 5 January 2005 Transfer value of Transfer value of Increase in Transfer value of increase in accrued pension accrued pension transfer value accrued pension entitlement entitlement entitlement less Directors in excess of inflation at 31 Dec 05 at 31 Dec 04 contributions less Directors contributions A J Applegarth 1,842,785 1,471,285 340,250 170,761 D F Baker 2,793,613 2,368,096 406,017 103,935 R F Bennett 5,131,167 4,415,009 696,658 25,011 K M Currie appointed 5 January 2005 1,430,644 1,005,802 411,357 288,717 A M Kuipers appointed 5 January 2005 837,525 579,999 244,041 173,173 29 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued The accrued pension entitlement is the amount that the Director would receive if he retired at the end of the year.
The increase in the accrued pension entitlement is the difference between the accrued pension entitlement at the year end and that at the previous year end.
The Listing Rules also require this to be disclosed excluding inflation.
All transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
The transfer values of the accrued pension entitlement represent the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of the Directors pension benefits.
They do not represent the sums payable to individual Directors and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
The increase in the transfer value less Directors contributions is the increase in the transfer value of the accrued pension entitlement during the year after deducting the Directors personal contributions to the scheme.
The transfer value of the increase in accrued pension entitlement, required by the Listing Rules, discloses the current value of the increase in accrued pension entitlement excluding inflation that the Director has earned in the period, whereas the change in his transfer value, required by the Companies Act, discloses the absolute increase or decrease in transfer values and thus includes the change in value of the accrued pension entitlement that results from market volatility affecting the transfer value over the year, as well as the value of the additional accrued pension entitlement earned in the year.
Including Mr R F Bennetts unfunded arrangement he has an estimated accrued annual pension entitlement at 31 December 2005 of 260,000.
This is based on his total pensionable service of 12 years 2 months and his pensionable service of 19 years 5 months at the rate of accrual of 1 60th per annum and 5 years 1 month at the rate of accrual of 1 36th and his pensionable earnings above the earnings cap.
The contributions cost during the year in respect of this unfunded arrangement amounted to 88,443 for the Company and 14,265 for Mr Bennett.
DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES The following Directors held a beneficial interest in the Companys Ordinary Shares: Contingent Interests At At At At At At 28 Feb 06 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 04 28 Feb 06 31 Dec 05 31 Dec 04 or date of or date of appointment appointment Non Executive Directors Dr M W Ridley 46,150 46,150 26,200 N A H Fenwick 1,500 1,500 1,500 Sir Ian Gibson 15,000 15,000 5,000 N Pease 8,350 8,350 8,350 M J Queen appointed 5 January 2005 4,000 4,000 R A Radcliffe appointed 1 March 2005 Sir George Russell 6,605 36,755 36,755 Sir Derek Wanless 20,500 20,500 20,500 Executive Directors A J Applegarth 94,480 101,398 79,668 541,587 549,430 488,655 D F Baker 69,809 73,041 59,657 351,861 370,118 346,995 R F Bennett 62,955 65,187 59,652 351,861 370,118 346,995 K M Currie appointed 5 January 2005 48,428 47,074 32,889 226,693 217,811 187,031 A M Kuipers appointed 5 January 2005 51,293 38,015 31,678 226,693 217,811 187,031 Contingent interests represent Ordinary Shares over which the Directors have conditional rights under the bonus matching plan, the deferred share scheme and the long term incentive plan as described previously.
Contingent interests on 28 February 2006 includes awards made since 31 December 2005 under the bonus matching plan, the deferred share scheme and the long term incentive plan for the year ended 31 December 2005.
30 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued DIRECTORS SHARE OPTIONS Movements in options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares in the Company in which the Directors have an interest during the period 1 January 2005 to 31 December 2005 are as follows: Option type At Exercised Exercise At Date from Expiry date 31 Dec 04 in 2005 price 31 Dec 05 which first or date of exercisable appointment A J Applegarth Sharesave 2 7,848 7,848 2.15 Sharesave 4 - 7.27 2,273 1 May 10 1 Nov 10 D F Baker Sharesave 2 7,848 7,848 2.15 Sharesave 4 7.27 1,303 1 May 08 1 Nov 08 R F Bennett Sharesave 3 1,580 5.98 1,580 1 May 06 1 Nov 06 K M Currie Sharesave 2 7,848 7,848 2.15 appointed 5 January 2005 Share Option 4,854 6.18 4,854 1 Jun 01 1 Jun 08 Scheme Sharesave 4 7.27 1,303 1 May 08 1 Nov 08 A M Kuipers Sharesave 2 8,546 2.15 8,546 1 May 07 1 Nov 07 appointed 5 January 2005 Sharesave 4 7.27 2,273 1 May 10 1 Nov 10 For each unexercised option at the end of the year, the market price of each share at 31 December 2005 was 9.43, the highest market price during the year was 9.435 on 29 December 2005 and the lowest market price during the year was 7.36 on 10 May 2005 and 16 May 2005.
On 3 May 2005 A J Applegarth, D F Baker and K M Currie each exercised 7,848 Sharesave 2 options.
The market price of the shares on 3 May 2005 was 7.48.
The specific individual interests of Executive Directors are shown in the tables above.
In addition the Directors are deemed to have an interest in shares held by Trusts for various executive and other employee share schemes at 31 December 2005 as follows: i Northern Rock Employee Trust holds 4,048,207 shares 31 December 2004 5,779,139 shares : ii Northern Rock Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust holds 1,117,287 shares 31 December 2004 2,054,261 shares : and iii Northern Rock Trustees Limited holds 287,252 shares 31 December 2004 511,241 shares.
No Executive Director option terms were varied during 2005 and no price was paid for any of the options in the table, other than the all employee Sharesave Scheme, where each Director paid 250 per month.
Options listed in the table above are Inland Revenue approved schemes.
The Employee Share Option Scheme was subject to an earnings per share target which was met in 2005.
Options under the Sharesave Scheme do not have any performance conditions.
Nichola Pease Chairman, Remuneration Committee 28 February 2006 31 COMMUNITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT REPORTING on exchange of internal and external good provide employees in remote areas some The Companys website practice relating to Risk Management flexibility in their hours of work, subject to www.
co. uk contains detailed within Northern Rock.
the needs of the business.
information on corporate, social and The Forums provided us with the ability to The introduction of a new employee environmental activities and is our main raise the importance of CSR related issues benefit was announced during the year.
Updated regularly, the within briefing sessions and to assist in the Employee Assistance Programme is website contains reports from current and development of a consistent approach designed to provide free professional help previous years.
A hard copy summary of where appropriate to operational risk and support for all employees and their significant events and achievements during management across the business.
families in times of need.
2005 has also been produced and is available on request from the Company The Company introduced electronic proxy Northern Rock received two awards during Secretary.
Northern Rocks approach to appointment and voting for our 2005 for its commitment to employee managing Corporate Social Responsibility shareholders including CREST proxy share plans, receiving both the All CSR issues and some notable aspects appointment for CREST participants in Employee Share Plans award for the most of 2005 performance are outlined here.
March 2005, increasing the opportunity effective all employee share scheme for our shareholders to provide input to strategy 2005 and Most Effective MANAGEMENT OF CSR the 2005 AGM.
The results of the proxy Communication of an Employee Share Plan The Deputy Chief Executive provides voting were displayed on our website.
at the 13th Annual Institute of Financial Board level representation and leadership Services ifs ProShare Awards 2005 On 1 July 2005, the new Listing, of CSR.
Development and implementation Prospectus and Disclosure Rules came into We were also delighted to be granted the of our CSR Policy is carried out by a force.
These changes were made to Age Positive Award 2005 and have been number of working groups made up of implement the Prospectus Directive, the selected as an Employer Champion.
This senior staff from across the Company.
The Market Abuse Directive and the FSAs provides government recognition for corporate approach and aims for CSR have review of the Listing Rules.
The Company Northern Rocks exemplary approach in continued to be reviewed and embedded has therefore established policies to ensure establishing best practice relating to age.
A compliance with the new Rules.
CSR Department co-ordinates and MARKETPLACE monitors operational activities and BUSINESS ETHICS AND HUMAN RIGHTS The fair treatment of customers is central reporting on CSR.
The Gender Recognition Act became law in to consumers having confidence in the July 2005.
Northern Rock staff have financial services industry.
We have ENGAGEMENT received instruction in how the Act affects benchmarked our procedures against the Engagement with stakeholders and research individuals who acquire a new gender and high level principles adopted by the organisations continued to be important to how information about them should Financial Services Authority requiring that us although we have to be selective to be processed.
all regulated firms treat their customers ensure effective use of resources and to fairly.
ensure that questionnaires do not direct During the latter part of the year working the way we manage CSR.
parties have been established under our CSR It is a requirement of mortgage regulation Steering Groups guidance to commence a to keep borrowers with regulated loans fully We endeavour to ensure that our working review of our current Corporate Code of appraised of any arrears position and partners operate to acceptable standards Conduct utilising recommendations made by subsequent consequences.
However, all and as part of our continuing supplier the Institute of Business Ethics.
This includes loans that fall into arrears are treated engagement programme 489 of our key additional Human Rights issues and, to individually, and all decisions made are suppliers were contacted during 2005 with increase our commitment to these issues, we based on the circumstances of the a request to complete a satisfaction survey, intend to produce a Supplier Code of customer.
The Company has adopted the providing their assessment of Northern Conduct and Ethics.
same approach to both regulated and nonRock as a contract holder.
A summary of regulated loans, ensuring that all customers the results of this survey is available in our WORKPLACE are treated fairly.
full Community Report on our website.
The first full-time union representative in Northern Rock staff won more awards than Northern Rock was appointed by Amicus in GOVERNANCE AND ACCOUNTABILITY any other organisation at the 2005 North May 2005, strengthening the partnership CSR Risk Management processes continued East Contact Centre of the Year Awards.
between Northern Rock and Amicus.
to be reviewed as an integral part of We believe that these awards recognise not Corporate Operational Risk Management in Flexible working within Northern Rock has only the individual award winners but all 2005.
A series of Risk Management Forums now been extended to all remote areas of staff and departments that contribute.
were held, with the emphasis being placed the business.
The aim of the policy is to 32 COMMUNITY AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT continued COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Northern Rock also achieved a further The annual donation of 5% of pre-tax At the renewal of our contract in November 3-year Energy Efficiency Re-Accreditation profits to The Northern Rock Foundation is 2005, we managed to secure renewable via the National Energy Foundation in the biggest single contribution we make to energy for 100% of our electricity usage.
recognition of our achievements in the field the communities in which we operate.
In of energy management and efficiency.
The Company became members of The 2005, this amounted to 24.7 million.
North East Energy Forum which is Northern Rock continues to recycle 100% Northern Rock staff contribute to many sponsored by the North East Energy of our end paper waste and continues to charitable causes and community activities, Partnership NEEP in association with review process methods and efficiencies.
notably the corporate charity which is Government Office for the North East.
During 2005 recycling levels of paper chosen by staff on an annual basis.
In amounted to 472 tonnes from 503 tonnes The forum provides an opportunity to 2005, Macmillan Cancer Relief was in 2004, with total overall corporate waste engage with other regional stakeholders selected and staff raised over 250,000 reduced by 10.9% against 2004. interested in energy issues in the North after matching by The Northern Rock East, to share best practice and to air views Foundation.
to help shape regional priorities and policies.
