58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 8:56 pm Page 10 Chief Executives review Our strategy is to grow rapidly by introducing home credit to international markets.
At the same time, were broadening our offer in the UK and overseas, by developing remote credit products to stand alongside home credit.
On the international front, it has been another year of good growth and geographic expansion with a new region opening up in Mexico and the announcement of a pilot operation in Romania.
10 Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 8:56 pm Page 11 Robin Ashton, Chief Executive In the UK, were responding in innovative ways to a mature, competitive home credit market, building up our Vanquis Bank credit card business and continuing to make good profit from our motor insurance division.
The closure of our car finance business, Yes Car Credit, was disappointing particularly after every effort had been made to return the business to profitability.
Once we reached the conclusion that the market had changed such that there was little chance of returning the business to profitability, we acted decisively to bring the trading losses to an end.
Unable to sell the business, we moved quickly to closure.
Given the development of our international businesses, were breaking with tradition this year and starting this report with Central Europe and Mexico.
Weve also included a more complete analysis of our businesses and their contribution to the group.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 11 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 8:56 pm Page 12 Chief Executives review International We began researching opportunities overseas in the mid-1990s as part of our strategy of developing new sources of growth.
From its first customer in Poland in 1997, the international division has grown dramatically.
Nine years on, it has more customers than the UK home credit business and now contributes 25% of group profit.
From ongoing operations What this section covers Our international expertise 2005 performance and prospects Growing our businesses in Central and Eastern Europe The Polish interest rate cap New product opportunities for Central Europe Expanding in Mexico 12 Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 28 3 06 6:38 pm Page 13 International Progress from a standing start in 1997 INTERNATIONAL PROFIT DEVELOPMENT Countries Profit before tax 2005 PROFIT BEFORE TAX m 51.1 Year ended 31 December 6 51.1m 39.8 UK GAAP IFRS Customers Employees 29.3 1.78 million 4,070 8.6 Agents Credit issued 2005 9.0 7.2 1.1 23,840 545m 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 INTERNATIONAL CUSTOMERS MILLION As at 31 December 1.78 1.56 1.24 0.96 0.71 0.47 0.14 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Our international expertise 2005 performance Thanks to our experience of operating In 2005, the international division increased overseas for the last nine years, we know its customer numbers by 14% to 1.78 million.
a great deal about the role and importance Credit issued rose by 15% to 545 million of home credit in emerging economies.
and profit before tax was up 28% at Weve also developed valuable skills in 51.1 million.
Thats slightly below researching new countries and in setting expectations, mainly because we had to up and managing home credit businesses tighten our lending controls in Poland away from home.
As time goes on, were to improve our collections performance.
identifying more countries that could Profit was also reduced by start-up losses support a home credit operation.
Although our international businesses Prospects have so far focused on home credit, we Our record of international growth has been see opportunities for new credit products excellent and we intend to continue this such as remotely collected loans and the success by expanding into new overseas Vanquis Bank credit card now established markets.
In 2006, our rapid expansion in in the UK.
Tests are already underway in two regions in Mexico and a pilot operation Poland and these plans will be developed in Romania will result in a substantial in 2006, further enhancing our offer to investment in start-up losses of 12 million.
There will be further investment in new credit product tests in Poland.
Overall, this investment is likely to mean there will be a small reduction in the divisions profit in 2006 before growth resumes in 2007.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 13 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 8:56 pm Page 14 Chief Executives review International Growing our businesses in Central and Eastern Europe Our four established Central European markets Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Hungary have a combined population about equal to that of the UK.
The rise of the consumer economy after Communism has led to growing demand for consumer credit.
At the same time, the consumer credit market remains underdeveloped.
Add the generally responsible attitude to borrowing and the fact that populations are concentrated in urban areas, and its clear why Central Europe is proving such a good market for home credit.
The same factors have inuenced our decision to open a pilot operation in Romania in Eastern Europe, where research indicates an attractive opportunity among its 22 million population.
As before, well start small, test as we go and expand nationwide if we conclude that we have a viable business.
14 Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 8:56 pm Page 15 Poland Demographics Highlights Population Large, urbanised population 39 million Europes largest GDP growth rate recipient of direct foreign investment 3.2% Czech Republic Demographics Highlights Population Stable and prosperous Safe, transparent 10 million investment environment GDP growth rate Two-thirds of the 6.0% population live in urban Slovakia areas Demographics Highlights Population Fast-growing economy with rising exports and robust domestic demand 5 million GDP growth rate Increase in foreign investment in recent years Hungary 6.0% Demographics Highlights Population Strong economic growth Competitive economy with 10 million a dynamic export sector GDP growth rate High level of direct foreign 4.1% investment Romania Demographics Highlights Population A fast-developing market, adjacent to our existing Central European 22 million businesses and aiming for GDP growth rate EU accession in 2007 4.0% Good potential demand for home credit Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 15 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 8:57 pm Page 16 TRANSFERRING TALENT IVO HAS WORKED FOR PROVIDENT IN THE CZECH REPUBLIC, SLOVAKIA, THE UK AND IS NOW BASED IN MEXICO AS OPERATIONS DIRECTOR MRS RAHOVAS CUSTOMER, JANNIS, IS JUST ONE OF OUR 1.65 MILLION HOME CREDIT CUSTOMERS IN CENTRAL EUROPE WE ARE RESEARCHING NEW TOMASZ BEGAN HIS CAREER WITH CREDIT PRODUCTS FOR OUR PROVIDENT POLSKA AS A DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL MARKETS MANAGER.
SEVEN YEARS ON, HES NOW OPERATIONS DEPARTMENT DIRECTOR 3,480 EMPLOYEES IN POLAND, CZECH REPUBLIC, HUNGARY AND SLOVAKIA There are now 21,595 agents in Central Europe WE HAVE SUCCESSFULLY TRANSFERRED HOME CREDIT FROM THE UK TO MARKETS OVERSEAS WE HAVE 319 EMPLOYEES WORKING AT OUR POLISH HEAD OFFICE IN WARSAW AGENT, EVA KLAI, VISITS ELZBIETA AT HER POLISH HOME IN WARSAW EVERY WEEK 16 Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 8:57 pm Page 17 Chief Executives review International Central Europe PROFIT BEFORE TAX IN CENTRAL EUROPE PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS TO 1.65 MILLION 64.2m 8% Duz szanse upatrujemy we wprowadzeniu na rynki zagraniczne nowych produktw nansowych obslugiwanych bez udziatu przedstawiciela poza miejscem zamieszkania.
We see a potential opportunity to introduce remote, non-agent serviced credit products into markets overseas.
2005 performance After a period in which lending grew rapidly, we New product opportunities for We achieved good growth in Central Europe deliberately slowed our progress in Poland by Central Europe in 2005.
Customer numbers increased tightening our lending criteria the aim being Now that weve successfully transferred by 8.0% to 1.65 million.
Credit issued rose to concentrate on collections and restore home credit from the UK to markets overseas, by 11% to 522 million and profit before tax the long-term balance between growth, costs were thinking about introducing additional was 22% higher at 64.2 million.
performance improved, growth in the business The Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovakia in 2005 slowed.
The systems and infrastructure that support continued to do well and the strong Vanquis Bank are designed to service remote performances from these three countries more The Polish interest rate cap loans and credit card products.
They have than offset a subdued performance in Poland.
In 2005, the Polish government passed a law also been designed so they can be used both to impose a maximum interest rate of four in the UK and overseas markets and there is Running a successful home credit business times the Lombard rate which came into force the potential to extend the use of our UK means constantly balancing three variables in February 2006.
At 8 March 2006 the banking licence into other EU countries.
In growth, costs and credit quality.
Its easy to grow Lombard rate was 5.50%, giving an interest 2005, we successfully conducted a market by lending lots of money, however, the skill is to rate cap of 22%.
test of a remotely collected loan product lend enough money to grow the business while and monthly home-collected loans in Poland.
being sufficiently selective to be sure of In preparation for the change, and in In 2006, we will pilot these initiatives on a collecting payments without incurring undue consultation with our customers, weve larger scale and, if successful, our plan would impairment costs.
modified our home credit offer to comply be to introduce these into our other overseas with the new legislation mainly by breaking operations when the time is right.
the service charge into separately-priced elements interest, credit insurance and an optional home-collection charge.
This has been done without compromising the service to customers who particularly like the convenience of agent collection.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 17 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 29 3 06 10:21 pm Page 18 Chief Executives review International Expanding in Mexico As a large, emerging economy, Mexico offers significant opportunities for Provident.
Unemployment is low, economic prospects are good, and our target is to serve three million customers in this market.
We started with a pilot operation in the city of Puebla in 2003 and, following its successful completion, the business is now rolling out across the region towards Veracruz in the east and Acapulco in the west.
We began expansion in the Guadalajara-Leon region in November 2005.
Both operations are growing rapidly with 12 new branches opening during the year.
Customer numbers in Mexico already exceed 130,000 and credit issued in 2005 totalled 22.6 million, making Mexico our fastest developing new market.
Opening up such a large market requires investment before we start to reap the rewards.
Start-up losses amounted to 2.9 million in 2005 and will rise to about 9 million in 2006 with the development of the second region.
We expect Mexico to report an annual profit in 2008. INTERNATIONAL CUSTOMER NUMBERS AT SAME STAGE OF DEVELOPMENT 131,000 Mexico Hungary Czech Republic 105,000 Poland Slovakia Mexico is our 84,000 fastest growing 76,000 business to date 42,000 18 Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 29 3 06 11:27 pm Page 19 POPULATION POPULATION GDP GROWTH RATE 1 10 06 6million million 3.0% Guadalajara-Leon Demographics Customers Credit issued 2005 676 0.1m Population Agents 20 million 68 Pilot established Employees November 2005 36 Branches 2 Highlights A second operation, helping to take In terms of population, the Guadalajara-Leon advantage of the huge opportunities that region is the same size as the Czech Republic Mexico presents.
Guadalajara is Mexicos second biggest city.
Puebla-Veracruz Demographics Customers Credit issued 2005 130,356 22.5m Population Agents 20 million 2,177 Pilot established Employees August 2003 475 Roll-out began Branches April 2005 14 Highlights Providents first Mexican operation, In Mexico, Provident is seen as a friendly now expanding across the region.
business supplying an attractive service.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 19 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 8:57 pm Page 20 WE OPENED TEN NEW BRANCHES IN THE PUEBLA-VERACRUZ REGION IN 2005 HOME CREDIT IS A VALUABLE SERVICE TO ENRIQUE WHO LIVES IN PUEBLA MANAGERS TRAINED IN ONE AREA ARE THEN ABLE TO MOVE TO ANOTHER AREA TO HELP GROW THE BUSINESS 2,245 AGENTS IN MEXICO JOS LIKES THE CONVENIENCE OF HIS AGENT, AIDA, CALLING AT HIS HOME 511 employees now work for Provident in Mexico BASED IN PUEBLA, MARIA HAS USED HOME CREDIT SINCE WE OPENED IN MEXICO AGENT, ESTHER, IN PUEBLA, KNOWS ALL HER CUSTOMERS WELL SHE VISITS THEM EVERY WEEK DEVELOPING MANAGEMENT TALENT IS ESSENTIAL TO THE SUCCESS OF OUR EXPANDING INTERNATIONAL HOME CREDIT OPERATION 20 Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 8:57 pm Page 21 Chief Executives review International Mexico CREDIT ISSUED PERCENTAGE GROWTH IN NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS TO 131,000 274% 22.6m Creemos que existe un mercado potencial fide tres millones fide clientes para el crdito a domicilio en Mxico.
We believe there are three million potential home credit customers in Mexico.
Tackling a very large market, step by step Do we have enough managers to handle With its 106 million population, Mexico such massive expansion?
is a bigger market than that of our Central Yes we do.
Our growth in recent years has given European businesses combined.
Our strategy, us a large pool of talented managers, many therefore, is to treat it as we did Central of whom joined our fledgling international Europe not as a single entity, but as a division in the 1990s and are now sufficiently number of separate regions to be tackled experienced to take on roles in our new one by one.
Furthermore, our phased, regional approach in Mexico enables us to train 2005 performance managers in one region and then move some At 20 million, the population of each of our of them on to repeat the process in the next.
first two regions is as large as that of many countries.
The business in Puebla-Veracruz We have always prided ourselves on offering is now expanding geographically from its base exciting opportunities to talented people.
In 2005, it opened ten For good managers, opportunities do not new branches, took on 1,553 more agents come much bigger than opening up in Mexico.
and increased its number of customers from 34,669 to 130,356.
Guadalajara-Leon was Prospects opened in November 2005 and is still in its Looking ahead, we intend to open three early stages.
further regions, each with a population of about 20 million people.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 21 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 29 3 06 11:26 pm Page 22 Chief Executives review The UK In the UK, our strategy is to work hard to improve the home credit offer and service in order to optimise the performance of our home credit business.
To add to this, we are broadening our range of credit products to attract new customers while offering greater choice to those we already serve.
The UK consumer credit division comprises two businesses UK home credit and Vanquis Bank credit cards.
Our third operation in the UK is the motor insurance business, Provident Insurance.
What this section covers A dynamic and creative offer What is home credit?
Are home credit loans expensive?
Competition and economic trends Regulation Innovating in a mature market Vanquis Bank a different kind of credit card Motor insurance a record profit 22 Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 8:57 pm Page 23 Chief Executives review A dynamic and creative offer Provident has a long heritage and more experience than anyone else in the eld of home credit.
We continue to look for ways in which our skills and market knowledge can be applied and adapted to offer more services to our UK customers.
UK and Republic of Ireland Home credit Home credit is the original Provident business.
Now more than 125 years old, it provides small, unsecured homecollected loans to 1.49 million customers.
The largest home credit business in the UK, it contributed 146 million to group profit in 2005.
Operating since Customers 1880 1.49 million Vanquis Bank Credit cards The Vanquis Bank credit card business is less than three years old and is pioneering our skills in lending remotely.
It is central to our strategy of broadening our product range in the UK and also has potential in overseas markets.
Operating since Customers 2003 160,000 Provident Insurance Motor insurance This profitable, tightly run motor insurance business specialises in non-comprehensive policies, mainly for women drivers and second family cars.
Recent innovations include new IT systems to make the business even more efficient.
Acquired in Customers 1978 473,000 Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 23 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 28 3 06 11:16 pm Page 24 Chief Executives review UK consumer credit UK home credit Home credit is very successful at meeting the complex needs of low-income consumers.
National Consumer Council, June 2004 What is home credit?
Home credit is designed to answer these How are agents rewarded?
Home credit is a way of taking out a small, questions.
There are no Home credit agents, 79% of whom are women, unsecured loan typically a few hundred financial surprises.
Every pound repaid is a are mainly paid commission on what they pounds repaid over six to twelve months.
The pound off the total, so the loan can never collect, not what they lend so they have to money is provided by an agent who then calls increase.
Whats more, the agent does the lend responsibly to earn a living.
at the customers home every week to collect legwork by bringing the cash to the door and the repayments.
returning every week for the repayments.
The APRs of home credit loans can look Unlike other forms of lending, home credit Our home credit service expensive in comparison to other forms of includes all the costs upfront.
There are no Our customers appreciate simple, transparent lending, but APR rates alone can be extra fees or penalty charges, even if a financial services.
Most are skilled at misleading.
First, because fixed costs are the customer misses a payment.
Thats a crucial managing their finances on tight budgets same for a small loan as a large one, the APR difference compared with many other types they have to be and choose Provident as for small loans is higher.
Many credit providers of lending.
offering the best combination of cost, will not provide small sums of credit and only convenience and predictability.
quote APRs on loans of 1,000 or more.
Second, the rules for calculating the APR allow If you earn 25,000 a year and want to borrow Our customers other lenders to exclude certain costs from 5,000, a loan is usually easy to come by.
If, like Our customers are pretty evenly split the APR in a way that home credit does not.
many of our customers, you only want to borrow between the C, D and E socio-economic In real terms, the cost of home credit 200 or less and have a variable or modest groups.
compares well with bank overdrafts or credit income and little savings, then its not so simple.
cards, where customers who are likely to miss Theres more to think about: 85% of customers would recommend some payments are often charged penalty Provident home credit to family or friends.
Whos going to lend me 200 or less?
94% of customers are satisfied with the Can I afford the repayments?
Are there penalties if I miss a payment?
Whats it going to cost in total?
What do our customers use home credit for?
Can I know for sure when the debt will Home credit loans are most often used to buy be paid off?
Christmas and birthday presents or to fund household items such as fridges or cookers.
Some are used to buy clothes, consumer electronics or holidays, or simply to balance the household budget.
24 Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 8:57 pm Page 25 EIGHT REASONS WHY HOME CREDIT IS IMPORTANT To our customers: To Provident Financial: 1 Its a convenient, affordable way of taking out a small loan.
5 Its a solid, successful business with a 125-year heritage.
2 The service is friendly and convenient.
Customers appreciate the personal, face to face relationship with the agent.
6 It is highly cash generative.
3 For people on modest incomes, its a way of affording treats 7 It has a talented management team which is on special occasions or spreading household expenses.
working to enhance customer service and improve the business.
4 Of all forms of borrowing, its the easiest to control, with predictable repayments and the guarantee that 8 It gives us 1.49 million customers whom we know customers will not be penalised with extra charges if extremely well and for whom we can develop other they miss a repayment.
The factors that influence our business Economic trends The next step will be the publication of its After a long period of economic growth in the provisional findings in March or April, Competition UK, many people are better off and therefore followed by notification and consideration of There are more than 500 home credit have less need to borrow small amounts.
As a possible remedies if required and a final businesses in the UK and Republic of Ireland result, the market for small sum credit has report in the summer of 2006.
In contributing and new operators continue to enter the been slowly contracting for a number of years.
to the Commissions work, well continue to market.
At any one time, about a fifth of Furthermore, during 2005, consumers found highlight the competitive nature of the small Providents customers are making use of their fuel and utility bills rising and became sum credit market and our position as a another home credit company.
more cautious in their borrowing as well as responsible lender with transparent products less able to repay.
As a result, lenders across that are valued by our customers.
But home credit companies dont compete the spectrum have started to find the going just among themselves.
The Consumer Credit Bill is making its way borrow small sums have many other options through the parliamentary process and is from bank loans, overdrafts and credit cards Regulation expected to become law in 2006.
We to agency mail order, pawnbrokers and The main regulatory development this year welcome its proposals as a way of modernising payday loans.
has been the Competition Commissions the regulation of consumer credit, protecting inquiry into the whole of the UK home credit the consumer and introducing greater fairness And the competition is increasing.
This long and rigorous scrutiny has and transparency.
income customers previously of little interest confirmed many of the benefits of home to mainstream lenders are now being credit that we in the sector have always known The EU Consumer Credit Directive is also targeted by banks and credit card companies about.
Among other positive features, the proceeding through its various legislative eager for their business.
Commissions emerging thinking document, stages.
We continue to monitor events published in October 2005, cited high levels and to actively lobby to ensure that home Among Providents customers, the proportion of satisfaction among customers and credit receives fair treatment in any with a credit card rose from 19% in 2000 to sound, businesslike relationships between eventual outcome.
In 2005, 27% of Providents customers and agents.
customers used an overdraft and 35% used agency mail order catalogues.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 25 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 29 3 06 10:23 pm Page 26 CAROLYN, CYCLING TO WORK AT OUR HEAD OFFICE IN BRADFORD OUR HOME CREDIT SERVICE IS NICHOLA LOOKS FORWARD TO THE FRIENDLY AND CONVENIENT WEEKLY VISIT FROM HER AGENT, DIANE MARY, FROM LEEDS, HAS BEEN A HOME CREDIT CUSTOMER FOR FOUR YEARS 3.7% INCREASE IN CREDIT ISSUED TO 927 MILLION WE DEPEND ON GOOD PEOPLE 66% of our customers have a bank account AT EVERY LEVEL OF THE ORGANISATION MORE THAN 2,700 EMPLOYEES 94% OF OUR CUSTOMERS TELL WORK FOR UK HOME CREDIT US THEY ARE SATISFIED WITH OUR HOME CREDIT SERVICE 11,755 HOME CREDIT AGENTS IN THE UK KNOW EACH OF THEIR CUSTOMERS PERSONALLY 26 Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 29 3 06 10:24 pm Page 27 Chief Executives review UK consumer credit UK home credit We control our costs extremely tightly and are the most efficient, lowest-cost home credit company in the UK.
2005 performance Recent and planned innovations include: Prospects The UK home credit business performed Larger loans repaid over longer periods of We are working hard to grow the UK home broadly in line with expectations during 2005.
While these have been credit business and the new initiatives we will Although customer numbers fell by 2.7% to available for a while, weve promoted them implement this year and next, particularly 1.49 million, we saw a 3.7% increase in credit more vigorously to our more established improved credit management techniques, the issued to 927 million thanks largely to and reliable customers over the past year introduction of hand-held computers to agents the success of our larger, longer-term loans.
and the take-up has been good.
and more active multi-channel marketing will Collections suffered as rising fuel and utility help us to achieve this.
costs bit into customers disposable The Argos easyshop card and a pilot Visa income and this led to an 11.6% increase in card loans in the form of ready-loaded We were encouraged by our success in impairment charges.
At 146.3 million, profit plastic cards that the customer can use recruiting customers in the last quarter of before tax was 5.0% lower than in 2004. like a debit card.
2005 and we will continue to innovate in search of customer growth.
Innovating in a mature market More innovative advertising, plus greater Recognising that the UK home credit sector use of targeted direct mail and internet is mature, our strategy is to work hard to marketing to reach new and existing improve the business, to grow if we can and customers, and build on the important to get the very best result possible.
We control our costs extremely tightly and are Testing the introduction of hand-held the most efficient, lowest-cost home credit personal computers for agents and field company in the UK.
This helps keep our prices employees to improve administrative low compared to many other home credit efficiency.
At the same time, theres much that can be done to modernise the product The development of behavioural and and make it more appealing.
application scoring systems to allow us to improve the quality of agent lending decisions.
Combining the field management and administration of our two home credit brands, Provident Personal Credit and Greenwood Personal Credit.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 27 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 28 3 06 7:26 pm Page 28 Chief Executives review UK consumer credit Vanquis Bank The typical Vanquis Bank VANQUIS BANK CUSTOMER GROWTH VANQUIS BANK INITIAL CREDIT LIMIT AS LOW AS customer is aged 38 and has an annual income of 17,500.
111% to 250 160,000 HIGHER MINIMUM REPAYMENTS OF TOTAL VANQUIS BANK CREDIT CARD FEATURES OUTSTANDING BALANCE ON CLASSIC CARD Our standard variable product has proved successful and will be developed further as our prime offer in 2006.
Cards start with credit limits as low as 250.
Monthly, fortnightly and weekly repayment options.
COMPARED TO High level of contact with customers to help them stay in control.
INDUSTRY 5% STANDARD OF 2-3% A credit card tailored to our customers needs A different kind of credit card 2005 performance Like our international division, Vanquis Bank To meet the specific needs of its customers, 2005 was the year in which we scaled up is an organic development that started the Vanquis Bank credit card offers low initial the business from the original pilot and small and then grew.
Using the test and credit limits and frequent telephone contact proved that the infrastructure could support learn approach thats proved so successful to help customers stay in control.
At the end of the year, overseas, we started with a pilot, gathered cardholder numbers had reached evidence and expanded the business only All our dealings with customers are designed 160,000 2004 76,000 and the net when we were convinced it could be successful.
to be transparent, supportive and responsible.
amount receivable from customers stood at Our policy is to encourage customers to pay 60.0 million 2004 26.0 million.
Start-up Vanquis Bank now occupies a distinctive niche in full or as much as they can at every losses for the year were 15.9 million 2004 in the credit market.
While credit cards are opportunity, in order to reduce their balance 9.0 million.
becoming more and more necessary in todays more quickly and so pay less in interest.
society, there are many people those on We achieved this growth despite tightening modest incomes, or with little or no credit There are no agents and all contact with the our lending criteria in the course of the year.
history, or who may have had credit problems customer is carried out remotely.
For this to Like other lenders, weve seen credit quality in the past who are still denied the benefits.
work, weve taken on a team of credit card reducing and have therefore become more Thanks to Vanquis Bank, they can now begin specialists whose skills bring further value cautious, both in our initial lending and in to own and use a credit card in a controlled, to the group as we research opportunities to granting credit limit increases.
In this way, Vanquis Bank expand our product range outside the UK.
supports the governments aim of including Prospects more people in the financial mainstream.
We expect the start-up loss for Vanquis Bank in 2006 to be less than in 2005 and for the business to move into profit in 2007.
28 Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 8:59 pm Page 29 WE HAVE REGULAR TELEPHONE CONTACT WITH OUR CUSTOMERS TO HELP THEM STAY IN CONTROL BOB LIKES THE SECURITY OF THE THE TEAM AT VANQUIS BANK IN LOW CREDIT LIMIT OF 250 HES LONDON AND CHATHAM, KENT, ARRANGED WITH VANQUIS BANK NOW NUMBERS ALMOST 300 Customers can now begin to own and use a credit card in a controlled, affordable way.
92% of customers say they are happy with the Vanquis Bank service 95% would recommend Vanquis Bank to a friend WEVE TAKEN ON A TEAM OF CREDIT CARD SPECIALISTS TO RUN VANQUIS BANK Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 29 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 8:59 pm Page 30 473,000 POLICYHOLDERS WEVE INTRODUCED A NEW UNDERWRITING AND PROCESSING SYSTEM TO IMPROVE THE SUPPORT WE GIVE OUR INSURANCE BROKERS JANE CHOSE PROVIDENT INSURANCE FOR ITS SPECIALIST POLICY FOR WOMEN DRIVERS DEAN WORKS IN CUSTOMER OUR 426 EMPLOYEES WERE ALWAYS LOOKING AT NEW WAYS SERVICES, LIAISING WITH ACHIEVED A RECORD OF DEVELOPING OUR MOTOR INSURANCE INSURANCE BROKERS 40 MILLION PROFIT OFFER TO EXISTING AND NEW CUSTOMERS 30 Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 29 3 06 10:25 pm Page 31 Chief Executives review UK motor insurance RECORD PROFIT BEFORE TAX GROSS WRITTEN PREMIUMS 40.0m 154.7m Provident Insurance is an efficient, tightly managed business.
Motor insurance 2005 performance Specialising in non-comprehensive motor In a competitive market, prices continued policies with the emphasis on women drivers to drift downwards.
Providents volumes and second family cars, Provident Insurance consequently declined, with customer numbers is an efficient, tightly managed business falling 5.6% to 473,000 and gross written and one of the few UK motor insurers to premiums 6.1% lower at 154.7 million.
On the remain profitable throughout the insurance other hand, claims costs in respect of policies cycle.
While many other insurers will reduce written in earlier years turned out to be less prices as the cycle declines in order to than the business had expected.
The result was retain policyholders, Provident Insurance a record profit up 15.6% to 40.0 million.
seeks to price every policy to make an adequate return, even if it means serving Prospects fewer customers.
With no sign of an immediate upturn in premiums and lower claims cost benefits, Providents motor insurance profit is likely to fall in 2006.
When prices do begin to rise, Provident Insurance will be in the favourable position of being able to increase its premiums less quickly than its competitors.
Were likely, then, to see a flow of customers back in Providents direction.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 31 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 8:59 pm Page 32 Chief Executives review Corporate responsibility Our business depends on a network of relationships with our stakeholders: from customers, employees and shareholders to suppliers, business partners and the wider community.
Corporate responsibility is about addressing the needs of all these groups in a way that both advances the business and makes a positive contribution to society.
What this section covers Satisfying our stakeholders Our customers Management and staff Diversity Health and safety Suppliers The environment Scores and rankings Reporting our progress Making a difference in the community 32 Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 28 3 06 7:31 pm Page 33 WORKING GROUPS HELP TO IMPLEMENT OUR CR POLICIES AND PROJECTS This year weve moved forward on a Satisfying our stakeholders Management and staff number of fronts.
Weve seen better liaison Like any other aspect of our business, In a business thats moving, changing with our stakeholders, more parts of the CR is carefully managed.
As we implement and growing, we depend on good people group involved in our corporate our CR policies and projects, different at every level in the organisation.
Were responsibility CR programmes, closer working groups ensure they meet fortunate that high calibre employees links with suppliers and more relevant the needs of our business divisions, want to work for Provident in both the reporting all part of our drive for our customers and employees, our UK and overseas, and we aim to offer effective action and measurable results.
shareholders, the environment and the the widest possible opportunities.
Over communities in which we operate.
the years, our MBA support programme Here we give you a brief summary of a very has helped large numbers of managers active CR programme.
For the full story, Our customers to develop their careers.
In addition, the please visit www.
The main way we discharge our rapid growth of the international division responsibility to customers is by offering presents opportunities for talented products and services that genuinely meet people to take on more responsibility.
Our products serve a valuable social purpose by enabling more people to join the financial mainstream.
During the year, those Provident businesses regulated by the Financial Services Authority have been taking steps to comply with a new government initiative called Treating Customers Fairly.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 33 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 8:59 pm Page 34 Chief Executives review Corporate responsibility SCORE IN BUSINESS IN THE SCORE IN BUSINESS IN THE COMMUNITYS CR INDEX ENVIRONMENT INDEX 81% 90% Diversity The environment Motor insurance continues to further develop We recognise we need to do more to make Interest from stakeholders in all types of and embed its successful environmental sure our workforce reflects the diversity of the companies environmental performance is supply chain strategy.
This year weve been working increasing.
The Accounts Modernisation with the Employers Forum on Disability and a Directive means that all larger companies will Scores and rankings number of UK banks to ensure that be required to report to investors on how Our progress has been recognised by many of recruitment agencies working on our behalf environmental issues affect their profitability.
the indices that track the performance of major pay as much attention to diversity as we do.
Growing environmental awareness means companies.
In 2005, we were chosen to become Weve also started a programme to train our more companies than ever are coming under a member of the Dow Jones World Sustainability managers in diversity issues.
scrutiny from interested parties and campaign Index an index of the top 250 companies in groups.
New reporting guidelines from the the world in the field of sustainability.
Weve also Health and safety Department for Environment Food and Rural kept our position in the FTSE4Good index of the To protect our employees at work, we have Affairs DEFRA have identified that the UKs most responsible companies for the fourth a health and safety policy and framework essential Key Performance Indicators year running and our most recent scores in approved by the board.
that should be reported by financial sector Business in the Communitys CR index and its companies are those for greenhouse gases Business in the Environment index are 81% and Suppliers and waste.
Our largest network of suppliers consists of 35,600 self-employed agents in the UK and We continue to work hard to reduce impacts Reporting our progress abroad.
We go to great lengths to find agents in these areas and have a comprehensive Were liaising more closely with more of the right calibre and to ensure they have environmental management system for stakeholders, both to get their views on our the expertise they need.
measuring and improving our performance.
CR programme and on how were doing on The system is fully embedded in the UK, is now reporting our progress.
For some years in the UK, weve selected working well in our Central European businesses, contractors partly on the basis of their and has started in Mexico and Vanquis Bank.
In January 2005, we held a stakeholder roundenvironmental record.
Where existing table that brought together MPs, shareholders, suppliers have a poor record, we work with We commissioned a full energy audit of environmental consultants, journalists, them to improve their performance.
Where our corporate head office and the debt-advice agencies and others to take a suppliers are doing well environmentally, we recommendations are being prioritised for fundamental look at our previous CR reporting.
try to share their practices with the rest of implementation during 2006.
In addition, Various suggestions emerged as to the supplier network.
Were now extending this electricity sub-metering has been installed what people wanted to know and these were approach from the UK to our international at our corporate head office to allow us to incorporated in our CR report for 2004.
At the same time, were starting understand more fully patterns of energy similar exercise, we asked a cross-section of to assess suppliers not just on their usage.
Our home credit and motor insurance stakeholders to examine our environmental environmental performance but on how they head office sites in the UK continue to use targets to see if we were going for the right handle issues such as ethical procurement green electricity.
Several targets have changed as a result.
For some of the events in 2005 that required This year, for the first time, we recorded a large number of people to travel, we offset our progress against the Global Reporting the carbon dioxide produced by all those Initiative, the international framework for journeys by giving money to Climate Care.
We also began producing an This organisation invests the money in online CR newsletter.
sustainable energy and reforestation projects.
From 2006, we intend to extend this initiative to more events and for all flights.
34 Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 8:59 pm Page 35 GROUP COMMUNITY AND CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS IN 2005 2.1m Our Czech operation became the first of our While Partners in Art was based on the visual International community projects international businesses and one of the first arts, Spark embraces a spread of art forms Our community investment programmes companies in the Czech Republic to issue from singing to circus skills and will involve overseas are going through an evolution.
As a result, its now helping around 50 schools and 6,000 children a year.
When our Central European businesses began, to set the agenda for CR reporting within their community projects were used mainly that country.
Our partners in the project will be the West to promote the Provident name as widely as Yorkshire Playhouse and seven other local possible.
Now these businesses are starting Making a difference in the community theatres.
As well as rooting the programme to deal with fewer projects in greater depth Our community investment programme seeks in the community, this type of joint initiative and to measure inputs and results more to benefit the communities in which our offers our partners the opportunity to apply systematically.
Under the broad theme of customers, employees and agents live and work.
for matched funding, helping our money new opportunities for young people, each Year by year, were becoming more structured go further.
is responding to local community needs.
Under the heading of new opportunities for young people, were focusing Spark was piloted at seven schools in Bradford The biggest international programme is on fewer projects, managing them better and at the start of 2006 and opens at its first main Polands Trampolina which provides sports measuring the inputs and outputs more venue in Birmingham in the summer term.
equipment for under-funded Polish schools precisely.
For maximum value, we work in and has so far benefited around 20,000 partnership with local organisations when we Over the last four years, Provident Action children.
At the start of each year, Provident can and contribute not just money but ideas, for Creative Kids PACK has funded two-day Polska organises the Trampolina Olympic resources in kind, and the time and skills of stays in youth hostels for 6,000 children from Games in Warsaw, bringing together sports our people.
It came to an end and movie celebrities and pupils from all over in England and Wales in February 2006 Poland.
Longer term, the aim is to improve the We have also joined the London but continues in Scotland and the Republic health and fitness of the younger generation.
Benchmarking Group to help us quantify the of Ireland.
contribution we make to each community Provident Polska also supports the Stay project and the result we achieve.
Operating in disadvantaged areas of London, with Us project that offers scholarships LOuverture seeks to improve the academic to young Polish scientists to enable them to UK community projects achievement of young people by engaging continue their research in Poland rather than Our biggest community project in the last them in IT and arts projects.
The effect at one go abroad.
two years has been Partners in Art, a threeSouth London school was to cut the expulsion part programme using art in different forms rate from three or four pupils per half-term In the Czech Republic, where the charity to encourage children to be creative.
Since to none at all during the project.
Everyone sector is still relatively new, Provident has 2004, the programme has involved 18 involved produced higher than expected been offering courses to community schools and 3,500 children in disadvantaged grades in GCSE English and ICT, and all have organisations on topics such as project areas, and has had a remarkable effect on applied to go on to higher education.
management and the legislation concerning classroom atmosphere and pupils sense of community donations.
The aim is to make achievement.
Last years project by head office employees these fledgling bodies more effective in raising to renovate the Scholemoor community funds and running sustainable projects.
Partners in Art came to an end in centre in Bradford earned a prestigious November 2005 with a reception at the Big Tick award in 2005 from Business in National Portrait Gallery to celebrate its the Community.
It now becomes the Insurance, meanwhile, raised 14,000 for springboard for a new programme a special needs school in Calderdale.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 35 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 9:00 pm Page 36 SOME OF THE 6,000 PUPILS WHO HAVE DRAMATIC TALES OF LOCAL LEGENDS TAKEN PART IN AN ACTION-PACKED ARE TOLD TO CHILDREN AT BLAENYMAES PACK BREAK IN EDALE PRIMARY SCHOOL, SWANSEA CAPTURING THE IMAGINATION GARY, FIRST OVER THE FINISHING OF YOUNG PEOPLE THROUGH ART LINE IN OUR ANNUAL CROSS-COUNTRY CHARITY FUN RUN IN HALIFAX INTERACTIVE ARTS WORKSHOPS ARE INTEGRAL TO OUR TAKE ART PROGRAMME Community contributions in 2005 exceeded 1% of profit before tax From ongoing operations GETTING TO GRIPS WITH FILM PRODUCTION AT THE NATIONAL MUSEUM OF PHOTOGRAPHY, FILM AND TELEVISION PUPILS AT GREAT BRIDGE PUTTING THE FINISHING TOUCHES PRIMARY SCHOOL, TIPTON, TO A PERFORMANCE BY LOUVERTURE BEGIN THEIR MASTERPIECE PARTICIPANTS IN SOUTH LONDON 36 Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 58.22 PF FRONT P10 LM 23 3 06 9:00 pm Page 37 Chief Executives review Corporate responsibility Thank you so much for creating something so imaginative for us.
It will leave its mark on the children for many years to come.
Junior school head teacher on the benefits of Partners in Art The Slovakian Smile as a Gift Foundation Provident in Mexico has donated to the Juconi We continue to support a number of runs a programme to prepare young people Foundation which cares for street children organisations involved in debt counselling in childrens homes for life in the adult world.
Its employees also collected food and financial education.
These include the As well as helping the programme financially, and medicine for the victims of Hurricane Bradford-based Christians Against Poverty Provident has fielded employees from its own Stan which hit the country in October 2005. along with Credit Action, Debt Cred, Citizens training and personnel departments to take Advice, Money Advice, National Debtline, part in the training itself.
Money advice and Advice UK.
Under the Gateway initiative, the UK In Hungary, employees have the option of government is encouraging debt advice Thank you for your interest in reading this assigning 1% of their income tax payment organisations to come together and adopt report.
If you have comments on our activities to charity rather than have it go to the a more coherent approach to the task with or the way we report them, wed be pleased government.
However, the amount of a common phone number for help and to hear from you.
Contact us with your views paperwork involved tends to put people off.
In 2005, Providents Hungarian business supports the move as a way of offering better decided to make its employees more aware support to those in difficulty.
Gateway will Robin Ashton of the scheme and to help with the forms.
also provide better data on the state of Chief Executive As a result, the number taking part in the indebtedness across the country and help 22 March 2006 scheme rose from 56% in 2004 to 68% in to show if our own policies and practices 2005 more than twice the national average.
need to be adjusted in any way.
Provident Financial Annual Report & Financial Statements 2005 37
