Group Chief Executives review 2005 was a successful year for Prudential.
Compelling The Group has continued to expand its insurance business strongly and our asset management businesses have also had an positions in the excellent year.
Total Group operating profit before tax, on a European Embedded Value EEV basis, was 1,712 million, an increase of 33 per cent.
worlds leading Statutory IFRS operating profit before tax was up 36 per cent at 957 million.
The continuing momentum of the Group can be seen in the financial services growth of insurance premium income in 2005 to 13.8 billion 2004: 12.2 billion and funds under management of 234 billion at the end of 2005 2004: 197 billion.
markets New business sales in our insurance operations increased by 15 per cent to 2,146 million on an annual premium equivalent APE basis and each of our regional operations achieved doubledigit growth.
New business profits increased by 15 per cent across the Group to 867 million, and operating profit before tax on the insurance business on an EEV basis increased by 30 per cent to 1,743 million.
In our asset management businesses, external funds under management increased to 46 billion up 23 per cent.
A final dividend of 11.02 pence per share has been recommended by the Board bringing the full year dividend to 16.32 pence per share, an increase of three per cent from 2004.
The full year dividend is covered 1.7 times by post-tax IFRS profit after minority interests.
We intend to maintain our current dividend policy, with the level of dividend growth being determined after considering the opportunities to invest in those areas of our business offering attractive growth prospects, our financial flexibility and the development of our statutory profits over the medium to long term.
Shareholders funds, on an EEV basis, grew strongly to 10.3 billion at the end of 2005 2004: 8.6 billion and the Groups return on embedded value was 15.7 per cent 2004: 13.4 per cent at reported exchange rates.
Mark Tucker 4 Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 In May 2005, I set up a team of senior executives with a brief to Finally, the review concluded we must continue to enhance the identify the ambitions and business strategies best suited to effectiveness of our capital management processes, to ensure that maximise sustainable growth in value for the Groups shareholders investment and capital allocation decisions are focused on those over the longer term.
areas of activity that will generate the best returns to shareholders.
The key conclusions of the review were that: Prudential is developing compelling positions in the worlds leading retail financial services markets.
I am confident of the outlook for Demographic trends and the increasing concentration of wealth the Group and we aim to deliver significant profitable growth.
in the hands of those approaching retirement or already retired presents a major opportunity to establish the Group as a leading UK insurance and retail banking operations provider of financial services for retirement by playing to our The Prudential-branded UK insurance business continued to strengths and areas of competitive advantage: develop its shareholder-backed business successfully and increased APE sales by 10 per cent in the year, to 900 million.
the Group is well positioned in markets that offer highly attractive The internal rate of return on new business written in the year opportunities for strong organic growth over the next 10 years: was 14 per cent, meeting the target set for 2007 two years early.
to exploit these opportunities fully we need to broaden our We continued in 2005 to increase the scale of our annuity business customer proposition and product range to align them more and at the same time reduce the average duration of the total book.
closely with anticipated retail financial sector profit pools: We have also continued to develop our product range in 2005. in addition, we must complement our strong and important In October we entered the lifetime mortgage market, a market intermediary links by expanding the proportion of revenue that is set to grow rapidly to an estimated 7 billion by 2008.
Our derived from direct customers: and ensure that we build deep innovative product has been designed with the customer, adviser life-cycle relationships with our customers: and regulator in mind and initial customer interest has been we should also develop the global reach and profile of our encouraging.
We have also made good progress in unit-linked and excellent asset management businesses.
off-shore bond sales which grew 31 per cent and 15 per cent respectively in the year.
Consistent with this strategy, and to support closer workings between our UK insurance business and Egg, we announced the The A-Day proposals offer the opportunity to attract new business terms of an Offer to acquire the 21.7 per cent of shares in Egg that as customers increase contributions and consolidate their pension the Group did not already own.
We have already launched a new Flexible Retirement Plan and we will undertake a review of our overall Each of our businesses has operational autonomy within its market individual pensions offering during 2006.
In addition, we have and this is critical to our success, since it is the key to our ability to established a unit to communicate directly with our existing tailor products and services to meet local market needs.
the review also concluded that there are material synergies that can be achieved through closer working across the Group, The UK insurance business has a balanced distribution model with consistent with our decentralised approach: and work is underway strong positions across all major segments IFA and multi-tie to identify and capture these, for example by establishing a single intermediaries, direct marketing and telesales, employee benefit global IT infrastructure and support unit with expected cost savings consultants and a well developed single-tie Partnership channel.
We continued to make good progress in diversifying distribution, 1,712 million Total EEV operating profit from continuing operations up 33 per cent At constant exchange rates Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 5 Group Chief Executives review continued reaching agreements with a range of providers including Barclays, policies on to its low cost flexible platform.
We fully expect to beat National Australia Bank, St. Jamess Place and with Royal London the 12 per cent return target for the transaction.
to provide pension annuities for vesting Scottish Life policies.
JNLs strength in variable annuities, its ability to bring products In addition, we continued to be successful in gaining access to to market rapidly and its positioning in advice-based distribution multi-ties in the year.
Prudential is in a strong position to benefit as channels means it is very well placed to take advantage of the the IFA market changes over the next 18-24 months and recently significant retirement savings flows expected from the baby achieved a 5 star IFA service rating for its investment products boomer generation over the coming years.
and 4 star rating overall, demonstrating strong progress in this JNLs priorities are to continue to focus on developing their important area.
position in the variable annuity market and to expand the business In retail banking, Eggs UK operations delivered an underlying through bolt-on acquisitions that meet targeted rates of return.
Egg was successful in Asia insurance operations testing market conditions improving its net interest margin against Prudential has an unrivalled exposure and weighting to the high a background of falling base rates and also lowering its cost income growth and high profit markets of Asia.
There has been a general deterioration in consumer credit Asia saw new business on an APE basis increase by 23 per cent to conditions, however, Eggs experience here has been substantially 731 million with double-digit rates of growth achieved in Korea, better than the market average.
China, India, Singapore and Indonesia.
Following our decision to acquire the minority shareholding in Egg, Profitability on new business and internal rates of return remain we have targeted annualised cost savings of 40 million across high and we will continue to emphasise unit-linked products, our UK operations by 2007.
During 2006, we will undertake a which offer higher returns and greater capital efficiency.
Unitfurther review of the cost base in these operations.
We also see linked products accounted for 63 per cent of sales across the opportunities for revenue synergies across our UK brands five region in 2005. million marketable customers.
We are maintaining momentum in the expansion of our distribution Our central focus in the UK is to use the strong franchises that capability.
Agency distribution is the dominant channel throughout we have to improve returns.
We are targeting growth but also the region and 75 per cent of our sales are from this source.
Our managing for value and we will not commit capital if we do not proprietary agent distribution force across the region reached see the individual product returns that we require emerging over 170,000 in 2005 with particularly rapid expansion in agent numbers a reasonable timeframe.
We will continue to increase agent numbers US insurance operations in these and other markets as the bedrock on which we build Jackson National Life JNL, the Groups US operation, is a our market share and market leadership positions.
We will also significant cash-generative business with the market positioning maintain a clear focus on improving the productivity of our agent to continue its strong track record of profitable growth in the force across the whole region, and this is particularly significant for retirement market.
growth in those countries in which we have been long established.
JNL continued to show strong growth in 2005, increasing new We see material scope to increase sales volumes through our business sales by 13 per cent to 515 million APE with growth in 40 existing bank distribution relationships and we intend to enter variable annuities of 31 per cent.
Both the margin and the internal into new partnership agreements.
We shall also continue to access rate of return on new business moved ahead strongly in the year.
direct and broker channels as they develop in individual markets.
During the year, JNL also successfully integrated the Life of As part of our global drive to attain new levels of cost efficiency, Georgia book of business acquired in May, transferring 1.5 million in Asia we are developing a regional hub basis for sharing back 15 per cent 867million New business APE sales of New business profit up 15 per cent 2,146 million, up 15 per cent to 867 million At constant exchange rates At constant exchange rates 6 Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 office servicing and call centre facilities to leverage scale advantages perpetual capital securities, which qualifies as Group regulatory beyond the reach of individual business operations.
The primary use of the proceeds will be to refinance a the first regional hub, servicing the Singapore and Malaysian life non-qualifying 150 million bond that matures in 2007. insurance operations, was launched.
We have plans to open an The Group is confident that it has the capital and cash resources additional hub in China in the second half of 2006, where we to fund its planned organic growth.
already have a regional IT development centre.
In summary I am pleased to report that, whilst continuing our programme The Group delivered strong results in 2005 across all its businesses: of rapid expansion and profitable growth in Asia, we are also expecting the region to become cash positive in 2006, in line with we have compelling positions in the worlds leading retail our previous predictions.
financial services markets and the resources to capitalise on these: Asset management Operating profit before tax across our asset management businesses in the UK, we have three excellent and profitable franchises in in the UK, the US and Asia increased to 195 million up 16 per cent.
Prudential, Egg and M&G on which to build for the future: M&G in the UK had an excellent year with record gross and net in the US, JNL is a significant cash-generative business with the inflows and strong profit growth.
In Asia, underlying growth in market positioning for profitable growth in the retirement market.
retail funds under management was 29 per cent.
It has competitive advantage in the sectors in which it chooses to operate: and the ability to participate in market consolidation These businesses, together with PPMA, our asset management through bolt-on acquisitions: business in the US, continued to support their own sales growth and add significant value to the Groups insurance operations in Asia, we have an unrivalled exposure to opportunities for through their excellent investment performance.
life insurance sales and profit growth across the region, whilst continuing our programme of rapid expansion and profit growth.
The priorities in asset management are to continue to target We are also expecting the region to become cash positive in growth in external funds under management by capitalising on 2006: and a growth in demand for transparent investment products, access to more global products, the continuing rise of open architecture our asset management businesses have significant growth platforms and a rapidly expanding role for cross-border sales off a prospects and are providing solid cash flow generation.
We will create value through superior investment There is tremendous scope to deliver increasing value for performance and capitalise on international opportunities through shareholders from each individual business operation, and from greater collaboration.
the Group as a whole which derives both financial advantage and Balance sheet and capital management resilience from the diversity of its portfolio of businesses, and the Improving capital efficiency is at the heart of the Groups opportunities for collaboration between them.
commitment to deliver sustainable increases in shareholder value and we will maintain a rigorous approach to capital allocation and deployment.
As of 15 March, we estimate that the Groups capital surplus at the end of 2005 on a regulatory basis, as measured by the Financial Conglomerates Directive, was around 825 million, little changed Mark Tucker from the previous year.
In July, we took advantage of good market Group Chief Executive conditions in the US retail market to raise US$300 million of 234 billion Funds under management increased 19 per cent At reported exchange rates Prudential plc Annual Report 2005 7
