com Report and accounts 2005 Page 4 Chief executives report Andy Pomfret Chief Executive 2005 was my first full year as the chief As you will be aware from the segmental notes executive of Rathbones having taken over in to the accounts we report performance of our October 2004.
It has been an exciting and business in three major divisions investment challenging year, and I am pleased management, unit trusts and our trust and tax to report that we have recorded our best business.
In total we have increased profits and results ever.
funds under management and I want to highlight the remarkable performance of the unit trust Introduction business where, at the time of writing, we have The year started with an approach to acquire 1.3 billion of funds under management.
Rensburg plc as part of our strategy of growing the business in a market where consolidation is Investment management needed.
Although this attempt was ultimately As we reported last year, some steady growth in unsuccessful, the work done in preparation for it markets is ideal for our business.
It tends to has placed us well to capitalise on the corporate increase our levels of new business, it provides a activity that is now taking place in our sector and stable background to make investment decisions you will have seen our recent announcement of and, of course, a rising market will mean higher the acquisition of the UK private banking business fees at the end of each quarter.
We introduced a slightly revised fee scale from We continue to believe that there will be 1 January 2005 and although this meant a small consolidation in the industry as large organisations increase in fees for some clients, client loss was seek to build market share and smaller ones negligible.
The other change we made at the time struggle with the ever increasing development costs was absorbing UK brokers commissions rather of systems and the requirements of regulation.
than passing them on to our clients for UK Our objective remains one of playing a full role as transactions.
This has enabled us to be ahead of a consolidator in our market.
In the last few the game when dealing with unbundling.
As a months of 2005 and the start of 2006, we have result the commission that we pay to outside seen renewed signs of people being prepared to brokers is now carefully controlled and ensures move firms, in spite of heavily restrictive contracts.
that our investment managers only receive research Also of interest is the increasing number of from brokers that we regard highly.
We do not potential corporate deals that we are seeing.
anticipate any significant changes in our fees or commissions in the near future.
Our proposed acquisition of the Dexia UK private banking business is but one example of this and Our approach of servicing the full range of client we hope there may be similar opportunities in requirements has seen growth in our charities the future.
teams we manage over 700 million of charity funds as at 31 December 2005 and continued Overall performance progress from our Greenbank ethical team in Funds under management rose by 23.4% during Bristol.
We continue to view our Jersey-based 2005, rather more than the increase in the FTSE investment subsidiary, Rathbone Investment 100 Index of 16.7% and the more relevant Management C. I., as a key area and appointed a FTSE APCIMS Balanced Index of 14.9%.
new managing director for this business at the This increase in funds under management and the beginning of January 2006.
Rathbones is also the generally buoyant market we saw throughout the appointed investment manager to the Pennine year enabled us to increase our profits before tax range of VCTs.
Pennine AIM VCT 5 closed in by 23.9% and earnings per share by 22.7% a 2005 with nearly 23 million raised and Pennine very satisfactory outcome.
AIM VCT 6 is currently open to new funds.
com Report and accounts 2005 Page 5 Rathbone Unit Trust Managements fund management team.
Trust While the results for the division are broadly the same as those for 2004, our Jersey business, representing the largest part of the division, has grown its profits by 5.2%.
This is a very pleasing result especially given many comments that have been made about growing competition in Jersey and the increasing pressure which is placed on offshore jurisdictions.
Rathbone Investment Managements investment committee.
2006 will be an important year for our Jersey business which will finally move from the current Our other tax efficient investment services the three sites into a single, purpose-built site on the IHT and EIS portfolio services also continue Esplanade in St Helier.
Although this will mean to attract new funds.
some short-term disruption during the move, we Very closely connected to our success in believe the benefits from being on one site will be investment management is our SIPP self-invested both tangible and intangible.
personal pension offering and we have put As part of co-ordinating a larger business, we have additional resources into this with the recruitment established a new business development and of a new head of our pension advisory business marketing committee.
While a traditional UKand some other additional staff.
As we approach centric client base remains important to Jersey A-Day on 6 April, we are placing significant trust businesses, the environment is increasingly marketing focus on this area and see it as an international and we need to attract clients from important way of increasing our funds under across the world to our Jersey and Geneva management, as well as an important service for operations.
Results in Geneva are improved and the business Unit trusts returned to operating profitability during 2005.
Yet again Rathbone Unit Trust Management had a As we reported last year, there have been many remarkable year based on some very solid significant changes in the Geneva office and investment performance.
In particular, at the end we look forward to continuing the improvement of the year the Rathbone Income Fund was in the in 2006. top quartile over one, two, three and five year Our operations in the UK, in London, Liverpool periods an outstanding result.
The performance and Winchester, continued to perform in line with of our funds gave rise to major awards in 2005 expectations, as did the small operation in the from What Investment magazine and Standard & British Virgin Islands.
based operation works closely with a number of Total funds under management are now 1.2 significant investment management clients and billion, up 47% from the end of 2004.
We is a good example of how the various divisions continued to benefit from a growing level of work together for the benefit of both clients support from over 2,000 IFAs, many of whom and Rathbones.
continue to do business with us on a regular basis.
In addition we saw new sources of business from institutional contacts such as life companies as well as additional fund supermarket links.
com Report and accounts 2005 Page 6 Regulation As with all businesses in our sector, we spend a great deal of time implementing new regulation and studying proposed regulation.
We are actively involved with groups such as APCIMS Association of Private Client Investment Managers and Stockbrokers which do a tremendous job in coordinating views of the industry and trying to press for sensible changes.
Sadly their suggestions are not always taken on board.
Rathbone House, currently under Our headquarters at construction in St Helier, Jersey.
We continue to work closely with our regulatory team at the FSA to try to assess the impact of the new Basel II requirements which will come into People and property effect on 1 January 2007.
It still remains unclear In addition to the new building in Jersey, we have exactly how the regulation will be interpreted by acquired the 4th floor of our headquarters our own regulators, but an active dialogue is building at 159 New Bond Street.
We anticipate that our regulatory pleased that this gives us control of the whole capital requirement may increase at that stage as a building as well as some limited room for result of the operational risk requirement.
expansion, although much of this will be needed when we complete the acquisition of the Dexia In 2007 we have to look forward to the private banking business referred to earlier.
implementation of MiFID Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and in the shorter term we Finally have some new money laundering guidance from We have had a very successful year in 2005 and the Joint Money Laundering Steering Committee.
none of it would have been possible without Both of these have been seriously delayed.
All of the dedication, commitment and efficiency of all this will add significantly to the amount of our people.
I would like to thank each and every paperwork that we have to send to our clients and member of staff who have all put in such will inevitably increase costs.
tremendous effort over 2005 and, most Over the past year we have become registered as importantly, for making it a stimulating, an investment adviser with the Securities and interesting and enjoyable place to work.
Exchange Commission SEC in the United States, which regulates our activities in relation to US based clients only.
This enables us to act for US based clients be they US citizens or not.
Pension schemes Andy Pomfret In keeping with almost every company with Chief Executive defined benefit schemes, we have continued to 7 March 2006 review our main pension scheme which has been closed to new entrants since 2002 and are currently in consultation with staff which will enable us to offer staff either a change in ongoing levels of contribution or a reduction in their accrual rate.
Recognising that this is an important benefit for many of our key staff, we are seeking ways to fund the deficit in the most tax-efficient manner that we can.
