Royal & SunAlliance 6 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Group CEOs review We have maintained our track record of consistently delivering on our objectives.
made to the UK pension schemes as discussed in the Chairmans Group statement, as well as the disposal of non core assets.
m 2005 2004 Strong Core Group General business Before discussing our performance you will notice that there Net written premiums 5,400 5,082 are some differences in the way we present our 2005 results.
Underwriting result 118 277 This is due to the change from UK GAAP Generally Accepted Operating result 698 258 Accounting Principles to IFRS International Financial Reporting Combined operating ratio COR 94.1% 96.1% Standards.
The impact of these changes is discussed in depth Core Group underlying return on equity 21.6% 17.7% in the Financial Review.
You will also note changes to how we classify our operations.
We have previously reported on the Total Group result and that of our Ongoing Business.
2005 was a very good year for the Group.
The impact Going forward these distinctions are no longer relevant as of three years of management actions and the continued our successful sale of Nonstandard Auto has closed our US delivery against our strategic objectives has resulted in a operation to its last remaining ongoing business.
In future we greatly improved financial performance.
This improvement will report the Core Group UK, International and Scandinavia has been achieved against the backdrop of a high number alongside the result for our discontinued US business.
of natural disasters and is a clear demonstration of the strength of the business and its capability of delivering Our 2005 results show the strength of the Core Group.
We have continued sustainable earnings in 2006 and beyond.
a good balance of premiums by geography and business line and exposure to both mature and emerging markets.
Approximately 2005 saw an extreme range of weather events with floods in the 50% of our premiums are from the UK, with 25% each from UK and India, hurricanes Emily, Katrina and Wilma, and storms International and Scandinavia.
In the UK, were the second in Scandinavia and Canada.
While the human impact has been largest commercial insurer and third largest personal motor and tragic, the financial effect on the Group was relatively limited, household insurer.
In Scandinavia, were the third largest insurer largely due to the actions weve taken to reduce our exposure in both Denmark and Sweden, and we have leading positions in in high risk areas and improve our underwriting selection.
the fast growing Baltic economies of Latvia and Lithuania.
We delivered a strong improvement in financial performance Within International we have a strong balance across developed with a 440m increase in the operating result to 698m.
In our developed markets we have Core operating regions of the UK, International and Scandinavia good businesses in Canada and Italy and were a leading again achieved sub 100 combined operating ratios CORs household insurer in Ireland.
We are also building our presence and all improved on last year.
These achievements are a in the emerging regions of the Middle East and Latin America direct result of the actions we have taken to restructure the and in the long term markets of India and China.
business and to focus on excellence in underwriting, claims and expense management.
Delivery against strategic objectives At the beginning of 2005, I set out five key priorities: to stabilise Our profit after tax was 605m, up from a loss of 80m in 2004. and restructure the US: target profitable growth: sustain strong This includes the net benefit of 285m from the changes weve Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 7 Andy Haste Group CEO results: deliver our operational improvement programme: and Our growth strategies are tailored to each market but there embed a performance culture.
We have delivered against each are consistent themes: building distribution: targeting specific of these.
trades and segments: expanding our footprint in key emerging markets: making selective bolt on acquisitions: and focusing Stabilisation and restructure of the US on customer management and retention.
Our objective in the US is to bring certainty and finality to our exposure.
We have been consistent with our strategy to achieve In Canada we expanded distribution by signing 147 new this we continue to reduce exposure, while at the same time, brokers and in Scandinavia we transferred our successful actively exploring alternative solutions to accelerate coming Danish bancassurance model to Sweden, signing a major off risk.
We also continued to improve our web offering with 50% of UK motor In 2005 we improved the insurance loss from 372m to a loss sales now online.
In India we signed partnerships with Standard of 29m.
We have reduced open claims by 37%, claims reserves Chartered, Citibank, GE and Maruti Suzuki and in China we signed by $1.2bn to $3.4bn and collected over $1.3bn of reinsurance four corporate partnership deals.
We cut expenses by 28% and headcount is down from 6,000 in 2003 to 860.
We are using clear segmentation and unique propositions to achieve growth in specific customer groups.
In Canada, our direct The sale of Nonstandard Auto provided additional capital support business Johnsons achieved a 26% increase in premiums driven to the discontinued operation.
We also made significant progress by our focus on the 50 plus age group and preferred occupations in simplifying our business from a regulatory standpoint by including teachers and nurses.
In the UK, we increased customers reducing our regulatory structure to two domiciliary states and in Marine, Risk Solutions and the growing SME market.
four insurance entities, from 11 states and 25 entities in 2004.
We continue to strengthen our position through selective Since the year end we have announced the appointment of acquisitions.
In Canada we acquired the ING marine portfolio Edward Muhl to the US Board.
He has served in a number of securing our leading marine position, while the acquisition of senior regulatory roles including President of the NAIC National Morgex doubled our market share in Alberta, a province with Association of Insurance Commissioners.
His extensive experience GDP growth over 40% above the national average.
In Scandinavia will be a strong asset as we continue with the restructuring.
our acquisition of TopDanmarks marine portfolio consolidated While risks and uncertainties remain in the US, and it will not be our number one position in Danish Marine.
a totally smooth ride, we continue to make good progress and We have expanded our footprint in emerging markets.
Our remain focused on our objective.
acquisition of Cruz del Sur made us Chiles number one player Targeting profitable growth and significantly widened our reach in Argentina.
In 2005 we delivered net written premium growth of 6%, driven by We have also focused on improved customer management the recapture of the Munich Re quota share and targeted growth which has driven growth in retention across the Group with in each of our core markets with premiums up by 3% in the UK, increases of three points in UK and Danish Commercial and 8% in Scandinavia and 13% in International.
We have also been four points in Swedish Commercial.
successful in building a pipeline for the future.
Royal & SunAlliance 8 Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Group CEOs review continued Sustainable strong results and expense management, and improving customer service.
We continued to deliver against our strategic objective of To date weve achieved 240m of annualised expense savings achieving sustainable profitable performance and weve been of our targeted 270m.
consistent with our position of not chasing volume at the expense Improvement is evident across the Group.
Weve halved claims of profit.
Weve now achieved eight consecutive quarters for the leakage in Ireland, and in Canada, we integrated our Western Core Group of combineds in the 90s.
In 2005 the combined Assurance and Ontario Claims centres, increasing productivity ratio for our Core Group was two points better at 94.1% and by 10%.
In the UK we have continued to invest in our claims we increased our underwriting result by 42% to 263m.
Were market leaders in this area In the UK we delivered a three point improvement in the combined and given the strength of our capability, we have won contracts to 93.1%.
This was driven by an excellent performance from with Lloyds TSB and Co-operative Insurance Society to use our Commercial with a combined of under 92% and a 60% increase supply chain infrastructure.
in the underwriting profit to 115m.
Personal achieved a nearly We are also harnessing technology to improve transparency two point improvement in the combined to 95.6% and a 70% and deliver better service to our customers.
In Scandinavia we increase in underwriting profit.
MORE TH N maintained its strong have implemented a web system allowing customers to track performance with a combined of 92.4%, 11% premium growth progress of their claim and receive automatic updates.
and an improved expense ratio of 24.1%.
Alongside our operational improvement programme weve International had another good year despite the impact of continued to focus on getting the right controls, procedures weather events.
We improved the combined by almost two and accountability.
Weve defined the Group risk appetite points to 94.7% and the underwriting result by 40% to 63m.
and enforce a strict programme of underwriting licences and Canada performed strongly with a combined of 94.8%, a 37% delegated authorities.
We back this up with regular detailed increase in underwriting profit to 26m and premium growth of reviews by our independent Group risk and actuarial functions, 19% driven by a continued excellent performance from Johnsons, all of which we have continued to strengthen in the last year.
and our focus on retention as well as a favourable exchange rate movement.
In Latin America we continued to achieve profitable Accountability is not just about rules, its also about embedding double digit growth in Brazil, Chile and Argentina.
We have a clear set of Group business the result was impacted by last years weather events and the principles built around performance, responsibility and integrity combined for the region of just over 101% includes over seven with clear commitments to our key stakeholders.
Its incumbent points of storm related costs.
on every member of staff to act upon these and they are enforced by global risk policies.
Asia and the Middle East had another good year with a combined of 89.5%.
We grew premiums by 15% in the Middle East and Leadership and performance culture in our longer term plays in Asia our Indian business delivered Throughout the year I continued to strengthen my leadership profitable premium growth of 40%.
team and in November Bridget McIntyre joined the Board as UK Chief Executive.
In the last three years we have significantly In Scandinavia we improved the combined to 94.4% with a strengthened the top 100 management team, bringing on 12 of 20% improvement in the underwriting profit to 65m.
Again our own high performers and making 43 external appointments.
the result was driven by an outstanding performance from Scandinavian Commercial which delivered a combined of A key part of the new culture is differentiated reward at all levels under 86% reflecting the benefits of our portfolio review and throughout the organisation.
Over 80% of employees now have a operational improvement programme.
significant proportion of their pay linked to their performance, up from just 15% in April 2003.
Our target is 90% by the end of 2006.
Operational excellence Operational excellence is key to our sustained financial We continue to embed our performance culture.
This is not a one off programme its about accountability and responsibility but its also about investing continuous operational improvement.
Its scope covers in the development of our people.
We want R&SA to be a place investment in our technical skills, underwriting, pricing, claims, where people can fulfil their career aspirations.
Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2005 9 Looking ahead Industry overview It has been a productive year during which weve delivered against our strategic objectives and built an excellent foundation The dominating events of 2005 were weather related for the Group: in particular hurricanes Emily, Katrina, Rita and Wilma.
We continued to reduce risk and volatility we have made Despite this, the insurance industry proved remarkably good progress in the US, we disposed of non core assets resilient and outside the US, performances were and significantly reduced our pension deficit, generally strong.
We have strengthened our capital position, with good The hurricanes prompted speculation about a knock margins against all key regulatory measures and sufficient on effect on reinsurance prices.
However, this has so far capital to deliver our current plans, been largely ring fenced to core US storm affected sectors including property and energy.
We have continued to embed discipline in underwriting, pricing and claims, The rating environment in 2005 was mixed by class and region and the Group benefited from its balance of exposure We have built a balanced portfolio of Core businesses with to different markets at different points in the cycle.
In Personal good market positions.
Each is delivering a strong financial we have generally achieved single digit rating increases performance and each is capable of sustaining it.
In Commercial the market has been As mentioned earlier, going forward we will be reporting on more mixed with a competitive but stable environment in some the Core Group rather than the Ongoing Business.
This means countries, including the UK, resulting in downward pressure that our previous financial target for our Ongoing Business of on rates of around 5%, while in other regions, including a combined ratio of 100% on average across the cycle is no Scandinavia, we achieved single digit rate increases.
Our objective is to deliver sustainable profitable a similar outlook of a mixed rating environment by region and performance and this remains unchanged.
My current expectation class in 2006 and in all markets well continue to target growth is that the Core Group will deliver a combined ratio of around opportunities while maintaining our underwriting disciplines.
Claims inflation remains in line with our expectations.
Our achievements in 2005 build on the excellent job that The FTSE rose 16% and the positive impact on companies everyone throughout the organisation has done to work balance sheets coincided with a cross industry focus on through our issues and rebuild the franchise and Id like to capital efficiency and risk management.
A key UK focus was thank all staff for their continuing hard work and commitment.
implementation of the FSAs enhanced risk based capital framework Individual Capital Assessment ICA.
We endorse We have an excellent team with a track record of delivery, and this approach as a way of assessing capital risk and weve the drive, energy and ambition to take this business forward.
incorporated its tools in a wide range of decision making We will continue to leverage our strengths and move the business processes.
The Group also supports the broad principles behind on, whether this is through delivering further operational the EUs Solvency II initiative which aims to introduce a more improvements, improving segmentation, increasing retention risk sensitive solvency framework.
Its currently in its preparatory or expanding distribution.
phase and weve been active in industry consultations.
We have a strong franchise and a focus on great execution.
In the US, work continues to secure legislation to deal with Im confident that well continue to deliver sustainable profitable asbestos related claims.
In February, debate by the Senate performance.
resulted in Senate Bill 852, the trust fund legislation, being sent back to committee.
As it stands today, there is heavy opposition to the trust fund concept although support by Senate leadership for it remains and its possible that the focus could shift to a medical criteria bill or another version of asbestos reform.
Well continue to monitor developments.
