Group Chief Executives review 06 Group Chief Executives review 07 Our customers Our results for 2005 demonstrate the Customer numbers increased in all our divisions, with The strength and momentum of the Group Royal Bank of Scotland securing top position amongst the high street banks for personal customer satisfaction and NatWest and the capabilities of our diverse moving into joint second position.
This result reflects our investment in our branches and our people to support them, business platform.
We increased our and improved access through a wide choice of channels.
total income by 14% and held our Our people cost:income ratio, before acquisitions, In the 2005 Employee Opinion Survey the Group improved its steady at 41.8%.
Group operating profit score in each of the 14 categories surveyed.
At 86%, response to the 2005 Employee Opinion Survey was even higher than increased by 16% to 8,251 million.
We have launched new initiatives to encourage innovation and leadership.
Our new Business School and All our divisions increased their income programmes developed in conjunction with Harvard Business and contribution to Group profit.
School are helping to develop the vision and quality of management that the Group will need in challenging markets in the future.
We are particularly pleased with the geographic mix of our profits, 42% of which came from our international operations.
Our shareholders Our profits in Europe, outside the UK, have grown to be equal Strong earnings and capital generation strengthened our to Citizens profits before the acquisition of Charter One.
The Tier 1 capital ratio to 7.6% at the end of 2005 and our total majority of this growth is organic.
Strong organic income capital ratio to 11.7%.
We are committed to capital strength growth has been a recurring theme of our results over recent and efficiency, returning capital to our shareholders both years and provided over 70% of our increase in 2005. through increasing dividends and when appropriate via share buybacks.
This year the Board proposed a 25% increase in our During the course of the year we established Retail Markets dividend to 72.5p per share, representing an increased payout in order to strengthen the co-ordination and delivery of our ratio of 41%.
In addition, we intend to repurchase up to 1 multi-brand retail strategy.
At the beginning of 2006 the former billion of our shares over the next 12 months.
Corporate Banking & Financial Markets division was renamed Corporate Markets and we reorganised our activities into two Sir George Mathewson businesses, UK Corporate Banking and Global Banking & George Mathewson will retire as the Group's Chairman at the Markets, to enhance our ability to serve the needs of these Annual General Meeting.
Under his leadership, initially as distinct customer segments.
Group Chief Executive, RBS has enjoyed an unparalleled period of growth and success both at home and internationally.
Bank of China Very few can match his 18-year legacy of consistently increasing In August 2005 we signed strategic investment and covalue generation.
Personally and on behalf of his colleagues, operation agreements with Bank of China, the second largest I would like to thank George for his outstanding contribution.
Following regulatory approvals, the transaction was completed in December.
RBS led a consortium that Outlook invested $3.1 billion, taking a 10% stake in Bank of China.
Whilst displaying both opportunities and threats, the economic We have ourselves invested $1.6 billion, financed by the outlook for 2006 in all of the major economies in which we sale of our shares in Banco Santander Central Hispano S. A. operate would appear to be supportive of the continued We are working closely with Bank of China to develop momentum of the Group.
We believe that we have built a business co-operation initiatives in areas such as credit strong platform for future growth with a diverse range of cards, wealth management and corporate banking.
We are opportunities in a number of geographies, and taken together also supporting Bank of China in key infrastructure areas, with our strong capital base, continuing good credit metrics, including risk and financial management, human resources and firm cost control, we remain optimistic about the future and information technology.
Sir Fred Goodwin, Group Chief Executive Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2005 Group review
