5 Under the Revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance, we Investor Communications are required to have a majority of non-executive directors on We remain committed to meeting shareholders personally and the Board and I am pleased to inform you that following this year has seen a continuation of our successful Investor William Berrys retirement Clare Salmon was appointed a Forums, which have been held in Yeovil, Edinburgh and Bristol.
She brings wide experience of both marketing and These events are well attended by those holding their shares financial services.
Her appointment falls to be approved by the through ATS plans, but they are equally open to all shareholders shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 28 October 2005 and guests.
I heartily commend them to you and extend an at which Alan Young, our Investment Director, will also be invitation to forthcoming events, details of which are on page standing for re-election.
56 of this report and on our website.
Annual General Meeting AITC I hope to see many of you at the AGM which will be held at In October 2004, we made the decision to rejoin the Discovery Point, Dundee.
Association of Investment Trust Companies AITC.
The AITC Lesley M S Knox plays an important role for the investment trust sector as the trade body which provides technical and other support to its members, lobbying on industry issues and setting industry standards.
We are delighted to rejoin and become actively involved with it again.
FSA Regulation The initial phase of the Treasury Consultation on the Proposed Regulation of Investment Trusts was completed in February 2005 and we await the outcome and the next round of proposals.
We remain convinced that regulating investment trust companies, including making their shares products and introducing a regulatory framework for them similar to that for open-ended investment companies and unit trusts would serve no purpose other than greatly increasing costs.
We have played an active part in the response to the Treasury, along with the AITC.
Constitutional and Board Matters In April 2005, at an Extraordinary General Meeting, shareholders approved proposals to put into place modern constitutional documents and repay our preference stock.
William Berry, who had been a director since 1994, retired at the close of that meeting.
I should like to thank William for his service to the Company during his time in office and express appreciation of his commitment to, and deep knowledge of, the Company.
Latterly William was the Senior Independent Director and on his retirement the board elected William Jack, who joined the board in 2000, to fill that role.
6 Chief Executives Statement We aim to provide a superior return for the level of risk we undertake.
This is my first major report in which I explore the key issues We aim to provide a superior return for the level of risk we on which I am concentrating as your Chief Executive.
ALICo considers the allocation of capital on an absolute or total return basis, with a constant focus on Investment Management protecting capital during adverse markets and enhancing returns during bullish periods.
Investment performance owes much to how individuals perform and I consider clarity of responsibility and accountability to be During the year, we remained cautious about the speed of the key to delivering value to shareholders.
To this end, we global recovery especially with the backdrop of the oil price made two changes during the year.
Accordingly, while being positive on equity and property markets, at the year end the Company retained The first was to look at the way the equity portfolio was being 2.9% in cash after providing for payment of the proposed final managed on a global sector basis.
Our conclusion was that dividend.
Gearing the portfolio by borrowing is an issue of performance and individual manager accountability would be timing and we regularly review our position.
Our present view is better served with a transparent geographical approach.
While not to gear, at least in the short term and not until the outlook continuing to benefit from a global perspective through is more positive and we are fully invested.
As we develop our dedicated sector analysts, managers are now accountable for property expertise, we anticipate borrowing against property in specific geographical parts of the portfolio and have a clear circumstances where there is a secure, long term income flow.
framework in which to achieve their goals.
During the last year of strong upward movement of equity The second change was to establish an Asset Liability and markets our lack of gearing compared to our peer group has Income Committee ALICo which formally considers and been a significant factor causing us to perform below the median.
evaluates the use of the Companys capital within parameters approved by the board.
I am pleased that, after a period of Asia transition, we are seeing the benefits of both the simpler geographical approach and the workings of ALICo.
More detail We have invested for more than 25 years in Asia, but now more about how ALICo works is given on page 10. than ever before it is an exciting region that presents enormous potential for growth in capital and income.
We have been Performance increasing our investments there for some time and, at the end of July 2005, we owned assets of 86.6 million in the region, 14.9% The restructuring described above has been designed to lay the of our total portfolio.
The cultural, language and time-zone foundations for growth.
Although the changes, which are differences we face when investing in Asia are immense and inbeginning to bear fruit, have not yet resulted in outperformance depth knowledge of the area is essential.
We intend, therefore, against an exacting peer group measured by total shareholder to share with the Alliance Trust the benefits and costs of a return, I am confident that this will manifest itself in the future.
team based in Hong Kong to ensure that we optimise our I am encouraged and pleased to report record capital growth of knowledge of and access to that region as these markets expand 102.4m and record income of 16.7m.
There has been excellent performance in both the Large Cap and Small Cap UK portfolio, and mature.
We will also benefit other parts of the portfolio by having local intelligence as many global companies depend in the North America Large Cap sector and, more recently, in the significantly on the Chinese, Japanese and other Asian markets.
performance of our Japan and Asia Pacific investments.
7 Accordingly, ATS is making considerable investment in its Expenses technological infrastructure in order to improve its channels of The Company conducts its affairs alongside those of the Alliance communication and to provide new services and the investment Trust and both companies share the costs of staff and options that the financial services market now demands.
This gives the Company access to expertise and believe this investment in systems will be an essential strategy staff which, as a single self-managed investment trust, it would in developing innovative products and in maintaining the be difficult to resource.
In conjunction with the Alliance Trust, exceptional level of service ATS provides to its customers.
The we are modernising our infrastructure, which is essential if we replacement of ATSs existing systems, which will be delivered in are to maintain our standards.
This inevitably costs money, stages over the next 24 months, will place it in a position to be which I believe to be absolutely necessary.
a market leader in pension and other financial services provision.
Our expense ratio is unchanged at 0.33% and I am committed Our People to ensuring that the Companys total expense ratio remains in the lowest quartile of the peer group.
I believe we can maintain Our Companys primary resource is our people, with their skills, this even while we continue to invest in order to attract and commitment and excellence.
In creating a working environment retain good staff, to ensure that our internal control, internal which fosters accountability and success for those who perform, audit, risk and compliance structures meet best practice and we wish to be an employer of choice.
We take seriously the that our technology delivers the latest developments in development of a core competencies structure within a robust investment intelligence to our managers, enabling them to appraisal system.
We aim to provide a working environment allocate capital effectively in each geography or asset class.
where people are encouraged to develop their skills and maximise their potential.
Alliance Trust Savings Looking Forward ATS is a financial services and pensions administration company which is 25% owned by the Company the Alliance Trust At the end of a very challenging year, we look forward to owns 75%.
building on the reputation and excellence of the Company.
We will seek to: ATSs core offering is its Investment Plan which provides an investment dealing, custody and administration service and Enhance capital and income performance allows individuals to buy stock in any company in the FTSE AllStrengthen the way we manage our equity assets through a Share.
ATS is also able to exploit this very efficient service in clearer geographical focus tax advantaged products.
An area in which ATS is very well Build a technology platform that helps deliver performance placed strategically is in the self-invested personal pension and growth cost-effectively SIPP market.
In terms of numbers of customers, ATS is already a significant provider of SIPPs and is in the top 10 in the UK.
Invest in Alliance Trust Savings so that it may take advantage of opportunities in the UK pension and The pensions market is where the greatest opportunity lies for investment market ATS and preparations are being made to ensure ATS is well placed for A Day in April 2006, when simplification is Promote our reputation by maintaining the highest expected to herald a revolution in the pensions market, with standards in everything we do.
greater investment flexibility and, for some, tax advantage.
ATS intends to pursue all opportunities in the pension market.
Alan J Harden Recruiting, training and retaining staff in ATS is essential to meet this opportunity.
More recently, ATS has also seen growth in its ISAs and PEPs in contrast to the general market, where ISAs seem to be in decline.
Few providers can offer the efficiencies of the ATS products.
New and existing customers of ATS are able to consolidate their existing PEPs and ISAs in ATSs low cost environment and, because of ATSs service and these cost advantages, it is expected that this continuing trend will have a positive impact on ATSs revenue growth.
