Carillion plc Section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review 08 Chief Executives Review In 2005 we delivered substantial profitable growth and with the acquisition of Mowlem laid the foundations for a step change in the development of our business Section 04 Carillion plc Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 09 In our 2004 annual report, I said that 2005 marked the beginning contract.
Having an in-house M&E maintenance capability has of a new phase of growth for Carillion.
Having completed our therefore considerably strengthened our integrated service offering programme of major disposals and built a well-balanced, customerfor both new and existing customers.
PME is performing well as an focused business, delivering good quality earnings backed by strong integral part of our business, with cost synergies now expected to operating cash flows, we were ready to accelerate the development reach approximately 3 million by the end of 2006, exceeding the and growth of our business.
That growth will continue to be driven 2 million originally identified.
by implementing our consistent and effective strategy through customer-focused businesses, supported by a culture based on Acquisition of Mowlem plc living our core values in everything we do.
Carillion announced its cash and shares offer for the acquisition of Mowlem in December 2005.
It was recommended by the Strategic development Mowlem Board and received the overwhelming support of Over the past few years we have been seeking acquisitions to fill Carillion and Mowlem shareholders.
The acquisition valued capability gaps in order to improve the scope and quality of our Mowlems share capital at 313 million and was completed integrated services solutions and also to deliver a step change in successfully on 23 February 2006.
65.8 million new Carillion the development of our business.
We apply the same criteria to shares were issued on 23 February 2006 as a result of the all potential acquisitions, namely that they must be consistent acquisition.
with our strategy for delivering sustainable, profitable growth and deliver financial returns equivalent to those we expect from Mowlem is an outstanding strategic fit, particularly in support other investments.
services and private finance, and we are confident that it will deliver a step change in the development of our business and materially Acquisition of PME enhance our earnings in 2007, the first full year after acquisition.
The acquisition of PME, one of the largest privately owned mechanical and electrical M&E engineering maintenance The addition of Mowlems complementary skills and market businesses in the UK, for approximately 47 million including a strengths in support services makes Carillion one of the largest 10 million payment to the PME pension fund in March 2005 filled support services businesses in the UK and significantly enhances an important capability gap.
M&E maintenance accounts for up to our ability to provide customers with high quality, integrated 40 per cent of a typical building management and support services solutions in our key market sectors.
John McDonough Chris Girling Roger Robinson Chief Executive Finance Director Executive Director Carillion plc Section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review 10 Chief Executives Review continued The addition of Mowlems portfolio of Public Private Partnership 01 PPP projects to Carillions own substantial portfolio will create a very large and valuable portfolio of equity investments.
Mowlem also has a large pipeline of new PPP projects for which it is the preferred bidder or shortlisted, with the potential to add considerable further value to our investment portfolio.
Furthermore, the acquisition of Mowlem will increase the number of specialist people we have with private finance skills, which has been the main constraint to our growth in this market.
Mowlems considerable strengths in construction services will add to the breadth and scale of our own construction capabilities.
Going forward, Mowlems approach to construction will be subject to the same selectivity criteria that we have consistently applied 02 to our own construction activities.
Furthermore, our rigorous and proven risk management policies and processes will underpin every aspect of the enlarged groups operations.
On 18 January 2006, Carillion announced that it had agreed to sell two Mowlem businesses, Charter, the US construction management company and Edgar Allen, the UK rail track products manufacturer to Balfour Beatty plc for a total consideration of approximately 20.5 million, subject to due diligence by Balfour Beatty.
Completion of these sales is expected in the second quarter of 2006.
In early March 2006, the Office of Fair Trading OFT visited two Mowlem offices.
We have fully co-operated with the OFT and will 01 Carillion is using its specialist skills continue to do so as appropriate.
and resources to provide integrated solutions to the NHS, including PPP hospitals and Independent Sector The integration of Carillion and Mowlem is being led by a Treatment Centres.
dedicated team comprising senior people from both companies to ensure we achieve the synergy benefits we have identified and 02 The acquisition of PME, a mechanical create a business that will deliver accelerated growth, materially and electrical engineering maintenance business, in March 2005, has significantly enhanced earnings and strong cash generation.
We expect to strengthened our ability to provide deliver cost savings at a running rate of 10 million per annum fully integrated solutions for building by the end of 2006, rising to 15 million per annum by the end maintenance and services.
The one-off cost of delivering these savings is expected to be 10 million in 2006.
Our business model for the enlarged group will continue to be based on delivering our existing strategy through market focused business units, each equipped with the skills and resources necessary to provide customers with solutions tailored to meet their specific needs.
Business performance Total revenue in 2005 increased by 15 per cent to 2,284 million 2004: 1,985 million, including revenue from joint ventures of 259 million 2004: 126 million.
Financial reporting segments Investments Support Services Construction Services In this segment In this segment we In this segment we we report the equity report the results of report the results of returns on our our activities in rail our UK building and investments in Public infrastructure, roads construction activities Private Partnership maintenance, and our International PPP projects.
Section 04 Carillion plc Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 11 Underlying profit before tax also increased by 15 per cent to 55.5 the cash flows that will be generated by these investments over million 2004: 48.1 million, with underlying earnings per share of the next thirty years or more.
Underlying earnings per share grew by 10 per cent, after the Groups effective tax rate returned to a Total operating profit from our three financial reporting segments more normal level of 27 per cent, having reduced temporarily in was 65.8 million, including joint ventures.
After corporate centre 2004 to 21 per cent, due to a number of one-off tax settlements.
costs of 10.4 million, net financing income of 5.1 million and tax on joint venture profits of 5.0 million, underlying profit before tax Our relentless focus on cash management has again resulted was 55.5 million.
Non-operating items, amortisation of intangible in a strong cash flow from operations of 84 million.
Average assets and goodwill impairment amounted to 3.6 million, leaving weekly net cash was 37 million, net of finance lease liabilities profit before tax of 51.9 million.
Profit after tax was 40.8 million of 31 million.
At 31 December 2005 Carillion had net cash and basic earnings per share were 18.7 pence.
of 90.8 million, net of finance leases of 37.7 million 2004: 128.8 million net of finance leases of 24.2 million, having 2005 was an outstanding year for new orders, which increased invested approximately 47 million in the acquisition of PME.
the value of the Groups order book and framework contracts at the year-end by some 40 per cent to around 7 billion Delivering improved results in 2005 was a particularly significant 2004: 5 billion.
Despite converting a high proportion of achievement, given the impact of transferring to Network Rail potential new orders into contracts in 2005, we also maintained during 2004 profitable maintenance contracts that contributed a healthy pipeline of probable orders, worth up to 1.6 billion at around 150 million of revenue in 2004. the year-end 2004: 2.2 billion.
We continue to report our financial results in three segments Our strategy for growth continues to be reflected in our order book, Support Services, Construction Services and Investments in which with Support Services and PPP concession contracts accounting we group together activities of a similar type and risk profile to for some 84 per cent of order book value 2004: 78 per cent.
The make it easier for the Market to value our earnings on a consistent longer-term nature of these contracts also significantly improves the basis.
Our performance in each of these segments is summarised visibility of future revenues, with around 74 per cent of our order below and a more detailed explanation follows later in this review.
book expected to generate revenues in 2007 and beyond.
At the same time, through our selective approach, we have continued In Support Services, revenue including joint ventures increased to improve the quality of our construction order book and focused by over seven per cent to 989 million, with the effect of losing on long-term relationships with key customers.
For example, in 150 million of rail maintenance revenue more than offset by the 2005 our UK building business generated around 84 per cent acquisition of PME and organic growth.
An increase in operating 2004: 80 per cent of its revenue from 20 key customers.
profit of two per cent, to 40.6 million, lagged growth in revenue, reflecting the loss of rail maintenance contracts, which had higher Risk management than average margins in this segment.
The rigorous policies and processes we have established to identify, mitigate and manage risk are a cornerstone of our In Construction Services, revenue including joint ventures increased business.
Our Group Head of Risk is responsible for advising by 22 per cent to 1,230 million, driven mainly by growth in our on all risk issues, including our policies and processes and their International Regions, particularly the Middle East and Canada, UK application to all our business activities.
Building and our Developments business.
Operating profit in this segment increased by 35 per cent to 16.9 million.
We address strategic risks and risks specific to individual businesses and contracts, including social, environmental and ethical risks.
Investments contributed revenue of 65.4 million.
Operating profit Our risk management processes apply to every aspect of our increased by 36 per cent to 8.3 million, due to an improved business, from choosing the markets in which we operate to performance across our portfolio of equity investments in PPP the contracts we bid for and the selection of our suppliers and projects and reductions in bid costs and overheads.
They apply to every stage of a contract from later in this review, we are also creating long-term value by inception to completion, in order to deliver the cash-backed profit investing in these projects and the Directors current valuation of we expect and a service that meets or exceeds the expectations of our portfolio is 89 million, based on discounting at 10 per cent our customers.
2004 Underlying profit and underlying earnings per share, which are defined on page 60, are 5 billion used to report our financial performance in 2005 on a comparable basis to that of 2004.
2005 7 billion Investments Support Services Construction Services Order book 2004-2005 Our order book at 31 December 2005, increased by 40% to 7.0bn.
Carillion plc Section 04 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review 12 Chief Executives Review continued The more significant areas of risk, where our failure to perform 01 well or changes to macro economic or market specific environments that would adversely affect our business, are summarised below: Integration of Mowlem.
The efficient and professional integration of Carillion and Mowlem is essential to the success of this acquisition and to the delivery of cost synergies, sustainable, profitable growth and materially enhanced earnings: Attracting, developing and retaining excellent people.
The success of our business depends primarily on the quality of our people: Management of major contracts.
Completing contracts on 02 time and to the required standards, avoids financial penalties and damage to our brand and reputation: Closing out existing contracts.
Settling completed contracts and collecting the cash we are owed is essential to reducing debt and delivering the earnings growth we expect: Pension scheme management.
The cost to Carillion of funding its pension schemes depends on the macro-economic environment, equity market stability and regulatory requirements: Government investment and outsourcing.
With a substantial proportion of our business and future growth dependent on 01 Part of the new Westwood Cross planned investment and outsourcing of services, it is important retail development in Thanet, Kent, to maintain an effective presence in a number of growth sectors which opened in 2005.
This 20 acre site, which is home to 35 retail outlets, was to support the resilience of our business: developed by the Carillion Richardson partnership and built by Carillion.
A more detailed description of our risk management structure can be found in our Corporate Governance Report on page 33.
02 Carillion manages and maintains the Royal Parks for the Royal Parks Agency.
Our people Our people are the key source of competitive advantage and it is through their efforts each day that we meet or exceed our customers expectations.
The success of our business and the value of the Carillion brand depend primarily upon the performance of our people.
We therefore remain totally committed to attracting, developing and retaining excellent people by becoming an employer of choice and have a wide range of measures in place to make this a reality across all our businesses.
Above all we strive to communicate well with all our people and to listen to and act upon what they tell us.
We do this through a structured approach to communication, including individual performance and development reviews, monthly Team Talks and regular surveys through which everyone can share their views openly and frankly, in line with our core value of Openness.
These surveys culminate annually in The Great Debate in which around 1,400 people from across the Group took part in 2005.
Section 04 Carillion plc Operating and Financial Review Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13 This enables us to monitor and measure our progress on a wide for demonstrating that these practices can have measurable range of issues, including how well we engage with our people to business benefits.
We benchmark our performance in a number recognise and value the contributions they make to our business, of ways, including participating in Business in the Communitys to help them develop and fulfil their potential.
Corporate Responsibility Index, an independent annual survey of sustainability performance.
Since its inception in 2003, Carillion Specifically in response to feedback from the Great Debate, has each year been ranked first in its sector and in the top quartile in 2005 we redoubled our efforts to improve the way we of all companies participating in the Index.
communicate, beginning with around 250 of our senior managers attending workshops designed to demonstrate the Power of Our strategy model, which helps us to map and quantify the Engagement.
By the end of 2005 around 2,000 managers and links between our business objectives and our impacts on the supervisors had attended these workshops.
Good two-way environment and society, continues to form the basis for our communication must be the hallmark of our business leaders sustainability programme by identifying the areas where we need and the benefits of this are increasingly evident in the satisfaction to improve our performance.
and performance of our people.
You can read more about this programme and the benefits it Health and Safety delivers for our business in the Corporate Social Responsibility Carillion has an absolute commitment to ensuring that all our section of this report on page 26.
More detailed information can people can work safely at all times, wherever they are.
This also be found in our 2005 Sustainability Report, which has been commitment extends to those who work with us and those who published on our website at www.
could be affected by our activities, including members of the public.
This requires the continual vigilance and commitment of everyone Strategic objectives involved in our activities to ensure that safe working practices are In order to build on our success in 2005, we have set the always used.
This is supported by rigorous reviews, inspections, following strategic objectives for 2006: training and education, all of which are actively promoted and led by the Board.
Attract, develop and retain excellent people, by becoming an employer of choice: At the end of 2004, we launched a radical new initiative, Target Zero, aimed at eliminating reportable accidents by 2010.
This is an Successfully integrate Carillion and Mowlem: ambitious target, but we are determined to create a culture of zero tolerance to accidents, not only within Carillion, but also within Achieve cost synergies at a minimum running rate of our stakeholders, including customers, suppliers and partners.
10 million per annum by the end of 2006, and be on course Tragically, five people were killed while working on projects under to achieve a minimum running rate of 15 million per annum Carillions management control during 2005.
These accidents by the end of 2007: reinforce our commitment to make Target Zero a reality and its benefits are already evident.
Our Accident Frequency Rate AFR, Reduce net debt to circa 200 million by the end of 2006 and reduced by 35 per cent in 2005 to 0.24 2004: 0.37.
The number be on course to reduce it to below 100 million by the end of of RIDDOR accidents Reporting of Injuries Diseases and Dangerous 2007: Occurrences Regulations 1995 for the Group reduced by 27 per cent in 2005 to 255 2004:348.
We say more about Health and Be on track to deliver materially enhanced earnings for the Safety in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of this report enlarged Group in 2007: on page 26.
More detailed information can also be found in our 2005 Sustainability Report, which has been published on our Be the recognised leader in the delivery of safety and website at www.
Sustainability We believe that our commitment to responsible business practices that create positive impacts on the environment and on the communities in which we operate, is not only good for our own people and for society in general, but also makes good business John McDonough sense.
It is fundamental to delivering sustainable, profitable growth.
Chief Executive 8 March 2006 Our commitment to becoming a more sustainable company began over ten years ago.
Today, we are one of the recognised leaders in developing and adopting socially responsible business practices and
