206697 Report & Accounts Front 20 3 06 7:39 pm Page 6 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT I SAID IN OUR 2004 REPORT THAT WE FORESAW VERY GOOD PROSPECTS FOR CONTINUED GROWTH OVER THE LONGER TERM WHICH WE BELIEVED WOULD DELIVER SUPERIOR SHAREHOLDER RETURNS.
I AM PLEASED TO REPORT THAT WITH VERY POSITIVE MARKET CONDITIONS IN 2005 WE WERE ABLE TO DELIVER OUTSTANDING GROWTH AND, AS A CONSEQUENCE, EXCELLENT RETURNS FOR OUR SHAREHOLDERS.
We remain excited by the growth opportunities available a place where the advice they give to their clients benefits to us in our chosen wealth management market sector and from the St. Jamess Place advice guarantee.
believe that our business is well positioned to further capitalise on these opportunities as one of the UKs The productivity of the Partnership increased by an pre-eminent and trusted face-to-face advisers.
impressive 23% over the year and is now around the same level as its previous peak in 2001, ignoring any inflationary The St. Jamess Place Partnership increase.
We believe there continues to be scope for Our proven adviser-based approach to wealth future increases.
management is built around the experienced members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership.
In the last quarter we were delighted that the Partnership was voted the Best Financial Adviser in the Guardian Observer Our number one goal is to ensure that St. Jamess Place Consumer Finance Awards, a true reflection of their quality.
remains a place where our Partners businesses can continue to grow.
In doing so our retention rate of existing New Business Partners will continue to be excellent and we will ensure New business is measured and presented as annual that we remain attractive to new high quality advisers.
This is the standard industry measure and is the sum of annual premiums plus one-tenth of Membership of the St. Jamess Place Partnership at single premiums.
31 December 2005 was 1,148, up 1.5% over the year in line with the revised expectations we set at the 2005 half year.
The slow growth in Partnership numbers has been our one area of disappointment.
We have put in place measures to improve our recruitment result, including the appointment of a dedicated recruitment Director and some of our most senior and dedicated managers are now solely focused on Partnership recruitment.
We believe that we remain one of the best homes for high quality, trusted financial advisers and that we will see growth in the number of Partners in the future.
When we look around the financial adviser marketplace we see a number of opportunities to attract advisers looking for a financially secure and stable home for their businesses, and 6 206697 Report & Accounts Front 24 3 06 15:29 Page 7 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT continued We have two key new business objectives, firstly to grow corporate and trustee clients and strong investment new business by 15 20% per annum over the longer performance has resulted in our total funds under term and secondly for our own products to represent at management exceeding more than 12 billion for the least 80% of the new business sold.
I am pleased to report first time.
that we exceeded both of these objectives in 2005.
New business growth during the year was 221 million, which The active involvement of our Investment Committee is a 25% increase on 2004.
The manufactured portion of was once again demonstrated with a change to the new business was 83%, up 2% on 2004. management of our Select Managed Fund.
In April 2005 the Committee announced its decision to appoint We have now seen nine consecutive quarters of new Nick Purves of Schroder Investment Management as business growth with the final quarter of 2005, up 39% manager of the UK equity component of the fund.
Our over the corresponding quarter last year resulting in our Investment Committee continues to appoint and monitor highest ever quarter of new business.
some of the best investment professionals with the aim of producing superior investment returns for our clients We were also pleased with the 33% growth in single over the longer term.
premium business which included a 36% rise in pension business along with a 36% increase in unit trust business.
This approach has resulted in many accolades for our In addition regular premium pension business grew by funds and 2005 has proven to be no different.
From a 19% and excluding sales of the non-manufactured Group perspective, we were awarded 1st place over stakeholder pensions the growth was 51%.
3 years in the category of Best Mixed Multi Asset Unit Trust Group by Lipper and awarded second place over Gross fees from our wealth management services rose by 1 year in the Best UK Pensions Group Smaller category 33% to 28.3 million.
The THSP Managed Pension Fund was, once again, awarded 1st place in the Balanced Investment Management Managed Pension Fund Sector by Standard & Poors.
UK equity markets made their third consecutive year of More notably, this was the fourth occasion in five years gains in 2005.
The FTSE All-Share index achieved growth the Fund had received this award.
Our GAM Managed of 22% with income reinvested and most international Pension Fund was also ranked as the best Balanced equity markets made similar advances.
This growth, Managed Pension Fund over 5 years by Moneywise.
together with new inflows of business from private, Investment in IT Systems Over the last three years we have been investing in our technology infrastructure with the aim of improving and streamlining business processing.
Our Service Delivery Infrastructure programme SDI is largely complete and we are now in the process of rolling this out across the company and the Partnership.
The new infrastructure is already proving beneficial in terms of improved business processing, access to client data records and management information.
Regulation and Compliance Once again the regulatory landscape continued to change in 2005.
The key event was the arrival of the depolarised market.
St. Jamess Place adopted the new depolarisation rules prior to the June 2005 deadline.
In most senses this 7 206697 Report & Accounts Front 24 3 06 15:30 Page 8 CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT continued turned out to be very much business as usual for us given the St. Jamess Place Guarantee, which states that the the earlier expansion in the range of products and services St. Jamess Place stands behind and guarantees the advice we offer.
given by members of the Partnership when recommending any of the products and services provided by the companies We continued to expend considerable effort on ensuring in the St. Jamess Place Group.
that our business maintained the highest possible regulatory standards.
We have a good and close working relationship Inherent in everything we do is our desire to be fair and with the FSA whom we regard as a key stakeholder.
reasonable to clients and all our stakeholders.
2006 Developments Outlook The major development in 2006 is Pensions A Day in April The market backdrop remains positive for what we do for where a whole range of pensions regulations will be the following reasons: replaced by a single set of rules.
Following A Day we will be launching two new plans: the St. Jamess Place Retirement Demographics people are living longer and as a Plan and the St. Jamess Place Drawdown Plan.
These result time in retirement is both longer and more two new pension plans will form part of our Retirement expensive, Account currently under development and which will allow Partners and clients to have a consolidated and Economics the burden of funding pensions is complete picture of all their retirement plans in one place, continuing to shift from companies to individuals the St. Jamess Place Retirement Account.
especially with the demise of defined benefit schemes, Investing, building and preserving capital is the centre of Property the increase in residential property our wealth management proposition and our investment valuations over the last decade has meant that for an approach has an enviable long term track record.
We must increasing number of people their estates now fall into continue to evolve and we have recently announced the the inheritance tax net, addition of two new funds to our range: a high interest cash bond managed by AIG and the St. Jamess Place AIM Individuals are increasingly on their own to plan Portfolio managed by Close Brothers and specifically and provide for their own financial future.
No longer designed to offer full Inheritance Tax mitigation.
can they rely on their company and the pension fund trustees to do it for them: they will need to take advice Partners and Employees from another individual whom, most importantly, I would like to echo the comments Mike has already made they trust.
in his Chairmans Statement on the continued enthusiasm, commitment and dedication of both the Partnership We are in a growth market and the Board believes that and our employees and to add my thanks to our whole St. Jamess Place remains well positioned to capitalise on community including our outsourced service providers these opportunities going forward.
Our mission statement for the Partnership is To be regarded as the most professional and trusted provider of Mark Lund advice on wealth management.
The advice is backed by 27 February 2006 8 206697 Report & Accounts Front 20 3 06 7:40 pm Page 9
