6 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Group Chief Executives Review Our strength, diversity and resilience and exibility Standard Chartered is making good progress.
We have a clear strategy and are well positioned to take advantage of the many opportunities in our markets.
Standard Chartered is in diversity in our people so we Performance good shape and we continue can have the best available During 2005 the Group to deliver strong financial talent working for us.
profit before Our customer base has is to be the worlds best taxation, including SC First increased from seven million international bank, leading Bank, was $2,681 million, customers in 2003 to 12 million the way in Asia, Africa and a 19 per cent increase from today.
Income has increased the Middle East.
$2,251 million in 2004. from $4.7 billion in 2003 to Normalised EPS saw an We are seizing opportunities $6.9 billion in 2005.
The Group increase of 23 per cent in our markets, driving value is growing rapidly, organically to 153.7 cents and normalised creation and actively seeking and through strategic alliances return on ordinary shareholders future opportunities.
We are and acquisitions, and has equity was 18.0 per cent.
building diversity in our expanded from 450 branches We intend to be known as products so we can reach in 2003 to 1,200 today.
a Group that delivers good more customers, diversity in our markets so our business The scale of Standard results and also as one that has a broader base, and Chartered is changing.
com 7 breadth give us China and India SC First Bank, Korea 2006 Management Agenda These two major economies In Korea, we re-branded all already make a good 407 branches, 2,100 ATMs and seven kilometres of contribution to our performance Accelerate growth in signage as SC First Bank and we are excited about both businesses, focusing over one weekend and the our future in these markets.
Standard Chartered branch Our network in India covers on priority markets has been integrated into 31 cities with a combined the SC First Bank network.
population in excess of 76 Deepen client relationships The leadership team is million.
India is a country with experienced, established major potential, not just for in Wholesale Banking and is a balance of local and Standard Chartered, but for international executives.
Though Enter new customer segments Standard Chartereds intent increasing competition has led to be a leader in the Korean to short term margin erosion in Consumer Banking financial services industry.
in some product areas, we are confident that Standard The speed and success of the Drive growth and performance Chartered is well positioned integration reects the talent, in Korea to realise the potential offered focus and commitment of our by this dynamic market.
We have been investing Excel in service and innovation The Wholesale Banking in new branches, ATMs, business in Korea is people, infrastructure and progressing well.
We have Lead by Example in new businesses, including an enhanced product portfolio launching a consumer corporate responsibility and a fully operational dealing finance business.
In Consumer Banking in Korea we have launched In China, in 2005 the income 12 new products, including from our organic business the Welcome Back mortgage grew over 80 per cent and campaign which featured we increased the number a one month interest waiver, of directly employed staff and brought in 38,000 new by more than 40 per cent accounts and $4 billion of to 1,200.
Our network new mortgage sales.
now covers 14 cities with a combined population of over When this acquisition was 100 million.
The Consumer announced we said it would Banking business offers be EPS accretive in 2006 services in five out of the 10 and we are very pleased to largest cities in China, including have met this target on a Shanghai and Beijing.
While normalised basis in the managing a profitable second half of 2005. business today we are also We are at the early stages of preparing for the future.
Of our journey but we have made our recent graduate intake a great start.
Korea is a huge from China, 25 per cent are market and we are in a good currently on assignment in position for the future.
other countries, developing Consumer Banking broader skills and perspectives to take back to their market In Consumer Banking, in due course.
operating profit was up 8 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Group Chief Executives Review continued 2005, there were over 240 been impacted by Zimbabwes Euromoney Best Debt House product launches across our economic problems.
in Thailand and Singapore franchises including e$aver, My Euromoney magazine recognised Our client-led strategy Dream Account and LinkOne.
Wholesale Bankings debt finance continues to drive performance Our branch footprint is rapidly capability in two of Standard in key markets and across key Chartereds key Asian markets.
expanding and we now have products.
We are investing for 1,200 branches.
This growth sustainable growth, extending has been fuelled by Korea, our product reach and where the number of branches IFR Asia Domestic Bond increasing our global markets has increased to over 400: House of the Year capabilities.
We have by Indonesia, where, through IFR cited our understanding of expanded our franchise in the local markets... and impressive our stake in Permata, we now a number of markets and capabilities in derivatives and have over 300: and by Pakistan strengthened local corporate structuring in giving the award.
and the Middle East, where teams.
Previous investments we have doubled our branch in key product areas, such as in debt capital markets and network in the past two years.
21 per cent on last year, and corporate finance, are paying income up 41 per cent.
This Consumer Banking has off with excellent growth performance reects very good increasingly balanced earnings across all client segments.
momentum in the underlying streams.
Its focus on wealth business, excellent postProactive risk management management and SMEs is acquisition progress in Korea has been complemented by paying dividends.
and disciplined management a benign credit environment Wholesale Banking of risk and costs.
Excluding with strong recoveries We are continuing to make SC First Bank, operating resulting in a net release.
good progress with our profit was up eight per cent We are continuing to invest Wholesale Banking business.
in regulatory compliance, and income was up 16 per Operating profit for 2005 control infrastructure, risk cent.
Expansion of our was up 22 per cent on 2004, management and technology.
Consumer Banking customer with income up 19 per cent.
segments and products Overall, 2005 was a good Excluding SC First Bank, continues and despite pressure year in terms of performance.
operating profit was up 15 per on mortgage margins, the The Group is now engaged cent and income was up 11 increased breadth and balance on reaching its goals for 2006 per cent.
Client income growth has meant that, overall, the and we have set out our was strong at 19 per cent business performed well.
and was well balanced across We are investing for the future, geographies, products and Management Agenda 2006 developing new products and client segments.
We have To accelerate growth in both client coverage and increasing seen strong growth in most businesses, by focusing on our sales channels.
During key markets, but results have priority markets and Indian products for a new generation With an average age of 25, India presents opportunities for Standard Chartereds products and services aimed at the young.
Online Banking The eCheque payment channel in Singapore underscores the Groups use of technology.
com 9 We intend to be known for good results and for creating a robust future extending our geographic in China aged over 65 and, These are some of the up on the previous year, and and customer reach in India, over 350 million subjects on which we are the increase equates to an under the age of 15.
We additional 400,000 loyal and In Wholesale Banking types of changes have major recognise that to ensure positive customers.
we will deepen client implications for our business.
continued performance we relationships and Our brand promise is to be We will see increased product need to be thinking ahead.
cross-sell more The Right Partner, Leading by segmentation as different age We believe there are Example.
Customer feedback groups have very different In Consumer Banking we three major capabilities is at the centre of everything aspirations and we will have will enter new customer we must have to meet these we do.
Listening to customers to think deeply about how segments, such as challenges.
We must have helps us generate new ideas.
we develop our brand in private banking and a real understanding of our For example in response different markets.
We must have to customer feedback we The environment is becoming the ability to innovate and launched our online cheque Korea is a huge opportunity a major agenda item for all create the right environment template the eCheque and, therefore, a continued businesses.
In markets where for innovation to happen.
We will drive growth In order to do that we must is encouraging and we have and performance we operate there are concerns be able to develop the right patented it.
This is one example about energy, air quality, even Across the Group we will quality of people.
of increasing innovation in water, which may impact our accelerate improvements the Bank and of the type customer base.
We have to Being close to our customers in service and innovation of product that changes pay new attention to resources: is key and our customer the market place.
to how we as a business are It remains our intent to lead knowledge is increasing using them, to our lending by example in corporate all the time.
The Groups As well as customer policies around them and to responsibility.
Our programmes Outserve initiative is making driven innovation, speed to our participation in the debates on diversity, environment, great progress in reaching our market is critical.
The Groups on the future economic avoidable blindness, HIV customers and understanding work in technology in recent impacts of these issues.
and malaria are important their needs.
We carry out years means we have reduced to the communities where world-wide research, providing development times and still Transparency is another we operate, differentiate us with over three million data maintained the stringent evolving area that affects our our brand and make a points from more than 25,000 checks expected of a bank.
More information, difference to current and respondents.
In Consumer For example, we implemented moving at higher speeds, in prospective employees Banking, our survey carried our consumer finance platform many ways presents exciting out in 22 countries told us in India in just 72 days.
opportunities for us, for our Looking forward that in 2005, 80 per cent of employees and our customers.
There are changing trends customers were loyal and Equally, regulatory requirements in demographics worldwide, positive.
This number was which will inevitably inuence and pressures are increasing our business going forward.
and creating something of a In five years time there will burden, despite the positive be over 100 million people motivations behind them.
Leading the way in East Africa Standard Chartered was recognised as the Most Respected Company in East Africa in a survey conducted by  and Nation Media Group.
Based on the views of 300 senior business managers in the region, the award afrms the success of the Groups strategy in Africa.
1.88% e$aver 10 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Group Chief Executives Review continued company wide process that Our strength, diversity and e$aver takes Singapore identies talent at all levels breadth give us resilience market by storm and allows us to accelerate and exibility.
The Consumer Our groundbreaking e$aver the development of the best.
Banking and Wholesale savings account in Singapore achieved its 18-month sales target In 2005, for example, nearly 40 Banking businesses, including in less than a month.
It was one per cent of our high potential SC First Bank, have good of over 200 products launched employees had some form momentum and we are well by Consumer Banking in 2005. positioned to leverage the of job development move and 16 per cent were international opportunities available to assignments.
In our established us in our markets.
To Outserve our customers workforce, turnover of high and to drive innovation we We will maintain our performers and high potential need good people.
Happily, disciplined approach to staff is low.
Last year 80 per the Group is increasingly managing expenses.
We cent of senior management a magnet for talent.
The will continue to focus on appointments were made growing economies and improving productivity and from within the Group.
exciting markets where we sustain our investment in new do business are appealing to Having the right people products, new capabilities many high calibre individuals.
remains key to supporting our and expanded distribution.
We believe Expense growth will be Through our graduate our investment in people now broadly in line with income development programme we will give us real competitive growth for the full year.
recruit and grow the talent we edge going forward.
The We will dynamically manage 2006 international graduate We are working hard to Lead the pace of investment spend programme has received over the Way in the areas which through the year, factoring in 40,000 applications, including will underpin our business both the risk environment and over 19,000 from China.
performance now and in the performance.
Across the Group we are the future.
We will continue to manage developing an increasingly Outlook risks proactively.
In Consumer international, mobile, talented In 2005, the Group achieved Banking, we expect loan young workforce.
good financial performance impairment charges will tend We are committed to talent and made significant strategic to grow in line with the size development and have a progress.
The outlook for and mix of the overall book 2006 is promising.
Whilst though Taiwan will continue to we can never be immune to present some challenges.
For external shocks, we anticipate Wholesale Banking, while the double-digit income growth credit environment in most of across the Group as a whole.
our markets remains benign, The Standard Chartered Greatest Race on Earth The Greatest Race on Earth returned for its second year, bigger and better, with the largest prize pool in athletics of $1.575 million.
The series of four marathons in Nairobi, Singapore, Hong Kong and Mumbai attracted over 80,000 runners in total, including over 40,000 in Hong Kong left.
com 11 Leading the way we are somewhat cautious on Standard Chartered aims to be the credit outlook.
Moreover, The Right Partner to investors, the level of recoveries and releases achieved in 2005 customers, employees and will not recur in 2006. other stakeholders.
Consequently, we expect Wholesale Banking will Stakeholder engagement revert to having a net charge As part of our commitment to corporate responsibility, we want in 2006. to use our skills, products and services to assist communities In summary and economies and to help protect the environment.
Standard Chartered is In 2004 we made clear our resolve to learn from our stakeholders.
We believe that doing so will result in a sustainable corporate We are clear on our strategy responsibility programme that will make a lasting difference.
and well positioned to take advantage of the many We created a formal plan for stakeholder engagement and we opportunities in our markets.
have followed through with this plan in 2005, focusing on the socially responsible investment SRI community, non-government organisations NGOs and the UK Governments development and environmental departments.
In 2005 we held over 50 meetings with NGOs and SRI analysts to understand the concerns and interests of our stakeholders.
Mervyn Davies, CBE We also commissioned an agency to undertake further Group Chief Executive stakeholder research for us.
These discussions shaped our 2 March 2006 thinking on how we can better report our progress and the social and environmental issues on which we should focus.
Reporting on progress Our progress against these issues is published in greater detail on our corporate responsibility website, along with a comprehensive account of Standard Chartereds commitment to and governance of corporate responsibility.
Where possible we also provide numerical indicators against the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative.
Specic reports will be produced in the first half of 2006 on: Social and environmental risks in lending and the Equator Principles Climate change and the environment Responsible selling Diversity and inclusion Community investment and employee volunteering Health, safety and security Tackling corruption We have made good progress but we recognise we still have much to do.
Targets for 2006 have been set for the Group and we are monitoring results.
We believe that corporate responsibility and the drive for long-term profitability are interlinked.
We have reported many aspects of our corporate responsibility activity alongside our business activities in the following Business Review.
For more information, please visit our website www.
