Chief Executive Ofcers Review Overview Your Chairman has already indicated that 2005 was another exciting year for Witan.
It was also a vintage year for the Jim Horsburgh investment markets.
The UK equity market as measured by the FTSE All-Share Index gave a total return of 22% including dividends and the other world equity markets as measured by MFS approach.
In doing so our managers are not trying to beat the FTSE World ex UK Index returned 24.8% including their markets in each and every year but they do expect to dividends in sterling terms.
In comparison the return on UK outperform over longer time periods.
Their long-term historic cash was 4.7% and UK Gilts was 7.9%.
Clearly 2005 was a great track records provide some evidence that they have the necessary time to be invested in equities.
Over the last three years UK and World equity markets have Over the year the Board held fourteen formal review meetings returned 18.5% per annum and 17.6% per annum respectively.
At these meetings the managers were Whilst this most definitely represents a better than par asked to: explain their choice of investments, which enabled the performance, it also reects the recovery in markets following the Board to check that these were within Witan guidelines and in collapse of the dotcom inspired boom.
The economic backdrop accordance with the managers own investment philosophies: for this market performance was not universally favourable.
In provide a detailed analysis of their performance to date and the the last eighteen months US interest rates have risen from 1% to reasons behind it: confirm that no important members of staff 4.5%.
US ination hit a peak of 4.7% in September 2005, as a had left: and re-afrm their investment strategy and philosophy.
result of the upsurge in energy prices.
The gold price rose by Whilst there were many issues taken up during the meetings, at around 15% to $518, normally a sign of some turmoil in this stage the Board retains full confidence in the managers.
investment markets, but this time accompanied by near all-time low levels of volatility.
Closer to home UK growth disappointed The geographical breakdown of the portfolio is laid out on page as tax increases and a slowing housing market began to have an 12.
This reects the strategic asset allocation of the Board and effect.
There was, of course, good news as well, most notably also the stock selection of our two global managers who seek to strong US growth and the recovery in corporate profitability, nd the most attractive stocks they can irrespective of geography.
which, coupled with excess liquidity in the worlds economies, Page 12 also shows the breakdown of the portfolio by industrial was the main reason for the rise in markets.
sector and page 13 lists the twenty largest holdings in the portfolio as a whole.
This list is interesting because, not only does Overall Witans net asset value rose by 20.3% which was in line it include the largest UK companies which one would expect with our long term benchmark and benefited from a number of given that the UK represents almost half of our invested your Boards decisions: on asset allocation, particularly our portfolio, but also such companies as Cemex, the Mexican overweight allocation to Japan and the rest of Asia: on gearing: cement and concrete manufacturer, Philips, the European and from the impact of share buy-backs as explained in the electronics company, Olympus, the Japanese manufacturer of Chairmans Statement.
In aggregate, therefore, the managers optical products both for the consumer and the healthcare underperformed as can be seen from the table on page 11.
This is markets, Nipponkoa, a Japanese insurance company, and Dell, probably explicable, in a year of strong performing markets and the US computer manufacturer.
This list underlines the global low volatility, as most of our managers invest, taking a long term nature of Witans portfolio.
view on individual companies that they believe will show superior performance the Brandes and Southeastern approach or What now follows is a more detailed review of the portfolio by because these companies are expected to grow faster than the strategic segment.
market as a whole the Henderson Smaller Companies team and 6 UK at 21.3% was disappointing after the outperformance in the The UK equity portfolio is managed in two parts: the UK previous two years and reected some specic situations.
In mainstream portfolio is managed by the Henderson UK particular, Games Workshop fell after issuing a profit warning on Enhanced Index team and provides Witan with a relatively lowthe back of a fall in sales.
This position has been sold in the risk exposure to the UKs largest companies: the UK smaller expectation that recovery was uncertain and likely to be companies portfolio is actively managed by the Henderson protracted.
In addition a number of the top ten positions in the Smaller Companies team.
This combination gives Witan a portfolio including WS Atkins, a consulting engineer, Domino strategically overweight position in smaller companies, an area Printing Sciences, an ink jet equipment manufacturer, and that tends to outperform in the long term.
Interserve, a diversied construction company, produced lacklustre share price performance after outperforming in 2004.
The UK mainstream portfolio outperformed its benchmark in Henderson are confident that these holdings are all set for a 2005 see table on page 11.
The Henderson team view was that much better 2006. investors were paying too much for income and had shunned growth companies which had, as a result, become attractively On the plus side Savills, a property agency and consultancy priced.
Their strategy therefore was to bias the portfolio towards business, and WSP, a consulting engineer, performed very companies that were expected to deliver strong earnings.
strongly on continual earnings upgrades.
The portfolio also Overweight positions in Man Group, the hedge fund manager, benefited from a number of take-overs including Domnick Isoft, which provides software to the healthcare industry, Punch Hunter, a ltration company, Scottish Radio Holdings, a media Taverns and Enterprise Inns, which all reported strong earnings company, and Westbury, a housebuilder.
growth throughout the year, contributed to this outperformance.
As did an investment in Hilton Group which, as well as The portfolio once again had success in the year with corporate announcing positive results, also announced the sale of its hotels placings and new issues.
This area was buoyant with AIM being back to Hilton International.
Investments in economically favoured for new companies joining the London market.
The sensitive and cyclical stocks also added value with BAE Systems, portfolio invested in a number of new issues including Cobham, Meggitt and Corus outperforming.
The most negative Carluccios, the restaurant chain, Shed Productions, an impact was the holding in Marconi which fell dramatically after independent TV production rm, IBS Opensystems, a software the company failed to win any part of a large contract from their provider for Local Government, and Hansteen, a Continental largest customer BT.
An increase in corporate activity also benefited the portfolio Henderson believes that even after three years of strong gains which had overweight positions in Wembley, which completed the outlook for UK smaller companies is still favourable.
its break-up in July, and Skandia, which was subject to a bid Returns should be less spectacular than the recent past as a sluggish from Old Mutual, where the portfolio was underweight.
UK economy and high commodity prices depress corporate earnings Investments in Initial Public Offerings IPOs such as Party growth.
However valuations are still reasonable, global economies are Gaming, IG Group, Kazakhmys, New Star Asset Management robust and ongoing high levels of corporate activity support prospects and Gondola Holdings also added value.
Small companies in the UK continued to be strong performers.
Global The Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index ex investment We have two global managers, Southeastern who at the end of companies returned 27.8% following a very strong performance 2005 managed 215 million for Witan and MFS who managed in 2003 and 2004.
However, performance of the Witan portfolio 146 million.
They have very different approaches to managing 7 Chief Executive Ofcers Review continued these portfolios as can be seen from the manager descriptions on ideas that Southeastern are nding are mostly in other countries page 11.
Southeastern might be loosely described as a value now that most investors think they must own something in manager, although they will invest in growth companies Japan!
provided the price can be justied by their exacting criteria and they understand the business.
MFS is classied as a growth Southeasterns performance was hindered primarily by General manager but will only invest in growth at the right price.
There Motors and their media related holdings.
General Motors GM is are, however, similarities.
Both are stockpickers, paying little, if probably the most controversial holding in the Witan portfolio any, attention to index weightings or geography and as a result and Southeastern comment as follows: No name is as controversial both will see their performance deviate from indices for long or garners as many questions as our GM investment.
Both take a long term view: and found little results and ongoing challenges in the North American car and truck attraction in oil and commodity companies in 2005, two areas business have received much media attention and taken pessimism that outperformed strongly.
They both hold Dell Computers and about the company to historic levels.
The North American challenges Walt Disney.
On the oil sector, MFS noted that the future are real, and our appraisal accounts for them.
We assess almost no investment required to replace current oil reserves will be signicantly value to the worldwide car and truck business which includes some higher in the future than in the past, leading to the potential for very profitable overseas operations as well as the North American depressed returns.
We continue to attribute the bulk of GMs worth to its finance company GMAC.
GM is moving forward to improve the cost Whilst Southeasterns short-term 2005 performance fell below structure of the auto business and get value recognised by pursuing the Witans benchmark, by their own benchmark to exceed ination sale of a majority interest in GMAC.
We believe that management, the by at least 10% they achieved their goal.
Of course, they will board and other significant investors are focussed on improving the only get paid a performance fee if they exceed the target that the issues faced in North America.
Witan Board has set them, namely to beat the FTSE World Index, but in the long term they and your Board believe that by Within the media sector, although each company Southeastern achieving their objectives they will comfortably achieve Witans.
owns Comcast, DirecTV, Discovery Holding, Liberty Media and Walt Disney has its own set of unique drivers and competitive Cemex was the Southeastern portfolios best performer.
It is the advantages, the industry as a whole fell out of favour.
Wall Street third largest cement company in the world and Southeastern appears uncomfortable with the uncertainty that a changing purchased the company at the end of 2004 when its stock fell competitive landscape is creating.
The next five years will bring following the acquisition of RMC in the UK.
Although change, but increasing cash ows at the best companies are Southeastern are normally wary of acquisitions, the purchase of driving their underlying values upwards.
So these media related RMC produced phenomenal results.
The stock price now investments have a much larger margin of safety inherent value somewhat reects these results, but the best news is that over the less price than a year ago, and are among the most discounted year Southeasterns estimate of Cemexs value has risen by over a names in the portfolio.
Overall, Southeastern remain very confident that their portfolios The portfolio also benefited from Japans return to favour.
Three can grow at above average rates over the next five years.
of the top five contributors to performance were Japanese companies.
At the non-life insurance companies the impact was MFS also underperformed the FTSE World Index in 2005.
Not only did the stock appreciate, but the value of their from their under-allocation to resources, this was caused by stock large investment portfolios grew with the markets gains.
Perhaps selection within the information technology sector where not surprisingly, given their approach, the new international holdings in Symantec, Dell and Oracle underperformed, and the 8 cyclical services sector where Kingsher, Walt Disney and News improved as a result of a reduction of capacity in the airline Corp lagged the market.
Elsewhere, holdings in European industry.
industrial companies Atlas Copco and Schneider were strong performers as market demand and improved cost management Returns in this portfolio in 2005 were held back by the low combined to drive profits for both companies to higher levels levels of volatility in the US equity market.
Despite a pick-up in than market forecasts.
volatility in July, strong corporate results, robust employment data and rising economic indicators led to an overall decrease in MFS is also optimistic for 2006.
2005 was a strong year of risk aversion and volatility languished at levels not seen for a absolute returns for most financial assets, including stocks.
Even Hurricanes Katrina and Rita had little impact.
process and approach remain unchanged as we enter 2006: we Nevertheless, the managers retain their view that a return to remain stock pickers, despite the focus of many investors and more normal levels will ensue.
commentators on short term moves in currencies, commodity prices and economic data.
We seek to add value through long-term, Henderson comments: We are optimistic for our prospects to fundamental research into individual companies, rather than continue to perform well in 2006, with the lower risk prole that is a attempting to make broad sector or regional calls.
As the year hallmark of our multi-manager approach.
As opportunities to generate begins we continue to see a pick-up in corporate activity including alpha continually appear, migrate and disappear across our investable mergers and acquisitions, higher capital spending and share buyuniverse, we are confident we have the right team, strategy and backs which should offer compelling opportunities for investors.
We infrastructure to exploit them successfully.
have recently found that the investment climate is becoming more favourable to investment opportunities in higher growth stocks with Europe large market capitalisations.
As these are areas where the portfolio The Witan European portfolio is managed in a very tends to focus over time, we hope this will translate into concentrated manner by the European Research team at competitive returns for our investors.
During 2005 it was Wellingtons view that the European equity markets were very North America attractive as expectations were very low whilst non-energy The Witan North American equity portfolio is managed in a low cyclicals and growth stocks offered good value.
Although the risk manner by Hendersons Enhanced Index team.
In 2005 they market did rise strongly, Wellingtons stock selection beat its benchmark by a small margin and since inception of this underperformed over the year.
This was primarily due to stock strategy for Witan are 0.8% ahead of its benchmark.
Positive selection within the Healthcare and Telecoms sectors and their returns were achieved from being overweight in Ultra Petroleum underweight position in the Energy sector.
Elan was the major and Williams and underweight in Andarko and Dominion detractor when it fell sharply after the company withdrew its within the energy sector.
In addition positions in Arch Coal and main product, the multiple sclerosis drug, Tysalin, from the Peabody Energy outperformed as a result of an increased interest market.
Wellington had most success during the year in the in coal as an alternative to oil.
The portfolio also benefited from Financials sector and growth stocks within the Consumer bids for Ivax Corporation, the pharmaceutical company, and Staples sector where holdings such as Pernod Ricard and Guidant, which designs and develops cardiovascular medical Numico, a company which specialises in baby foods, devices.
Positive returns were also derived from investments in outperformed both the sector and market.
In addition the IPOs such as Diamond Food, Builders First Source, US Airways banks, Capitalia and UBS, and the insurance companies, AXA which emerged from bankruptcy, I Robot and Premium and Zurich, added value over the year.
Standard Farms and secondary placings in Google and AMR, the parent company of American Airlines whose performance 9 Chief Executive Ofcers Review continued This portfolios performance improved markedly in the final a massive change in our portfolio.
In fact we made a conscious quarter and Wellington is confident that this can continue.
We decision to stick to our present portfolio instead of going for a massive have had a positive end to a disappointing year, but we fully believe facelift, after painstakingly reviewing every stock within the portfolio that the relative recovery will continue in 2006 as the market comes to recognise more fully the earnings potential of your portfolio holdings.
It is interesting to note as well that quite a few of our stocks went up between 20% to 60% from the bottom in the last few months without Japan any change in fundamentals or newsows just like the way they Witans Japanese portfolio is managed by Brandes, a bottom-up, declined without much reason in the first three quarters of 2005. value-orientated equity manager who believes that buying Amongst these stocks are Kingboard Copperfoil, Xinyi Glass, Meiloon businesses at a discount to their true value will produce superior Industrial, Handsome, a manufacturer of womens clothing, and long-term returns.
Brandes underperformed in 2005 but because Chaoda Modern Agriculture.
This is in line with our investment of their investment style this is not a matter of concern for them.
philosophy we believe that stocks can be mispriced by the market While we monitor short-term events in Japanese equity markets, our from time to time but eventually fundamentals will prevail.
We also investment philosophy focuses on company-by-company analysis with a believe that the markets will gradually price the other stocks in the long-term perspective.
In all market environments we search for and portfolio correctly over time.
hold what we believe to be fundamentally sound companies trading at significant discounts to our estimates of their fair values.
We believe Outlook that this strategy will provide patient investors with favourable results.
Whilst it is unlikely that equity markets can continue to rise at the rate seen in the last three years, relative to other assets Within the portfolio advances for holdings in the commercial equities still appear to offer reasonable value.
At some point, banking and pharmaceutical industries made the most substantial however, we should expect to see greater volatility in markets.
Top performers included Sumitomo This is not necessarily bad news as along with this volatility will Mitsui Financial Group Bank and Eisai, a pharmaceutical come opportunities for our managers to acquire stock cheaply.
Investments in the media and insurance industries also outperformed.
The Board remains confident in the ability of our chosen managers to outperform but is not complacent monitoring and Asia Pacic excluding Japan questioning managers and their performance and looking for Witans Asia Pacic portfolio is managed by APS.
Although this new opportunities compatible with the desired performance and portfolio underperformed throughout 2005, like Wellingtons, risk prole of Witan Investment Trust plc.
It is committed to there was a very sharp turnaround in performance in the fourth enhancing long-term shareholder value, as can be evidenced by quarter.
Aided by a massive inow of liquidity into Asia, its actions of the last two and a half years.
The Board is therefore stockmarkets around the region performed very well.
Sectors actively seeking further opportunities to add value to the Trust in which make up a huge part of the index such as property and the coming months and years.
nancials outperformed at the expense of manufacturing stocks and smaller companies, areas where APS is overweight.
APS point out that In a liquidity driven market as such, active managers like ourselves had a hard time justifying our decisions to hold on to stocks that are persistently out of favour notwithstanding their very cheap valuations and improving fundamentals.
Our performance turned around quite dramatically in the fourth quarter.
What is more Jim Horsburgh significant is that this turnaround in performance was not the result of 9 March 2006 10
