Chief Executives Review In 2005 we saw the highest wholesale gas and power prices since Centrica was formed in 1997 and the greatest year-on-year rises in the cost of both fuels.
Overview of the year Sir Roy Gardner, Chief Executive The substantial rise in wholesale prices clearly presented a massive challenge for all energy retailers and in particular for British Gas, as the largest supplier of both gas and electricity to the residential marketplace.
The result was the unfortunate but inevitable round of tariff increases across the industry.
British Gas innovative product propositions and the marketing and selling efforts of the team minimised the impact on our customer base, with customer losses in the second half of the year substantially lower than the first half.
With the unprecedented rise in commodity costs we chose not to pass through the full impact immediately to our customers.
This led to a substantial fall in British Gas operating profits, down by 63% on the previous year, with an operating loss in the second half.
We managed to offset some of the commodity impact on the business by fundamentally reviewing and streamlining all non-customer-facing activities and at the end of the year we achieved a major goal in the transformation of British Gas with the first large-scale migration of 1.25 million customer accounts to our new billing system.
We also laid out a cost reduction plan which will take us to 2007 and beyond Operational highlights with the aim of becoming the lowest cost-to-serve provider.
We continued to sharpen our strategic focus during the year culminating in the sale of Onetel.
We are proud of the 1.25 million customers moved to new billing system fact that we built Onetel into a strong business that is a Sale of Onetel reinforced focus on energy serious competitor to BT.
The ability to offer a competitive telecoms product remains important but our priority is to British Gas Services turnover exceeded 1 billion deploy our capital closer to the energy core of our business.
North American operating profits up 40% We successfully strengthened our upstream business by acquiring interests in three North Sea gas and oil elds that Expanded presence in Europe with two have a production prole which maximises value during this strategic acquisitions high commodity price environment.
We acquired the remaining Centrica Storage operating profits more 40% of the Humber power station in a further move towards than doubled our optimal vertical integration position in electricity.
Strengthened upstream asset position The other businesses in the Group contributed over a third of the total operating profit in the year.
The results of Centrica Storage were particularly impressive with operating profit in the year equivalent to half of the original acquisition price in 2002.
The eld delivered almost 100% reliability, testament to the enhanced level of investment from Centrica.
Reecting the greater appreciation of the value of storage, standard bundled units SBUs for the 2006 07 storage year were entirely sold out by December 2005.
In British Gas Services we continued to invest for future growth.
By the end of the year we had more than 300 new fully qualied engineers and had also completed the including joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation, and before exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
4 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Chief Executives Review continued nationwide roll-out of the engineer deployment system to include asset positions as well as further contracts and we to all central heating engineers.
Even against this backdrop will seek to add further fuel diversity to our electricity portfolio.
of investing for growth, operating profit rose by 54%.
We will complete the construction of our second wind farm, British Gas Business managed to strengthen its position our first offshore, at Barrow, giving us access to the total in an environment of rising input costs in the UK.
offtake from a 90MW source of green power.
With the relevant The North American business once again proved an permission, we, along with our partners, expect to move our extremely valuable asset with continued growth.
We also plans for another LNG terminal for the UK at Canvey Island to extended the reach of our energy business in continental the next stage: a terminal which could be capable of delivering Europe with the acquisition of Oxxio BV, an innovative lowan annualised gas capacity of 5.4 billion cubic metres BCM cost organic growth business in The Netherlands, and a by the winter of 2010 11.
We will carry out the initial seismic 25.5% stake in SPE SA, a Belgian generator into which we surveys to establish the feasibility of our licence blocks in rolled our Luminus energy retailing operation.
This provides Nigeria which, if viable, we could begin to develop as early us with a substantial platform for growth in this strategically as 2008. important area.
We expect the overall profitability of our upstream In summary it was a year in which our fundamental view business to be ahead of the previous year with a reduction of the value of gas enabled us to optimise our portfolio.
I am in volumes from Morecambe of around 20% being more pleased that once again we delivered a robust set of results.
than offset by the still-rising gas price and increased production from other elds of around 20%.
We expect the 2006 operating plan losses on the large legacy sales contracts to increase, leading Looking forward it is already clear that the year will again to an operating loss in the industrial and wholesaling segment be dominated by the cost of sourcing gas and electricity for currently forecast to be in excess of 300 million.
The increases in the market forward curve forced additional supplementary tax charge on gas production profits our decision on customer tariffs in February, with demandwas effective from 1 January 2006.
Towards the end of 2005 weighted market costs of gas and electricity already 68% we reviewed and restructured some aspects of our upstream and 49% respectively up on 2005. operations which may reduce the overall Group tax charge.
Assuming no positive impact of this restructuring, the 2006 British Gas Residential Energy charge would be in the region of 58%.
In British Gas we will be concentrating our efforts in the first half of the year on minimising the impact of the pricing British Gas Services decision on the customer base.
The size and strength of In British Gas Services the new team will be establishing our sales force and the new propositions we are offering will the optimal structure and growth plans for the business to support these efforts.
While there can be no guarantees in maximise the opportunities in a wider customer arena while such a volatile wholesale market we hope to avoid any need maintaining a close link to the residential energy business.
for further price rises this year.
We will concentrate on Although the rate of bottom-line growth of 2005 may not controlling both our cost of goods and the operating cost be repeatable we expect operating profit to continue to grow base of our entire business in a year when the British Gas at a rate commensurate with the market opportunities.
cost base will be challenged by the need to dual-run systems and train our customer service agents as we complete the British Gas Business roll-out of the billing platform.
In British Gas Business we will concentrate on the development of a new systems solution which will enable Centrica Energy the operation to take full control of its pricing structures by Upstream we will continue to pursue the ideal integration migrating all of its customers from the legacy British Gas position to support a business with our levels of demand in Residential Energy systems.
We would expect the system gas and electricity.
We will maintain our disciplined approach to roll-out in 2007.
Even after the anticipated increase in to value creation as we investigate the opportunities to source expensed spend of 14 million in 2006 we anticipate being commodity for the long term.
We expect these opportunities able to keep operating profits broadly at year-on-year.
including joint ventures and associates, net of interest and taxation, and before exceptional items and certain re-measurements.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5 Chief Executives Review continued Centrica Storage will enhance service, reduce costs and aid customer retention.
Centrica Storage is forecast to have another year of Centrica may face further turbulence in the commodity improved financial performance, with all 2006 07 SBUs sold markets, but the results of 2005 clearly show a strong out at substantially higher prices.
The multiplier within the SBU underlying business.
pricing formula rose by almost 10% from 2.3 to 2.5 between the 2005 06 and 2006 07 storage years, reecting increasing recognition of the value of storage.
We will continue to invest in the maintenance and upgrade of the eld with a view to creating further storage space going forward.
Sir Roy Gardner, Chief Executive 23 February 2006 Centrica North America In North America there are many opportunities to develop our business.
We will continue to grow our electricity and gas sales to business customers in Canada, Northern US and Texas, and in Ontario the re-opened residential electricity market offers good growth potential.
Upstream we will expand our coal bed methane operations in Alberta and integrate our third Texas power station, which was acquired early in 2006.
We will work to minimise any impact of the transition out of the Price-to-Beat PtB mechanism in Texas at the end of 2006.
This will include the re-shaping of our organisation to reduce the overall cost base and lay foundations for further growth.
Europe Further expansion in Europe remains high on our management agenda.
We will continue to lobby heavily for increased transparency and open access to the wholesale markets and faster progress towards real competition in the retail markets, building on our successes to date.
We intend to investigate all opportunities to grow in areas close to our current retail positions although it is not yet clear whether deregulation will occur rapidly enough to present meaningful opportunities in 2006.
Summary In summary the year ahead will be difficult but we have laid rm foundations.
The inroads we have already made into the cost base of our business, the clear roadmap to a lower-cost environment, the systems solutions we are successfully putting in place, the continued growth in services and internationally and the progress in our upstream business, all give us reason to be positive about the future of Centrica.
Market conditions are volatile but our priorities remain unchanged.
In this challenging environment we will search out opportunities to advance our wider strategic aims while we continue to drive through operational improvements which 6 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Business Overview 8 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review 10 Corporate Responsibility 16 Group Financial Review 18
