Chief Executives statement Today, BT is a very different company from the one that I joined three years ago.
As our customers needs have changed and continue to change, so we have found and continue to nd new ways of meeting those needs, investing in innovative products and services which add value to our customers and to BT.
That, after all, is what being a service company means.
In 2005, convergence is at the heart of BTs strategy.
record of meeting the needs of public and private sector By convergence, we mean the ability to bring together customers in, for example, the financial services and our capabilities and capacities in new ways to make life government arenas.
better, simpler and cheaper for our customers.
For our Our networked IT services order intake for the year was business customers this means productivity over 7 billion.
improvements: for consumers its about new, easier to use services.
For customers of all kinds it means a more Broadband joined-up communications experience.
Broadband has been an enormous success story, not just So, for example, we offer our major corporate for BT but for the UK as a whole, which now has the customers around the world a unique marriage of our highest levels of broadband access of any country in the networking experience and infrastructure with IT services.
We hit our five million broadband These used to be separate offerings, often supplied by lines target a year early.
different companies, but were bringing them together in As broadband access becomes a fact of life for most one place.
This means that however much their people in the UK, our focus is shifting further towards the operations are dispersed around the globe, our customers retail market where we have fantastic scope to drive can communicate and operate as one, anytime, further growth.
anywhere, and at lower cost.
Having got broadband, people now want to do more What were doing in the mobile market is similarly and more with it.
We are increasing speeds by up to four about convergence we aim to offer customers a times at no extra cost to our retail customers.
converged combination of the best of xed and the best of mobile.
Ultimately, our customers shouldnt have to Convergent mobility services worry about xed or mobile when what they really want is The launch, in partnership with Vodafone, of our mobile freedom and exibility.
This means that we have to nd virtual network operator in both the business and ways of helping them communicate, wherever they are, consumer markets is the key to building a mobility using whatever device they choose, at the right price.
customer base and a path to mobile convergence.
We And convergence is also what our twenty-first century now have over 372,000 contract connections.
network 21CN programme is all about.
What our Our strategy is to build a foundation for the delivery of customers need to know is that the 21CN can support a high-value, xed mobile convergent solutions, for range of technologies and services that will enable them consumers and businesses.
An early example of this will to do the things they want to do faster, more seamlessly be Project Bluephone which will give customers the and more cost efficiently.
And because this new network convenience of a mobile phone with the quality and cost will support a wide range of innovative services which are advantage of xed-line services.
currently run on separate networks, it will be much more cost efficient for BT.
Twenty-first century network Our 21CN will help to make the UK one of the most Global networked IT services advanced telecommunications countries in the world, We have raised our global prole through targeted transform our wholesale business and support the next acquisitions, including Infonet and Radianz, and by generation of exible, cost-efficient services.
At the end of increasing our holding in Albacom to 100%.
April 2005, we announced the eight preferred suppliers We continued to play to our strengths in the who will help us to implement the 21CN.
A few years ago, our The capital expenditure involved is significant but the position in this market was aspirational: today, we are 21CN will lead to a radical simplication of our networks competing with the best and winning.
The BT brand is making it easier to offer compelling propositions to all our now a powerful presence in the global networked IT customers.
The real challenge is to ensure that we invest services market.
Its a brand that stands for excellent in a way that meets customers needs.
networking skills and a genuine commitment to nding innovative ways of delivering what our customers want, Traditional business end to end, leaving them free to do what theyre good at: We are experiencing major changes in our traditional running their businesses.
markets as a result of regulation, growing competition Our ICT information and communications technology and significant shifts in our customers buying patterns, revenues were 3 billion in the year and the major as they discover the possibilities of technologies such as contracts weve won indicate the confidence that our instant messaging and voice over IP.
customers are prepared to put in us.
We now have a track 4BTGroup plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 Fixed-voice telephone calls may no longer be the only way Our people to measure the success of a communications company, People bring strategies to life, people deliver world-class but they remain fundamental to our business.
We may customer experiences, people make convergence happen.
have lost some market share to competitors but we will Two years ago, we introduced our new brand values continue to compete aggressively by offering new and trustworthy, helpful, inspiring, straightforward, heart.
better services, and improved customer value.
Since then, BT people have embraced these values, and turned the business inside out and upside down to Cost efficiency deliver our strategy, nding innovative ways to reinvent Taking a leadership position on costs is critical.
Earnings BT in our traditional markets at the same time as per share is a key measure, which means that we have to establishing our BT brand in new markets, all the while continue to look at every cost line in the business and driving down customer dissatisfaction.
Weve made excellent progress on improving Iam constantly amazed by their commitment and by our cost efficiency in the past few years and in the 2005 what they have achieved.
financial year, our cost efficiency programmes achieved savings of around 400 million, and we aim to deliver at least 300 million to 400 million of savings in each of the next three years.
Relentless customer focus Our 20 million customers are a wonderful asset and we have to continue to show how much we value every one of Ben Verwaayen them.
Chief Executive A key target for us was driving down customer 18 May 2005 dissatisfaction weve reduced dissatisfaction levels by 23% on a compound annual basis over the past three years.
There is still more to be done and we must continue this focus.
Chief Executives statement BT Group plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2005 5
