Chief Executives overview Our customers mineral reserves in California.
In the Throughout 2005 as previously, a key UK, capital expenditure includes kiln aim has been, and will continue to be to refurbishment, plant automation and make Hanson a truly customer focused information technology projects.
We believe we should treat our upgrades were completed in Australia customers in the same way we would and additional mineral reserves have expect to be treated ourselves with been secured in Spain.
Acquisitions and disposals 2005 performance summary Our strategy to enhance shareholder I am very pleased with the performance value includes the acquisition of we have delivered in 2005.
We have companies which extend our existing achieved double digit earnings growth, operations or geographies.
In addition, completed a significant number of our aggregates acquisition strategy helps valuable acquisitions and increased maintain our long-term mineral reserves our returns to shareholders.
and resources position, which totalled 15.9bn tonnes at the end of 2005.
Operating highlights Group turnover increased by 9.8% to Eleven transactions were completed 3,715.7m 3,383.0m, of which 4.2% in 2005 for a cash cost of 342.9m was due to the acquisitions we made in 88.4m and included the acquisition 2005.
Excluding acquisitions, most of the of Mission Valley Rock, which secured 5.6% increase was due to increases in over 54m tonnes of reserves in the San selling prices.
Price increases have been Francisco Bay area.
The acquisition of necessary to recover those higher input Sherman Pipe expanded our presence costs that could not be absorbed through in the southeast region of the USA.
Cost control is an integral In the UK, the acquisitions of Thermalite part of our operational culture and and Marshalls Clay Products have we continue to strive to be the lowest extended our building product ranges.
Disposal proceeds received in 2005 In total, group operating margin totalled 50.3m in the year and included increased by 0.3ppts, despite the the sale of Hansons 50% interest significant increase in costs, and the in Campbell Concrete and Materials operating profit before impairments in Texas and 19 ready-mixed concrete increased by 15.4% to 488.8m.
In 2005, we have achieved double Excluding acquisitions and property digit earnings growth, completed income, operating profit before Safety a significant number of valuable impairments from the existing business We continued to improve the safety acquisitions and increased our returns grew by 13.6%.
The majority of our of our employees.
For the first time to shareholders.
six divisions contributed to this growth since the group safety records were Alan Murray with a 38.8% increase from the UK maintained there were no employee Chief Executive, Hanson PLC Aggregates division, 25.1% from work related fatalities in 2005.
Our Australia & Asia Pacific, 20.2% from US focus in 2006 is to reduce the number Aggregates and 8.7% from US Building of accidents and unsafe acts.
These are excellent results and more than offset the difficult markets Operating outlook for our UK Building Products and Demand in the US is expected to Continental Europe divisions in 2005. remain strong but may decline in the UK and Australia.
The increase in Investing highlights energy costs incurred in the latter 191.8m of capital expenditure was part of 2005 will impact our annual cost invested in capital projects to maintain base in 2006, despite our cost reduction and to enhance our existing operations.
We will work closely with our In line with our ongoing capital customers to deliver premium products expenditure policy, we aim to remain and services whilst remaining disciplined disciplined and biased towards projects on selling prices.
which will have superior risk return ratios.
In the USA, construction has begun on replacement pipe and precast manufacturing plants in Texas, Arizona and Florida and the construction of a new greenfield roof tile plant near Jacksonville in Florida.
In addition, we completed the quarry replant at Bridgeport, Dallas and secured further Chief executives overview Continuing operations 3
