Operating and financial review Chief executives overview Progress in our support services businesses has been excellent Business performance Having recently signed an eight-year 1.1 billion contract This set of results is a further milestone in the implementation of to operate the north of England gas distribution network, the our strategy, which we put in place over five years ago.
Progress in contract successfully commenced on 1 June, with around 1,100 our support services businesses has been excellent.
We have now employees transferring from National Grid Transco to United established United Utilities Contract Solutions as the UKs leading Utilities.
The network of around 36,000km provides gas to more utility infrastructure outsourcing business, and Vertex as the third than six million people across the region.
largest business process outsourcing company in the country.
During May, Vertex completed the acquisition of Marlborough In addition to good profit growth in our licensed multi-utility Stirling, a provider of outsourcing services and technology to clients operations business, we accepted the final price determinations for in the financial services sector, to give Vertex an entry point into both our water and electricity businesses in December.
We believe that Marlborough Stirling has significant the efficiency targets set are demanding, the final proposals allow untapped potential that can be unlocked by combining its sectoralmost 350 million more revenue than the initial draft determinations, specic knowledge with Vertexs expertise in business process reecting welcome movement on the part of the regulators in outsourcing.
We have identied immediate opportunities to response to our representations.
Having made preparations in deliver efficiencies of around 6 million per annum, on a full-year advance of receiving these proposals, we have plans in place basis, from the acquisition, mainly derived from a reduction in which we believe meet the challenges set for us.
The second stage of our rights issue, which is due later this Despite difficult market conditions, our telecommunications month, will make an important contribution to the funding of business, Your Communications, substantially reduced operating our regulated capital investment programmes over the 2005-10 losses in the year and achieved break-even in the second period.
In addition to the 2.9 billion programme that was set half of the year.
Our strategy for Your Communications remains out in its final determination, United Utilities Water is expecting unchanged.
We are continuing to develop the business with a to spend approximately another 200 million as a result of carryview to its disposal when shareholder value can be maximised.
over of obligations funded during the previous regulatory period.
Outlook Furthermore, we estimate that there is potential for up to With prices in our water and electricity businesses now xed for approximately 500 million of additional investment relating to the 2005-10 period, and with plans in place which we believe will projects that were not part of our regulatory contract for 2005-10. meet our operating and capital efficiency targets, our regulated Including United Utilities Electricitys 640 million investment businesses benefit from some of the most predictable index-linked programme, our regulated businesses could be required to spend income streams over the next five years.
over 4 billion on capital investment over the next five years.
Growth in earnings from our licensed multi-utility operations Our non-regulated businesses now contribute over 40 per cent of the business is complemented by growth in our non-regulated groups external revenues and for the first time have generated more activities.
Having recently secured substantial new long-term than 100 million of operating profit in a single year.
During the past contract wins with public and utility sector clients, United Utilities 12 months, they have also secured a number of substantial new Contract Solutions and Vertex have excellent prospects for the contracts with an expected total value of around 3.3 billion.
Looking forward, public sector outsourcing potential looks Recent significant deals include a 15-year 1.5 billion contract promising, offering good further growth prospects for our support renewal with Dwr Cymru Welsh Water, and a five-year contract services businesses in the medium term.
win with Southern Water, which is worth around 750 million to the consortium in which we are a major partner.
Including our own operations in the north west of England and our ongoing contract to manage Scottish Waters capital investment programme, United Utilities is involved in the operation or management of assets for four water companies in the United Kingdom, representing around John Roberts 35 per cent of the industrys asset base.
This means we can target Chief executive significant economies of scale, particularly through the procurement of materials and services and the transfer of best operational practice between the group and its partners.
United Utilities Annual Report & Accounts 2005 3
