Statement by the Chief Executive, Stephen Hester It is my pleasure to write this having enjoyed an active first six months at British Land.
The Company, its people and its assets are everything I was expecting and I am greatly optimistic for British Land s future.
Strategy As this is my first letter it makes sense to update you on British Lands strategy, characteristics and the evolution we are now embarked upon.
British Land has long been about growth, quality and security in its chosen markets and brings to this focus an entrepreneurial spirit, a willingness to change and to embrace opportunity.
These tenets are grounded on a deep understanding of both property and financial risk.
British Land fully appreciates the value of firm foundations to the portfolio and the Companys role as a safe investment vehicle for its shareholders, but one which nevertheless delivers superior bottom line performance.
The Company has a strong bias to high quality real estate for its core, a portfolio feature that can often be undervalued in bull markets but is essential in less certain times.
And I should add to these core themes, three business principles.
At all times, clich though it may be, the primary mission is to deliver superior shareholder value: we need to be unafraid of radical change but equally happy to sit on our hands where that is the wisest course without being misled by temporary market fads.
We must stay true to medium and longer term value trends: especially as many real estate decisions are made with at least five to ten years progression in mind.
Companies which do not maintain a clear focus on where and why they will be good at what they are doing can come unstuck, which of course is a lesson well rehearsed in other sectors.
That is not the same as saying a company can only do one thing, or can never nurture new initiatives far from it but it does encourage an important strategic discipline.
Finally, I believe in staying at the forefront of investor friendly behaviour: in disclosure and transparency: in straight talking and in open listening.
British Land has already distinguished itself in this respect and we plan to take a further step by introducing quarterly reporting at the end of 2005 along with the early introduction in this Annual Report of new and fuller Operating and Financial Review reporting.
8 The British Land Company PLC The British Land Company PLC Business results As to the prospects for our industry, it is encouraging Turning to our business results for 2004 5, British Land that rents appear to be affordable in most sectors of the delivered a total return of 22.4% underlying which economy.
The yield shift that has occurred is supported even after charges for Broadgate refinancing and Stamp by the fundamentals, particularly in comparison to Duty increases was still 16.6%.
These attractive returns alternative asset classes and we see some more to maintain our successful record relative to our major come.
Investors know that the risks and returns of competitors.
So investor demand Portfolio activity was high, as the Company showed for property has been exceeding supply as a process its distinctive ability to add value through purchases, of reweighting takes place, and the prospective sales, partnerships and developments.
These skills will establishment of REITs seems likely to support this trend.
remain important to complement organic growth in our However, it is important to note that we will continue to long-term cash flows.
manage our business on the bedrock of our properties During the year we took full advantage of many and their cash flows not for the ebbs and flows of opportunities to improve our assets.
The misfortunes of transaction pricing and activity.
Allders became the route to installing Debenhams at the To achieve the changes we target, and to continue Queensmere Shopping Centre, Slough, at the Peacocks to make our shareholders money, one resource remains Centre, Woking and at the Eastgate Centre, Basildon.
The talents and British Land also bought the Allders store at Clapham experience of British Lands management are well and leased it to Debenhams.
Additionally a range of recognised and it is our prime responsibility to retain, other retail, office and leisure assets have been develop and renew our team.
I would acquired, strengthening the portfolio in sectors where like to thank my new colleagues at British Land for all their the Companys managers have a proven record of efforts in 2004 5 and their results in which we can have adding value.
But I should also thank them especially for Nearly all the portfolio enjoys high occupancy, is of a warm welcome and a fine inheritance!
prime quality, with excellent covenants on long leases.
In turn the bias to quality allows room for greater adventurousness in trading or development as well as in financial leverage.
British Land is intrinsically low risk, and its properties are therefore able to support gearing through debt on fine terms.
We thereby improve Stephen Hester Chief Executive shareholder returns at modest total risk compared to 24 May 2005 the less visible but very real challenges that too much secondary property can bring.
The future Our portfolio is well positioned for the next few years though we will continue to actively reshape it.
55% is in top quality retail property, dominated by out of town assets benefiting from long-term fundamental growth trends that will endure a more challenging retail climate.
This is complemented by our prominent and prime exposure to the London office cycle with both investments and future developments and is well protected against the downside of short leases or of secondary buildings or of unpromising locations.
On management matters, we are focused on adding to our capacity for pro-active asset management and strong customer orientation.
We also have introduced a regular, disciplined and dispassionate assessment of our assets.
Each asset in the portfolio has to be established as having good prospects for the future or we will lessen our capital exposure to it over time.
