17 BRIXTON u CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Strategy As we reported a year ago, our turnover for the preceding 12 months comprised 1.5bn worth of investment property totalling approximately 22m sq ft.
The net effect of this and our activities in 2005 has added 8.8m sq ft of accommodation to our portfolio in the last 24 months and more importantly we have demonstrated our value enhancing capabilities.
We have been delighted with the results from the 100m acquisition of properties in Trafford Park, Manchester in 2004 and the 675m Industrious portfolio.
The half year results showed an immediate exceptional performance from our new acquisitions and the total return from Trafford Park since acquisition has now been 30.8% and 24.8% from the Industrious portfolio.
Brixton continues to be active and we have also remained focused on our core West London market where we have 8 development schemes either just having been completed or potentially due to commence this year.
The Company has proved that it is able to move into related markets and enhance value quickly primarily through our focus on income generation which is closely linked to the customer service approach that we operate through B-Serv.
We do aim to act more rapidly than our competitors and our size and structure enables us to achieve this.
We are keen to recycle capital as can be seen by the extent of our disposals where we have been capturing value created and re-applying it particularly to new areas of opportunity and the development programme.
Brixton and B-Serv continue to manage and invest in our two institutional joint venture partnerships, Equiton and Heathrow Big Box, where we saw respective valuation surpluses of more than 14% and 19% in the year and geared returns on capital employed of 33% and 48%.
Brixton has been involved in the debate and representations over draft UK-REIT legislation.
In last weeks Budget a number of key changes to the draft legislation published in December 2005 were announced including a reduction in the interest cover test to 1.25 times from 2.5 times and measures to deal with the maximum shareholding requirement of 10%.
The conversion charge will be set at 2% TIM WHEELER CHIEF EXECUTIVE of the market value of investment properties for those companies electing to join the REIT regime.
We 27 MARCH 2006 welcome these proposals and look forward to reviewing the legislation to be included in the Finance Bill and subsequent guidance published by the Treasury over the next few months to assess the benefits of conversion to a REIT for our shareholders.
Outlook Investor interest in the commercial property sector remains strong and property during 2005 saw a total return of 19.1% compared to 18.3% in 2004.
Yield compression has continued across the sectors and is reflected by the reduction in our net equivalent yield over the last 3 year ends from 7% to 6.5% to 5.9% last December.
Given low levels of inflation and modest perhaps even falling interest rates in the UK, the property yield gap still appears attractive.
The case for property is, however, predicated upon assumed levels of rental growth and it is this area that perhaps could cause some concern going forward.
General levels of rental growth remain muted and when yield compression finally ends it will be those organisations that have proven an ability to out-perform on the rental side who will create shareholder value.
Brixtons record is unmatched during 2005 our ERV growth was approximately 4 times the indices at 4% and we achieved 8.4% enhancement over the valuers estimates on the lettings completed.
On our new developments completed in 2005 we are achieving rentals on average 7% higher than in our viability appraisals which already allow for profit.
Even excluding Trafford Park and Industrious, we let over 80% more space last year than in 2004 and the level of rental growth that we saw in our core portfolio accelerated in the second half of 2005.
We believe our competitive advantage is set to continue.
