Chief and Deputy Chief Executives review 2005 has been a truly great year where we have seen significant developments in the business and excellent returns to shareholders.
We remain confident that we will deliver continued outperformance in the future.
Financial results The underlying return of 18.4% is above our target range of mid We are pleased to be able to report strong financial results for to high teens which we aim to deliver to our shareholders over 2005.
Highlights include: the long term.
It excludes the 4.0% extra provision for stamp duty made when the Chancellor removed relief for disadvantaged areas.
Return on equity before exceptional items of 36.6% This had a bigger impact on The Mall and Junction Funds than other 2004: 39.0% funds in the relevant IPD index.
Adjusted fully diluted net asset value per share up to 975p, Fund performance 37.3% increase Each fund has outperformed its benchmark on both a geared and ungeared basis in each of the last three years: 28.6% increase in the full-year dividend to 18p 2004: 14p.
Fund performance over last three years Background to the financial results Geared Ungeared IPD IRR Our 36.6% return on equity is high, significantly above our longreturn % return % % term average.
It arises from a strong underlying business model, Mall 2003 33.5 21.7 15.2 significantly boosted by the general growth in retail property values.
Mall 2004 26.0 19.6 17.1 Our total return can be broken down as follows: Mall 2005 22.8 16.5 16.3 Junction 2003 28.2 17.7 16.6 Breakdown of total return 2005 2004 Junction 2004 35.6 24.0 23.5 % % Junction 2005 34.1 23.3 22.1 C&R hurdle Underlying return 18.4 17.5 X-Leisure 2004 nine months 18.0 11.4 8.9 Yield shift 22.2 21.5 X-Leisure 2005 28.3 15.3 12.0 No SDLT relief in disadvantaged areas 4.0 Total return before exceptional items 36.6 39.0 The Mall Fund is measured against the IPD Shopping Centres index, and The Junction Fund against the IPD Retail Parks index.
The Leisure sector is much smaller and our properties form a significant part of it, so we are measured against an absolute return of 12%.
Martin Barber Xavier Pullen Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive Capital & Regional 5 Chief and Deputy Chief Executives review continued Our strategic approach Changing capital markets The directors believe that success in the property business The equity markets available for property are changing.
requires the right assets, the right money and most significantly the right people.
Offshore investment companies have already raised large sums through Guernsey and the Isle of Man to invest in The right assets: we buy property in sectors where active high-yielding property.
management can add value, and where there is long-term strategic strength.
We like sectors where there is reason to expect long-term Onshore, there is the prospect of a tax-efficient investment rental and value growth, caused for example by tight planning vehicle in the form of a REIT which would be easier to run restrictions, or clear market trends.
The right money: this encapsulates not just the choice of bank, C&R is, in its present form, unlikely to convert into a REIT, but we but also finding the right equity investors and channelling their are monitoring developments closely, and will react to opportunities money into property through the right corporate and tax structures.
In the meantime our current business model is Our current structure enables us to address two different equity working well.
markets institutional property investors wanting specific types of property exposure, and equity market investors interested in Market conditions property as a business.
Capital markets may well change over the During early 2005 there was much talk of a retailing slump.
next few years, driven by changes in tax legislation, the possible However there were no major problems for our business, except introduction of a UK REIT and the emergence of tax-efficient in some small sub-sectors, and trading improved later in the year.
We would expect to adapt to new We benefit from the dynamism of the market, and so far we have market conditions as they arise.
been able to treat retailer failures as opportunities to improve the tenant mix.
The right people: one of C&Rs distinguishing features is its willingness to build up strong specialist management teams.
Future prospects We currently have three sector-specific divisions, each with a track We have enjoyed three years of positive yield shift, rental growth record in its sector, and each with its own finance and accounting and close to full occupancy.
There is good reason to suppose that resource, marketing, leasing and in some cases HR.
The corporate these trends have further to go, but if they do not our businesses team at the centre works mainly on business development, IT, should still prosper.
Cross-divisional committees on HR, marketing, construction and banking encourage information sharing and Yield shift: there is a huge weight of money seeking exposure to cordial relationships.
good quality retail property which may well drive further yield shift.
Equivalent yields of 5% to 6% still make sense against an index Business development linked gilt rate of under 1%.
Our two recent initiatives, in Germany and in trade parks, are consistent with the strategic approach outlined above.
Rental growth: there is a dynamic UK retail sector underpinning future occupancy and rental growth.
We have seen a small number In Germany we spent nearly two years developing our relationship of failures, but very few long-term vacancies.
We enjoy working with the Hahn Group before we invested.
We believe they are the closely with the retailers and we think that our active management right people to manage our German retail warehouse portfolio.
approach will work well in bad times as well as good.
Although we own 87.4% of the equity in the portfolio and have legal control, they are treated as partners and we benefit from their Overall we can report that the Company is in good shape and we knowledge in the local market.
look forward to continued success in the future.
Our trade parks portfolio offers a significant opportunity for us to add value.
They will use their experience of developing the retail Martin Barber Xavier Pullen park sector, to build a new niche business primarily serving trade Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive rather than the ultimate consumer.
We believe that they have the tenant contacts, planning expertise and ability to assemble a larger portfolio built upon the 68 million portfolio acquired from the T3 fund.
