Chief Executives Review Allan Cook, Chief Executive Defence spending in the USA The Aerospace Systems Group reported relatively Introduction continues to be robust flat revenue, with sales impacted by the disposal 2005 has been a successful year and the start of a of Fluid and Air in November and the acquisition transformational process.
We have delivered a strong Good visibility of US and UK of H Koch and Sons.
Organic growth in trading financial performance, successfully integrated our defence priorities profit for the Air Refuelling and Auxiliary Mission largest acquisition to date and completed a strategic Equipment Division was particularly strong and review which is a defining point for Cobham.
Civil aerospace market remains this, together with other operational performance Implementation of this strategy is proceeding well buoyant with good progress in reshaping the portfolio with improvements, more than offset transaction value already being derived from disposals, and with exchange headwind.
Cobhams technology focus improvements in operating performance.
aligns with customer demands Margins in Flight Operations and Services have Market in Context normalised following the exceptional result in Excellent organic growth The UK Defence Industrial Strategy DIS and the 2004.
Revenue was slightly up and trading profit prospects and order book Quadrennial Defense Review QDR in the USA reduced reflecting higher bid costs, fuel price have provided good visibility of priorities.
increases for outsourced flying for the Australian US military budgets continue to rise with renewed resource industry, and lower profitability on the emphasis on intelligence, communication and renewed Qantas contract.
the efficient and safe deployment of assets, areas where Cobham is a market leader for land, Prospects sea and airborne platforms.
Our proven technologies and those under Cobhams strategy development position us well to take advantage Cobham will continue to benefit from the of the evolution and growth of the aerospace growth in aircraft and passenger numbers in the and defence market, where we serve a wide range commercial and civil markets, for both fixed and of civil and military customers.
Customers increasingly place Enhanced shareholder value a premium on products that enhance the safety, Looking ahead, we will secure additional benefits through profitable growth efficiency and utility of platforms, which align from portfolio reshaping and the operating with the Groups technology focus.
performance improvement programme, and investment in R&D.
The Group continues to seek Business Overview acquisitions and to dispose of some smaller 2005 was a successful year for us with doublecompanies, both of which will enhance Focus digit growth in revenue, trading profit and shareholder value.
Drive on leading Build underlying earnings per share and an improvement operating technology capabilities in operating cash conversion to 99%.
Across the People performance positions Group we were successful in winning some major Finally, let me extend my thanks to our people.
contracts that will underpin our future growth.
We achieved an immense amount in 2005 New order intake increased by 24%.
The order driven by the passion, energy and commitment book at the end of March 2006 was more than of our people.
It is a privilege to lead this world- 1.8bn including the new Coastwatch contract.
Chelton had a very strong year.
As well as the acquisition of REMEC Defense & Space Inc. REMEC, the performance was underpinned by double-digit organic growth in revenue and trading profit.
This performance has been driven by a relentless focus on technology investment Allan Cook, in new products that meet very demanding Chief Executive customer requirements.
