UK CHAIRMANS ST CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ATEMENT In the face of continuing challenges, particularly in our product business, we completed a fundamental review and realignment of our UK strategy in the first half of 2005.
This, in turn, led to a major reorganisation involving the creation of separate Product and Services Divisions.
This strategic programme required considerable management time and attention during 2005.
However, by the year-end, the benefits arising from these changes were already beginning to become apparent.
In particular, the separation of our product and services activities has given both areas sharper focus and added new impetus to our efforts to restore top-line growth, whilst delivering operational improvements and cost reduction.
At the heart of the organisational change has been the transformation of our UK operations into seven discrete and highly empowered business units, which operate largely with a shared sales force.
This new structure provides two principal benefits: a more focused and bottom-line driven management of Computacenters core activities, and a sales force that is now freed of its previous responsibilities for the operational management of services delivery and therefore better able to concentrate on expanding the new business pipeline.
Cost control remains a priority, with overall headcount in the UK falling 3.5% from 4,754 to 4,589 over the course of the year.
Of these reductions, 146 were in indirect SG&A sales, general and administration expense categories.
Services Division A key focus of our services business during 2005 has been standardisation in order to reduce operational costs and improve customer service.
This has allowed us to reduce the provision of dedicated on-site resources in favour of a centrally provided, shared-resource approach for the delivery of our engineering, help desk and systems management offerings.
In particular, we created a single engineering resource from over 2,000 staff previously dedicated to different functions and The separation of our UK product and services activities has given both areas sharper focus and added new impetus to our efforts to restore top-line growth, whilst delivering operational improvements and cost reduction.
In Germany, we saw a recovery in networking and datacentre technology revenues, fuelled by server consolidation and storage projects.
Our largest French account resumed expenditure in H2, having renewed its contract with Computacenter for a further four years.
COMPUTACENTER PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 06 contracts.
This makes it easier to assign the most appropriate Support Services specialist resource where it is needed, as well as helping to Our Support Services business unit includes services such achieve higher levels of utilisation.
Our success in lowering as installations and maintenance of desktops, datacentres operating costs and building a more streamlined service and networks, user help-desk support, and disaster recovery.
delivery model has helped improve the competitiveness Support Services activities differ from Managed Services in of our offerings.
that they involve more day-to-day customer instruction, as opposed to a contractually defined service level agreement.
The total services revenue in 2005 was 267.2 million and our annual contracted base increased 4.6% to 177.1 million.
We saw 5.1% growth in engineering and maintenance revenues compared to 2004.
Support Services operating The Services Division comprises three business units: costs fell as a result of a 10% reduction in logistics costs, Managed Services, Support Services and Technology record levels of engineer utilisation, better supply chain Solutions.
management of spare engineering parts, and leverage of our European scale in purchasing.
Managed Services Our Managed Services business unit is contractually Technology Solutions responsible for the management of our customers IT The Technology Solutions business unit is responsible for infrastructures, with the goals of reducing their costs and professional services, including integration and project improving their user service levels.
management services, and the provision of expert advice across a range of platforms and technologies.
To accelerate the growth in our Managed Services business a number of initiatives were begun in 2005 aimed at targeting Overall Technology Solutions revenues were broadly our offerings more effectively, reducing operational costs and unchanged.
However revenues from cabling projects grew delivering a more efficient service.
Central to these initiatives is strongly and we saw a 14% increase by volume in enterprise the leverage of common processes and central resources, hardware related projects.
We are now seeing a healthy shared across the whole Services Division.
pipeline of Technology Solutions projects for 2006.
Considerable work has been done to define more clearly our In 2005 we sought to broaden and deepen our Technology core Managed Services propositions and match our offerings Solutions portfolio, redeploying our consulting skills in new more closely to customers requirements.
In particular, we growth areas and particularly targeting the more businessnow have offerings specifically designed to meet a growing critical areas of IT infrastructure.
This has led to the demand for cost-effective managed support of datacentres, establishment of six solutions units, providing consulting and for ensuring 24x7 IT systems availability.
services in the areas of datacentre, storage, communications, Microsoft technologies, security and cabling.
Considerable Significant new Managed Services business in 2005 work has been done in each of these areas to define more included the award of a five-year global contract with a clearly a portfolio of propositions aimed at delivering major investment bank, a major contract with British American demonstrably attractive returns on investment.
Tobacco, and the renewal of our contract with AEGON UK for a further five years.
A major focus in 2006 will be the A number of significant Technology Solutions projects negotiation of the renewal of our flagship Managed Services were undertaken in 2005, including the design, testing contract with BT which, unless the renewal is accelerated, and deployment of an upgraded IT infrastructure for the comes to the end of its term in March 2007.
Prescription Pricing Authority PPA, which is required to UK MANAGED SERVICES GERMANY MANAGED SERVICES FRANCE MANAGED SERVICES CONTRACT BASE CONTRACT BASE CONTRACT BASE YEAR-END MILLION YEAR-END MILLION YEAR-END MILLION 99.2 14.5 177.1 169.3 12.8 152.4 82.9 10.3 64.8 2003 2004 2005 2003 2004 2005 2003 2004 2005 ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT T AND ACCOUNTS 2005 AND ACCOUNTS 2005 COMPUTACENTER PLC 07 help reduce the cost of prescription processing in England.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Computacenter has also been contracted to provide ongoing support of the PPA infrastructure under a five-year Managed Services agreement.
Product Division In 2005, Computacenter experienced a 7.3% decline in UK product revenues, reflecting continuing intense price competition and the efforts of certain major vendors to sell direct.
The adverse financial impact of this revenue decline was compounded by substantially inferior vendor terms.
The gross profit from our product sales over the full year fell by 35.2 million, of which 27.0 million was attributable to lower vendor rebates.
The new Product Division comprises four business units: Corporate Hardware, Software, Computacenter Direct and CCD.
Corporate Hardware In Corporate Hardware, we saw a significant shift in demand away from commodity PC and notebook products towards enterprise-class technologies, including high-end servers and networking products.
In particular, we saw high growth in sales of enterprise products from IBM, Sun, Veritas, Cisco, EMC, Oracle and BMC.
The substantial increase in product revenue in the last weeks of 2005 was primarily related to sales of these kinds of products, which generally attract higher levels of margin.
To help us streamline our sales processes and make them more cost-effective, we have undertaken a number of initiatives intended to introduce a lighter-touch sales model in the UK.
A significant development in this area has been the retraining and realignment of our Sales Support function.
This is designed to provide a more proactive product advice service and grow revenues with existing customers, as well as allowing us to monitor the commercial terms of relationships more closely.
We have also deployed a new internal sales administration system, which simplifies the order process and improves our ability to identify opportunities for alternative or supplementary sales.
More of our business was conducted online in 2005, with GROWING COMPUTACENTER DIRECT LEVERAGING CENTRAL RESOURCES We continue to invest for growth in Computacenter Direct, which The sharing across the whole UK Services Division of central targets the UK medium-sized business sector.
The unit now resources, such as the Service Support Centre, is helping us comprises over 50 employees, with 35 new salespeople reduce operational costs and deliver a more efficient service.
COMPUTACENTER PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 08 11% of orders now placed via our webshop, Computacenter Revenues from this business unit increased steadily through Connect, a major revision of which is due in April 2006.
2005 to approximately 4 million per month, and product margins were above those achieved from our traditional large We introduced or are developing a number of innovative corporate accounts.
We continue to invest for Computacenter procurement services designed to make our offerings more Direct growth: the unit now comprises over 50 employees, competitive.
This includes the Computacenter Recommends with 35 new salespeople recruited during the year.
portfolio of products, launched in H2 2005, which is a range benchmarked for its high value and low cost, and offers CCD customers highly compatible and readily available technology.
CCD, our trade distribution division, had a disappointing year.
The operation saw a significant decline in profitability due to Nonetheless, the Corporate Hardware business unit continues margin pressures in a fairly stagnant market.
This is the area to experience challenging market conditions and reducing of our business where the adverse changes in vendor terms margins.
The trading terms and conditions with HP, our major have had most impact.
In addition, the prospect of channel vendor partner, deteriorated still further following our annual consolidation has led to increasingly aggressive price renegotiation in November 2005.
However, the decline was competition between distributors.
modest and we do not expect this to have a material effect on profitability in 2006.
In the face of these challenges, CCD embarked upon a major operating cost reduction programme in 2005, reducing Software headcount by 15% and relocating to lower cost premises.
Our new Software business unit provides software procurement consulting, sourcing and asset management services.
RDC Our technology recycling and remarketing operation, RDC, Our software business grew 4.6% in 2005 to revenues of had a difficult 2005, only managing to break even over the over 134 million following the establishment of this specialist full year.
H1 was particularly poor, due to a low level of business unit and the ensuing renewed focus on this area.
new desktop and laptop implementations by some large customers, reducing the need for RDCs recycling services, Considerable work was done in extending our licence coupled with the delayed introduction of the WEEE waste management capability to include a wider range of vendor management legislation in the UK.
offerings and adding new personnel and skills to the business unit.
Twelve new customer propositions were defined and To answer customers changing requirements more effectively matched against market requirements, with the overall aim in the light of the legislation, cost reductions achieved over of helping customers avoid unnecessary software spend the year were channelled into the launch during Q4 of a and gain greater control over their software assets.
Computacenter Asset Recovery Service CARS for the management of end-of-life computer technology.
To accelerate growth in this area of business we have also invested in new systems that allow us to track customers We are confident that the launch of CARS, together with software procurement cycles and so identify licence renewal successes already achieved in a number of major accounts or extension opportunities at an early stage.
this year will take RDC back into profit in 2006.
Computacenter Direct Germany Through our new venture Computacenter Direct, we are After an operating loss of 1.5 million in the first half of 2005, targeting the growing market for IT product and services in Germany returned to profit in H2, recording a full year profit of the medium-sized business sector, where the scale benefits 5.0 million 2004: 9.0 million on full year revenue decline of our logistics infrastructure offer real competitive advantage.
CREATING A SINGLE ENGINEERING FORCE GROWING OUR SOFTWARE BUSINESS Over 2,000 staff in the UK previously dedicated to different In the UK, we grew our licence management revenues and functions and contracts now work for the centralised Technology extended our capability to include a wider range of vendor Resources Group, helping us assign the most appropriate offerings.
We also saw strong growth in Germany as customers specialist resource and achieve higher levels of utilisation.
continue to standardise their applications suites.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 COMPUTACENTER PLC 09 2005 was a difficult year for Computacenter Germany with CHAIRMANS ST CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW ATEMENT CONTINUED further decline in the traditional desktop and laptop product resale business, reflecting the weak economic climate and the impact of vendors selling direct to end-users.
However as our customers began to release more capital for IT projects in H2, we saw a recovery in networking and datacentre technology revenues, fuelled by server consolidation and storage projects.
We also saw strong growth in software licensing sales as customers continued to standardise their applications suites.
Overall, our services business performed satisfactorily considering the market conditions, with revenues growing by 5.8% over 2004.
Service margins recovered strongly after a disappointing H1, in part due to a successful renegotiation of a particularly problematical contract.
Professional Services resource utilisation was high across projects, consultancy and customer engineering and we have a strong pipeline for these activities for 2006.
Our Managed Services business enjoyed growth above the market in 2005.
Significant successes included the securing of a contract to provide maintenance services to the telecommunications company Telefnica, which will transfer its Field Engineering division to Computacenter in an outsourcing agreement.
In our interim report we said that our reorganisation at the beginning of the year had four key objectives: to improve our focus on the medium-sized business market: to sell a broader range of products and services to existing customers: to sharpen our focus on the growth areas of Government and Financial Services: and to improve relationships with our key vendor partners.
We began to see progress on all these objectives during 2005.
However, the full impact of our improvement plan is unlikely to be evident until 2006.
France Following a very poor first half, performance improved substantially towards the end of the year, resulting in revenues that were broadly unchanged on 2004.
Nevertheless, GROWING MANAGED SERVICES TAKING ON CUSTOMER EMPLOYEES We saw Managed Services contract base growth across all In Germany, Telefnica is to transfer its field engineering division geographies, as customers looked to us to reduce their costs to Computacenter in an outsourcing agreement.
1,600 of the and improve their user service levels.
UKs current total of over 4,700 staff joined the Company through TUPE transfer.
COMPUTACENTER PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 10 the Computacenter France operating loss deepened to Belgium, Netherlands and Luxembourg 9.3 million 2004: 6.7 million, partly due to the cost of In Q1 2005 we extended our business to the Netherlands, restructuring the business.
establishing a small office in Amsterdam.
Overall, our Benelux business showed a slight loss of 0.1 million The partial recovery in H2 was achieved despite continuing 2004: profit of 0.0 million with a 5.4% decrease in intense price competition and was partly due to seasonal revenues to 19.9 million 2004: 21.0 million.
factors, with the French market for IT products typically more buoyant in the second half of the year.
The most significant achievement in Benelux was the award in December 2005 of a three-year renewal, with extended In addition, our largest French account, Le Ministre fide scope, of our global desktop Managed Service with SWIFT.
la Dfense, resumed expenditure in H2, having renewed We also saw the renewal of our desktop services management its contract with Computacenter for a further four years.
agreement with Clearstream in Luxembourg, contracted through Expenditure had been suspended for nine months whilst our relationship with Group Deutsche Brse in Germany.
the contract renewal was put out to competitive tender.
This had a material impact on overall Computacenter France revenues, negatively in H1 and, as spending recovered to well above normal levels, positively in H2.
The effects of our major transformation project also began to be realised in the second half of the year.
A substantial effort was made to rectify the inconsistent revenue stream and consequent low utilisation levels in Professional Services.
We also achieved a material improvement in our indirect cost base, with a total of 56 staff entering the formal redundancy process, which will lead to savings in 2006.
In addition, we saw a material improvement in the profit performance of our maintenance operation following the major re-engineering project begun in 2004.
This has also given us a growing pipeline of new maintenance contracts.
Whilst the costs of the transformation project have adversely affected profit performance in 2005, we believe we have made significant progress towards Computacenters eventual return to profit in France.
As we continue to focus on delivering revenue growth and reducing operating costs, our aim is to reduce loss in 2006 and break even in 2007.
Significant wins included a major Managed Services contract with Air Liquide, including international help desk services MIKE NORRIS provided by our multilingual support facility in Barcelona.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER NETWORKING AND SERVER GROWTH INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT FROM BARCELONA In the UK and Germany, we saw a significant shift in demand In France we won a major Managed Services contract with away from commodity PC and notebook products towards Air Liquide, including international help desk services provided enterprise-class technologies.
by our multilingual support facility in Barcelona.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 COMPUTACENTER PLC 11
