Total returns on our UK industrial properties at 18.4 per cent were identical to the Investment Property Databank IPD industrial index.
In 2005 we made good progress against our key target voids such as the prime site taken by Research In Motion BlackBerry on the Slough Trading Estate.
We report a profit before tax, excluding valuation gains and exceptionals of 120.4 million, unchanged on last year reflecting the generally flat rental trends in 2005 and the disposals we made at the end of 2004.
We delivered a record level of lettings of over 364,000 sq.
m. and, although this was to some extent offset by space returned, in many cases space was brought back in order to create fresh redevelopment opportunities.
The UK achieved significant progress with voids down from 12.1 per cent to 10.9 per cent.
A key differentiator for SEI is our major 2005 has been an exceptional Slough Estates International SEI has development programme and much of the year for the Company.
We are delivered a strong set of results, making good vacancy we record therefore represents an now seeing significant benefits progress on a number of key objectives.
Similarly, from the changes initiated in 2003. acquisitions of portfolios with voids will Ian Coull Our flexible business space focus is now firmly naturally increase our vacancy levels but, Chief Executive in place, representing 94 per cent of our actually, represent a significant opportunity portfolio.
In markets showing little if any rental for us.
Stripping out recent major acquisitions growth we have been very actively managing and completed development sites, the our assets for value, delivering a 22 per cent underlying SEI vacancy is down from 9.8 uplift in net asset value NAV.
We have grown per cent to 8.1 per cent.
our floor space by 34 per cent to over 4 million sq.
m. under management and we are building We have been actively managing our assets on our position as the European leader in this for value locking in gains by making specialised area of flexible business space.
disposals 136 million profit against book In 2005 SEI bought and sold 895 million of value in 2005 and reinvesting where there are assets.
Over a two-year period, SEI has been greater opportunities.
Our profit performance involved in approximately 1.8 billion worth was achieved despite the loss of significant of transactions.
In 2005 we made major income from those assets sold as part of the acquisitions in North America, the UK and in recycling programme.
particular in Continental Europe, where by the end of the year we had doubled the size of our Strength in both NAV and profit resulted in portfolio.
By the end of 2005 our development total returns for the year of 24.8 per cent.
pipeline had grown to 2.5 million sq.
m. with Our strong financial performance, coupled an expected aggregate expenditure of some with confidence in the future performance of 2.6 billion, and we are well placed to realise the business, has led the Board to recommend its value potential.
a final dividend of 11p per share, making the total dividend for the year 17.5p per share, The 22 per cent increase in NAV per share was an increase of 9.4 per cent on 2004. driven not only by market yield compression but also by direct management input from the Outlook record level of lettings, from a valuation uplift 2006 has got off to a good start.
We have in our development projects and from an uplift achieved 100,000 sq.
m. of new lettings in in the value of the assets acquired during the Continental Europe and we have seen an early year.
Heywood and Woodside alone delivered increase in the level of UK leasing activity year-end valuation gains of almost eight per leading to a further reduction in vacancy rates cent since the acquisition of the holding entities by the end of February.
Whilst there has been in mid-year.
Similarly, the US acquisitions some limited evidence that rental levels are delivered almost 10 per cent of uplift since edging up, we do not expect to see significant 06 Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 growth in market rentals in 2006.
There is Overview UK Focusing our portfolio further evidence of yield compression in the The portfolio in the UK is at the heart of our 2005: 94% Flexible business space early part of 2006 but the indications are that business and, although we are expanding our Sector % this is not likely to be as sustained as we Continental European business, we expect Industrial 66 experienced in 2005. the UK to remain the financial driver for the Suburban Office 14 Group for the foreseeable future.
The UK R&D 14 The recent dynamic pace of change continues.
business performance has been flat for a Our focused business model and our core few years, so we took the decision at the Retail 6 areas of expertise leave us well positioned to beginning of 2005 to significantly change the generate strong levels of returns for investors.
We changed our We are in good shape.
in-house management structure from the previous functional reporting model and The portfolio created six new, market-facing geographic The Groups investment and development regions, each headed by a Regional Director.
portfolio is summarised in the table below: This change has created a clear ownership of the value creation within each region and has Good valuation surpluses were achieved ensured that business decisions are now in all regions, countries and asset classes.
taken on the basis of this overall value creation Particularly strong performances were rather than on a narrower, functional basis.
delivered in the Slough Trading Estate and The new regional teams were created at the in North America the latter building on beginning of April and we believe that the several successive years of strong excellent financial performance in the second performance and the Slough Trading Estate half of the year was due substantially to the benefiting from an improved product offer cultural change which has followed this and a marketing re-launch.
We expect to see more benefits emerging this year and beyond.
Total returns of 18.4 per cent on our UK industrial properties were in line with the IPD industrial index.
Passing rent at 31 December 2005 as a percentage of property valuation, including vacant space and land.
Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 07 Chief Executives review continued The Slough Trading Estate is one of Europes building up strong relationships with a number best known business facilities and is, we of international businesses who want support believe, the biggest single trading estate in in developing across international boundaries private ownership in Europe.
Over the last two and we believe that there are many multiyears, we have recognised that the traditional national organisations who want to enter into industrial businesses which have been at the partnership arrangements to deliver their heart of the Slough Trading Estate are no space requirements.
longer in such profusion in the UK and we recognised that, if the Estate was to continue During the year we made two significant in its premier position in Europe, then it needed corporate acquisitions which are helping us to some radical re-thinking.
Accordingly, in October deliver our vision.
In July we acquired 60 per we re-launched the Trading Estate with a new cent of Mainland BV which is a Netherlandsbranding, underpinned by an improved service based development company, specialising offering, and have launched a master-planning in the light industrial and suburban office exercise designed to ensure that the Estate market around Amsterdams Schiphol airport.
continues to develop by attracting The acquisition not only brought substantial contemporary business users in the future.
development opportunities for around We expect to see these positive changes 100,000 sq.
m. of new business accommodation directly reflected in the value of the Estate but, also, an established and well respected in the years ahead.
team of professionals whom we have now embraced into the Slough family.
Our Major acquisitions in the UK notably included relationship with Jelle Kuiper who owned the the holding entities owning Heywood and business and retains the other 40 per cent of Woodside industrial parks.
The UK also the company is very strong and we could achieved a record 224,000 sq.
m. of lettings exercise our option to acquire the balance in 2005. of 40 per cent at an appropriate time as the business develops.
The 50 50 joint venture HelioSlough was created in 2004 to provide us with access to In December we acquired the Central the UK logistics market where we were underEuropean development arm of a Dutch represented.
In its first full year of operating, engineering company, Grontmij, and as a result it has succeeded in making a profit before have secured development opportunities in tax of 0.6 million SEIs share, which is ahead a number of new countries in Central Europe.
We are now represented in Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary and we also have We have been very successful in acquiring options for development sites in northern Italy a number of new opportunities, and the and Hungary.
As well as the 80 ha that we have prospects for HelioSlough in 2006 and acquired, we have been joined by an excellent beyond are very encouraging.
The high team of professionals who all know the level of post year-end activity has resulted in markets in which they operate and who have a 42 million of pre-funding agreement being been swiftly integrated into the Group.
We are secured for HelioSloughs 70,000 sq.
m. optimistic about achieving good performance speculative distribution facility at Nimbus Park, in these new territories as evidenced already near Doncaster.
in 2006 by the pre-let to a major US company of a 43,000 sq.
m. distribution and Overview Continental Europe manufacturing facility.
At the Interims in 2004, we announced that we planned to significantly expand our operations Meanwhile our organic programme has also in Continental Europe.
We have had accelerated and we have acquired some development and investment programmes outstanding new opportunities around Paris, in Belgium, France and Germany for over at Schiphol Airport in the Netherlands and a 40 years and we have built up an enviable large portfolio of logistics and office facilities reputation in those markets.
We are now from the retailer KarstadtQuelle in Germany.
building on this market position, both within The latter provides a powerful combination those countries by expanding out of the core of a significant revenue stream and major areas in which we have operated previously development opportunity a combination and also by moving into new countries.
which we believe few of the other potential bidders were in a position to unlock.
We believe that there is an appetite with both investors and occupiers for a pan-European business space provider.
We are already 08 Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 Overview North America 57 per cent for 10 years.
If all breaks were An important driver of SEIs performance is Over the last 10 years we have developed a exercised these percentages would only its development programme consequently real expertise in the health science market in drop to 81 per cent and 49 per cent for five much of its vacancy level actually represents California and we are undoubtedly the leading and 10 years, respectively.
The majority of the vacancy developer in the sector.
In October 2005 we increase in the US relates to the acquisitions organised a trip for investors and analysts to In terms of UK occupational markets, the of Shoreline and Seaport.
Similarly, if the UK see our US operation.
The purpose was to tenant profile is diversified with the largest vacancy position is adjusted to exclude recent highlight the excellent quality of our local industry sectors represented being major acquisitions and completed development portfolio, the development pipeline, our people Telecommunications Media & Technology sites, the underlying UK vacancy figure for and also of our customers.
The feedback we 25 per cent, Engineering & Machinery 2005 becomes 8.1 per cent compared to 9.8 received clearly indicated that this was a very 16 per cent, Food Producers, Beverages per cent for 2004.
8.1 per cent is a reasonable worthwhile trip and that this business is now & Household Goods 12 per cent and level at this stage of the cycle to allow for the much better understood.
No other single management of both the demand for new sector represented more than 10 per cent.
space and for the flexibility to relocate tenants Health science is now a mature industry as required.
and, as a result of consolidation over the Information on current rent passing, upcoming last few years, we find ourselves with some rent reviews, expiries and breaks can be found In 2006 the Continental European businesses of the biggest corporations in the world as in the Finance Directors review on page 12. have achieved major letting successes in our customers.
a series of post-balance sheet transactions Lettings Analysis including SEIs largest ever letting in Continental In 2005 construction started on the first phase Area Rent pa Europe with a 43,000 sq.
m. 191.3 million campus transaction in the newly-acquired business UK we are developing for Genentech currently in Poland.
Vacant let first time 25.6 4.2 on target for completion during 2006.
New construction 2005 16.4 1.8 Acquisitions and disposals Existing vacant 146.9 9.0 We will continue to exploit the outstanding In 2005 SEI made 597 million of acquisitions Licenses 35.2 0.8 pipeline of development sites that we have and 187 million of property disposals including Total UK 224.2 15.8 in the Bay Area of San Francisco and in Quail West plus a further 111 million from Continental Europe 107.4 9.7 San Diego.
In 2005 two major new sites the sale of non-core Tipperary which generated North America 32.8 3.1 were acquired for 168 million at Shoreline a profit of 100 million against book value.
Group total 364.4 28.6 and Seaport in the Bay Area.
These included important strategic moves with Annual passing rent in first full year excluding rent free periods.
the 279 million acquisition of holding entities Includes sale and leaseback transactions with KarstadtQuelle and Alstom.
We have been selling all of the activities in the owning Woodside and Heywood in Dunstable US outside our Californian health science core and Manchester two of the largest industrial and we have been successful in hitting markets Vacancy Analysis parks in the UK, the 168 million acquisition at the right time.
During the year we sold the Occupancy rates Headline 2005 2004 of major bio-tech sites for SEIs strong basis as per interims 2005 % % leisure and residential complex in Florida, specialist operations in California and the UK 89.1 87.9 known as Quail West, and we also sold our acquisition of a large portfolio of both Continental Europe 87.7 87.9 holding in the Tipperary Oil and Gas Company.
investment and development properties from Continental Europe excluding Both of these disposals produced substantial retailer KarstadtQuelle in Germany 58 million trading properties 92.9 94.2 profits over book value.
in 2005 parts of the deal completed after the US 80.5 86.2 year-end.
With the acquisition of the holding SEI total 87.8 87.7 Strength of rental income profile entities owning Woodside and Heywood, SEI SEI has an excellent spread of customers, now owns five of the largest industrial estates Analysis of UK Occupancy rates including many blue chip clients, but with no in the UK.
The major 2005 acquisitions have Recent acquisitions Heywood, major exposure to any one customer and a delivered significant year-end valuation uplifts Woodside, Land Securities 85.0 77.5 particularly resilient lease expiry and break against acquisition prices.
The weighted average lease expiry less than 18 months 54.3 43.6 before breaks is 11.4 years, 10.1 years Underlying UK Portfolio In addition to these strategic moves, SEI Occupancy rates 91.9 90.2 including breaks note the basis of calculation continued with its active asset recycling Excluding recent acquisitions and completed development sites here is the weighted average calculated by programme across the board crystallising less than 18 months.
value of annual contracted rent per year and Treating former Land Securities properties as vacant.
value on sites where the Companys ability includes pre-let developments and preto add further value was outweighed by contracted rents.
opportunities elsewhere in the portfolio or by Record levels of lettings in the UK improved new acquisition opportunities.
This programme The number of tenants occupying property overall occupancy levels from 87.9 per cent to resulted in significant disposals at Elstree throughout the Group increased by 5.7 per 89.1 per cent with the Slough Trading Estate 49 million, Heston 10 million and two cent to 1,639, with the top 10 representing and the Thames Valley & West of England sites at Pleasanton, California 29 million 21 per cent of income and the top 20 regions showing the best progress.
and 8 million and acquisitions in Feltham representing 28 per cent of income.
91 per 11 million, Alstom near Paris 17 million, cent of income is secured for five years, and Carlsbad in California 20 million.
Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 09 Chief Executives review continued Just before the end of 2005 we concluded a flexible business space.
The year was a letting further strategic move in Continental Europe, record in terms of numbers, volume, floor with SEIs first expansion into Central Europe via space and rental income secured.
After a low a 119.1 million acquisition from the engineering level of activity in previous years, occupiers are company Grontmij.
These properties in Poland, now starting to reassess their future space the Czech Republic and Hungary all provide requirements and are becoming more excellent development potential at strategic confident about updating their property locations well placed for logistics projects.
There is a particular interest in early 2006 SEI also completed the remaining occupying new and modern premises, which elements of the KarstadtQuelle deal announced reflect an appropriate image to both customers but not concluded in 2005. and employees.
As a result we have committed to increasing our continuing programme of Post year-end activity in the UK also speculative development in the UK.
demonstrates our increasingly flexible approach with the announcement of a proposed sale of Our success in pre-letting ranges from the land at Farnborough Business Park to the fide 47,000 sq.
m. complex under development Vere Group for the development of a hotel, for Thales at Crawley by floor space our designed to enhance the comprehensive offer largest UK letting ever, to the small premises and the overall attractiveness of the 50 ha park built for Bradford Builders Merchants at to its occupiers.
Development programme The majority of letting transactions in 2005 An important driver of SEIs performance is 63 per cent, and in previous years, were in the development programme.
We completed respect of buildings provided in anticipation 143,000 sq.
m. of projects during 2005, of of future requirements, on a speculative basis.
which 45 per cent has been let, and at 31 While we are targeting increasing proportions December we had 123,000 sq.
m. under of pre-let accommodation, we recognise that construction, of which 71 per cent has been let.
going forward it will continue to be advantageous to provide a range of new flexible business The total pipeline of 2.5 million sq.
m. of accommodation designed to suit the most current and potential developments, with diverse range of potential customers.
a built-out cost in the order of 2.6 billion represents a major opportunity to generate In Continental Europe we significantly superior returns for investors.
increased our land bank over the course of 2005 and by the end of the year, held 206 ha The overall development pipeline as at across the seven European countries.
This 31 December 2005 is summarised in the land bank provides a significant development table below.
pipeline in the target suburban markets across Europe.
Notably we have high profile In the UK over the course of 2005 we saw a developments in each of our core markets good level of take up for our core product of at Pegasus Park next to Brussels International Current Estimated Space to Land Book Future Total be built area Value spend Spend ERV 000s sq.
m. ha m m m m Investment properties Work in progress 125 18 227 122 350 33 Future developments 1,080 224 490 1,149 1,638 143 Total 1,205 242 717 1,271 1,988 176 Development Profit m Trading properties Work in progress Future developments 1,336 274 117 534 651 86 Total 1,336 274 117 534 651 86 Group total 2,541 516 834 1,805 2,639 Note: Space to be built and land area includes joint ventures on a 100 per cent basis.
All financial figures are estimates and subject to change.
These amounts include the Groups developments plus its share of joint ventures projects.
Estimated total spend comprises current value plus all future expenditure including capitalised interest.
Future developments include development of bare land and redevelopment of existing buildings some of which are currently income producing.
10 Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 Airport, the 17 ha fide Hoek scheme opposite scale, to develop relationships and to capture significant competitive advantage when sellers Schiphol Airport, Amsterdam, the Portes fide opportunities for future expansion.
A Phase II want to sell both types of assets to one France suburban office scheme next to the project of 5,800 sq.
m. adjacent to the initial purchaser as evidenced in the acquisition Stade fide France in St Denis, the Alzenau facility and featuring four 1,400 sq.
m. units, of the KarstadtQuelle portfolio in Germany.
logistics park in Germany, Tulipan Park next commenced construction during the year and In 2006 we aim to bring together the individual to Prague Airport in the Czech Republic and is scheduled for completion in mid 2006. country operations under a single, enhanced at Strykow in Poland.
These international European presence and to fully integrate our projects are supported by a tier of schemes In October 2005, Amgen exercised an option recent corporate acquisitions into the existing targeted at their respective domestic markets to commence construction of a further network increasingly we are leveraging and which complement the existing investment building at Britannia Oyster Point, South San growing customer relationships on a panportfolio: such as the Carr des Aviateurs Francisco.
m. office laboratory European basis.
scheme and the Alstom project, both to the facility is now under construction and is north of Paris, and the Zellik and Zaventem scheduled for completion and occupancy In the US we aim to build on the substantial projects in the periphery of Brussels, Belgium.
in January 2007. value creation of the last three years through the further pursuit of both new and existing Over the course of the year our German We are encouraged by the level of enquiries for development opportunities in the same operations have expanded from providing a life sciences facilities in the Bay Area and San specialised market in the Bay Area and in concentration of business park developments Diego County and are confident that additional San Diego County.
Building on a productive in the Dsseldorf and Frankfurt suburban development and acquisition transactions will and rewarding year in 2005, more initiatives markets to through our acquisition of the take place during 2006 and beyond.
are in the pipeline and will generate attractive KarstadtQuelle AG portfolio holding assets development and investment opportunities and potential schemes in most of the large REITS during 2006 and beyond.
We aim to further business centres across the country.
We SEI has been carefully studying developments reduce our core vacancy through leasing and believe that the time was right to make this with regard to the possible introduction of real development of pre-leased product.
move in Germany given the improving estate investment trusts in the UK and has market conditions and the excellent played a leading role in the industry-wide opportunities we had secured.
In Central consultation undertaken by the UK Ian Coull Europe, our development pipeline in Poland Government.
We are generally supportive and Chief Executive is mainly provided by three projects: the largest positive about recent developments in this of which is a 61 ha logistics business park area but many important details are still to be adjacent to the new motorway at Strykow in resolved and we do not yet know key aspects central Poland.
In the Czech Republic we have of the structures which the government will a six ha scheme next to Prague Airport and implement.
These areas include the interest there is a nine ha scheme in Budapest, Hungary.
cover test, the 10 per cent shareholding limit, the treatment of international subsidiaries and In North America in December 2004 we the conversion charge.
We await future completed a master lease with Genentech to developments with interest.
m. campus on our Britannia East Grand Property markets and outlook site in South San Francisco, California.
In 2005 by geography construction started on the four-building, In the UK to the end of February 2006 we 42,000 sq.
m. Phase I component which is on have let 29,000 sq.
m. of space giving an target for completion during 2006.
The Phase II additional 2.2 million of income and leading to component, consisting of four buildings a further reduction in vacancy levels.
m. will commence of take up of the core product evidenced by construction during 2006. the number of transactions and the level of rent secured has encouraged us to plan for We also completed, in mid 2005, Phase I of an increase in development starts in 2006: we our unique, modular lab facility in South San are currently planning to commence 568,000 Francisco.
m. of construction, eight per cent of which sciences facility, featuring flexible 460 and 930 is already pre-let.
m. laboratory units, was the product of two more companies will review their property years planning and design and is targeted at needs and our plan is to be in a position to small biotech companies requiring small satisfy those requirements and to deliver a laboratories on flexible lease terms.
We standard of service that will encourage even developed the modular lab concept in order greater customer loyalty.
to cater for smaller life sciences companies requiring sophisticated laboratory facilities for In Continental Europe we believe that relatively short periods of time.
We believe this the investment market will become more investment will also provide access to life competitive.
Our rare position as both an sciences companies at the smaller end of the investor and developer can give us a Slough Estates plc Annual Report 2005 11
