20 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Strategy for growth Strategy for growth The Group has maintained its consistent growth.
Good progress has been made on its current five year plan by increasing the portfolio value to 718m against the target of achieving 1bn by September 2008.
In this section Chief Executives review Chief Executives review Clerkenwell and Southbank.
Our target Last year, after suffering a slight drop in when netted against other profits on for next year 2006 07 will therefore be occupancy, we set ourselves the target sale.
Trading earnings per share were up 3.3% at 6.3p 2004: 6.1p.
Overall, to consolidate this growth in the rent in 2004 05 of building this back over Three Mills, together with the other roll into real earnings growth.
With the 90% level, excluding developments.
disposals made during the year, continued confidence in the Groups This was achieved by the half year showed good internal rates of return marketplace of SMEs in London and stage giving an early start to our next over their investment holding periods.
a strong investment market, the target of growing rental values.
Details of which are given on page 66. prospects for the current year 2005 06 Key results seem good.
Meanwhile, we expect to build upon progress achieved this year Strong results have again been Strategy and prospects in accelerating our programme for achieved with: The Group last set out its strategy in the change of use of certain estates.
the form of its five year plan in Net asset value per share 2.24 2004: 1.84 November 2003.
This was to double Turnover 55.0m 2004: 51.1m the value of the portfolio over a five Trading review Operating profit 33.3m 2004: 29.7m year period through organic growth.
Our key target for 2004 05 was to Trading profit before tax 14.5m 2004: 14.1m Trading earnings per share 6.3p 2004: 6.1p One third of this target has been achieved rebuild occupancy following the slight Basic earnings per share 6.2p 2004: 6.5p within eighteen months, and so we decline recorded in the previous year, Investment portfolio valuation 715.8m 2004: 626.1m remain in line with our objective.
This was achieved rapidly with Rent roll 42.28m 2004: 38.09m more immediate two year targets were like-for-like occupancy over some 91 Net assets increased by 21.7% following to improve occupancy in the first year, estates rising from 88.9% at 31 March a 67.3m valuation surplus.
Basic now achieved: and then to grow rental 2004 to 90.9% by 30 September 2004. earnings per share were 6.2p values.
This continues to be our key Occupancy remained in the 90%-91% 2004: 6.5p following a 0.3m price objective in the current year.
However, range for the latter half of the year.
adjustment during the final stages overall rental income will continue Headline occupancy of the whole of negotiation for the sale of Three to be tempered by voids on certain portfolio including estates under Mills which caused a small loss overall development projects, like Enterprise, development etc rose even more Strategy for growth Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Workspace Group PLC 21 Location Homesdale Business Centre Urban regeneration This former Victorian laundry was acquired in 2005.
It has been refurbished and divided to provide a business centre for small businesses.
The Group creates value through its active estate management and marketing which keeps high levels of occupancy and drives rental values.
The Group has continued with and refurbishment, intensification, steeply, from 83.8% at 31 March 2004 to extended its association with Kingston redevelopment and change of use 88.5% by 30 September 2004, remaining University through the year.
in the 88%-89% range for the remainder customer survey was undertaken with of the year.
This latter improvement the assistance of Kingston.
This revealed Our business is located in London and was assisted by the disposal of Three a fascinating profile of the typical the South East with a focus on London.
Mills which had a high recorded vacancy Workspace customer.
Details of this work All our acquisitions in the year were rate due to the high volumes of short term lets.
At the end of the year 46% and further updating research work by located inside the M25.
We trail a large 2004: 31% of the Groups properties Kingston has been lodged in the Investor number of targets for a long time in were 95% or higher occupied.
Relations section of the Groups website this market place which we know well.
for details see the Properties we acquire are generally inside back cover.
On a like-for-like basis the increase in multi-let business centres or industrial average rents over the year was 2.9% estates, providing accommodation Portfolio, acquisitions, 2004: 0.6% from 8.57 to 8.82 per sq ft. attractive for letting to SMEs under any disposals and added value This year the rolling rent review and economic climate.
We like to work off The Group creates value through its lease renewal programme extended to low capital values and acquire properties active estate management and marketing 5.8% of the opening rent roll.
The uplift where there is scope for improvement which keeps high levels of occupancy achieved of 0.36m through rent reviews under our management and where in the and drives rental values.
In addition, and lease renewals represents a 16.7% long term there may be opportunities for to achieve our target of a 1 billion increase on previous passing levels for change of use or intensification.
portfolio by September 2008, the these tenancies.
This reflects a good Group must continue to buy well, performance for a period during which acquiring additional properties that During the year the Group acquired occupancy was still being built up.
With meet the Groups investment criteria seven properties for 43.4m.
Details occupancy now running at higher levels and where we are confident of future are given on page 65.
Both individually the platform for rental growth is firmly potential.
Opportunities are also taken and as a group these properties have re-established.
to add value by the selective excellent potential in our hands.
Some, 22 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Strategy for growth Chief Executives review continued Location The Quadrangle Filling the gaps This recent acquisition is located in Fulham, an area in which the Group had no representation and had long sought such.
We aim to provide space where ever SMEs are active in London.
time created a thriving film studio.
The development through either refurbishment like Southbank House, complement and Group was approached by the London or extension for the existing use or are close to existing properties in our Development Agency who were interested alternatively redevelopment for another portfolio, others like Homesdale are in the site as part of the Olympic Bid.
In particular, many estates could in parts of London where we have had taken the property a long way, and it be subject to more intensive mixed use little representation.
Some have more increasingly demanded specialised film development, responding to the planning immediate angles, others simply need studio management which detracted agenda set out by the Mayor of London.
improved management and marketing to extract good growth.
As a result, Details of current projects are given we sold the estate achieving a good on page 18.
We anticipate that this We did not meet our target of 60m pre-tax internal rate of return IRR of programme will steadily accelerate acquisitions in the year.
With the current 11.8% over the life of the investment.
market appetite for commercial property and the consequent yield compression, The other two disposals at Hooley Lane, Of the other 55% of the Groups portfolio, seeking value has become more difficult Redhill and Union Street SE1 were both most estates have good long term rental and on some acquisitions we were simply sold for redevelopment for housing.
growth prospects supported by the everpriced out.
We have stuck to our Acquired in 1997, we achieved the planning increasing demand for space that a investment criteria and are pleased consent on Hooley Lane ourselves, whilst growing city creates.
with what we have achieved.
Our at Union Street acquired in 1998 we acquisitions this year show an initial worked with a partner.
Both disposals Valuation yield of 7.26% and a reversionary return achieved excellent IRRs of 49% and 23% The valuation of the Groups properties of 10.5%.
Further, we are confident in respectively over the holding periods.
valued by CB Richard Ellis at 31 March our long term tracking of acquisitions 2005 was 718.4m, an increase of 89.9m where we can create real value through We continue to review our portfolio over the year.
The average value of the our efforts.
to identify the properties with Groups property was 139 per sq ft, with potential over time for added value by an immediate income yield on current Three disposals were completed during intensification and or change of use.
rents passing of 5.92% 6.21% excluding the year realising 34.78m.
The largest We estimate that some 45% of the development properties and a yield at disposal was Three Mills for 22.6m.
We Groups estates could, on a 3 to 10 year estimated current market rental values acquired this estate in 1995, and since that basis, be subject to some form of of 8.02%.
Strategy for growth Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Workspace Group PLC 23 Location Chiswick Studios Clusters of properties Recently acquired Chiswick Studios is located close to the Groups Barley Mow Centre.
This acquisition extends and complements the Groups offer in the Chiswick market.
are completed and the space re-let For properties held throughout the year, in valuation and total returns arise rentals and hence earnings will increase.
comparing their value at 31 March 2004 partly from market movements but also as a result of value adding activity plus additions and improvements at cost We have again tested the Groups through acquisition, management with that at 31 March 2005, the uplift was performance against the IPD Investment and refurbishment redevelopment.
Acquisitions during Property Databank March Universe Comparison against indices such the year showed a surplus on valuation 2005 benchmark.
The table below as these segregates simple market of 4.3m 9.40%.
illustrates not only the Groups continued movement from our value adding activity.
During the year, the Chancellor withsubstantial outperformance of sector drew the exemption from stamp duty of averages, but also the lower levels With its consistent performance the transfers of property in certain areas.
of volatility in our particular sector Group demonstrates its ability to generate 50% of the Groups properties by value compared with commercial property enhanced returns from its investments.
were located in these areas.
This consistent strategy will continue on these properties would total 14.3m a focused portfolio with low capital Total return per annum which will have affected the Groups values, serving a growing market, with One Three Five Ten valuation and reported surplus for the year.
opportunities to add value and to acquire year years years years Workspace Group 17.5% 15.2% 16.8% 18.5% more stock.
With this, and the current IPD March Universe 16.7% 12.6% 11.0% 11.5% Total estimated rental values ERVs or robust underlying values, there is plenty Workspace Group current market rents on all lettable space of scope and opportunity for growth.
Allowing IPD Comparator 15.6% 9.6% 9.5% 11.1% for the 10% void that the Group operates at, this shows an achievable rental The IPD comparator index is a stream of 51.8m.
This compares with benchmark compiled by Investment current net income of 42.3m leaving Property Databank IPD of comparable 9.5m of potential additional income.
properties in comparable locations to Two thirds of this lies in six properties those held by the Group.
including in particular the refurbishment projects at Clerkenwell, Enterprise and Harry Platt This outperformance is illustrated Chief Executive Southbank.
Clearly, once these projects graphically on page 7.
