Chief Executive Officers review 2005 was another strong year for CSR with our pre-tax profits nearly doubling.
The combination of a fast growing Bluetooth market and our continued leadership in design wins, make us confident for the outlook for 2006 as a whole.
2005 was another strong year for CSR with our the acquisition and integration of UbiNetics revenue of $486.5 million dollars representing an software business which will play a key role in increase of over 90% compared with 2004 as we securing Bluetooth and UniFi design wins in mobile shipped directly and under manufacturing licence phones and enabling the convergence of fixed over 150 million single chip Bluetooth devices.
Our pre-tax profits nearly doubled to $114.4 million aggressive cost reduction programs allowing us dollars and at year end the share price closed at to maintain our gross margins as we continued more than four and a half times the IPO price of 200p.
to drive down the cost of Bluetooth solutions to In early 2006 we entered the list of the top 200 enable further adoption of the technology in our companies on the London Stock Exchange.
Highlights of the year included: building our organisation to almost 700 people in 11 locations worldwide.
continued strong growth of the Bluetooth market with the first products for the consumer segment Leading in Bluetooth designs such as stereo headsets being offered on the market CSR continues to lead the Bluetooth market.
and the adoption of cellular products by consumers Over the lifetime of the Bluetooth standard, we have in the USA.
secured more than 60% of the total recorded design growth in CSRs share of the Bluetooth market wins.
We maintained that level in 2005 with a from 45% to over 50% and the release of particularly strong performance in GSM global BlueCore5, our fifth generation Bluetooth solution.
system for mobile communications handsets.
successful completion of the design of our UniFi We continued to secure more design wins than all solution for the embedded Wi-Fi market.
our competitors combined, not just overall but in the successful acquisition and integration of Clarity every application sector.
At year end, CSR had won Technologies, Inc. providing noise and echo 70% of the designs for the new v2.0 specification suppression technology with Clear Voice Capture with EDR Enhanced Data Rate with our fourth software and establishing CSR Detroit as an audio generation BlueCore4 product family.
performance enabled CSR to achieve unit market share of over 50% of all Bluetooth devices shipped 6 Changing the way the world connects in the year, a significant increase on the 45% unit gaming playing, and VoIP Voice over Internet share achieved during 2004.
CSRs strengths in EDR technology provides a further stimulus to both the An expanding Bluetooth market PC and consumer Bluetooth market segments.
We believe the Bluetooth market is still early in Bluetooth for automobiles is a market that continues its growth phase.
Major customers using our to develop for both OEM and aftermarket products as products are undertaking significant consumer legislation requiring hands on driving continues to marketing programmes around the world, including spread around the world.
manufacturers are now following the lead of prestige Mobile phones and headsets are currently the brands in embedding Bluetooth capability into the largest markets for Bluetooth, and at the end of 2005 dashboard with a number of product qualifications we believe that only about 25% of all mobile phones in the year.
We see this attach The evolution of the Bluetooth specification is also rate increasing.
For example a leading European opening up the consumer market segment.
Bluetooth specialist mobile phone chain now offers Bluetooth specification additions such as the AV audio visual in 80% of their models, and major retail chains in the Profile and EDR enable new applications such as USA and Europe are increasingly offering their own streaming stereo audio over a Bluetooth link.
Multibranded low cost Bluetooth headsets.
We expect function stereo headphones became available in the rate at which Bluetooth is adopted into mobile 2005 which can stream music from MP3 players and phones to increase to around 35% at the end of 2006, FM radio receivers and pause the music to take calls significantly increasing the volume demand from a mobile phone on the stereo headset.
Stereo in 2006 and continuing to grow beyond there.
headsets can be used with PCs, mobile phones and The use of Bluetooth in PCs has lagged that in other portable devices such as MP3 players.
Wireless mobile phones but emerging use of the technology consoles and controllers were announced in 2005 by in wireless stereo headphones is now increasing the the leading manufacturers of gaming products.
attach rates with applications for music streaming, CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 7 Chief Executive Officers review continued Acquisitions Lowering cost, improving performance During the year our resources were strengthened A fundamental belief at CSR is that we must with two acquisitions and we are delighted with the continuously drive down the cost of the solutions we progress made in integrating our organisations.
offer and increase their performance, thereby both In March 2005, we acquired Clarity Technologies encouraging further adoption of the technology and based in Detroit, USA.
Its leading technology for maintaining our competitive position.
Beyond the noise and echo suppression in wireless headsets traditional cost reduction activities focusing on silicon, and automotive handsfree systems is marketed package and test, we offer continuously higher levels as CVC Clear Voice Capture and has already been of integration to reduce the bill of materials of the end incorporated into CSRs BlueCore devices in products application and provide increased functionality.
sold by a number of our major customers.
Our successful BlueCore3-MM multi-media In August 2005, the acquisition of the Cambridge device for stereo headphones, for example, provides headquartered software business of UbiNetics was added value by integrating onto the device a CSR completed.
UbiNetics provides CSR with a strong developed DSP digital signal processor, a stereo R&D team who developed an industry leading Hi-Fi quality CODEC coder-decoder and battery multi-mode wireless communications software.
charging and power management functions.
These This adds significant capability to enable us to reduce the physical size, power requirements and design our BlueCore and UniFi devices into mobile cost of the solution.
phones and to independently develop software for FMC Fixed and Mobile Convergence.
Automotive applications benefit from CSRs CVC technology through the suppression of noise and echo, giving improved sound quality 8 Changing the way the world connects Total shipments into the Bluetooth Market Millions of units c500 1 317 1 142 1 64 2003 2004 2005 2006E 1 source IMS CSR estimate CSR continues to dominate both stereo and mono headset qualified design wins Our headset solutions also offer a licence for our added-value CVC software from CSR Detroit that suppresses echo and noise for much improved audio quality.
CVC is being used on a broad range of headset and automotive products which our customers are developing.
CSRs fifth generation Bluetooth solution, BlueCore5, was announced in 2005 and will be available for design in and production this year.
Included in the family of devices is BlueCore5-MM offering an improved DSP, lower power requirements and reduced cost of the bill of materials.
CVC software is available with the device for next generation designs.
In 2006 CSR intends to build on the very strong base we have in Bluetooth and broaden our market position with our UniFi device which we announced at the end of 2004.
The highly integrated UniFi device Wi-Fi and Bluetooth brings new is the first single chip Wi-Fi product for the embedded connectivity solutions to mobile devices marketplace.
Two on-chip radios enable it to meet the IEEE 802.11 a b g specifications.
UniFi solutions are now being offered by our partners as completed modules.
At the Consumer Electronics Show in CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 9 Chief Executive Officers review continued Las Vegas in the first week of 2006, the first product Our research and development organisation was shown using CSRs reference design with UniFi expanded further in 2005 and in particular our and BlueCore4 on a single circuit board.
We are the software resources grew significantly with the first to be able to provide the silicon for this combined acquisitions of Clarity Technologies and UbiNetics solution solving the co-existence issues for in addition to organic growth as we expanded existing our customers.
The investment in R&D more than doubled The number of broadcast radios and the year on year and we expect it to continue to increase.
complexity of connectivity within the modern mobile In addition to the UniFi product line, announcements phone are increasing.
This makes it increasingly have been made on the integration of an FM radio difficult for equipment manufacturers to make new, receiver into the BlueCore5 family and the planned very small form factor designs.
Connectivity has now development of a UWB radio to meet the Bluetooth expanded from Bluetooth to include Wi-Fi and will SIG special interest group Seattle specification.
add UWB ultra wideband in the future.
GPS global Other standards are being considered and worked on.
positioning systems is established today and new As a fabless supplier of semiconductor chips broadcast receivers such as FM radio and Digital TV we rely on our manufacturing partners and enjoy broadcast will be added in the next few years.
close relationships with two industry leaders: TSMC This trend has led to the emergence of non-cellular for wafer fabrication and ASE for assembly and test.
wireless as an increasing value centre in personal On 1 May 2005 a major fire at ASEs Chung Li facility portable devices.
Integration of more than one disrupted production but the effects on our customers non-cellular wireless technology onto one IC is the were minimised with close co-operation throughout best way of meeting our customers time-to-market the supply chain.
The incident underlined the value of and size requirements.
CSRs proven competence the ongoing detailed review of our supply chain being in wireless systems integration positions us well to undertaken in order to improve our delivery capability exploit this opportunity.
Our devices are now produced at three separate wafer fabs in Taiwan with one more being added in Taiwan in the second half of 2006 and a fifth currently being brought on line in the USA.
Assembly and test has been expanded from two sites in Taiwan, with the addition of a further facility in South Korea and two others planned for later in the 10 Changing the way the world connects year of which one will be in China.
This in a year when The combination of a fast growing Bluetooth we increased unit shipments to more than 150 million market, our continued leadership in design wins which was more than double the prior year, whilst and our knowledge of our customers development maintaining high quality levels and further driving unit programmes, make us confident for the outlook for costs down.
At the close of 2005, the headcount at CSR had As previously announced, I retired at the end doubled from the beginning of the year and we now of February.
My successor John Scarisbrick, has occupy 12 sites in 11 different locations worldwide.
been closely involved with CSR and its business During the year new design centres were opened in strategy since June 2004 when he joined the Board Lund, Sweden and Sophia Antipolis, France.
He brings a wealth of acquisitions of Clarity Technologies and UbiNetics successful semiconductor experience both developing added Detroit USA, Shenzhen China, and Bangalore new product lines and running very large worldwide India.
Approximately 70% of our staff have technical businesses.
I believe I am indeed very fortunate to qualifications and over 60% are in R&D.
have him take over the significant responsibility of We believe that 2006 will be another year of further developing CSR.
strong growth and CSR is well positioned to expand It has been an exhilarating experience and privilege from the current business base to exploit both existing to manage such a vibrant company as CSR and I would and emerging wireless communications markets.
like to thank our employees and customers, suppliers We expect the Bluetooth market to continue and investors for their support over the last six years.
growing strongly in 2006 and estimate the year on I wish the Board and all CSR stakeholders the best of year growth in unit shipments to be around 60%.
fortune in the exciting years ahead.
Whilst the market is highly competitive, CSRs share of design wins remains strong.
We will continue to drive down the average selling price of our products by between 15 and 20% in 2006 with the units shipped under manufacturing licence diminishing.
John Hodgson Chief Executive Officer CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 11 CSRs markets and opportunities CSRs business is expanding rapidly from its roots in Bluetooth.
Our vision is based on our core strengths of developing software-rich system-on-chip wireless modem solutions combining analogue and logic circuits on the same chip.
Our technology targets personal or local area elements of the evolving wireless network, particularly those applications that need to operate in power-sensitive environments.
CSR is now sampling the fifth generation of our BlueCore single-chip solution for Bluetooth applications.
Five generations of improved performance, tripling the data rate supported and providing lower power and lower cost variants.
We have entered a new market with a single-chip solution for Wi-Fi 802.11 a b g applications, called UniFi.
Last year, we announced our support for integrating UWB ultra wideband technology with the Bluetooth specification, and acquired Clarity Technologies and UbiNetics.
Here, we look at where our evolving capability is taking us.
12 Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 13 CSRs markets and opportunities continued Bluetooth from cable replacement to personal area network As the global leader in the Bluetooth segment But we go much further than just supplying of the wireless communications market, we the silicon chip.
We create system solutions for continuously invest in product development.
First is CSRs silicon solutions integrate circuits often left vital software support and integrated components off the chip.
These solutions include providing that reduce the cost and effort required to build complex battery management and power supply products.
This makes CSR chips fast and easy for management circuits which prolong battery life and our customers to use.
Secondly we develop unique lower customer manufacturing costs.
Our solutions solutions for specific application areas like mobile also integrate the memory on the same chip which phones, headsets and automotive handsfree kits.
lowers costs for our customers and allows them Our Clear Voice Capture technology running on the to build the smallest possible Bluetooth devices.
Kalimba DSP in the Bluetooth chip is an example, This enables them to create innovative, appealing, providing superior audio quality in demanding product designs.
In a mobile phone application, it can We have created Bluetooth solutions with run on the phones processor, providing flexibility advanced functionality, even offering variants with for our customers to tailor their solution.
an advanced Kalimba Digital Signal Processor.
As the adoption of Bluetooth proliferates, Kalimba technology means DSP software can be more and more complex user modes are emerging.
added to the chip for superior voice and music quality.
Todays predominant single connection applications CSR is the only company to provide such advanced such as the Bluetooth headset and in-car handsfree features, which are critical to our headset customers.
systems are being augmented by multiple connection PANs personal area networks.
These include simultaneous printing, mouse and keyboard control and mobile phone synchronisation from the PC and multi-user consumer games consoles featuring both wireless controllers and wireless audio feeds.
This increases the demand for the most robust and secure radio solution and CSR is well placed to deliver this next wave of Bluetooth solutions.
14 Changing the way the world connects In the future, CSR will introduce other And by re-using the well established and rich improvements to drive Bluetooth forward.
We will software already developed for Bluetooth, it will be add sniffing modes to our Bluetooth solutions to easier to use and therefore be adopted faster than further improve battery consumption.
And we will other schemes.
UWB opens up enormous potential.
add an extended enquiry feature to allow Bluetooth Mobile phones are incorporating more and more devices to link up faster, so headsets will hook up consumer services such as cameras and music to phones faster.
We will be introducing enhanced players.
UWB-based Bluetooth will enable the quality of service features, which will further improve uploading and downloading of large multi-media voice and music quality and the users experience.
It also opens up many new Driving Bluetooth performance and features is applications in areas such as home entertainment, CSRs core mission.
Better, smaller, faster Bluetooth for example, streaming video from a set top box to products will increase the rate that Bluetooth is built an on the wall flat screen without unsightly wires into mobile phones and other devices the so called or expensive installations.
It may enable wireless attach rate.
It will drive innovative accessory development docking stations, so notebook and laptop PCs can for personal audio, music and video applications.
connect with office networks with ease and security.
Importantly CSR will integrate an ultra wideband While were busy painting the world blue were UWB capability into its Bluetooth chips.
Todays EDR also expanding into other wireless communications extended data rate CSR Bluetooth chips are areas where our core competence in integrated already available and are up to three times faster CMOS chip and systems design can bring real value.
than most of the devices being shipped by First among them is Wi-Fi.
UWB will increase this by up to a hundred times.
This will drive compelling applications like fast downloads of music to phones, or the superfast transfer of tomorrows high resolution digital camera or camera-phone images to printers.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 15 CSRs markets and opportunities continued Bluetooth 16 Changing the way the world connects Automotive is a growth opportunity for wireless technology.
Bluetooth is already used for headset to mobile phone voice links to allow handsfree driving.
It is also increasingly being installed in the car itself as part of a standard handsfree capability with the addition of smart features like linking to your mobile phones address book and displaying it on the cars dashboard and providing voice recognition satellite navigation equipment for added safety and convenience.
Its only a short step from there to provide a wireless pathway to the vehicle diagnostics unit for service calls or roadside assistance, eliminating bulky and expensive cables.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 17 CSRs markets and opportunities continued Wi-Fi increasingly important within the mobile phone and other battery powered devices We have a distinctive position in Wi-Fi.
Originally Such handsets, switching between mobile developed for the PC market, Wi-Fi chips have not phone and Wi-Fi communications channels, will need been well suited for use where power consumption a high performance, lower power Wi-Fi solution which or operating near other wireless communication is happy co-existing with mobile phone and Bluetooth devices is a prime consideration.
Our UniFi device wireless systems such as UniFi.
They will also family offers extremely low power consumption and need considerably more software to manage the is designed to co-exist with other wireless systems communication.
This was one of the driving reasons such as mobile phones and Bluetooth.
This makes for our acquisition of UbiNetics.
UniFi particularly suitable for emerging high-volume This is an exciting opportunity.
The mobile applications for Wi-Fi in the embedded environment, handset market is already 700 to 800 million units a such as mobile phones and other portable batteryyear and a large part of the broadband infrastructure powered products.
for converged handsets is already in place, with Wi-Fi is already seen as a valuable feature for approaching 100 million homes in Western Europe high level converged phones, which are targeting and North America now having broadband internet business users with features such as high speed web connections.
Many of these homes have also installed browsing.
However, what will drive UniFi attach rates Wi-Fi access points to provide the added flexibility of is the ability to design a phone which will work as a wireless connectivity.
normal mobile phone much of the time, but when near a hot spot or wireless access point will be able to connect to it using VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol.
Such access points could well be in our homes too.
These converged phones will be able to take advantage of the different costs that normal and hot spot connections may offer.
18 Changing the way the world connects Our evolving vision With Bluetooth and Wi-Fi solutions and UWB in Moreover, the highly integrated nature of our offering development CSR is emerging as a broad supplier means that we eliminate much of the challenging of wireless communications solutions for shorterdesign and manufacturing work that would otherwise range applications on power-sensitive client devices.
be required to create and build a radio-based product.
We operate in standards-driven marketplaces and It is this that has allowed and continues to allow us have pioneered the technology that has proved to be to support many new manufacturers wishing to enter the catalyst for these fields: the use of the low-cost exciting product markets.
CMOS process for radio-frequency applications.
We believe the foundations that we have built We possess an enormous amount of know-how in and the rich set of future market opportunities give this area, and our future value will be driven by our us the potential to grow from being the largest fabless exploitation of this and related design principles: semiconductor company in Europe to being in the top tier of worldwide fabless semiconductor suppliers in We will continue to offer complete system solutions a few years time.
for wireless applications including software, as well as silicon building blocks that demand a lot of integration effort.
We have a gifted design team with a proven track record of making the right architectural decisions, greatly benefiting all our customers and particularly those who rely on our radio know-how.
Our portfolio and roadmap now encompasses a range of wireless technologies for personal and local area networking.
With each addition we make, we become a more valuable partner to our OEM and ODM customers.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 19 CSRs markets and opportunities continued Wi-Fi VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol is coming soon, enabling low-cost global voice and data communications.
CSRs UniFi chips are the first specifically designed for the battery-powered mobile environment and provide low power, small size and high performance.
CSRs investment in software means that our Bluetooth and UniFi applications will work smoothly and seamlessly.
20 Changing the way the world connects CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 21
