4561 DC pp ifc-7 lores 13 6 05 10:26 AM Page 4 4 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 Chief Executives review Overview Investing in brand development Dairy Crest has traded well in the year We continue to focus on innovation with and continues to be strongly cash a number of new product development generative.
We have increased initiatives being launched.
The key area investment in our branded and added of recent activity has been our entry into value businesses, which have again the growing market for functional made encouraging progress.
It has been products within the dairy category.
We a particularly challenging year in fresh have just launched St. Ivel advance, a milk with unprecedented changes in branded fresh milk enriched with supply arrangements by major food Omega-3.
A number of studies have retailers.
Whilst these changes will shown that Omega-3 may have learning adversely impact the Group in 2005 06 and concentration benefits for some we have taken actions to strengthen the children as well as being good for the Dairies business for the future.
This functional product gives us a position in the growing branded fresh Financial results milk market and is expected to appeal, Group turnover including our share of in particular, to parents with young Drummond Hall joint ventures turnover was 1.35 billion children.
Elsewhere we have continued Chief Executive 2004 1.36 billion.
Group operating to extend the range of Cathedral City profit, before operating exceptional items with new formats focused on and goodwill amortisation, decreased to convenience such as Cathedral City 100.6 million 2004 104.8 million Grated.
We have also extended our after absorbing increased pension costs Health offering in spreads with the of approximately 4.3 million.
Adjusted launch of Gold Lowest, the lowest fat profit before tax was down slightly at branded spread in the UK market.
After Yoplait Dairy Crest has also launched a taking account of 13.1 million of goodwill yogurt under the Petits Filous brand amortisation and 4.4 million 2004 aimed at extending the brands usage by 27.3 million of net exceptional charges, older children.
profit before tax was up 46% at 66.7 The Group puts strong emphasis on million 2004 45.6 million.
Adjusted a continuous programme of cost earnings per share decreased to 49.3 reduction which not only ensures that we pence per share 2004 50.0 pence.
remain competitive in the market place, Group net debt as at 31 March but also supports increasing levels of 2005 was 52.2 million lower at marketing spend.
Over the last three 227.5 million 2004 279.7 million years this marketing investment has reflecting the Groups strong operational strengthened the position of our key cash generation.
Increasingly, marketing spend We have increased investment in our branded and added value businesses, which have again made encouraging progress 4561 DC pp ifc-7 31 5 05 7:32 AM Page 5 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2005 5 has moved from promotional activity to significantly extend our existing and responsibilities of the senior media investment with our brands geographical footprint across England management team, reduced duplication Clover, Utterly Butterly, St Ivel Gold and and Wales to cover most of the major between the business units and our Cathedral City as well as the Yoplait northern conurbations.
This cost saving has brands all being advertised on television acquisitions will strengthen our helped to offset the higher energy and during the year.
Cathedral City, our competitive position, improve the packaging costs that have been market leading branded cheddar, has profitability of the Dairies business and experienced across the industry.
had a particularly strong year with value better align our operations to our major growth well over 20%.
The brand is now customers requirements.
People worth approximately 90 million at retail The last 12 months have seen an Our people have responded particularly value.
The acquisition of 100% unprecedented period of change in fresh well to the challenges of the last 12 ownership of the Country Life brand milk supply arrangements by major food months.
Our results have been achieved during the year represents a significant retailers.
By October 2005 Dairy Crest will through the skills and efforts of all our opportunity for us to accelerate the be supplying approximately 50% of fresh people, in whom we continue to invest.
development of this brand, particularly in milk volumes to both Sainsburys and During the year we have significantly the fast growing spreadable butter Morrisons.
In addition, we have retained increased our investment in sales and category.
We will be supporting Country our sole supply positions with Waitrose marketing training in particular.
We Life with a significant television and Marks & Spencer.
However, as continue to make progress in improving advertising campaign in late summer.
previously announced, we have lost our our communication and engagement fresh milk supply positions to both Tesco with our workforce.
Retail milk strategic developments and ASDA.
Overall, taking into account In a challenging market we have taken these changes and the volume gained Outlook action to strengthen the Dairies through the Midlands Co-op Dairies We have continued to invest in the business.
In May 2005 we announced acquisition, we expect to increase fresh long-term development of our brands the acquisitions of both Midlands Co-op milk volumes in our Dairies business.
and we have made sound strategic Dairies and Starcross Foods Limited.
moves to strengthen our Dairies Midlands Co-op Dairies is the largest New organisational structure business for the future.
Trading at the regional dairy operator in the UK.
It A new organisational structure was put start of the new financial year is in line processes approximately 200 million in place from 1 November 2004.
litres of milk per annum at its dairy in previous five business units were Birmingham and distributes milk, via 16 consolidated into two operating distribution centres to a range of retail, divisions: Foods, comprising spreads wholesale and doorstep customers and cheese, headed by Peter Thornton, across the Midlands.
Starcross is a who also retains responsibility for Yoplait modern dairy in Foston, Derbyshire, Dairy Crest, and Dairies, comprising Drummond Hall, Chief Executive opened in May 2002 with current liquid products, household and 24 May 2005 capacity to process up to 100 million ingredients and headed by Mark Allen.
Starcross will The restructuring streamlined the roles Our results have been achieved through the skills and efforts of all our people, in whom we will continue to invest
