OPERATING AND OUR STRATEGY OF INVESTING FOR THE LONG FINANCIAL REVIEW CHIEF EXECUTIVES TERM TO GENERATE A PREMIUM RATING FOR REVIEW SHAREHOLDERS HAS RESULTED IN ANOTHER RECORD YEAR.
Charles Sinclair Our strategy for future success focuses Chief Executive on three key areas: 1 Investing in our newspaper businesses.
2 Building other media businesses with strong leadership positions.
3 Continuing to reduce our dependence on U. K. newspaper advertising.
DMGTs philosophy DMGTs practice over many years has been to take advantage of its shareholding structure to invest for the long term in order to generate value for its shareholders, irrespective of the short-term impact on the Profit and Loss Account.
Control by a founding family is a model which has been demonstrated to serve the media industry well over time.
We are prepared to have a long timeframe to investment maturity and realisation, provided the business in question is progressing well, meeting milestones and creating value.
The successful application of this approach is reflected in consistently strong historic operating performance: as can be seen from the graphs on pages 6 and 35.
Short-term share performance has been disappointing.
Whilst this is due in part to the fallout from the dot.
com market boom of 1999 2000, the cyclical weakness of U. K. advertising markets and commentators focus on the London publishing market which is a relatively small part of our business, we appear not to receive adequate valuation for our fast growing newer businesses.
Share price performance is important to us, as a measure that our strategy and balance are understood, and we are endeavouring to improve this perception.
Nature of the business DMGT is a multiple media business, as illustrated at the front of this Annual Report, operating in different markets, each within its particular competitive and regulatory environments.
Operational responsibility is devolved to our six divisions on whose boards the executive Directors are represented and which they chair.
We operate with a light touch from the centre, relieving line management of overhead activities that do not contribute at the operating level.
A common factor between the consumer-facing and business-tobusiness divisions is their recognition of the importance of the English language.
Strategy The Groups strategy is set by the executive Directors and approved by the Board.
It is to be the owner of high quality sustainable media properties, reflected in premium commercial positions, thereby generating a premium rating for shareholders.
The strategy over recent years has been to invest in the Groups newspaper businesses, while at the same time building other media businesses to provide diversity away from the U. K. advertising, newspapers and regulated businesses.
02 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
