Chairmans & Chief Executives Review 4 | Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report INTRODUCTION RESULTS 2005 was the most We are delighted to report on another year of record The 2005 results are Danas first full year figures successful year in operating performance with new highs established in prepared under International Financial Reporting production, revenue, cash flow and profit.
As part of the transition to IFRS, Danas history, a strong and balanced asset base combining healthy the Company has been required to revise its cash reserves, a robust production portfolio delivering accounting policies and to restate previously reported delivering record strong cashflow, a wide range of field development UK GAAP results.
All comparative figures have been production and opportunities and an exciting 40 well exploration and restated for IFRS and the new accounting policies.
appraisal drilling programme with the potential to record earnings With average daily oil and gas production growing deliver major upside over the next three years.
Throughout 2005, Danas active development increased average realised price of $42.24 per boe programme and asset trading activities allowed the during 2005 2004: $29.45 per boe, revenue for Company to continue its delivery of year on year the period increased by 51% to 165.6 million 2004: production growth.
The Group completed the 109.5 million.
Profit before tax grew by some 232% acquisition of interests in the Johnston and Hudson to 107.8 million 2004: 32.5 million.
Profit after tax fields, both delivered through its asset swapping increased by 406% to 64.2 million 2004: 12.7 strategy, and acquired, on very attractive terms, new million resulting in a near four-fold improvement in or incremental stakes in no less than five new fields earnings per share to 80.1p 2004: 16.5p.
to be developed over the next few years.
This Cash generated from operations grew 73% to 107.1 commercial activity was complemented by significant million 2004: 61.8 million and, including the progress on existing assets, with two additional oil proceeds of the share placing in November 2005, and gas fields brought on stream, three new net cash increased by 71.3 million during the year, developments sanctioned and underway, and further leaving the Company with a strong net cash position infill drilling within already producing fields.
Dana of 91.8 million at the end of 2005. also achieved accreditation as a UK production operator on the Hudson field which in itself opens Having carefully considered the financing up new opportunities.
requirements for Danas exploration and development programme over the next few years, and recognising Alongside these production growth activities, Dana the Companys plans to grow and add value through continued to pursue an ambitious exploration and commercial transactions, the Directors believe that appraisal programme.
The 2005 drilling campaign retaining profits at this time will lead to optimal delivered four successes from six wells, including the returns from project investments.
Therefore, in line important Faucon gas discovery offshore Mauritania.
with current strategy, the Directors do not Good progress was also made in building the portfolio recommend payment of a dividend, but will keep this of future exploration drilling opportunities.
Following under review as projects are delivered and exploration a comprehensive review of future exploration potential opportunities assessed.
worldwide, the Company reached agreements to gain important new exploration areas offshore Morocco Some 24.8 mmboe of proven and probable reserves and Egypt and achieved excellent results in its bids were added in the North Sea during 2005 due to the in the UKCS 23rd Licensing Round.
In addition, net effect of discoveries, acquisitions, disposals and Dana accelerated the acquisition of extensive new field revisions.
This more than offset North Sea 3D seismic surveys on existing acreage.
Net additions thus replaced 375% of North Sea production and North Looking ahead, 2006 production is expected to move Sea proven and probable oil and gas reserves at 31 ahead of 2005 levels and the Company remains on December 2005 increased to a record high of 94.4 target to increase production capacity to 40,000 mmboe.
These reserve increases in the North Sea boepd by the end of 2007.
Eleven exploration and in large part mitigated the divestment of 30.8 mmboe appraisal wells are now planned for 2006, of which of reserves which occurred when the Group ten already have firm rig commitments.
This includes completed its strategic exit from Indonesia and the four wells in the second half 2006 which will target Russian company Evikhon during the reporting period.
very large prospects offshore Mauritania and Kenya, Overall Group proven and probable oil and gas each of which has company transforming potential.
reserves at 31 December 2005 were 111.5 mmboe, A total of up to 40 wells are now being planned for of which 85% are now held in the North Sea.
the period to the end of 2008, targeting potential The Groups best estimate of its end 2005 contingent reserves of 2.1 billion barrels net to Dana.
resources technically recoverable hydrocarbons not yet determined to be commercial was a further 124.3 mmboe.
Therefore the total recoverable hydrocarbon resources available to the Company at end 2005 were 235.8 mmboe, of which 47% are currently classed as proven and probable reserves.
Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report | 5 Monkwell, Barbara, Babbage and Gunn gas OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS fields and the Melville oil field.
An exchange The Company has transaction agreed with Gaz fide France in PRODUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT driven forward its North November 2005 and a more recent agreement Group production averaged 16,613 bpd of oil with Venture to acquire an interest adjacent to and 17,810 mmscfpd of gas in 2005, giving a Sea development the Greater Kittiwake area GKA in Block 21 20 total of 19,683 boepd, some 84% of which was will, if successfully completed, also add the oil production.
Approximately 91% of 2005 programme resulting in Anglia gas field and the Christian oil field to production came from Danas portfolio of eleven three new oil and gas Danas production and development portfolio.
North Sea fields with the remainder from the The sale of the Companys minority shareholding South Vat-Yoganskoye field in Western Siberia.
elds due on stream in Evikhon, the Russian joint stock company, This overall increase in production levels was was also completed during the year, at an due to oil and gas output from new fields later this year.
Gadwall, Johnston and F16-E and an increased stake in the Hudson field more than offsetting Investment in field development saw the the natural decline in production elsewhere.
Gadwall oil field and the F16-E gas field brought on stream in April and November The continuing growth of Danas production and respectively.
Additionally, infill drilling and development business is being achieved through well intervention activity in the Mallard, Otter both commercial and development routes.
The and Claymore oil fields and the Johnston gas value of the Groups strategy of exchanging field resulted in further North Sea production international exploration success for production and reserves growth.
and development in the North Sea was clearly demonstrated in March when Dana exchanged Development of the Goosander and Enoch its non-core, Indonesian pre-development gas oil fields and the Cavendish gas field is well interests for an additional 28% interest in the advanced, with all three fields currently expected producing Hudson oil field and realised a to deliver first oil and gas in the second half of substantial gain on completion of the deal.
With further infill drilling and well The Company was also appointed as operator intervention work planned in the Otter, Gadwall, of the Hudson field, thus providing increased Mallard, Banff, Claymore and F16-E fields, commercial flexibility to take on operated as average production in 2006 should see well as non-operated North Sea positions significant growth over 2005 levels.
Looking further ahead, development plans are A further exchange transaction saw Dana gain being actively considered for seven new fields, an interest in the Johnston gas field and new namely the Monkwell, Barbara, Babbage and or incremental stakes were acquired, on very Gunn gas fields and the Melville, Grouse and attractive terms, in five new fields to be Christian oil fields.
It is anticipated that a developed in the near future, namely the number of these will be sanctioned for 6 | Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report development in 2006 with late 2007 first Clachnaben prospects, found only traces of Offshore southern Mauritania, success at production targets.
With attractive infill hydrocarbons, pre-drill evaluation had identified Faucon has provided the impetus to extend 3D opportunities in the Hudson and Johnston fields both of these prospects to be of higher risk than seismic coverage southwards into Senegalese also being targeted for execution in the near the Companys other 2005 North Sea wells, and waters.
This is likely to commence later in term, the Company remains on target to Dana had therefore offset its costs on these 2006 with a view to drilling in 2008.
With a increase production capacity to 40,000 boepd wells through farm-out ahead of drilling.
similar timescale for drilling, a 3D seismic by the end of 2007. survey has also just been completed over the Important progress was also made towards most promising leads in Danas exploration future exploration drilling.
Agreements have EXPLORATION AND APPRAISAL permits offshore South Australia.
Danas 2005 exploration and appraisal drilling been executed to contract the Atwood Hunter drilling rig for two further wells offshore Commercial activity was once again prominent campaign delivered four successes from six wells.
The most important of these was northern Mauritania in 3Q 2006.
The first well in delivering future exploration opportunities.
will target the very large Flamant prospect in Dana created opportunities to enter two new potentially the Faucon discovery made in Block 1 offshore Mauritania.
Although the volume of Block 8, with the potential for gas in place countries in 2005, securing a 26.25% interest exceeding 6 trillion cubic feet.
The second in the NW Safi exploration licence, offshore gas encountered in this first well would not justify near term development on a stand alone well will look for additional hydrocarbons near Morocco, and reaching agreement to acquire to the Pelican gas discovery already made a 20% interest in the South Feiran block, in basis, this discovery is significant, having demonstrated both that a working petroleum by Dana in Block 7.
The final location of the Gulf of Suez, Egypt, subject to regulatory this latter well will be based on detailed approval.
With Danas support, large 3D system exists in the vastly under-explored region of southern Mauritania and that sufficient interpretation of the additional 3D seismic seismic surveys have recently been acquired data acquired up-dip and inshore of the within both of these licences, with a view reservoir sand is present to create the potential for major discoveries in this area.
Faucon Pelican gas discovery during 2005. to drilling in 2007 or 2008, subject to rig availability.
therefore provides enormous encouragement for High impact exploration drilling has also been the additional prospects already identified in firmed up offshore Kenya where plans are being Dana was also successful in growing its Block 1 and also for the future exploration of finalised to drill two wells around the end of exploration portfolio in UK waters.
The Danas neighbouring licence interests including 2006 utilising the Chikyu deepwater drillship.
Company won 20 blocks in the UKCS 23rd the St. Louis Block in Senegal which adjoins The first well is likely to target the Pomboo Licencing Round, 18 in the Shetland-Faroe Block 1 to the south.
prospect, in Block L5, and a second well the Basin and two in the southern North Sea.
Danas North Sea programme also began well Sokwe prospect, in Block L7.
Both of these The Shetland-Faroe Basin licences complement prospects have the potential to contain over one Danas existing exposure to this highly with the discovery in March of the South Melville oil field, located just six kilometres to billion barrels of oil equivalent.
Dana has built prospective region gained through its 17.2% a valuable commercial position in Kenya, shareholding in Faroe Petroleum plc FP which the south of the Hudson field.
The next two well results were also positive, proving significant holding a 30% working interest but having two holds an extensive licence position in both UK thirds of its costs carried by the operator, and Faroese waters.
Dana is moving swiftly to extensions to the Barbara and Johnston gas fields.
Although Danas last two North Sea Woodside Energy.
exploration wells, drilled to test the Fiacre and Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report | 7 exploit its directly held licences, having already further 29 wells at a rate of 10 to 15 per year which has the potential for company acquired a large volume of 3D seismic data to with the final schedule depending on the timing transforming step-change growth: keep open the possibility of exploration drilling of rig availability.
MAXIMISING THE PROBABILITY in summer 2007, subject to rig availability.
As wells are expected to target high impact OF SUCCESS by reducing the technical the largest shareholder, Dana will also benefit exploration prospects in the international arena risk associated with individual investments to from any exploration success FP has in 2006 and the Shetland-Faroe Basin.
a minimum and by ensuring the Company when it drills an exploration prospect to the BOARD AND CORPORATE always holds a portfolio of attractive north of the Claymore field and a large structure GOVERNANCE exploration prospects and development in Faroese waters named Brugdan.
As planned, Charles Smith, who led the Board opportunities: A series of very low cost North Sea acquisitions as Chairman with great skill, diligence and 3.
USING EXPLORATION AS integrity during the formative years of Dana, have created, in a short period of time, an retired as a Non-Executive director at the AGM LEVERAGE TO ACCELERATE attractive acreage position around the Cleeton on 28 July 2005.
Prior to Charles departure, GROWTH by trading long-term or higher Ravenspurn production infrastructure.
These Ian Rawlinson was appointed as a Nondeals included the acquisition of a 40% interest risk discoveries or prospects for near-term Executive director with effect from 31 March production and gearing up these swap in the Babbage gas field, where a key appraisal 2005 and became Chairman of the Audit well will now be drilled in the first half of 2006, transactions with cash where possible: and Committee in December 2005.
In recognition and a number of other exploration wells are of Danas continuing development, Philip Dayer 4.
OPERATING A SOUND FINANCIAL expected to emerge from this area during 2007 was appointed as a Non-Executive director with FRAMEWORK which ensures that and 2008.
The 2005 acquisition of interests in effect from 16 March 2006, and we look investment returns are robust to project northern North Sea Blocks 211 22 and 211 23 forward to the valuable input which both Ian variation and commodity price.
will also yield further exploration drilling in 2006 and Philip will make to the Group during the when a dual objective well will both appraise next few years of growth.
This strategy has served the Company well, the 211 23-11 oil discovery and test the large delivering ten years of rising production and Causeway exploration prospect.
The STRATEGY earnings and positioning the Group with an remaining firm well in the 2006 drilling Danas strategy is to create significant asset exceptional portfolio of future drilling programme will target the DF gas prospect in value per share by delivering strong growth in opportunities.
hydrocarbon reserves, production and earnings Depending on the outcome of ongoing over the medium-term.
Danas strategy, based development optimisation studies, a further on the combined experience of the Board, has OUTLOOK appraisal well may also be drilled in the Barbara four key elements: With three new field developments well field later in 2006. advanced and further infill drilling planned, 1.
BALANCING INVESTMENT between average production in 2006 is expected to show Beyond 2006, Danas exploration and appraisal a low risk acquisition and field development strong growth over 2005 levels and will be drilling programme is set to continue at pace.
In programme aimed at maintaining steady influenced by the precise timing of production the period 2007-2008, the Company is growth in production and reserves and a start-up from the new fields, currently planning on participating in up to a high-impact exploration drilling programme 8 | Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report as well as the completion of ongoing interest in blocks onshore Algeria for a cash The quality of Danas commercial transactions.
Dana continues consideration of $93 million, is not now not to hedge with respect to oil price, expected to complete as GdF has been asset base, and the value thereby providing full exposure to the unable to gain the necessary approvals continuing strength of commodity prices.
Notwithstanding being delivered from it, is a this, discussions have commenced with The Group is currently planning to drill direct result of a sound GdF on how the existing commercial 11 exploration and appraisal wells in 2006, agreements could be adjusted to allow the strategy being implemented 10 of which already have rigs contracted.
exchange deal to continue towards Four of these wells, two offshore Mauritania completion.
These discussions include the by a talented team and two offshore Kenya, will target very potential for GdF to assign to Dana other large prospects with company transforming of people.
exploration and production assets in Danas potential.
Overall in 2006, Dana expects to core areas of business.
As previously invest some 140 million within its existing reported, the exchange deal itself would fields and exploration licences.
see Dana gain a free carry on a three well Approximately 100 million of this drilling campaign offshore Mauritania plus investment programme will be spent on two new UK gas production interests at the North Sea development activity with the Johnston and Anglia fields, in addition to remaining 40 million targeting international the West El Burullus stake offshore Egypt.
In summary, the outlook is very bright.
Looking further ahead, development plans Dana has a strong asset base combining are being considered for seven additional healthy cash reserves, a robust production new fields, and the Group remains on target portfolio delivering strong cashflow, an array to increase its production capacity to of field development opportunities and an 40,000 boepd by the end of 2007.
The exciting 40 well exploration and appraisal Company is also planning on participating drilling programme with the potential to in up to a further 29 wells by the end of deliver very significant upside over the next 2008, some 50% of which will target high three years.
The quality of Danas asset impact exploration prospects in the base, and the value being delivered from it, international arena or the Shetland-Faroe is a direct result of a sound strategy being Basin.
Overall, Danas 40 well exploration implemented by a talented team of people.
and appraisal programme is targeting a total On behalf of the Board and Shareholders of 2.1 billion barrels net to the Company on we would like to take this opportunity to an unrisked basis.
formally thank all staff for their commitment and enthusiasm during 2005.
To complement its organic growth programme, Dana will continue to 28 March 2006 pursue acquisition and trading opportunities which will further strengthen its asset base.
In particular, the Group will focus on its proven strategy of using its exploration positions to create exclusive swap Colin Goodall transactions which can then be geared up Chairman by investing its cash reserves to create larger value additions.
Following Danas strategic positioning offshore Morocco and Egypt during 2005, Tom Cross it is working hard to build further in both Chief Executive provinces.
The exchange transaction agreed with Gaz fide France GdF in November 2005 is one such opportunity which would deliver a further asset in Egypt, namely a 30% interest in the West El Burullus concession in the Nile Delta, upon completion.
The related transaction, which would have seen Dana acquire a minority Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report | 9 Delivering future growth opportunities July Eight year exploration agreement signed for 6,540 sq.
NW Safi licence, offshore Morocco.
Terms agreed with BP for 3 blocks directly east of existing gas transportation and production infrastructure, UK Southern North Sea.
Approval received for development of the Enoch oil field in the UK Central North Sea.
June Dana increases stake in Barbara field area and confirms drilling of next 4 North Sea wells.
March Dana trades Indonesian assets for a major stake in the UKs producing Hudson oil field.
Exchange agreed with CNR to gain a 24.2% interest in UK North Sea Block 211 22a, just east of Shells Cormorant oil field.
February Dana completes acquisition of additional interest in Melville area of UK North Sea through transactions with Shell and ExxonMobil.
January Acquision of 27.78% interest in the producing Johnston gas field and associated UK North Sea Blocks 43 27a and 43 26a.
10 | Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report December Strategic entry into Egypts Gulf of Suez, acquiring 20% of South Feiran concession.
November Expansion of Danas international business continues in North Africa, with 30% interest gained in West El Burullus concession, offshore Nile Delta.
Increase in North Sea producing gas fields with acquisition of 25% interest in Anglia September and a further 22.11% of Johnston.
Acquisition of 40% interest in the Babbage gas field in the UKs Southern North Sea.
20 new offshore blocks awarded to Dana in August UK 23rd Offshore UK Government approval Licensing Round, a received for development record for the company.
of the Cavendish gas field, Southern North Sea.
Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report | 11 12 | Dana Petroleum plc 2005 Annual Report
