Chief Executives review Across Europe the market for white goods was Around the Group relatively stable with a slowdown in the rate of Dartys total sales growth was up by 5.7 per cent deflation towards the period end.
In grey goods in local currency, ahead of the market, and the demand for laptops and LCD monitors up 3.9 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
The continued to increase and all our businesses pressures on margin mix resulting from the rise saw an overall improvement in accessory sales.
in multimedia sales was offset by good product margin management per category and productivity In our second full year as an independent gains in logistics and after-sales service.
Retail electricals specialist I am confident that our profit grew by 7.5 per cent in local currency.
commercial strategy remains on course.
In As the Chairman has stated, the general increasingly consolidating markets the value of Comets sales also increased ahead of the trading climate last year remained difficult but combining our individual strengths becomes market, up by 6.5 per cent, and 3.4 per cent on I am pleased with the way we have responded especially clear and working together in KESA a like for like basis.
Retail profit grew by 9.7 per to these challenging times.
In an increasingly gives us advantage on many fronts.
cent as a result of the improved average selling competitive market our electricals businesses price and a continued focus on both margin gained overall market share, particularly We achieve synergies in buying and sourcing on management and cost control.
during the key period around Christmas.
a global scale, transfer best practice across the Group and share supply-chain infrastructure and BUTs furniture sales rose in the second half of Sales growth across the Group has been led by logistics.
We enjoy the benefits of being panthe year as the overall French furniture market growing demand for digital technologies, fuelled European whilst retaining the local identities our improved.
Electrical sales remained weak as by price deflation.
All our electrical businesses customers value so much.
the business did not benefit from the increased saw very strong year-on-year growth in demand for new technologies.
Costs and products such as flat screen and plasma TVs Based on the heritage of Darty we will continue margins remained in line with expectations.
This is a major shift away to improve and extend the levels of service we BUTs full-year profit performance was down from the traditional analogue range.
provide: before, during and after sales.
In white 13.3 per cent in local currency.
This reflects goods this means focussing on efficient delivery, overall weak trading and a 34.5 million one-off servicing and general aftercare.
With new and correction in accounting for unrealised profit in evolving technologies we must ensure that our stock purchased though CFA, its in-house staff are trained and qualified to provide informed wholesale business.
advice to customers when they visit our stores.
Our other businesses, BCC, Vanden Borre and Before looking at how the individual businesses Datart delivered a strong like-for-like sales have performed, I would like to join with the performance of 6.7 per cent and they all gained Chairman in thanking Martin Reavley for his significant market share.
Leveraging the cost outstanding contribution to the Group and to base led to an overall retail profit of 2.5 million wish him every future success.
I look forward to which takes into account start up costs of working with our new Finance Director, Simon 0.9 million for our Italian venture.
Herrick, as we build upon our strong foundations in the years that lie ahead.
12 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05 16 24 4.1% new format stores opened new format stores increase in sales space in 2004 05 with 20 more opened to date to 261,100 sq m planned in 2005 06 2003 04: 250,800 sq m DARTY The new store format continued to show In a national market that was estimated to improved results with refurbished stores delivering have grown by 4.4 per cent, Darty gained an average uplift in sales in the first year of market share in every category except mobile between 15 and 20 per cent.
This was from an telephones.
average initial investment of 31.2 million fit-out costs per store.
Sales in the nine stores now in The companys total turnover grew by 5.7 per their second year of trading are ahead of the cent in local currency with like-for-like sales like-for-like average.
The year-end total for new increasing by 3.9 per cent.
This was helped by format stores was 24 with 20 more planned for particularly strong sales of new technologies such the year ending January 2006.
Six of the 20 will as laptops, flat screen TVs and DVD recorders.
be new, five will be relocated and the remaining nine will be extended stores.
In addition Darty The accelerated growth in new technologies will close three of the older stores.
has been triggered by price deflation and has had only a small effect on gross margin.
Dartys slight improvement in retail profitability was largely due to productivity gains.
The efficiency plan for the organisation has continued over the year.
Warehouse rationalisation will be completed in 2005 with the opening of the new warehouse in the east of Lyon in the first quarter of the year and the closure of a further two regional warehouses in the north of Lyon and Metz.
The national aftersales service call centre network will also be finalised when the sixth and final centre opens in the first half of this year.
Two regional offices have also been merged.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05 13 Chief Executives review 13 63 4.1% new format stores opened new format stores increase in sales space in 2004 05 with 15 more opened to date to 253,300 sq m planned in 2005 06 2003 04: 243,300 sq m COMET Sales of white goods were helped by increasing With sales up by 3.4 per cent on a like-for-like sales of laundry products and a growing trend basis, Comet performed ahead of the market for contemporary kitchen appliances such as against a background of slowing electricals American-style fridge freezers.
growth in the UK to 2.5 per cent.
In all its major categories Comets average The company improved its overall market share, selling price improved which reflects the achieving particularly strong growth in products success of its ongoing repositioning strategy.
such as LCD and plasma TV and DVD recordable Good margin control across all categories players.
Multimedia sales also benefited from the produced an overall stable gross margin strong demand for LCD monitors and laptops.
despite the current mix effect.
Combining this with rigorous cost control saw profit rise to 52.0 million, an increase of 9.7 per cent.
Investment in the business also continued.
Comets state-of-the-art new warehouse at Skelmersdale opened in time for the critical peak trading period and provided an uninterrupted service to stores and home delivery platforms.
The store modernisation programme continued with four new stores, six relocations and three extensions, including the first store to open with a trading mezzanine floor.
Four smaller stores were also closed and the year end saw a total of 63 new format stores.
Over the current year Comet will accelerate this programme with a further 15 stores, two of which will be new and 13 will be either relocations or refurbishments and three of these will have a trading mezzanine floor.
Also this year, all of Comets stores will be branded with the black and yellow logo to create a consistent corporate image.
14 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05 1 104 4.8% new store opened in stores to date increase in sales space 2004 05 2003 04: 1 2003 04: 102 to 330,900 sq m plus one new franchisee 2003 04: 315,800 sq m acquired BUT contemporary styles across the chain.
BUTs total store turnover grew by 2.6 per Successful tests have already been carried out cent in local currency but was down by on two relayed stores, in Pontoise and Tourville, 2.0 per cent on a like-for-like basis.
Furniture and a further ten are already planned for the sales increased in the second half of the year coming year.
In addition, we are working with in an improving French furniture market which the new management team to develop a lowis estimated to have grown by 3.1 per cent, cost refit plan for the smaller stores.
but electrical sales were weak as the business failed to benefit from the increased demand In electricals, with the help of KESAs global for new technology.
Overall sales towards the sourcing team, BUT will offer a more aggressive end of the year were negatively affected by proposition which better reflects its customer the delay in the official French sale period.
Product margin and costs remained under control but retail profit fell by 13.3 per cent in local currency.
This was due to overall weak trading and a 34.5 million one-off correction in accounting for unrealised profit in stock purchased through CFA, BUTs in-house wholesale business.
During the year BUT opened one new store and acquired one franchisee.
This brought the total number of owned stores to 104 by year end.
Seven more stores were either refurbished or extended.
During the first half of 2005, BUT will open two more new stores.
We have established an action plan to restore BUTs sales and profitability and a new senior management team has been put in place.
With more efficient financial processes and the centralisation of logistics scheduled to be completed during 2005, the priority is to improve the customer offer.
The company is completing the sell-through of its existing furniture ranges which will be replaced with a wider selection of popular Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05 15 Chief Executives review 111 11.0% stores to date increase in sales space 2003 04: 107 to 121,200 sq m 2003 04: 109,200 sq m OTHER BUSINESSES Summary The total turnover for BCC, Datart and Vanden In our second full year of independent trading Borre grew by 13.5 per cent in local currency, we have performed well overall under difficult representing 6.7 per cent on a like-for-like conditions.
We have maintained our focus on basis.
Helped by leveraging the cost base, cost control and on the cash generation that retail profit rose to 2.5 million, which included drives organic growth.
the 0.9 million start-up costs for Italy.
In a fast moving market our stores must also Trading conditions improved in Belgium and keep pace with the leading edge products they the Czech Republic but continued to decline sell.
We have continued to modernise or extend in Holland where the market is estimated to our existing stores and to construct new stores be down by 5.8 per cent.
All three businesses as the market requires.
made significant market share gains overall.
No one is more aware than myself that our This strong overall performance gives us continuing success relies upon the hard work confidence in expanding the Kesa business and commitment of all our 25,000 colleagues model in new markets.
On behalf of the Board I would like to take this opportunity of thanking each New developments and every one of them for their outstanding In April this year we will open our first Italian efforts throughout the year.
store under the Darty brand and business model, with five more planned by the end of the first half of the year, all to be situated in major shopping centres near Milan and Turin.
We believe that we can gain a competitive advantage in what is still a fragmented market.
Jean-Nel Labroue Chief Executive Start-up costs for the Italian operation in the year ending January 2006 will be approximately 37 million.
In addition, we will open three stores in Switzerland which we see as an attractive market where consumer spending per capita is high.
Once again using the Darty brand and business model, these stores will be trading in Lausanne and Montreux by the end of the second half.
Start up costs for the year ending January 2006 will be around 36 million.
16 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05
