DIAGEO THE ESSENCE OF GREAT OCCASIONS OUR BRANDS ARE WORLD LEADERS MAKING GREAT OCCASIONS GREATER This has been a year of great activity and success for Diageo.
It has been Business performance a year in which we restructured our business, continued to build our brands We are committed to delivering sustained financial performance and have and reported strong performance.
once again done so in the financial year 2005.
As you will read elsewhere in this report, Diageo is now structured as three regional business units: North America, I am proud and fortunate not only to serve on your board, but also to represent Europe and International.
We have made good progress in many of our markets Diageo internationally.
In the last 12 months, I have met with employees, prime in each of these regions and continue to address challenges where we face ministers and ambassadors, business partners and representatives of many them.
And as our new structure beds down, I fully anticipate a series of benets communities in which we operate.
These interactions are an important to feed through, including reduced costs and the widespread sharing of component in establishing Diageo as one of the worlds most trusted and best practice.
respected companies, and I am always pleased to be able to further our business interests in this way.
Dividend With our earnings per share before exceptional items rising to 49.1p, the On my journeys, I have experienced a wealth of cultures and languages.
board is recommending a final dividend of 18.2p, which represents a total Alongside these I have seen as many different business challenges and dividend per share for the year of 29.55p.
This is an increase of 7% over solutions.
Yet one factor has remained constant throughout the irrepressible the total dividend paid last year.
commitment and drive of our people.
This is in no small measure due to the power and range of our brands, which help us to attract highly talented The board people to work with us.
There has been one addition to our board, the appointment as a non-executive director of Dr Franz Humer, who brings to the board a range of highly relevant From quiet nights in to great nights out, our brands help people celebrate life, complementary skills and experience.
They are an essential part of our brands and the success of our business.
It is a real privilege to work I am delighted with this addition, believing our board of directors offers a ne with them.
mix of skills and experience gained within Diageo and at other companies.
In last years review, I wrote that those who lead the alcohol beverage industry In conclusion, I would like to thank all of our stakeholders for their support must be highly sensitive to the emerging concerns of governments and over the past year.
Together, we face the future with confidence.
academics, special interest groups and individuals.
That statement is even more true today.
Responsible drinking informs every aspect of our business.
It is the cornerstone of our commitment to all our stakeholders, including our consumers and the communities in which they live and work.
Lord Blyth of Rowington Chairman Diageo Annual Review 2005 1 Chairmans introduction 11182 DIAGEO REV P1 32 N 13 9 05 9:31 pm Page 2 11182 DIAGEO REV P1 32 N 13 9 05 9:31 pm Page 3
