ANNUAL REPORT 2005 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OPERATING REVIEW During the course of the year, market trends continued to play to the strengths we have developed through our lines of business.
The network continues to play a critical role as the integration point in the convergence of disparate technologies, and in particular voice and data.
This trend, together with our networking heritage, positions us well to help clients optimise their IT architectures, reducing operating expenses and improving return on investment.
Evidence of IT convergence was most marked in our Converged Communications line of business, where revenues grew by 97%.
Here we continue to upgrade our clients IT architectures and transform their voice calls into IP-based data traffic, thereby streamlining their communications network and reducing telecommunications costs.
We also notice an increase in the sophistication of our clients IT services requirements.
Increasingly, clients are selecting a 2005 was a very good year for Dimension Data.
A year of solid combination of in-sourced, out-sourced, or multi-sourced services.
operating performance with strong revenue growth 15.2%, during This past year we completed our Global Service Operating Architecture 1 which Group operating profit more than doubled to US$61.7 million.
GSOA baseline project which brings us closer to having a globally The robust improvement in our results over the past few periods consistent managed services infrastructure.
The new GSOA platform continued, and our earnings per share were 1.3 US cents for the helps Dimension Data better address the needs of large enterprises, year a positive result at the bottom line for the first time in several provide greater and more flexible service levels, and extract benefits of reporting periods.
scale from our overall services offerings.
We expect these IT services trends to continue and we will invest further in developing IT services Our revenue growth has been driven by the successful execution of our that give our clients flexible services across our lines of business.
strategy of expanding aggressively into our chosen market segments, reflected by our six lines of business.
Our Networking Integration line We are proud of the high quality client base that we have built up and of business achieved significant growth outside of Europe, 14% of the IT improvements we have helped our clients to achieve.
During growth reflected market share gains in several territories.
Our five 2005 we looked for ways to improve our client engagement model Solutions lines of business grew on average by 41.9%, evidencing and conducted our first global client survey to gain feedback on their strong traction from our continued focus in these high growth market perceptions, preferences and concerns.
We created a client special segments.
Effective execution within most of our regions, in particular interest group to obtain feedback on our Solutions and Services the US, Asia and South Africa, was another highlight.
development plans and implemented programmes to gain more knowledge about our sales effectiveness.
We will continue to work 1 The marked improvement in the Group operating profit reflects a with our clients to ensure we are injecting the voice of the client into good flow-through of the operating leverage in the period.
Revenues from our top 15 global clients grew by some 36% growth drove a 13.4% improvement in gross profit.
This, together year on year.
While some of this growth is attributable to improved with ongoing containment of our fixed costs, continues to drive the sales effectiveness, it also reflects the competitive advantage of Groups improved profitability.
The proportion of overheads to our global IT procurement, logistics, deployment, integration and revenues declined significantly to 18.1% from 19.6% in 2004, which is management services.
ahead of our internal target.
Note: 1 Before associates, goodwill amortisation, impairment and exceptional items 008 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OPERATING REVIEW Dimension Data helps clients make the best decisions about Dimension Data has an exceptional complement of skilled and technology solutions and vendor alternatives according to their unique committed people, which remains its most important competitive needs.
Our long term relationships with a number of market leading advantage.
During the period we have continued to invest in growing technology and communication vendors allow us to offer the most this complement from 8,600 to some 9,100.
This investment in new appropriate solutions.
During 2005 we received multiple industry skills is focused on improving our domain expertise and execution and partner awards that recognised our technology expertise, capabilities within our lines of business in all our regions.
quality of delivery and client focus.
These included the prestigious Cisco Global Partner of the Year award, Microsofts Global Security Going into the new financial year we anticipate a continuation of Sales and Marketing Partner of the Year award, as well as awards the favourable demand environment that prevailed during 2005, from Avaya, Checkpoint, Genesys, Hewlett Packard, Nortel, RSA, particularly in our chosen Solutions lines of business.
Dimension Sun Microsystems, Trend Micro and others.
Industry leading and Data is recognised as a world leader in Network Integration, and has emerging technology vendors continue to approach us to develop a growing reputation in its Solutions lines of business.
We believe partnerships, and these relationships remain a key component of our our value propositions are resonating with our clients, driven by our success as a specialist IT infrastructure solutions provider.
domain expertise and our ability to integrate our offerings across our lines of business.
This, together with our life cycle of Services We continue to invest to expand our expertise in our Network approach, gives us confidence that as we move into 2006 we will be Integration and Solutions lines of business.
This investment is fueling able to compete effectively and we will once again strive to achieve our growth, creating a unique competitive advantage for Dimension double digit growth in revenues.
We will be vigilant in ensuring that Data and a firm foundation for further growth.
We have also invested our cost increases are contained below the growth in our revenues in closer alignment of the development and execution of our Services in order to be able to continue to deliver improved profitability and and Solutions strategies, to accelerate the delivery of a full life cycle of returns to shareholders.
services within each of our lines of business.
009 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Services Operating Environments & Data Centre & Messaging Storage Solutions Network Integration Converged Communications Security Customer Interactive Solutions Services What we offer Other technology competencies of Dimension Data Dimension Data plans, builds, where we bring unique technical expertise and skills supports and manages IT are incorporated in our Solutions lines of business: Converged Communications infrastructure solutions to Customer Interactive Solutions including contact centre technologies exceed client expectations.
Data Centres and Storage Operating Environments and Messaging Our core competency is our skill Security.
in connecting businesses, their customers, partners and suppliers over As clients needs evolve and technology advances, previously disparate technologies are now expanding local and wide area networks.
Several years ago, clients were developed this networking expertise only concerned about securing their communication over the past 20 years, helping network.
Today clients are concerned about securing some of the leading global brands to their overall IT infrastructure and corporate information.
Not long ago, most companies ran separate voice communicate and share information.
Today, technology has allowed companies to combine these two networks onto one Building on this knowledge base and strength, our converged communications network.
business has expanded into several other technology competencies that have a critical reliance on the We help our clients take advantage of these advances network.
Our networking heritage differentiates us.
Our unique skill set positions us well to help our clients and changes in technology to improve their business integrate and support network-reliant technologies.
010 ANNUAL REPOR ANNUAL REPORT T 2005 2005 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OPERATING REVIEW Overview of Results Group revenues grew by 15.2% to US$2,727.9 million, with a The Group recorded a net interest expense and investment 7.7% increase in the Network Integration line of business and an income of US$16.9 million for the year, compared to a net interest excellent performance from our Solutions lines of business where and investment income in 2004 of US$5.3 million.
The swing revenues increased by 41.9% on 2004.
As a result, Solutions now to a net interest expense of US$19.5 million is as a result of the account for 28% of revenue, up from 23% in the prior year.
capitalisation of a property lease in November 2004.
2 Gross profit grew by 13.4%, reflecting a 0.3% reduction in gross The Groups effective tax rate at 43.1% of profit before tax was margin.
The margin was impacted by strong growth in product an improvement on the prior year.
revenues 15.8% on a like-for-like basis, at lower margin than services revenues, as well as an increase in revenues from our Adjusted earnings before goodwill and exceptional items were high volume multinational customers.
Services margins improved US$18.6 million, 63.0% up on 2004, and basic earnings per share during the year.
of 1.3 US cents reflects a return to positive bottom line profitability.
Overheads grew by 6.4% and, as a proportion of revenue, improved to 18.1% from 19.6% in the prior period, evidencing significant operating leverage.
Our results therefore reflect a 140% growth in 1 operating profit to US$61.7 million, and a doubling of the Group 1 operating margin to 2.3%.
Notes: 1 Before associates, goodwill amortisation, impairment and exceptional items 2 Before goodwill amortisation, impairment and exceptional items 3 After adjusting for the impact of currency movements, and excluding acquisitions and disposals not included in either the full current period or the full prior period.
011 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Review of revenue and trading Contribution Change on Change on 2005 to revenue 2004 2004 3 Group Turnover $000 Like for Like Lines of Business Network Integration 1,470,611 54% 7.7% 7.0% Solutions 757,973 28% 41.9% 39.7% Other 499,273 18% 6.7% 9.8% Total 2,727,857 100% 15.2% 15.0% Revenue Streams Product 1,732,399 64% 18.5% 15.8% Managed Services 663,125 24% 14.0% 15.1% Professional Services 332,333 12% 2.5% 11.1% Total 2,727,857 100% 15.2% 15.0% 1 In the analysis below, all references to percentage change in turnover, gross profit and operating profit, as well as gross profit margins, are after adjusting for the impact of currency movements, and exclude acquisitions and disposals not included in either the full current period or the full prior period.
All changes are relative to 2004.
Lines of Business The balance of our lines of business, referred to as Solutions, grew The Group is focused on six global lines of business.
These lines of business, which are closely aligned to our core Network Integration business, focus on high Network Integration, the Groups most significant line of business, growth markets where the Group, with its strong base of networking grew by 7.0%.
Apart from Europe, where revenues declined by experience and skills, is well positioned to compete.
The growth in 11.2%, the remaining five regions grew on average by a strong Solutions revenue this year is the result of continuing good demand 13.3%, reflecting market share growth in several territories.
in these markets, focused execution, and the leverage afforded by This growth was supported by healthy demand in our larger, the Groups established global presence.
012 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OPERATING REVIEW Within the Solutions lines of business: Security revenues grew by 40%, reflecting the Groups expertise in consulting on the storage, classification and protection of Converged Communications revenues grew by 97%.
As a result information, and the implementation of leading security technology of our Internet Protocol IP heritage and a growing reputation in Solutions and Managed Services.
Dimension Data was recognised the IP telephony market, the Group is well positioned to benefit with awards from its security partners during the year, including from continuing growth in this market.
During the year, the Group Microsoft, Cisco, Checkpoint and RSA.
was Ciscos IP Telephony Partner of the Year in both EMEA and Asia PAC, and their second largest partner in the US.
The Groups Network Integration, Converged Communications and Security capabilities were acknowledged this year when we Customer Interactive Solutions CIS revenues grew by 41%.
received the Cisco Global Partner of the Year award in recognition Migration to IP technology continues apace, and our experience of outstanding performance, commitment to technical excellence in IP telephony and contact centres positions us well to benefit and customer focus.
Dimension Data continues to differentiate in the future.
Furthermore, our ongoing investment in advanced itself in the markets within which it operates through its technical contact centre applications such as workforce optimisation and skills and service excellence.
self-service differentiates the Group amongst clients who are looking to address contact centre operational and automation The Groups Other businesses account for the remaining 18% of requirements.
A further differentiator for Dimension Data is our revenues.
These operations are complementary to our Network international presence, due to the requirement for a consistent and Integration and Solutions offerings in the territories within which standardised service across international contact centres.
they operate, but are unique to those territories.
Most significant are Internet Solutions in South Africa an Internet service provider Operating Environments and Messaging OE&M, where we with a dominant presence in the South African ISP market and manage and optimise our clients Microsoft environments, grew by Express Data in Australia an IT product distribution business.
Our competitive positioning was enhanced by the acquisition Both continued to perform well.
of two businesses focused on Microsoft-based solutions - Euricom in Belgium and Bellerephon in Australia.
The acquisitions Client Wins by Line of Business substantially improve our Microsoft skills in general and desktop In our different lines of business, examples of client wins during the period deployment and presence management capabilities in particular.
included: During the year Dimension Data was recognised by Microsoft as Network Integration: An Australian financial services institution, a US$13.5 a global Systems Integrator partner and achieved Microsoft Gold million Managed Services contract for a Cisco IP network and Nortel call centre technologies.
Partner status on five continents.
Converged Communications: A global financial services company in the UK, a US$3.8 million contract incorporating consulting, design and deployment of IP telephony across 1,700 branches, supported by our Data Centres and Storage DCS revenues were somewhat Managed Services.
Lower sales in the US and Australia Security: State Bank of India, a US$3.2 million Security Solution to provide Enterprise Antivirus solutions in all of the Banks 13,000 branches, offset good growth in the recently established Asian and European incorporating a Managed Service offering with 24 x 7 monitoring.
Operating Environments and Messaging: A multinational oil company, a lines of business.
During the year we received awards from some US$7.5 million solution to manage and monitor employee remote access of our key partners EMC in Asia, Sun Microsystems in Australia onto group IT platforms.
Customer Interactive Solutions: A major cellular service provider in South and Hewlett Packard in South Africa.
In Australia we supplemented Africa, a US$30.0 million contract involving an outsourced call centre our data centre and storage skills with a small acquisition.
service as well as managed support services for various in-house call centres.
Data Centres and Storage: A major financial institution in Luxembourg, a US$3.1 million contract for the renewal of high-end storage infrastructure and a storage area network incorporating storage architecture from EMC.
013 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Revenue Streams Also falling under Managed Services, our outsourced call centre The Group offers a full life cycle of Services to clients including the business Merchants, had a very good year, with revenues up planning, building, support and management of IT solutions.
This significantly, and Internet Solutions grew by 20.2%.
is reported as three streams of revenue: Product the resale of nonproprietary product, Managed Services of an annuity or recurring The scaleable nature of the Managed Services business, together with nature and Professional Services project-based engagements.
an ongoing focus on delivery efficiencies, resulted in an improvement in Product comprised 64% of Group revenues and Services 36%: the Managed Services gross margin.
with Managed Services and Professional Services 24% and 12% respectively.
Good growth in our deployment revenues staging and installation of IT solutions mirrored overall Product revenues grew by 15.8%.
This growth reflects good revenue growth, and we also saw the benefits of a greater presence of performance in most of the territories within which the Group operates.
our IT engineers on site at customers.
In particular, Product revenues in our Solutions lines of business were well up on last year.
Client Wins by Revenue Stream Our top 15 global clients grew at a robust 36%.
This reflects the benefits Across our different revenue streams, examples of client wins for the period of the Groups global presence, and our ability to deliver consistent included: procurement, deployment and integration solutions in multiple territories.
Product: Telewest in the UK, a substantial contract involving Cisco cable In this regard, we continue to refine our global logistics and tracking modem terminal server upgrades.
Managed Services: A global financial services group in the US, a three systems to ensure a seamless offering to our clients.
For example, we year, US$22.5 million maintenance agreement that leverages the services invested further in DD Direct, an automated quoting, configuration and relationship between Dimension Data and Cisco in the US.
Professional Services: A large UK service provider, a US$5.0 million conordering tool that provides a self-service option to clients, simplifying tract to design and deploy an MPLS network, including support for fault, the procurement process.
Within this, Managed Services revenues grew by 15.1%.
Our initiatives to extend our Managed Services offerings into the Solutions lines of business continue to produce results.
We saw during the course of the year an acceleration in the number of Requests for Pricing, particularly from the US, for global, cross-border services fulfilment, validating the establishment of our global footprint and offering a substantial opportunity for the Group to cross-sell Services into an established multinational customer base.
Delivering these Services is facilitated by our six global support centres, the consolidation of which was completed in the first half of the year.
014 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OPERATING REVIEW Regions United United Africa Asia Australia Europe Kingdom States Centre Total $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 2005 Group turnover 482,871 455,977 598,738 449,585 247,053 481,046 12,587 2,727,857 1 Group operating profit 42,501 17,470 18,580 6,927 11,741 7,719 43,246 61,692 1 Group operating margin 8.8% 3.8% 3.1% 1.5% 4.8% 1.6% 2.3% 2004 Group turnover 445,172 362,280 481,078 438,841 218,260 416,811 5,602 2,368,044 1 Group operating profit 27,560 6,897 14,014 7,353 12,744 4,573 47,475 25,666 1 Group operating margin 6.2% 1.9% 2.9% 1.7% 5.8% 1.1% 1.1% 1 In the analysis below, all references to percentage change in turnover, gross profit and operating profit, as well as gross profit margins, are after adjusting for the impact of currency movements, and exclude acquisitions and disposals not included in either the full current period or the full prior period.
Note: 1 Before associates, goodwill amortisation, impairment and exceptional items 015 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Africa The Group made a further acquisition during the year of an effective Africas revenue grew by 13.0% - Product by 7.0% and Services 50% interest in ROE, a leading Nigerian IT solutions and services by 16.3%.
Managed Services were up 18.3%, with good growth company.
This acquisition increases the Groups geographical in Internet Solutions, Merchants and in the core Managed Services presence and execution capabilities in Africa.
Professional Services grew by 5.7% for the period.
Within the lines of business, Network Integration grew by 11.7% and Asia Solutions by 23.4%, with CIS, OE&M and Security all performing Datacraft Asia reported a robust 25.9% growth in revenue to strongly.
US$456.0 million and a 153% increase in operating profit to US$17.5 million.
This performance was underpinned by healthy demand from Overall gross margin improved to 29.9% from 29.5% in 2004.
The both enterprise and service provider customers, and success in the higher than average gross margin in Africa is a consequence of the Solutions lines of business, which more than doubled during the historically higher proportion of Services in total revenue 66.4%, at year and now account for a third of Asias revenue.
The Converged better gross margins.
Gross profit grew by 14.5% for the year.
Communications, DCS and Security lines of business performed exceptionally well.
Overheads increased by 2.1% over the prior year.
The capitalisation of the property lease during the period resulted in a reduction in the Almost every country in the region improved its performance over the operating lease charge of some US$13.7 million, and an increase in prior year.
The main exception was Japan, which registered a loss the depreciation charge of US$1.9 million.
for the year as business, especially in the second half of the year, was impacted by challenging market conditions and soft margins.
Reported operating profit improved to US$42.5 million from US$27.6 However, this was more than offset by strong performances from million in 2004, and the operating margin increased to 8.8% from India, all the Asean countries and New Zealand.
also did well, returning to profitability, while China achieved good progress in reducing operating losses compared to the previous The involvement of our Black Economic Empowerment BEE year.
partners since the second half of 2004 continues to create opportunities within the South African public sector and subThe gross margin improved to 17.1% compared with 16.2% in the Saharan Africa.
The establishment of the BEE partnership has been prior year, with a particularly pleasing increase in the Services gross important in protecting our competitive position in South Africa and margin.
we have been awarded a number of government, local government and parastatal contracts, including a significant public sector Overheads were well contained, increasing by 16.7% and the services organisation.
operating margin doubled to 3.8% from 1.9% in 2004.
In August 2005, we increased our interest in Internet Solutions by a further 20% to 80% effective 77.91%.
The proposed deregulation of the South African telecoms market is expected to create new opportunities to offer voice services to our customer base.
Uncertainty remains as to the regulatory framework pending finalisation of the Convergence Bill.
016 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OPERATING REVIEW Australia Continental Europe Australias revenues grew by 15.5%.
Express Data had a particularly Continental Europe recorded 1.0% revenue growth in difficult good year, and while a slight reduction in its product gross margin market conditions.
Network Integration revenues declined by 11.2%, was experienced, improved operational efficiencies and leverage led impacted by underperformances from Sweden and Spain in the first to an increase in its operating margin.
Network Integration revenues half of the year, and by weak performances in Italy and Switzerland grew by a pleasing 11.8% and Solutions revenues by 14.8%, with in the second half.
The Benelux countries continued to perform good growth in CIS, Converged Communications, OE&M and very well, and in particular the acquisition in the first half of the Security.
Product revenues outside of Express Data increased by year of a Microsoft-based application services company, Euricom, 7.9% and Services revenues by 11.0%.
Managed Services reflected supplemented a strong performance from the Belgian operation.
robust revenue growth of 13.0% and Professional Services grew by The German business, whose performance in the first half of the 9.0%, supported by a much improved performance from the training year was sub-optimal, recorded a much improved second half.
France continued to be profitable, although operating performance was flat on the prior year.
Australias gross margin declined slightly to 18.5% from 19.3%, due almost entirely to the increased contribution from Express Data.
Solutions revenues improved by 52.0%, driven by excellent performances within the CIS, Converged Communications and DCS Overheads were well controlled, increasing by 7.4%.
CIS was further assisted by the establishment of a Merchants outsourced call centre in the Netherlands, which During the year, the Australian business acquired the assets of the contributed to revenue growth and profitability.
Secure Data Group, which improved its competitiveness in the areas of storage, back-up, and server and database management.
The overall gross margin in Europe declined to 20.6% from 21.4% This acquisition supported what would otherwise have been slower in the prior year.
While product margins improved slightly, reflecting sales from the DCS line of business.
Late in the year we acquired growth in some of the higher margin Solutions areas, services Bellerephon, a provider of Microsoft desktop deployment and margins declined due to weak volumes in the core Network infrastructure solutions.
This acquisition will enable us to accelerate Integration line of business.
the execution of our OE&M line of business strategy.
Reported operating profit was US$6.9 million, compared to US$7.4 Reported operating profit increased by 32.6% to US$18.6 million million in 2004. from US$14.0 million in 2004, and the operating margin was higher at 3.1% compared to 2.9%.
Europe incurred US$4.4 million of retrenchment and restructuring expenses during the year, reflected as operating exceptional items.
The main regions affected were Sweden, Germany, Italy and France.
In September 2005, the Group announced the amalgamation of the UK and Continental Europe into one operating region, and the consolidation of the central management teams of the two regions.
This will improve our ability to deliver multinational Solutions and Services, and leverage our execution capabilities across Europe.
017 ANNUAL REPORT 2005 United Kingdom Gross margin improved to 14.7% from 14.1% in 2004.
Product Revenues in the UK grew by 13.9%, robust Product revenue growth margins were stable, and Services margins improved strongly, of 25.1% being achieved mainly out of the UKs large multinational benefiting from an expanded range of Managed and Professional and service provider client base.
Contracts with these clients for Services offerings and more effective utilisation of our technical product procurement and installation tend to be high volume and resource capacity.
attract lower than average product margins.
As a result, product gross margins declined by 2.2%.
Managed Services grew by 12.5%, Reported operating profit increased to US$7.7 million from US$4.6 supported by stable demand for our managed network services, million, with a widening of the operating margin to 1.6% from 1.1% and an improved performance from Merchants, while Professional in 2004.
Services revenues were broadly flat.
Client Wins by Region The overall gross margin came down to 21.8% from 23.4% in 2004, Across the Groups regions, examples of client wins during the period inbetter Managed Services margins reduced the impact of lower cluded: Product and Professional Services margins.
Gross profit grew by Africa: A large public sector organisation, a US$20.0 million, two year, 5.9%.
Converged Communications contract involving a communications infrastructure refresh, upgrades, maintenance and support at branches throughout South Africa.
Network Integration revenues increased by 16.2%, and Solutions Asia: Hanarotelecom, a US$12.1 million, Network Integration contract involving the clients core broadband network, data centre and network by a pleasing 28.3%, with strong growth from Converged redundancy.
Australia: A large mobile service provider, a three year, multi million dollar CIS contract for contact centre operational support and Cisco maintefinance services.
Overheads increased by 10.3%, partly as a result of investments Continental Europe: A large French financial institution, a US$10.5 million, CIS contract involving a global solution based on Genesys for multi during the year in Solutions capacity and resources.
channel handling, Nice for quality monitoring and Scansoft for speech self-service.
United Kingdom: A global financial institution, a US$6.3 million Network Consequently, operating profit and operating margin declined to Integration and Professional Services contract.
United States: A global healthcare company, a three year, US$8.9 million, US$11.7 million and 4.8% from US$12.7 million and 5.8% in 2004.
Network Integration contract with on-line purchasing through DD Direct, worldwide logistics handled by Dimension Data Commerce Centre and global Managed Services.
United States The US recorded a highly satisfactory improvement on the prior year, with revenues up 22.6%.
Product revenue grew by 20.0%, with Centre significant traction in the large enterprise and multinational customer The US$43.2 million costs at the Centre comprise holding company base.
Services revenue growth of 36.4% reflects a growing attach costs, investment in global Solutions and Services development rate of Managed and Professional Services to product sales, the the benefits of which are reflected in the improved regional regions investment in sales and technical capacity, as well as the performances and share incentive costs.
Excluding the expensing increased presence of our engineers on site at our clients.
Services of the new share incentive schemes for the first time, the net expense growth was further supported by the new Third Party Maintenance was US$39.5 million, a significant reduction on the US$47.5 million agreement to support Cisco devices in the region.
Network Integration grew by an impressive 20.3% and Solutions by 28.5%, with strong contributions from Converged Communications Brett Dawson and Security.
Chief Executive Officer 018 What our employees are saying about us... Our employees deliver each day on our promises to Employee quotes on what employees like best about our clients.
They are our most important asset and working at Dimension Data: the critical link to our success.
In 2005, we undertook our first global employee satisfaction survey to better The challenging creative environment that makes understand our employees perspectives.
SeventyDimension Data what it is.
Best six percent of employees completed the survey.
The friendly culture which flows from the top right through the business.
80 % o f r e spo n d e n t s are satisfied or very The personal growth and experience I have gained.
satisfied with Dimension I came to Dimension Data because I had the opportunity to be part of a global group.
I also admire Dimension Data for being good at their core focus and that they are willing 84% of respondents have a clear understanding of to make adjustments to become more relevant in the expectations and their role.
81% of respondents know how they contribute to the Working with high-calibre people on focused and Group achieving its objectives.
78% of respondents believe the Dimension Data During 2005, regional and executive management values of Teamwork, Commitment, and Professional initiated specific action plans to address areas for Excellence are meaningful and important.
Employee perspectives will be surveyed annually going forward to ensure we continue to keep these paramount.
