CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW I am pleased to report that the Group achieved further growth in sales and profits, despite a very challenging consumer and retail environment in the UK, particularly in the second half.
I would like to thank all our employees for their hard work and dedication.
Growth was driven by an encouraging performance from our International operations, with Elkjp in the Nordic countries once again leading the way.
During the year we We achieved growth in a increased our stake in Kotsovolos, the market leading electrical retailer in Greece, challenging environment to a controlling 80 per cent.
Our investments in Electro World in Central Europe and PC City in France and Spain made good progress towards profitability.
We opened further PC City stores in Italy and Sweden.
UniEuro, our Italian electricals business, had a more difficult year, although we have made headway in transforming the business from a buying group to a centralised business model, with the associated advantages of economies of scale.
The Groups International operations reached an important milestone in the second half, generating one third of total Group sales for the first time.
In the final quarter we made two important announcements concerning the future of our International operations.
First, we announced our intention to accelerate the expansion of PC City in France, where we see the potential for up to 100 stores, together with the intention to expand Electro World into Poland and PC City in Portugal, giving One third of Group sales us a presence in 15 European countries.
Secondly, we announced a co-operation now generated overseas agreement with Eldorado Group, the leading electricals retailer in Russia and Ukraine.
Under the terms of the agreement we have the right to acquire Eldorado by 2011.
Against the backdrop of weakening consumer demand, the performance of our UK operations was disappointing, particularly in the second half.
Currys sales performance was sound, but profitability was undermined by a reduction in trading margins and credit commission income.
Currys launched a new customer support proposition, whateverhappens, in the last quarter, enhancing the offer and giving our customers greater choice and more ways to pay.
Initial feedback has been positive.
Dixons performance benefited from a rationalisation of its store portfolio in the first quarter, and from a new marketing platform and advertising campaign, The Future for Less, launched in September.
The resulting sales performance, particularly over the Christmas peak, was encouraging.
Tests of new Dixons formats continue.
PC World in the UK had to deal with very significant levels of price deation.
Lower prices made it a particularly good time for our customers to buy.
Sales volume grew sharply and our market share strengthened, not sufciently, however, to compensate for lower unit prices and like for like sales.
Sales in PC World Business were strong, boosted 12 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 by the acquisition of MicroWarehouse in June 2004, a Business to Business B2B operation, which has since been integrated into PC World Business operations.
Competitive pressures in the pay-as-you-go mobile phone market impacted on The Links performance, particularly in the second half.
The Link successfully relaunched its service contract business in early November.
Genesis, our B2B mobile service provider, made good progress.
Internet sales from our four retail brands and B2B operations continued to grow in the UK, and were up 70 per cent over the year.
Investment in site capacity and fullment operations delivered excellent results with a collect at store feature launched during the fourth quarter in PC World proving to be a convenient facility for web customers.
Elsewhere, a transactional website has now been established in Norway.
Growth of Further investments our internet operations across all countries in which the Group has a retail presence will be made in our is an important opportunity, and further investments will be made in this distribution internet operations channel in the year ahead.
Good progress was made towards a new structure that will manage the Groups retail formats under two divisions computing and communications and large space electrical stores.
Today, we have three trading operations.
Computer superstores and our communications businesses have now been consolidated under one management team, led by Simon Turner.
Our electricals operations are currently managed as two sub-divisions: one that covers the UK and Ireland and the other covering the rest of Europe, headed by Nick Wilkinson and Per Bjrgas, respectively.
This structure is enabling us to sharpen our operational and commercial execution and strengthen our competitive edge.
As we grow, we create scale, which in turn creates opportunities for efficiencies in buying, supply chain, store operations and other areas.
These efficiencies will enable us to eliminate unnecessary cost and deliver improved service to customers.
Turning to the year ahead, we are cautious about the outlook in our markets, Our growing scale particularly in the UK and Italy.
The Group is well positioned, however, with a strong creates opportunities balance sheet, the right strategy and clear plans for the longer term.
Our immediate for improved efficiency priorities are also clear: a measured approach to international expansion, a focus on free cash ow and margin delivery and the achievement of further cost savings.
Through our 1,400 outlets, we will continue to align our approach to the needs of customers, whilst retaining an unwavering commitment to market leadership on price, range and service.
Our markets are dynamic and the pipeline of new technology is more exciting than ever.
We approach our markets with our customary ambition and determination, ready for the challenges and opportunities ahead.
John Clare Chief Executive Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 13
