FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 Divertimenti store, Brompton Road, London Mike Bufton La Cornue Divertimenti Rangemaster Managing director CornuF range cooker Cookware Falcon 1092 range cooker Rangemaster Chief executives review 04 05 We have the range at home and overseas We are pleased to say, revenue passed the 500 cookers are key sources of growth.
million milestone and was more than double that of Geographical expansion international sales continuing operations in 2001 when the Group sold represent 32% of Aga and 12% of Rangemaster its Pipe Systems operations.
Profits have also sales compared with 26% and 8% in 2004 and 8% doubled in that same period.
Consumer operations Retail strength with Aga and Fired Earth we 2005 was another good year for our UK and have a chain of over 100 stores under Group fascias.
Operating profits The key to progress now is to raise the level of sales were 23.0 million on revenue of 215.2 million per square foot from the 160,000 square feet compared with 19.6 million on revenue of 175.4 available to us in the UK where sales per square foot million in 2004 and 9.6 million on revenue of 107.1 are 330.
In the US we have 210,000 square feet million in 2001, when we first set out our expansion available and sales per square foot are 200. plans.
Organic growth in 2005 accounted for 5.2% of revenue and 7.1% of operating profit growth out of 2005 consumer caution saw the overall UK market total growth of 22.7% and 17.3% respectively.
The demand fall for free-standing cookers.
Against this related US operations progressed more slowly.
background, Aga was able to increase unit sales of Revenue was up 6.4% to 69.6 million and operating branded cookers again, to over 12,000 up 4.9% profits rose 15.0% to 2.3 million with the refrigeration and Rangemaster saw cooker sales rise by 6.4% to operations performing well.
Raising volumes, given the operational range cooker and refrigeration business acquired in gearing of our manufacturing units is central to our December, did not significantly affect these numbers.
At the same time, growing sales of our related brands and products is now of considerable The cornerstones of our plans are: importance.
For example, cookware now represents Product development 31% of Agas revenue over 6 million in sales up 14% in the year.
Similarly and 36% of Rangemasters revenue are from sinks and refrigerators are useful contributors and are products introduced since 2001.
At present the receiving further attention as we seek to drive sales electric Aga ranges and the 90cm Rangemaster through our own retail and dealer outlets.
Waterford Stanley Fired Earth Aga Geoff Harrop Brandon range cooker Ocean mosaic tiles 3 oven electric Aga Managing director Aga FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 During the year, we benefited from key acquisitions further opportunities to educate the market on the virtues of wine cooler units, ice makers and the for our consumer operations.
Waterford Stanley operates in the rapidly growing Irish market and European sector-changing drawer unit refrigerators.
transforms our position in a market so well attuned We are now tying our overall kitchen offering more to our product offerings of cast iron cookers and directly together through ranges of free-standing stoves.
Similarly, in France, La Cornue, a 2004 kitchen furniture led by our French country and acquisition, provides an anchor and credibility for all Shaker ranges, the latter based on the original our ranges being the long established leader in American designs we acquired last year.
These quite premium cooking in France.
La Cornue now with outstanding pieces are made at Europes premier new designs made at Rangemaster had a good furniture factory at Grange in Lyon.
Divertimenti, also part of Rangemaster, potential to set new standards at mainstream prices epitomises quality in UK cookware and is the base through our Aga, Fired Earth and Domain outlets as for our ambitions to be a multi-channel retailer in well as through Granges 300 worldwide dealers.
cookware for all our cookery brands based on the expertise collectively available to us.
In 2006 a considerable opportunity is to raise returns, using our own products from both Domain Our international development plans are now and Fired Earths retail space.
In 2005 these underpinned by real strength on the ground.
The operations saw overall sales fall by 1% and 5% potential derived from the acquisitions of La Cornue respectively in tough home fashions markets.
and Grange is seen in our anchor 7,000 square foot We have the products and the onus on our higher store on Boulevard Haussmann in central Paris margin, larger ticket items to enable us to drive up where our key consumer brands are all on show.
the returns per square foot which remain among the Likewise, with the acquisition of Heartland, we now best in the respective sectors.
In so doing, we have have a market leading position in Canada through new Aga and Rangemaster products and more 200 dealers and also have excellent retail stores able Marvel refrigeration products to take to the market to showcase Aga, Heartland and Grange products in hence the optimism for 2006.
In 2006 we expect the electric Aga, the new In range cooking, we believe our expertise in Rangemaster and Falcon products with their strong cookery sets us apart.
Whether with radiated heat or product features, first shown to the industry at the with conventional cookers our focus is on the major trade show KBB in Birmingham, and the premium end of the market and the development of Marvel drawer refrigerators as well as the new product features is second to none.
As we are free-standing Shaker furniture to have a considerable progressively moving into refrigeration, we have impact in consumer markets.
"Iain Whyte Aga Ranges Northland Marvel Heartland CEO 2 oven gas Aga Wine fridge Classic 48"" range Aga Appliance Manufacturing Chief executives review 06 07 Grange manufactured Shaker kitchen available at Aga, Domain and Fired Earth Grange Domain Domain Judy George Louisiane table and chairs New Brookfield store Items from the CEO Aga Home Monet collection FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 We are sector leaders in developing healthy and efficient cooking processes for bakeries and commercial kitchens Foodservice operations down 7.7% excluding an exceptional property sale in Foodservice markets are recovering some of the 2004, as our increased costs caused margins to growth rates last seen in the mid 90s when quick decline."
Internationally, the cornerstones of our service restaurant expansion was at its height.
strategy are: Foodservice markets have been through cyclical lows and have become more price and commodity Product development with our premium driven.
Now as commercial imperatives change and bakery ranges, our high efficiency refrigerators, our health, energy efficiency and waste reduction innovation in fryers and with the addition of become paramount the technology-led groups will steamers and combi-steamers, we aim to be at the be clear winners.
We are the international market forefront in our chosen areas of expertise.
leader in providing specialist equipment to bakers at a time when our core values choice, taste, health, Geographical expansion the shift from pleasure, bread resonate so clearly with producing for national to international markets was consumers.
Similarly, in prime cooking and a tough process but a critical phase for our refrigeration the technological edge we have manufacturing operations.
We have shown we can developed brings greater opportunities.
achieve it and expect now further expansion.
Our UK and European foodservice operations had Major account links whether it is with UK an excellent year in 2005 with sales up 14.1% and based groups like Sainsburys and Tesco: the operating profits rising to 14.0 million from 10.2 French-based artisan bakers: the US group Panera million.
In the US our markets were more patchy.
Bread or the Ukranian chain Fozzy, we are well Sales were up 6.8% and operating profits were placed to address their need for in-store bakeries.
Yves Gerber Pavailler Esmach Adamatic Managing director Leaven processor 120 litre mixer Divider Rounder Aga Bakery Chief executives review 08 09 Bongard Mono Belshaw Retarder Proofer DXc deck oven Thermoglaze FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 There has been a growing recognition in the last year, are boilerless.
This dramatically cuts water foodservice industry that it has lagged behind in usage at a time when thirsty products are providing customers with efficient, innovative energy becoming a real eco concern.
Our initiatives are saving products.
The Infinity Fryer launched in 2004 making more efficient, healthy means of cooking brings energy and quality benefits and the product more readily available to a wider market.
In 2005 it received the Europe Award for Distinguished Development In 2005, the particular factors which helped provide from the Foodservice Consultants Society the stronger performance were bakery expansion International, FCSI.
Similarly, we were delighted to into Eastern Europe, where the number of new be recognised as the US Governments energy supermarket openings is increasing rapidly and into saving schemes Manufacturing Partner of the Year the US where we have a complete range of a tremendous achievement for our Victory team as products now available to chains like caf bakeries, they were chosen from entries across the spectrum supermarkets and to the wider public sector of US manufacturing companies.
Greater investment was made by major case that customers should specify products that supermarket accounts in the UK and there were are Energy Star listed.
larger contracts for the bakery market.
These trends should continue in 2006 and with our cohesive We calculate that in the UK alone our new range of products we are well placed to benefit generation of equipment would cut energy bills of internationally.
We expect then that this widened commercial kitchens by 2.2 billion and would product range will enable us to address the weak consequently cut carbon emissions by 15 million performance of our low margin commodity tonnes, equivalent to 4.25% of the Governments refrigeration operation, Victory in the US, by adding target for carbon emission reduction by 2050. more premium products to leaven its overall product mix.
Quality, as well as eco-friendliness, is an important growth driver.
The Infinity Fryer helps maintain oil With over 30 new products quality and keeps process contamination to a minimum because of its built in filtration system.
Our launched in the last 3 years best bakery ovens cook based on radiated heat like the Aga and provide best quality breads that have our energetic research and made French bread world renowned.
Further, we now have a world leading range of combi-ovens development programmes which combine convection cooking and steaming and like our Stellar Steam ovens acquired in the US are proving their worth.
Tim Smith Stellar Steam Williams Falcon Managing director 4 pan steamer Salad counter Infinity Fryer Aga Foodservice Chief executives review 10 11 Falcon installation at the New Street Brasserie, Chelmsford Victory Eloma Blast chiller Genius 10 shelf combi-oven FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 Earnings & dividend growth highlight the progress made and the opportunities ahead In 2005 we were once more able to combine organic The board is pleased that, given the progress being growth with a programme of acquisitions adding made, it is able to raise the full year dividend once strength and depth to our core cookery-led operations.
again from 8.3 pence per share to 9.2 pence per Revenue of 501.8 million was up 15.7% from 433.7 share, a 10.8% increase.
This brings the overall million in 2004 and operating profits were up 18.5% to dividend increase since it was reset in 2001 to 84%.
41.7 million and profit before tax was up 18.5% to 43.0 million from 36.3 million.
Of the growth in Cash flow performance in the year was good and was particularly strong in the second half with high revenue and operating profits, organic growth rates investment in working capital in the first half were 5.2% and 13.4% respectively.
These figures are now on an IAS basis.
Of our revenue 56.8% was reversing.
Working capital was 61.5 million at the year end, compared to 44.9 million at December generated from consumer and 43.2% from 2004, primarily because of acquisitions, which foodservice and 53.3% was in the UK: 22.6% was in Europe and 24.1% in North America and the rest of accounted for 8.1 million, exchange rates and the world.
This balance of business is in line with the overall business expansion.
We continued to invest in the business spending 10.6 million on capital strategic objectives set in recent years to replicate the equipment, compared with 14.6 million in 2004. strengths we have in niche UK operations and shows we are now much more than a UK business.
We also capitalised 2.7 million of development expenditure.
of our 6,000 employees, 2,400 work outside the UK.
Amortisation of previously capitalised development The tax charge of 8.6 million was 20% of pre-tax expenditure was 1.5 million in the year.
profits a rate we expect to see increase only moderately this year, if at all.
Earnings per share were We made a number of important acquisitions in the 26.6 pence 2004: 22.9 pence.
These figures are year and we were delighted to acquire Waterford calculated on the basis of the 127.6 million average Stanley in June for 10.6 million.
A long respected shares in issue during the year.
competitor to Rayburn in cast iron cookers, it is a Progress since 2001 Aga Foodservice Group plc Total Return Index vs. Datastream UK Engineering Earnings per share p basic before disposals and goodwill amortisation General Index Total Return for the 5 financial years ending 31st December 2005 rebased as at 1st January 2001 30 UK GAAP IFRS Aga Foodservice Group plc Datastream UK Engineering General Index 26.6 250 23.3 22.9 20 20.7 200 150 13.3 10 100 50 0 0 Jan 01 Jan 02 Jan 03 Jan 04 Jan 05 Dec 05 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Chief executives review 12 13 market leader in the buoyant Irish market and brings We made good progress against our stated financial an expertise in the stove market which will help parameters in 2005.
We target a 10% return on sales reignite our presence in the UK as we launch a stove from our manufacturing operations: we target a 15% range under the Aga brand later this year.
We return on capital employed from the existing assets acquired control of Grange which is now providing now combined with related acquired operations.
In products for our move into free-standing kitchen proceeding with our strategy we continue to expect furniture.
We acquired Heartland in Canada for C$3 to move to a geared balance sheet.
million which brings its own niche range and can provide local market opportunities for our wider We have plans in place to drive top line growth and consumer offering in Canada and the US where have the products available and production capacity Domain is to become a retail outlet for Heartland.
We will continue our investment programmes which are designed to reduce We have managed the move to IFRS well.
The most vulnerability to market specific cycles.
Our priorities noteworthy area that had to be addressed was are to: pensions.
The deficit of 18.2 million on assets of 750.6 million and appraised liabilities of Drive up retail returns per square foot.
768.8 million, is now shown on the balance sheet See our energy saving story translated into under IAS 19.
Our scheme is large but we have been commercial sales.
cautious for some years in asset allocation and in Ensure the efficiencies are delivered from our managing the escalating costs of pensions and we streamlined management structures.
have a reasonably well-funded position based on mainstream assumptions for a continuing scheme.
Further, we expect a negligible charge to the income statement in 2006 when full details of the actuarial William McGrath, Chief Executive valuation as at 31st December 2005 are concluded.
17th March 2006 The Group continued to make a cash contribution to the scheme of 4.9 million.
We still have a strong financial position with net cash at the year end of 20.4 million 2004: 25.1 million.
We expect to continue to make the type of selective investments made in recent years whilst remaining alert to the possibilities of share buy-backs to which market conditions can give rise.
