DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 5 Chief Executives Review We had a significant advance in profit in our enlarged Corrugated Packaging business: in addition the Spicers Ofce Products Wholesaling business increased profits for the third successive year.
Tony Thorne Group Chief Executive changes to the scheme to reduce the impact acquisition is taken into account, the of the increasing cost of pensions.
We also acquisition after synergies contributed raised our payments into the scheme from a net 16.5 million to adjusted profit before 10 million to 14 million per annum.
The adjusted profit contribution from Groups result for 2004 05, which includes Linpac Containers of 21.0 million represents a significant charge in respect of the UK a return on invested capital of 12.3% even pension scheme, is now reported under the before the full synergy benefits have been FRS 17 pensions accounting standard and realised and its contribution to 2004 05 the 2003 04 result has been restated as earnings per share was 3.0p.
required by accounting standards: under The cash inflow before dividends and net the previously applied SSAP 24 accounting acquisitions, was 55.4 million 2003 04: Overview standard there was no charge.
After net expenditure on At the start of 2004 05, we predicted a aids comparison between financial years acquisitions and dividends, there was a net difficult year ahead and this proved to be and largely anticipates the International cash inflow of 12.1 million, which resulted the case.
The external trading environment Accounting Standard 19 for Pensions which in net borrowings of 260.4 million 2003 04: in Paper and Corrugated Packaging remained the Group will apply in 2005 06.
274.7 million after the effect of exchange weak, the Group had to absorb approximately rate movements.
The balance sheet remains Financial Results 9 million of increased energy costs and strong with gearing at 53.1% year end Group sales advanced by 9.2% to 1,624.9 approximately 7 million of higher polymer 2003 04 restated: 54.9% and net debt million, the full year contribution of Linpac costs, we faced a Competition Commission adjusted EBITDA of 1.7 times 2003 04 Containers more than offsetting small inquiry into our acquisition of Linpac 1 restated: 2.0 times.
The adoption of the reductions in some other segments.
Adjusted Containers, and our results included an FRS 17 pension accounting standard has group operating profit was 83.9 million 11.7 million net pension charge, the first 2 resulted in a net pension scheme deficit 2003 04 restated : 75.4 million including such charge incurred in many years.
I believe of 80.3 million being recognised on the a full years contribution from Linpac the Group has responded well to the challenges, balance sheet which accounts for the gearing Containers of 21.0 million, comprising generating satisfactory earnings, particularly increasing from the previously reported 14.9 million 2003 04: 1.2 million from at this low point in the paper cycle, and figure for 2003 04. six weeks of DS Smith ownership from maintaining a strong balance sheet.
We had its operations and 6.1 million of synergy The sharp rise in energy costs during the a significant advance in profit in our enlarged benefits in DS Smiths existing operations.
year significantly affected our 2004 05 Corrugated Packaging business: in addition The Group adjusted return on sales was result, particularly in Paper which incurs the Spicers Office Products Wholesaling 5.2% 2003 04 restated: 5.1% while adjusted approximately three-quarters of the Groups business increased profits for the third return on average capital employed was energy and fuel costs.
The Groups total costs successive year, while further developing 9.0% 2003 04 restated: 9.6%.
Adjusted for gas, electricity and diesel increased from its continental European business.
profit before tax was 76.1 million 2003 04 circa 64 million in 2003 04 to circa Following the completion of the triennial restated: 64.8 million.
If the 4.5 million 73 million in 2004 05, principally due to valuation of our UK defined benefit pension of interest paid on the increased debt a 30% year-on-year rise in the UK average scheme, the Group introduced a number of attributable to the Linpac Containers price of gas, which was partially hedged: 1 before exceptional items and amortisation of intangibles 2 restated for the changes in accounting policy resulting from the adoption of FRS 17 Retirement benets and UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP trusts: the 2003 04 gures reported previously under the SSAP 24 accounting standard were: adjusted operating profit: 88.8m: profit before tax: 81.4m: adjusted earnings per share: 16.9p: gearing: 48.9% 6 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 Chief Executives Review continued Our aggressive programme to raise operational performance while pursuing opportunities to develop our strong market positions has resulted in a significant rise in the profit contribution from the Groups non-Paper operations.
gas accounted for approximately 50% of the European operations also produced a good business were affected by lower demand 2004 05 total energy and fuel expenditure.
from the US carbonated soft drinks sector.
result, with the Polish business continuing The Group has benefited from having hedged to perform strongly, our Turkish operation The combined result of our three smaller its UK electricity until October 2005 but reporting a profit after a number of difficult speciality businesses was flat year-on-year current market prices are substantially higher.
years and our associate in the Ukraine making and, as indicated previously, an exceptional Looking forward, the Group expects to incur impairment charge of 5.8 million was further good progress.
in 2005 06 a level of increase in energy and taken against the goodwill of one of Although profits in Paper were significantly fuel costs at least of the scale of that seen in these, a business providing packaging affected by the pressure on margins from 2004 05 and possibly even greater, depending management services.
depressed selling prices and higher energy on energy price developments.
Ofce Products costs, we continued to raise productivity Paper and Corrugated Packaging and strengthened the business through a Spicers, our Office Products Wholesaling In our largest segment, Paper and Corrugated number of strategic moves.
We enlarged our business, accounted for 31% of total Group Packaging, which accounted for 55% of important Severnside Recycling recovered sales and 26% of adjusted operating profit.
Group sales and 62% of adjusted operating paper collection operation through the Sales were flat while adjusted operating profit profit, demand was slightly stronger than acquisition of BPB plcs waste collection increased by 10%.
Spicers UK and French in the previous financial year but pricing depots and advanced the development of businesses continued to perform well with remained very competitive throughout the sales in higher added-value paper products the UK having returned to sales growth supply chain.
Adjusted operating profit was by concluding a long-term agreement to during the second half of the year.
Spicers 26% higher than last year as a result of a full supply plasterboard liner paper to BPB plc, development businesses in continental Europe years contribution from Linpac Containers representing an important diversification made good progress: Spicers Germany moved and increased profits from our existing UK into a growth market.
into profit: Spicers Spain continued to grow Corrugated operations which was partly well and reduced its losses: and initial sales in Plastic Packaging offset by a further significant fall in profits Italy have been encouraging since our launch Our Plastic Packaging business had a tough from Paper.
Sales, which account for 12% of the We achieved a good result from our UK Group total, were 6% lower than the previous In Office Products Manufacturing, adjusted Corrugated Packaging operations, despite year and adjusted operating profit was 29% operating profit fell to break-even, reflecting the heavy demands placed on management lower.
The sharp fall in adjusted operating the continued difficult trading conditions in during the five-month-long Competition profit was mainly due to the reduced sales the envelope market.
Commission inquiry into the Linpac and an approximate 3 million underStrategy Containers acquisition.
After receiving recovery of the polymer cost increases, this The strategy we have pursued for the last unconditional clearance for the deal from despite securing price increases across our four years of Improve and Develop remains the Commission, we proceeded rapidly with customer base.
Sales of industrial returnable in place.
We have reduced the Groups the integration and restructuring.
We have transit packaging RTP were lower due to a reliance on the cyclical Paper business and already generated substantial synergies and slowdown in new crate contracts, exacerbated are confident that, by early 2006 07, we by some RTP customers deferring orders have developed and improved our Corrugated owing to the sharp rise in polymer prices.
Packaging, Plastic Packaging and Office will achieve the 14.5 million per annum originally indicated.
Our continental Sales in the liquid packaging and dispensing Products Wholesaling activities in order DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2005 7 Productivity DS Smith Packaging increased output efficiency A streamlined procedure for installing Service Spicers UK maintained its high service level: per employee.
Record production was achieved on new reels of plastic lm reduced machine downtime The dealer distribution centre supplies approximately the corrugator at DS Smith Packaging Devizes.
to enhance the quality of earnings.
Our In Plastic Packaging, the priority is to Prospects improve significantly the profitability of our aggressive programme to raise operational The considerable operational and strategic two strategic businesses.
In liquid packaging performance while pursuing opportunities progress made over recent years provides and dispensing this will be through increasing a sound base from which to tackle the to develop our strong market positions cost competitiveness in the mature end-use current tough trading environment and the has resulted in a significant rise in the sectors, such as wine and carbonated soft uncertainty as to the future level of increase profit contribution from the Groups drinks, while concentrating development in energy costs.
We have opportunities for non-Paper operations.
resource in faster-growing end-use sectors improvement and we will be pursuing these Adjusted return on average capital employed such as dairy products and fruit juice.
In hard in 2005 06. was 9.0%, primarily reflecting our current industrial RTP, profit growth will be through poor returns in Paper at this low point in maintaining our strong existing market positions while following our customers the paper cycle.
Although this level of return into new geographic markets.
is in line with our cost of capital, we are making determined efforts to improve it, concentrating Spicers is already producing high levels particularly on raising returns in Packaging.
of return on its capital employed but we We are continuing our programme to reduce believe it has potential for further profit costs and raise operational performance improvement.
Our medium term goal is to while concentrating capital in areas offering see the Spicers business model profitably good profit opportunity.
We will maintain established in the major markets of western Tony Thorne Group Chief Executive investment in our key assets: capital Europe.
In our established markets of the UK, Ireland and France, the key objective is to expenditure projects in 2005 06 will include generate profitable sales growth: our goal completion of the new green-field corrugated in Germany is to build profits further: we packaging plant in Poland and upgrading expect the Spanish business to be in profit paper manufacturing at our Kemsley and in 2005 06 while we shall be driving sales Wansbrough mills to underpin the supply in our new Italian operation.
of plasterboard liner paper to BPB plc.
Our People In Paper and Corrugated Packaging our I would like to thank all our employees focus in the UK is on realising the remaining worldwide for their considerable efforts synergies from the Linpac Containers over the last year.
As I travel around the acquisition and improving the return from Group, I am continually impressed with our substantial integrated position.
This the skills of our people and their contribution will be through cost reduction and growing to raising our performance.
I particularly the sales of differentiated products.
In wish to acknowledge the support and continental Europe we will seek development commitment that our new colleagues from opportunities arising from any further Linpac Containers maintained through consolidation in the industry and in the the uncertain period of the Competition Commission hearing.
higher growth markets of eastern Europe.
