Chief Executives Review The strategy of the Group is evolving.
By focusing on our core strengths in the EEM market we believe we can achieve higher sales growth and maintain high returns.
Ian Mason, Chief Executive competitiveness of our broad offer has Overview declined as local wholesalers, in particular, During the year, the Group has undertaken a have improved their service.
A better review of its strategy.
Over the past five understanding of our market position has led years, while the Group has continued to us to focus on areas of competitive strength generate high returns, overall profits have and develop programmes to improve the remained essentially at.
This has been competitiveness of our offer in these areas.
caused by a combination of a lack of overall sales growth and higher costs to build our Electronic and global infrastructure.
The continued decline Electromechanical EEM of RSUK and at sales in our main European The Group is a primary supplier of EEM products markets of France, Germany and Italy have to R&D and maintenance engineers around the constrained Group sales other markets world.
These are the products and customers have shown good growth.
Enterprise our businesses were built on.
Customers Business System EBS implementation recognise the Group as a leader in this costs and our investments considerably market and the catalogue is the established ahead of growth have signicantly increased primary channel to market.
However, the our infrastructure costs.
Comprehensive competitiveness of our offer has declined as we customer research to understand how to have focused on developing other technologies accelerate sales growth and a review of the and competitors have improved their offers.
costs to complete, leverage and reduce our Improving the competitiveness of our EEM offer future infrastructure costs was undertaken.
will drive faster sales growth through the The Group Strategy has evolved accordingly.
protection of existing business from competitive threat, and the leveraging of the Customer research improved global offer throughout the Group.
We Customer research in the UK and Europe have considerable strength to build upon.
The generated a consistent picture across EEM market available to catalogue distribution markets.
Customers view the RS brand and is growing and the Group has a low share.
service very positively, however, the with our Electronic and OUR REFOCUSED STRATEGY Electromechanical offer WILL ENSURE WE MEET OUR in making our offer even CUSTOMER NEEDS: more convenient: and by meeting their urgent requirements 4 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Chief Executives Review Chief Executives Review A 10 point plan is being implemented to market businesses need to perform.
We will to reduced costs and to benets realisation.
The improve our EEM offer.
Key to this plan are continue to invest to develop the massive cash ow impact peaks next year and then will focus, improving the quality of our product market potentials in the US, China and improve considerably as depreciation replaces range and leveraging e-Commerce to reduce Japan where we have strong established capital expenditure and cost.
The successful our cost, risk and time to market.
The smaller markets will be implementation of EBS will also enable the greater product ranges will be made available free to develop their potential through the strategy and other cost reduction initiatives.
from key brands, and Allied products will be continuation of their existing high growth.
We estimate that the refocusing of the made available to RS businesses.
The primary focus of the strategy is creating strategy on EEM and C&U markets should and deploying a world-class EEM offer generate 20-25m of additional profits Convenient and Urgent C&U through all businesses.
Higher sales The Group drives significant revenue from growth at reasonable margins and customers who value convenience oneInfrastructure economies of scale from leveraging the stop-shop or have an urgent product need The business is heavily engaged in infrastructure will all contribute to the cant nd it.
The customer research implementing EBS as the final piece of our improvement in profitability.
highlighted that local wholesalers are the global infrastructure.
EBS will provide the Annual cost savings of 10-15m will be main competition in providing these needs future operating platform of the Group and sought within the same time period from and that their service has improved.
enables future benets and cost reduction.
It simplifying the business structure consistent Our offer will be optimised to more is a massive project that is having a significant with the strategy and the capabilities provided effectively meet the convenience and urgent impact on the business cost and distraction by EBS.
One-off costs will be incurred to make product needs of customers.
Key to this is disruption however, our confidence is high these changes, probably over the next two improving the value of the offer.
A fuller report years, however it is premature to determine opportunities to drive faster C&U growth will on the EBS project is included in the Operating the scale of these costs.
be exploited, including: large accounts: and Financial Review.
Cash ow will benefit from the higher process control and automation: and local Plans are being developed to create a profits and working capital efficiencies.
The product range will lower cost business model over time be optimised and the cost to serve reduced.
following the successful implementation of Summary EBS in the UK geography.
Implementation of The strategy of the Group is evolving.
By Competitiveness the revised strategy will drive higher sales focusing on our core strengths in the EEM As well as focusing on the EEM and C&U market growth and generate scale economies: EBS market we believe we can achieve higher segments, actions are being undertaken, in implementation costs will be removed and sales growth and maintain high returns.
The response to the customer research, to improve benets generated: and new approaches to implementation of EBS will complete our the general competitiveness of the Group our main cost drivers are being planned.
infrastructure build and we are confident through improving our price perception, In the two years following the of success and of subsequently migrating increasing our exibility in meeting customers implementation of EBS in the UK, the to a lower cost business model.
needs, greater leverage of e-Commerce and operating costs of the Group business model improving our Sales and Marketing effectiveness.
These actions will improve competitiveness and help drive faster sales growth.
Financial consequences We believe the actions we are taking will lead Geographic portfolio strategy to a substantial improvement in the Groups Our businesses around the world will be medium term financial performance.
managed differently depending on their The operating profit impact of the EBS stage of development and scale of growth implementation will peak over the next two Ian Mason opportunity.
Our UK and main European years and will then reduce signicantly due Chief Executive The redesigned catalogue makes it easier for our customers to quickly nd the products they need Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5
