CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW THE SAFETY AND SECURITY OF OUR PASSENGERS AND STAFF IS AT THE FOREFRONT OF EVERYTHING WE DO AND WE CONTINUE TO PROMOTE A CULTURE OF SAFETY FIRST THROUGHOUT OUR BUSINESS.
OVERVIEW Since the acquisition of our North American of our train operating companies and the Safety business and the growth of our UK rail commencement of First ScotRail in The safety and security of our passengers operations the Groups revenue prole has October 2004. and staff is at the forefront of everything we substantially altered.
Some 80% of the do and we continue to promote a culture revenue in our North American operations Current operations of Safety First throughout our business.
is secured under medium-term contracts.
On 17 October we commenced operation of We continually assess our processes and The Group has contracts with government First ScotRail.
The handover went smoothly working practices and strive to meet the agencies and other large organisations in and, despite the adverse weather at the start highest possible standards.
I am pleased to both North America and the UK representing of the year, operator delays have been report that during the period we have again a secure revenue stream worth 4.9 billion.
reduced by 5% on the comparable period seen some encouraging trends in key safety As we expand our North American last year.
This reects the enormous effort indicators and we will continue to ensure businesses and continue to grow our UK and investment being applied to eet that we build on these improvements.
The rail operations we expect this gure to reliability and performance.
Passenger separate Corporate Responsibility Report increase signicantly.
journeys have increased by 8% on the details the progress we have made to further comparable period last year and we have improve our performance in respect of safety, UK RAIL introduced an improved timetable to provide environmental management and other key The UK Rail division operates passenger increased capacity and cleaner, more areas of our business.
and freight services in the UK.
In April we introduced the rail franchises consist of First Great Western, final delivery of new Class 170 Turbostar Results First Great Western Link, First TransPennine trains, funded by the Scottish Executive and I am very pleased to report another Express and First ScotRail.
We also operate Strathclyde Passenger Transport, which will successful year with expansion in our core Hull Trains, a non-franchised open access provide longer trains and extra seats on a markets in the US and UK.
Group turnover intercity passenger train operator, and number of routes.
In February we launched increased by 8.6% to 2,693m 2004: we provide rail freight services through JourneyCheck, the UKs first fully integrated 2,479m.
Operating profit was 211.6m GB Railfreight.
The Group generated passengers to receive instant information EBITDA operating profit plus depreciation Results on how services are running and details of of 319.2m 2004: 307.1m enabling us to Turnover in the Groups rail division planned engineering works using real time continue to invest in the business as well as increased to 1,059.7m 2004: 945.0m information via website, WAP and PDA increasing the dividend by 10% and returning and operating profit was 67.7m 2004: phones and through SMS text messaging.
29.7m to shareholders through the further 49.8m.
These excellent results reect repurchase of equity during the year.
the strong operating performance and First TransPennine Express, which increased passenger volumes across all commenced operation on 1 February 2004, 05 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED WE LAUNCHED A NEW INTEGRATED TIMETABLE FOR FIRST GREAT WESTERN AND FIRST GREAT WESTERN LINK DESIGNED TO BRING CUSTOMER AND PERFORMANCE BENEFITS SUCH AS BETTER PUNCTUALITY AND RELIABILITY, IMPROVED CONNECTIONS AND INCREASED CAPACITY, BY UP TO 20%, ON PEAK TIME SERVICES.
20% has performed well with passenger income exterior including a striking new livery.
The during the year with passenger growth of increased by 11.5%.
Passenger volumes are interior has been redesigned, with customer 20%.
In June we introduced a new weekday running ahead of our expectations as a result input, to create a contemporary and modern service and received further regulatory of increased road congestion on the main on-board environment with improved approval in December for an additional commuter corridor between Manchester and customer services such as an updated Saturday service.
A new timetable was introduced in buffet facility and Wi-Fi technology.
December offering passengers faster journey We were delighted that First Great Westerns GB Railfreight times, additional services and extra capacity.
Chippenham Station won the award for GB Railfreight GBRf, our rail freight In March work commenced to build a new Station Excellence at the HSBC Rail company, has continued to show train-care depot in Manchester with a Awards.
This award, which has been won encouraging growth.
New business was second new depot planned for York.
In by First Great Western for the last two years, won during the year including contracts for spring 2006 we will introduce 51 new follows a significant investment in the Royal Mail and the Tarmac Group.
During Siemens trains for the franchise, offering refurbishment of the station.
the period GBRf took delivery of new passengers in the region a modern, highcontainer wagons and refurbished performance intercity eet and a stepOn 1 April 2004 we commenced operation of locomotives to support the new contracts.
change in the quality of service we are the First Great Western Link franchise which We were delighted that GBRf won Rail able to offer.
operates surburban services from London Business of the Year and picked up the Paddington.
In December we launched an Rolling Stock Excellence award at the Operational performance on First Great integrated timetable for First Great Western HSBC Rail Awards in February this year.
Western has continued to improve.
In and First Great Western Link.
This major We believe that there is scope to further January we opened a new First Class overhaul to the scheduling of services enables expand this business by offering a high level business lounge at London Paddington us to offer up to 20% increased capacity on of service and a exible business model.
Our investment in the new surburban services and improved long lounge recognises that the ability to work distance services to Wales and the South Franchise bidding on the move is a key attraction of train West.
In June we will launch the new We are delighted to be shortlisted for a travel and provides a range of facilities Heathrow Connect service, in partnership with further four new enlarged rail franchises: including a meeting room, internet access British Airports Authority, calling at intermediate Integrated Kent, Greater Western, as well as complimentary newspapers stops between London Paddington and Thameslink Great Northern and Docklands and refreshments.
In February, First Great Heathrow using new electric trains.
We have an excellent track Western launched the redesigned High record of delivery and operation of various Speed Train carriages in preparation for the Hull Trains, our non-franchised, open access types of railway franchises including intercity, Greater Western franchise bid.
A number intercity train company operating between London commuter, suburban and regional of improvements have been made to the London Kings Cross and Hull, performed well railways.
In addition we have managed and 06 06 WE CONTINUE TO EXPAND OUR NORTH AMERICAN SCHOOL BUS OPERATION.
WE NOW OPERATE OVER 20,000 YELLOW SCHOOL BUSES, CARRYING NEARLY 2 MILLION STUDENTS ACROSS THE USA AND CANADA EVERY DAY.
20,000 implemented the introduction of new rolling increased to 665.8m or $1,230.2m which we operate.
We now operate over stock across four of our rail franchises.
2004: 620.7m or $1,051.6m, an increase 20,000 yellow school buses in the US and We have a highly experienced team in place in dollar terms of 17%.
The increase in the period is largely and look forward to consulting widely and was 61.2m or $113.2m 2004: 63.5m or due to the acquisition of Cardinal Coach working with all of the stakeholders to $109.2m.
Operating profit in First Student Lines, made in the last quarter of the year, develop exciting proposals for the future was impacted by $5.2m as a result of fewer which operates some 1,900 school buses in of these franchises.
trading days in the year due primarily to a the provinces of Alberta, British Columbia, late Labor Day in the calendar, which meant Ontario and the North West Territories of Outlook UK Rail that the North Eastern and mid Atlantic Canada and Los Angeles, California.
We The strong performance of our rail operations regions of the US had a later school start, continued to make good progress reects the innovation and investment we and the early occurrence of Easter this year.
throughout the year gaining contracts to have put into the business.
Our aim is to The lost revenue days will be added to the operate approximately 700 buses gained bring a consistently high standard of service end of the school year and therefore will be through new business wins, in-ll at affordable prices to our passengers.
recognised in our results in 2005 06. acquisitions and organic growth within We have an active programme of new existing contracts.
franchise bids under way which offer Our three North American businesses excellent prospects for the future growth continue to generate excellent returns with Looking forward we are confident that we of the division.
EBITDA of 108.1m or $199.9m 2004: will be able to continue to grow through a 107.1m or $183.7m and remain selfcombination of organic growth, share shift, NORTH AMERICA financing for maintenance capital expenditure, conversions and acquisitions at our target In North America the Group is the second organic growth and in-ll acquisitions.
largest operator of student transportation with over 20,000 yellow school buses First Student First Transit carrying nearly 2 million students every day I am pleased with the performance of this US Dollar turnover increased by 15.2% and across the US and Canada.
We operate the business during the year.
During the period operating profit by 3.7%.
We won new largest transit contracting and management we retained over 90% of our current contracts to operate and manage transit business in North America and we have an business that came up for renewal.
US Dollar systems in Virginia, Massachusetts, Ohio, expanding services division.
Operating profit New Hampshire, Idaho, Georgia, California, was impacted by the reduced number of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Texas, Arkansas, Results trading days this period, as outlined above, South Carolina and North Carolina.
During This has been another year of strong which will be added to 2005 06.
In addition the year we were very pleased to retain the growth within our North American Division.
we also experienced an increase in state contract to operate the largest paratransit Turnover from our three businesses employers payroll taxes in the states in call centre in New York and to win two NORTH AMERICA TURNOVER $m Student $674.4m Transit $380.7m Services $175.1m 07 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED OUR NORTH AMERICAN SERVICES DIVISION HAD A VERY SUCCESSFUL YEAR, ALMOST DOUBLING IN SIZE AND EARNINGS.
THE STRATEGIC ACQUISITION OF SKE GAVE US ENTRY TO THE GROWING US FEDERAL MARKET, ONE OF THE LARGEST PROCURERS OF SUPPORT SERVICES IN NORTH AMERICA.
further contracts for call centres in Portland, First Vehicle Services.
integrated well and provides us with entry Oregon.
In November we acquired a small to the growing US Federal market, one of business in New York providing paratransit We were very pleased to retain all of our North Americas largest procurers of services in the Greater Buffalo area.
We have contracts that came up for renewal during support services.
signicantly developed our shuttle business, the period.
In addition, we won new providing buses at airports, universities and business to provide vehicle maintenance Investment for corporate organisations.
We are now one services to customers including the State of Our North American business is self-funding of the largest operators of airport shuttle Virginia, City of Pittsburgh and McGuire Air for maintenance capital expenditure and services in the US, providing bus services at Force Base in New Jersey.
growth through contract wins and in-ll airports in cities such as Cincinnati, Miami, acquisitions.
Each new investment, including Houston and Philadelphia.
During the year We were particularly pleased that two of our new contract bids, must meet our internal rate we were pleased to win further shuttle vehicle maintenance contracts received of return targets.
All of the acquisitions made service contracts to serve Baltimore Airport recognition, from leading industry by this division have delivered excellent returns and for the University of Texas.
publications, in the categories of Best reinforcing our rigorous criteria for investment.
Fleets and Top Fleet Managers in the US.
First Transits strategy is to focus on the Outlook North America higher margin, faster growing call centre, In August we acquired SKE Support We are extremely pleased with the paratransit, logistics consultancy and Services Inc. now First Support Services, performance of our North American division public private shuttle bus markets where which has annualised turnover of $88m and which continues to deliver excellent returns we can utilise our management expertise provides a range of services including vehicle for shareholders.
We are confident that and continue to profitably expand these eet maintenance, logistics support and further growth will be achieved through our businesses.
facilities management to the US Federal proven strategy of combining organic growth Government and the private sector.
First Services This has been a very successful year for our In December, First Support Services, UK BUS Services division, which provides a range of with their partners The Day and Zimmerman The Group is the largest bus operator in the outsourced vehicle maintenance, operations Group Inc. and Parsons Corporation, won UK with a eet of 9,300 buses, and a market and support services to the public and the substantial contract to provide a range share of approximately 23%.
We carry some private sectors.
US Dollar turnover increased of land-based support services to the 2.8 million passengers every day.
by 67.6% and operating profit by 96.1% US Navy.
reecting eight months trading contribution Results from our support services business acquired We are delighted with the performance of Turnover increased to 960.7m 2004: in August, together with strong growth in this strategic acquisition which has 906.2m and operating profit before lease 08 IN JULY WE OPENED OUR FIFTH PARK AND RIDE SITE IN YORK WHICH IS ALREADY OPERATING OVER 15,000 JOURNEYS PER P WEEK.
DURING THE YEAR MORE THAN 3 MILLION PASSENGERS USED OUR PARK AND RIDE SERVICES ACROSS YORK.
Park and Ride nancing costs was 107.1m 2004: anticipated in the Thames Gateway area.
successful simplied route and fares 111.2m.
Operating profit was impacted structure, continues to provide growth in by 5.0m as a result of a strike in South In addition to developing our commercial areas such as Leicester and Leeds where Yorkshire that was settled in the summer.
We services we have grown our contracted bus passenger growth has increased by up to continue to focus on service quality with the and coach operations.
Private Hire and 60% on individual routes since introduction.
aim of improving vehicle reliability and Contract business is now organised on a minimising lost mileage.
During the year we national basis and a dedicated sales and In York, where we have seen passenger have made significant investment in our delivery team is in place.
During the period growth of up to 40% on individual routes, maintenance and engineering functions.
We contracts were secured with customers we now operate five Park and Ride schemes.
expect to see the full benefit of this increased including Network Rail, Virgin Trains, National During the year we carried over 3 million investment over the next few years and are Express Coaches and Manchester Metrolink.
passengers in our Park and Ride operations encouraged to see that during the period We operated contract services in connection across the city.
lost mileage was signicantly reduced.
While with special events such as the Glastonbury margins remain under pressure in UK Bus Festival, York Railfest and Royal Ascot.
In March we launched our premium urban our focus is to achieve sustainable growth in travel concept known as ftr.
The Secretary profits through high-quality customer service Urban areas of State for Transport joined over 175 key and increased patronage.
In urban operations outside London, which stakeholders, including Local Authorities, to represent almost 60% of UK Bus turnover, launch the Streetcar vehicle which will be Contracted bus services we continue to see growth in those areas used to deliver the ftr package.
We We have continued to see good growth in our where we are able to work with Local developed Streetcar in partnership with the London bus operations.
Growth in the Authorities to provide trafc management Wright Group and Volvo after consulting London tendered bus market is moderating measures to improve congestion.
Passenger extensively with customers, engineers and following the successful implementation of the growth continues to be driven by a mixture drivers.
It is designed to offer an economical congestion charge in 2003 and the substantial of marketing initiatives and partnerships with alternative to light rail services, giving increase in buses introduced to meet the Local Authorities to develop bus priority passengers an exceptionally high-quality, additional service requirements.
Our policy is to target capital light rail-like, product with dedicated road placed with enlarged depot facilities at investment to those areas where there is space in congested areas, but with the route Willesden Junction that will enhance our a clear commitment to support the use of exibility of a bus.
The advantage of ftr is competitive advantage if the congestion public transport.
that it can be introduced quickly, without charge is extended to West London.
Similarly major upheaval on roads and at a fraction of we are developing a facility in Dagenham that Passenger growth was strong in areas such the cost of a light rail scheme.
The first ftr will provide increased capacity and position us as Bristol and York where we have Quality service will begin in York later this year and well for the significant demographic growth Partnerships in place.
The Overground, our detailed plans are being developed for other 09 09 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED WE HAVE LAUNCHED A NEW CONCEPT IN PUBLIC TRANSPORT.
f t r LOOKS LIKE A TRAM, USES DEDICATED ROAD SPACE IN CONGESTED AREAS, BUT HAS THE ROUTE FLEXIBILITY OF A BUS.
OUR AIM IS TO TAKE 10% OF CAR JOURNEYS OFF THE ROADS, ON THE CORRIDORS THAT f t r SERVES, WITHIN FIVE TO SIX YEARS.
schemes in cities such as Leeds, Shefeld, the South West we have worked with roll out of standardised maintenance Swansea, Reading, Bath and Glasgow.
Plymouth and Cornwall councils to provide a procedures across all companies and new eet of specially branded buses for depots, new approaches to the timing of We continue to develop new initiatives to operation on the ferry bus corridor between inspection and repair, together with greater promote our services to a wide range of South East Cornwall and Plymouth, a key emphasis on staff training.
During the year we successfully travel to work corridor.
reforms to reduce unit costs over the piloted a high-frequency, low fare shuttle medium term.
service using mid-life vehicles to link lowerYellow school bus income inner city suburbs with the city centre During the year we were pleased to Lost mileage, our principal measure of in Leicester.
This proved extremely commence operation of two further yellow service quality, improved during the year successful with encouraging passenger and school bus operations in Northampton and and we have targeted further reductions for revenue growth and we plan to extend this Carmarthenshire.
Towards the end of last year the trial to other targeted areas during 2005. attract interest and it is our view that, with Trafc Commissioners and Department for support from Government and Local Transport published new standards for bus Rural operations Authorities, there is significant potential to service punctuality, and Local Authorities in In our rural operations, which represent develop this business.
England were given new duties to take approximately 20% of our UK Bus business, account of bus services under the Trafc we are developing projects that will meet the Investment Management Act.
We are currently Governments joint objectives of social We have continued to focus our capital developing Punctuality Improvement inclusion and reducing trafc congestion.
expenditure in urban areas with high Partnerships with local highway authorities Kickstart funding, which provides support for passenger growth such as Glasgow, to progress these changes which we services which have the potential to become Portsmouth, Halifax and Hudderseld.
During believe will give further impetus to bus commercially viable, is already active in the year 66.2m was spent on new, low-oor, priority measures.
Scotland and has recently been introduced easy access vehicles and 11.7m has been in England and Wales with further schemes spent on facilities, including a new depot in Outlook UK Bus expected later in the year.
New buses have also been We welcome the Governments ordered for Aberdeen, Bath, Edinburgh, announcement that free concessionary travel We continually look for innovative ways in Leicester, Manchester, Northampton and for pensioners and disabled people will be which we can better serve the rural Swansea and will be delivered later this year.
introduced in England from April 2006.
We communities in which we operate.
Our dialwill be reviewing our networks in advance of a-ride service operating in Carmarthenshire Costs the introduction to enable concessionary fare recently won the Community Transport This was a year of significant investment in passengers to benefit from the new travel Award at the Welsh Transport Awards.
In our engineering function with the continued opportunities that will be created.
10 WE WERE THE FIRST IN OUR INDUSTRY TO SOURCE BUS DRIVERS AND ENGINEERS FROM ALTERNATIVE LABOUR FirstGroup MARKETS, IN PARTICULAR EASTERN EUROPE.
SO FAR WE HAVE RECRUITED SOME 350 STAFF FROM POLAND, THE Czech Republic CZECH REPUBLIC, PORTUGAL, MALTA AND SLOVAKIA TO ADDRESS THE IMPORTANT ISSUE OF RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION IN OUR INDUSTRY.
Poland Our UK Bus business continues to generate The recruitment and retention of high-quality In the US, both First Transit and First Vehicle strong cash ows.
Overall revenue growth staff is a key issue within our industry.
We Services participate in the Automotive has been strong and we expect this to continue to implement a range of initiatives Service Excellence ASE programme for continue in the current year.
Our focus within our operating companies to address training and testing technicians.
Within First remains on increasing passenger volumes, this important issue.
In our UK Bus division Transit 35% of eligible employees hold ASE continuing to develop the business in other we were the first in the industry to source certicates and within First Vehicle Services areas such as contracted bus services, while drivers and engineers from alternative labour the gure is 70%.
First Vehicle Services maintaining a rigorous cost control and markets primarily in Eastern Europe.
We continues to support staff development process improvement programme.
have recruited some 350 staff from Poland, through non-vocational training and the Czech Republic, Portugal, Malta and encourages employees in self-development EMPLOYEES Slovakia.
We are pleased that employee activities.
At First Student we have We further strengthened the Executive turnover in our North American division has introduced the Smith System of Defensive Management Team with the appointments of reduced again this year.
Driving to enable school bus drivers Nicola Shaw, formerly Managing Director of to perform their duties safely in all Operations at the Strategic Rail Authority and We continue to encourage our staff to further trafc conditions.
Andrew Haines, formerly Managing Director their development and careers within the of South West Trains.
Nicola, who joins as Group.
During the year we extended our In FirstGroup America we continue to Business Change Director, will focus on the National Vocational Qualication NVQ and develop our management training Groups bus operations.
Andrew will become BTEC programmes in the UK.
First Student implemented two Managing Director of the Rail Division.
Both bus drivers are now qualied to NVQ level 2 new programmes this year.
The first is are highly respected within the industry and I in Road Passenger Transport and within the designed to update managers on am confident that they will make a significant last year 60 supervisors and managers communication techniques, interviewing and contribution to the Group.
gained qualications in Team Leadership.
We recruitment, financial reporting and customer are actively developing workplace learning service skills.
The second programme has I would like to thank all our staff for their centres, in partnership with the Transport been designed for new Contract Managers continued commitment to the Group.
Our and General Workers Union, and now have and covers First Students approach to aim is to offer our staff opportunities to 32 learning centres reaching 30% of safety, operations management and human develop and grow to reach their full potential.
We have plans to resources such as the importance of We continually engage with our staff to better signicantly increase the coverage over diversity in the workplace.
understand their views and concerns the next two years so that more of our through a range of informal meetings UK employees can gain access to First Transit continues to train frontline at depot level to a more formal staff workplace learning.
supervisors in an intensive four-day training satisfaction survey.
course through First Transit University which 11 -6.0% CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED OUR ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK IS NOW WELL ESTABLISHED AND WE ARE ENCOURAGED BY THE CONTINUED REDUCTION IN ENERGY USAGE IN OUR DEPOTS.
IN THE BUS DIVISION ALONE, ENERGY CONSUMPTION FELL BY A FURTHER 6% THIS YEAR AS A RESULT OF LOCAL DEPOT INITIATIVES AND INCENTIVES FOR STAFF.
teaches new and existing managers the During the year we continued to support published separately and is available on our Companys approach to safety, operations Future Forests, a carbon neutral tree website www.
management, client relations and human planting initiative to offset CO emissions.
First Transit has also formed a Through our support 1,500 trees have GROUP OUTLOOK General Managers Advisory Group with been planted in Devon.
In connection with I look forward to continued growth in our representatives from eight contract locations.
Future Forests we also supported an three North American businesses all of which The Advisory Group provides a focus group awareness campaign for primary school have highly dependable revenue streams of to discuss specic issues for feedback to children in the South West to promote which approximately 80% are covered by the Board.
the environmental benets associated with medium-term contracts.
In UK Rail we are public transport.
well positioned to benefit from rail ENVIRONMENT AND refranchising having been shortlisted for four COMMUNITY We are pleased to feature in the FTSE4Good new rail franchises, worth up to 1.1 billion Our environmental management framework Environmental Index as well as in the of turnover, in the current round.
In UK Bus is now well established and all our Business in the Community Corporate Social we are seeing further growth in areas where companies and depots are audited against Responsibility Index, covering the broader we can work with Local Authorities to the requirements of the Group Environmental corporate social responsibility issues.
In implement bus priority and other trafc Management System.
During the year we recognition of our commitment to improving management measures and we continue established the Group Environment Forum to the environment we were delighted to to focus on cost control and process set the minimum performance standards for receive the National Green Apple Award improvements.
Our strategy remains to use each operating company and identify key for the fourth consecutive year as well as the Groups strong free cash ows to invest objectives and targets for improvement.
environmental awards from Network Rail, in the business and explore opportunities for the Bus Industry Awards and the Railway growth in new markets, increase dividends As a result of local depot initiatives and Industry Innovation Awards.
and buy back shares, while maintaining a incentives for staff, energy usage in our strong balance sheet.
I am confident about depots continued to reduce during the year.
During the year the Group and its staff in our future prospects.
Trading in the new For example, water usage fell by a further the UK and North America have continued financial year has started well and is in line 4.4% and energy consumption by 6% in our to support a number of local and national with our expectations.
All of our operating companies companies reduced the overall general support local events either through donations, waste arising by a further 5%.
As part of our sponsorship or use of resources and facilities ongoing awareness campaign an additional made available to them by the Group.
Further 7,027 staff have received environmental details of all these activities can be found in Moir Lockhead training over the past 12 months.
our Corporate Responsibility Report which is Chief Executive 12
