Group Chief Executives Statement Review of Business Activities PORTS The second half of 2005 saw a major improvement in the underlying port The good growth in profits from our port operating profit compared with the first half with annual underlying port activities clearly demonstrates the strength operating profit increasing by 12% to 36m.
This improvement in profitability was achieved with a 9% increase in the dry cargo tonnages and quality of that business which was slightly offset by a reduced level of piped cargo tonnages.
Our MLT joint reinforced by the DTZ valuation of our port venture made an operating profit in its first year.
Our share of the operating profit from TCS was up 7% over last year after a slightly assets at 559m.
Ports revenue is relatively disappointing second half which produced a lower volume of business than in the first half.
evenly spread between forest products, containers, bulk liquids and dry bulks.
The The new Enterprise Distribution Centre for Stora Enso opened on schedule at Tilbury in July.
Containers, scrap and rental income quality of our customer contracts continues contributed to a good financial performance at Tilbury although in the to improve and we have an active pipeline last quarter of the year, it was announced that Cargill and RHM would mothball their plants by the end of the year.
The plant closures should of investment projects to further our growth have no major effect on Tilburys profitability from agricultural products objectives.
going forward given the long-term nature of the contractual arrangements with the parties.
In property, we changed our approach to In Scotland, container volumes increased by 9% in the second half compared with 2.5% in the first half, giving an overall increase of 6% maximise the value of our property assets for the year.
Steel pipes and coal also contributed to a good financial which are unique in their character, extent performance.
At the end of the year, Superfast Ferries announced a reduction in sailings between Rosyth and Zeebrugge to three sailings and position.
The Market Value and per week in each direction.
Initial indications are that the volumes are Calculation of Worth of those assets carried holding up reasonably well in the first two months of 2006 and there is some interest from freight users in a more frequent service.
out by DTZ illustrate the value which has already been created and the long-term The process of overall modernisation and increasing efficiency at the Grangemouth Container Terminal is well underway.
The aim is to handle potential of these waterfront assets.
increasing volumes of containers with modern equipment and IT systems to generate better levels of revenue with improved levels of productivity and service for our customers.
A new wider span container crane at The management of the balance and Grangemouth has now been commissioned and a second crane has interface between Ports and Property is been ordered which should be commissioned by the latter part of 2006, together with a new fleet of straddle carriers.
A shift system of working an essential part of maximising overall has been introduced which will allow us to offer a more productive, value for shareholders.
comprehensive and efficient service to our container customers.
We are recruiting new port operators to allow some of our existing employees to take voluntary redundancy.
With the acquisition of P&O Nedlloyd by Maersk and the movement of their Scottish business to Grangemouth, we are already experiencing an increase in container volumes compared with last year.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 15 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED Tilbury Grangemouth Tilbury maintained its momentum from 2004 and produced a very good Container throughput at Grangemouth increased by 6% to reach over financial performance despite a modest increase in tonnage to 7.9 million 132,000 boxes.
As a mark of confidence in the future, over 13m will have tonnes.
In the first half of the year, much effort was placed on completing been spent on new plant and equipment over a three year period ending the Enterprise Distribution Centre at a total project cost of 35m.
With the removal during 2006 of a tank storage facility which sits facility was available for business on 1st July, however, the Finnish paper in the middle of the container compound, the container facilities at dispute in June affected the timing and volume of paper received at the Grangemouth will have been totally transformed and will be capable terminal, making it a more difficult start up than was envisaged.
of handling more than 200,000 boxes per annum.
There are now two Nevertheless, with a significant effort from both the Port of Tilbury and container trains which operate between Grangemouth and Aberdeen Stora Enso, excellent progress has been made and service levels and and Grangemouth and Elderslie on a daily basis.
m. volumes continue to improve with better than expected flows of third party warehouse which was opened in 2004 is now fully utilised after the port traffic through the terminal.
won a contract to store plastic product for BP.
Consideration is being given to building further warehouses as part of the proposed new Our car customer, Hyundai, had a busy year and has now increased its distribution park.
Demand for new facilities is strong.
land requirements to enable it to increase its volumes.
New contracts have been signed with Samskip which took over both Geest and Leith Seawheel, MLM and MBM.
The port reported an excellent operating profit in the year which was achieved with a doubling in total tonnage from 1.1 million tonnes to Our associated company, TCS, increased its container volume by 11% 2.2 million tonnes.
Bredero Shaw significantly increased its tonnage to reach over 288,000 boxes.
It has won two additional services for to 803,000 tonnes compared with 164,000 tonnes last year.
This, Hamburg Sud and Maersk which should see another increase in however, is likely to decline in 2006.
The two coal contracts won in 2005 container volumes in 2006. contributed 562,000 tonnes to the annual total.
The coal tonnages will increase in 2006 following agreement with Scottish Power.
The tank Scottish Ports and Marine storage business operated by Valero at Leith was transferred to After a subdued performance from the Scottish Ports in the first half of Grangemouth towards the end of 2005 following Valeros acquisition of 2005, the second half benefited from increased container volumes at the tank storage operator at Grangemouth.
The advantage of Grangemouth, increased coal traffic at Leith and Rosyth and a strong Grangemouths location has given Valero better prospects of improving performance from the pipe coating company, Bredero Shaw.
In the longer term, the Leith site forms part of the LDDF area.
tonnages rose by 22% to 6 million tonnes 2004 4.9 million tonnes.
The Valero relocation is a good example of the effective management of The piped cargo throughput at Braefoot was up nearly 7% at 3.2 million the balance between ports and property with the transfer of business from tonnes, however, at Hound Point, the tonnages were lower at 19.4 million Leith to Grangemouth thus retaining the business within the Group and tonnes 2004 20.9 million tonnes.
As a result, the total tonnage in at the same time freeing up a potential development site.
Early Scotland amounted to 35.8 million tonnes compared with 36.1 million discussions have taken place with the Council, Scottish Enterprise and tonnes in 2004. other interested parties over the feasibility of a new deep water cruise liner terminal outside the existing locked port.
Market studies indicate Some progress has been made on the ship-to-ship transfer project in that there is significant potential to increase the number and size of the Firth of Forth.
All the necessary documentation was submitted to the visiting cruise liners.
Maritime and Coastguard Agency the MCA in December of last year.
However, the Secretary of State for Transport announced a further Dundee consultation period which has extended the whole process.
We are still 2005 saw a large increase in the piped cargo tonnage handled by Nynas confident that the technical aspects of the required plan fully comply with AB which increased to 0.7 million tonnes from 0.5 million tonnes.
In terms the applicable regulations and are hopeful that approval will be given by of dry cargo, paper and pulp tonnages were at a higher level, with the the MCA this year.
Further work is also being carried out by environmental winning of new business from Star Shipping which moved from the Port consultants as part of our approval process as Competent Harbour of Montrose to Dundee in the first half of the year.
very low in the first half but improved in the second half.
The closure of various grain facilities in the hinterland of Dundee reduced the agripod tonnages to 155,000 tonnes 2004 166,000 tonnes.
The Grainfax business performed very well in difficult circumstances.
The North Sea oil business was also well up year on year.
16 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 Port name Dundee Fife Rosyth Grangemouth Leith Tilbury The Baltic Rosyth and Fife Ports As part of the evolution of the property strategy, an updated Market The overall tonnage from the above ports amounted to 1.2 million Value and Calculation of Worth was produced by DTZ in August 2005 tonnes, up 100,000 tonnes over 2004 with timber, plasterboard and coal which showed a Market Value of the property development assets of continuing to be the main commodities handled.
In November, it was 285m and a Calculation of Worth which was approximately 35% higher announced by Superfast Ferries that their daily service between Rosyth than the Market Value.
As stated in the Interim Report in September 2005, and Zeebrugge would be reduced to three sailings per week in each the Market Value reflects the value which would be realised if the property direction.
Since the revised sailing schedule came into operation there development assets were sold at the valuation date, whereas the has been continuing support for the service with utilisation rates Calculation of Worth represents the present value to the Group of remaining high.
We are in discussions with several ferry operators to retaining and managing them with a view to maximising long-term value.
determine the viability of a freight only service from Rosyth to Zeebrugge.
The smaller Fife Ports continued to make a modest contribution to the The Group is committed to publishing the Market Value of its property overall Scottish Ports operating profits.
Consideration will need to be development assets on an annual basis at the end of each financial year.
given in due course as to their future with the potential to develop The next published Market Value will be March 2007.
The uplift implied alternative uses.
by the Market Value at August 2005 has not been incorporated within the Groups Balance Sheet as at 31st December 2005 as the property Multi-Link Terminals Limited development assets and assets in the port business relate principally At the end of December 2005, we invested the final 5m out of a total to assets which are held at cost within the Balance Sheet.
During the year, good progress was made in Russia where the next phase of the container quay expansion was Where the assets were already classified for accounting purposes as completed.
Volumes year on year at Litke Bay, St. Petersburg, grew by investment properties principally comprising tenanted land and buildings 37% to 68,000 lifts for the year.
In Finland, the Kotka business was in line within and adjacent the port estates, these have been the subject of a with expectations, however, Helsinki was down on expectations due to separate valuation carried out by Bidwells, Chartered Surveyors, as at a higher level of direct calls to St. Petersburg rather than transhipping October 2005, which amounted to 137.5m, an uplift over the 2003 through Helsinki.
Nevertheless, the overall operating profit achieved valuation of 28m.
by MLT contributed positively at that level to the Group.
MLT is currently in discussions with a customer which could increase its business Property Activity significantly in the second half of 2006.
Demand is strong generally Following the valuation advice received from DTZ, the Board for the terminal facilities at St. Petersburg and we expect further progress reconsidered the possible disposal of the Waterfront Plaza site in 2005 this year.
and concluded that full value would not be obtained by selling the site in that year.
Instead, it reaffirmed its view that both Waterfront Plaza and Britannia Quay were critically important from a strategic perspective in that these two sites, comprising 10 hectares of land alongside the Ocean PROPERTY Terminal Shopping Centre and the Scottish Executive building, were fundamental in providing a vibrant and exciting place to attract people to Property Strategy and Valuation the Waterfront and to facilitate the potential expansion of Ocean Terminal.
As at the end of December 2005, the Group had property assets in This whole area is intended to form a retail leisure and lifestyle destination Leith and Granton covering 125 hectares of land which have still to be for Scotlands capital city.
In order to achieve this, we will produce a new developed.
This does not include the Groups ownership of the seabed integrated masterplan for the Hub, working with our professional advisers to the North of Edinburghs waterfront which encompasses an area of and the Council planning officials.
At the time of the Interim Results, we noted that discussions were At the Interim Results, the Board announced an evolution of its property continuing between Asda and the planning officials to progress that strategy to change the emphasis towards a greater focus on the companys detailed planning application for a supermarket site at maximisation of long-term asset value as opposed to the realisation Newhaven.
No decision had been taken by the end of the year and of annual profits from development site disposals.
The Groups property discussions are continuing.
The development already has an outline strategy includes a fundamental aim to create new communities which planning approval.
Two development sites were sold at Dundee together remain sympathetic to their existing surroundings, link positively with with the sale of the City Quay Retail Centre which realised, in total, over existing communities and yet create a dynamic new sense of place and 16m.
It is intended that this cash will be reinvested in the Edinburgh urban living which will enhance the growth of the City of Edinburgh.
ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005 17 Cargo type Containers Cruise liners Dry bulk General cargo Forest products Grain Liquid cargo Property Roll-on roll-off GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT CONTINUED The Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre made progress during the year.
Summary Following a report which was commissioned from CACI a firm of market The full year result for the underlying ports business was encouraging research consultants specialising in retail we are giving consideration to particularly in view of the increase in the costs of energy and business the possible extension of Ocean Terminal and how that might fit in with rates.
The property division produced a profit in line with our expectations.
the overall re-masterplanning of the Hub.
The advice from CACI is that Dividend growth was in line with our Interim Statement comment.
there is significant potential for more leisure lifestyle shopping within an enlarged Ocean Terminal.
The Board of Ocean Terminal Limited OTL We remain positive that there will be further organic growth in the acquired 50% of the shares in Ocean Terminal Restaurants Limited ports business based on the number of current projects which are OTRL which it did not own, in February 2006, for a nominal sum.
This being examined both at Tilbury and in Scotland.
The pipeline of growth gives OTL full control over an area of the Shopping Centre which would projects includes the following: be a key part of the enlargement of the Centre.
Further container growth and new container customers at Tilbury, It was encouraging to note the announcement from the Council that Grangemouth and St. Petersburg: funding, in principle, is available for the first phase of the proposed Strong demand for warehousing facilities at the Grangemouth new Tram service.
This will run from the airport to Ocean Terminal and Distribution Park: will provide enhanced connectivity with the city centre.
Recently, the A new coal contract with Scottish Power at Leith: Tram proposals were approved by a Committee of MSPs in the Scottish The potential for a new deep water Cruise Liner Terminal at Leith: Parliament.
A potential new biodiesel processing plant at Rosyth, subject to planning: We were also successful in acquiring the lease of the VA Tech site and Increased levels of piped cargo activity if ship-to-ship transfer building from Siemens following its closure.
This is a site of 4 hectares activities commence: and at the east end of the Port of Leith and has potential for mixed-use Enquiries for increased volumes of building and construction development.
We are in discussions with the Scottish Executive which materials at Tilbury given its strategic location within the Thames may wish to convert the building into a cultural building and visitor centre.
Gateway and proximity to the 2012 Olympic site.
Looking forward, the main focus of our activity in property will be as We will continue to consider and review the capital structure of the Group follows: taking account of investment opportunities within the ports business, long-term infrastructure spend and investment opportunities within the Concluding remaining studies for the LDDF prior to submitting an property business.
Outline Planning Application later in the year: Evolving a new masterplan for the Hub area which will provide for 2005 was a year of achievement and change.
We have a wide ranging the expansion of Ocean Terminal.
This work will form the basis of action plan for various property projects to deliver long-term growth in net an outline planning application with a detailed masterplan: asset value for our shareholders.
Our ports performed well and we have Facilitating tram links as part of the above two applications: an active project pipeline which, combined with progress on existing Submitting a revised masterplan at Granton which has a greater business initiatives, gives us confidence that 2006 should be another year element of housing: of successful progress.
Our secure and valuable ports income stream Furthering our discussions with the Scottish Executive in respect complements the property business and will enable us to deliver growing of a cultural centre: dividends to our shareholders.
Establishing a sense of place and supporting the housing sales environment at Western Harbour through infrastructure investment: and Progressing our plans for a deep water Cruise Liner Terminal at Leith within the LDDF site.
Charles Hammond Group Chief Executive We are watching closely the progress of the legislation on Real Estate Investment Trusts to determine whether this might benefit the Group.
