08 Chief Executives Review WE WERE EXTREMELY PLEASED WITH THE BUSINESS PERFORMANCE ACHIEVED IN 2005 AND IT WAS A CREDIT TO EVERYONE IN THE ORGANISATION WHO WORKED SO HARD to ensure that the integration went smoothly and that the focus on the business did not waiver through an incredible time of change.
Nick Buckles 2005 Performance Having announced a substantial merger in 2004, the next eighteen months were bound to be challenging for the organisation as we focused on bringing two large international companies together, achieving the cost savings that we had promised to our investors and maintaining our focus on the day-to-day business.
We were extremely pleased with the business performance achieved in 2005 and it was a credit to everyone in the organisation who worked so hard to ensure that the integration went smoothly and that the focus on the business did not waiver through an incredible time of change.
When we presented our full year results to the market in March 2006 we were pleased to report that: Our strong growth record continued in 2005 with organic growth at 7% and overall turnover growth up 8.2% to 4.13 billion.
We had some very strong PBITA was up 16% at constant exchange rates to 254 million, representing a margin improvement of 0.5% performances in 2005, to 6.2% overall.
particularly from the We had generated 198 million as cash flow, representing 80% of PBITA exactly in line with the group target.
cash services division, Adjusted earnings per share increased to 11.1p.
the US security services We increased our final dividend by 21% to 2.24 pence business and New per share and announced a new dividend policy, with the medium term aim of reducing our dividend cover to two Markets overall.
We exited 2005 with some challenges remaining in a number of European manned security markets and in the German cash services market which was experiencing a certain amount of turmoil following the difficulties caused by a major competitor.
We had some very strong performances in 2005, particularly from the cash services division, the US security services business and New Markets overall.
Group 4 Securicor Annual Report & Accounts 2005 09 CHANGING BOUNDARIES CONSTANT DELIVERY 2005 Organic Growth North New Organic Growth 2005 Europe America Markets Total Manned Security 2.5% 8.5% 19.3% 7.1% Security Systems 4.0% 63.2% 48.7% 8.0% Cash Services 5.8% 5.0% 19.8% 6.2% Total 3.7% 7.7% 21.1% 7.0% Our strong growth record continued in 2005 with overall Opportunities for the development of Justice Services exist in organic growth of 7%, significantly stronger than the 6.2% exporting our expertise into new markets as well as growing achieved in 2004. our current contract base, particularly in electronic monitoring of offenders.
The highlights in growth terms were North America manned security which grew 8.5%, the cash services division which We do not believe that there will be substantial opportunities achieved 6.2% and New Markets overall which continue to for combined security systems and manned security in the grow strongly at more than 20%.
short term, but we are confident that, by having a systems capability closely aligned to our manned security businesses, we will be able to take advantage of opportunities to provide Future Growth Opportunities complete security solutions to our customers.
We expect future growth to continue across all product areas towards our medium-term targets.
New Markets continue to We have recently brought our manned security and security grow strongly overall and, as our cash services businesses in systems businesses closer together as a single division, focused different countries move through the phases of development on providing security solutions to our customers.
from pure cash-in-transit to cash management and ATM Our systems businesses remain key to our strategy, but we do outsourcing, there are further opportunities for the businesses not intend to build up a large systems division to compete with to grow.
Our focus will be on a few niche We have a great deal of expertise in the cash services sector areas which add value to our manned security business.
within the group and will focus on spreading this further throughout the organisation.
ORGANIC GROWTH TARGETS Our ability to service international accounts is a strong point of Manned Security differentiation for the organisation, made possible through our Developed Markets 5% global coverage.
We expect demand for quality security services Manned Security across international boundaries to increase in the future as blue Developing Markets 10% chip organisations become more global and require high quality, consistent services across their operations.
Security Systems 8% Cash Services 8% G4S Global Risks, our consulting and specialist security business, has opportunities for future growth across a wide range of Justice Services 15% services, from risk consultancy to investigative and government security support services.
By using the international footprint of the group, the business is able to provide these specialist services across a wide range of countries.
10 Chief Executives Review continued 2005 Margin Development PBITA Margin by Business Line % 10.0 2004 8.9 2005 9.0 8.2 8.1 7.7 8.0 7.0 6.2 5.9 5.9 5.7 6.0 5.0 4.0 3.0 2.0 1.0 0.0 Manned Security Cash Total Security Systems Services Note: At constant exchange rates and with prior year comparatives being pro forma for the combined group We achieved our targeted 0.5% margin growth in 2005 with strong progression in Cash Services and Security Systems.
Future Margin Progression Mergers & Acquisitions We will achieve future margin progression through driving Our acquisition strategy remains unchanged and focused on a growth in our traditional sectors, through product development few key areas.
We are constantly seeking bolt-on acquisitions and market development, and as a result of our usual tight across all services which add scale or additional expertise to control of costs and effective management of resources.
There our businesses or continue to consolidate fragmented markets.
are also a number of businesses which were operating below Whilst the organisation currently operates in more than 100 our margin targets in 2005 and our focus in 2006 will be on countries, we will seek to fill any appropriate geographic gaps bringing these businesses back up to the expectations of the in the security services businesses.
This will enable further group as quickly as possible.
development of our Global Risks customer base and increase the opportunities for expanding international accounts.
MARGIN TARGETS In cash services, it is not essential to have wide international coverage, but it is important to be the market leader in each Manned Security Developed Markets 6% market and to choose markets carefully depending on the role of the central bank, the sophistication of the cash cycle and the Manned Security Developing Markets 6% competitive landscape.
Therefore, we will be selective about new country entries and target specific key markets.
Security Systems 10% Cash Services 10% Our acquisition strategy will remain focused on these key areas and we will ensure that any acquisition opportunities meet our Justice Services 10% internal criteria the right businesses, in the right markets and with the opportunity to deliver the appropriate level of return on investment.
Group 4 Securicor Annual Report & Accounts 2005 11 Strategic Development Summary & Outlook We believe that the group is uniquely positioned as a provider The key focus of 2005 was in bringing the two organisations of security solutions, focused on the needs of our customers together, integrating our major businesses and delivering on the across a wide range of markets.
At the same time we continued with our organic growth and margin improvements and delivered a In New Markets, it is essential to offer the full range of security very strong set of trading results.
services as customer buying decisions are co-ordinated in this way.
Once a strategic relationship is established, customers Some businesses require added focus to get them back on require a single provider to take care of their every security need.
track, particularly some of the manned security businesses in Europe.
Issues in Germany which surfaced early in 2006 mean We believe that future demand will continue to focus on that there is an opportunity for significantly improving the combined security solutions, where security systems provide market for, and the performance of, our cash services business.
a support to the manned security offering.
Our confidence in our ability to continue to drive through We have seen significant improvements in the performance of strong results is reflected in our decision to increase dividends the cash services businesses as a result of spreading our cash and our commitment to reducing dividend cover over time.
services expertise throughout businesses involved in providing these services.
We are extremely pleased with the performance of the group in its first full year of trading and are confident that we will be Whilst specific service delivery expertise differs between able to continue this success into the future.
various product ranges, we believe that there are shared competencies amongst our management which provide us with competitive advantage.
It also means that we have a broad talent pool from which we can develop our future management expertise.
Due to our customer focus, we believe we are stronger as one Nick Buckles organisation providing a range of security solutions than we Chief Executive Officer would be if focused on a single product area.
