Business Review Chief Executives Review Reflecting on progress This is my sixth and last Review as Chief Executive of George Wimpey.
It is, therefore, a good time Whilst the testing market conditions we faced in the UK during 2005 to reect on the progress the Group has made over the last five and a half years and to report on presented us with particular its strength as I prepare to pass its leadership to my successor, Pete Redfern, later this year.
challenges, we are emerging Whilst the testing market conditions we faced in the UK during 2005 presented us with particular from them stronger than ever.
challenges, we are emerging from them stronger than ever.
Our position in the US has been transformed over the past five years and we are now a major player in some of our markets with outstanding long term potential.
Going forward, the Group is well placed in its UK and US markets which gives it both opportunities and choices for future growth.
UK George Wimpey Lessons have been learned, and UK house prices rose rapidly until mid 2004 when stretched affordability led to a substantial drop in changes made.
A year ago, many commentators were forecasting significant price falls.
However prices regional businesses will have the remained broadly stable through 2005 and today almost all competitors believe the market has had opportunity to use both the George a soft landing.
In the absence of more general economic problems, the outlook would appear stable, Wimpey and Laing Homes brands.
though without a return to strong price growth.
This will allow better use of large sites and provide greater returns In 2005, George Wimpey delivered 12,100 homes and 278 million operating profit, up from 11,437 homes on future land purchases.
and 142 million operating profit in 2000.
However, in 2004, we had delivered 12,232 homes and 409 million operating profit.
A short landbank and order book, together with changes in the market and the planning regime, posed particular challenges to us, which impacted 2005 margins.
In 2001 we restructured the business to one with an efficient overhead structure and product range and low build costs.
We acquired McAlpine Homes and invested in our landbank, raising hurdle rates to deliver improved margins.
We acquired Laing Homes to give us a second brand to support organic growth.
However, our landbank remained short and our strategic land limited.
With few sites coming forward with older planning permissions, the implementation of Government planning policy, PPG3, impacted us faster than most.
Underlying build costs rose sharply as our build efficiencies were eroded.
When prices stopped rising, margins fell as high build costs on bespoke PPG3 schemes compounded the higher land costs associated with a short landbank.
Lessons have been learned, and changes made.
Going forward, all regional businesses will have the opportunity to use both the George Wimpey and Laing Homes brands.
This will allow better use of large sites and provide greater returns on future land purchases.
We have re-established an efficient overhead structure and product range which meet the needs of todays market and planning regime and which again give us lower build costs.
The use of standard building elements and a full range of PPG3 preferred house types are re-establishing our former time and cost advantages, whilst enabling us to meet local planning requirements for variety of elevation without the requirement for bespoke developments.
A stronger forward order book will help us manage price better.
We have taken action to address the problems which have affected our 2005 performance in the UK and we enter 2006 in good shape.
6 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Business Review US Morrison Homes In the US the demand for housing has grown signicantly in recent years, underpinned by the strength of Today Morrison Homes operates in 14 markets compared to eight the economy and strong demographic trends.
This has led to substantial price rises across many markets, in 2000.
In many of our markets and in some affordability is stretched.
However, interest rates remain low, the economy healthy and job we have become a major player.
With almost 1.3 million new households being formed each year for the next five years, half as much again as over the past five years, the outlook for the US housing market is good.
In 2005, Morrison Homes delivered 4,921 homes and $308 million operating profit, up from 2,638 homes and just $53 million operating profit in 2000.
Today we operate in 14 markets compared to eight in 2000 and we have exited those markets where we were unable to generate adequate returns.
In many of our markets we have become a major player, most notably in Central Florida where we sold over 2,000 homes in 2005.
We have achieved this by focusing on markets where population and employment growth is especially strong, expanding into neighbouring markets where our relationships and market knowledge give us an advantage, and developing new more affordable products to broaden our market coverage.
By maintaining a high asset turn we have sustained a strong underlying cash ow which has enabled us to grow our landbank signicantly.
Based on this financial structure and strategy, our business plans will double volume during the next five years, creating the potential for substantial further value creation.
Group Over the past five years we have restructured our balance sheet, with a well balanced debt structure at In the US, our financial structure and strategy support our business plans highly competitive terms and conditions.
We have both stability and the exibility to pursue our strategic to double volume during the next choices.
We took the necessary actions early to bring our Pension Fund deficit under control, closing the five years, creating the potential for dened benefit scheme to new members and increasing employee contributions.
We have established substantial further value creation.
ourselves as a leader in our industry in our approach to corporate governance and to the other areas associated with corporate social responsibility.
In an industry which has a material effect on those around us, this is becoming an increasing competitive advantage.
Today we behave as a single business.
Our senior management teams understand the total business and each others pressures and needs.
Internal communications have been improved and sharing of knowledge and experience has become commonplace.
Conclusion It was always my plan to retire from this role after about five years and to ensure a smooth and effective Going forward, the Group is well placed in its UK and US markets internal succession.
I am therefore proud as well as delighted to be able to pass on to Pete Redfern, whose which gives us both opportunities revitalisation of our UK business demonstrates he has the energy and talent to take the Group forward to and choices for future growth.
I am confident I am handing over There have been many across our businesses in the UK and US who have worked tirelessly through strong the Group in good shape and into and challenging markets, and through times of stability and of change.
I would like to thank all those who good hands.
have been employees of George Wimpey whilst I have been Chief Executive for the tremendous support they have given me.
As I prepare to leave, I am confident I am handing over the Group in good shape and into good hands.
Peter Johnson Group Chief Executive www.
