CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW I am pleased to announce another year customers who demand a differentiated, quality offer.
We have of record results for the company, further positioned ourselves by: building on our 30 year track record of uninterrupted, profitable growth.
All Operating in, and revitalising, traditional sectors of the three of our trading divisions performed hospitality and drinks markets well growing revenue and trading profits, Raising the quality of our assets via focused investment benefiting from 39 weeks trading from Marketing brands which possess a strong consumer appeal the Laurel Neighbourhood acquisition.
In Nurturing our talent pool and constantly developing our unique 2004 05, Greene King plc delivered 33% revenue growth and culture 39% trading profit growth.
These results demonstrate the high Targeting our businesses on achieving sustainable investment quality of our assets, our brands and the calibre and commitment returns.
The consistency of this strategy, and its execution, has enabled us Strategy to achieve well above average earnings per share and dividend The results have been achieved by executing a clearly proven growth over many years and provides significant scope for future strategy to deliver shareholder value.
Our emphasis is on increases in shareholder value.
achieving organic growth, supplemented by a prudent acquisition strategy, through three, horizontally integrated trading Laurel Neighbourhood Pubs divisions.
The integrated model provides us with financial and The acquisition of Laurels Neighbourhood Business for a operational synergies, as well as the opportunity to share consideration of 654 million was completed on 6 August 2004. intellectual capital across the group.
It allows flexibility to transfer The Laurel estate is made up of 432 high quality, well-invested pubs between our two estates, helping to maximise the returns and largely freehold pubs that are focused on community and on our assets, as well as giving us balance and an element of traditional town locations.
These pubs complement our existing natural hedging.
operations well and are delivering benefits to all three of our operating divisions.
All three divisions are characterised by being highly focused operations with an overriding commitment to the delivery of In Laurel, we acquired excellent pub assets, led by a strong quality and service to the customer.
The businesses are management team, sector-leading operating systems and a very underpinned by the quality of our assets and brands, and a clearly good cultural fit.
The opportunity for us, therefore, was to extract able and motivated team.
They are positioned to trade the best practices and systems from both Greene King Pub successfully without employing low pricing or discounts as the Company and Laurel, and then roll these out across the combined primary competitive tool.
We prefer to target discerning business.
This was more important to us than achieving a more 8 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW rapid integration by imposing purely Greene King practices on Laurel, although we were still able to complete the integration ahead of schedule in February 2005.
As a result, we developed the best of both worlds strategy which has enabled us to significantly improve, amongst other things, the planning and execution of our promotions, the communication process between our pubs and our managers and the quality of our liquor and food offer across both estates.
We remain on track to achieve 6 million of synergies within our first full year of ownership, a testament to both the strategic and financial logic of this quality acquisition.
At the time, the deal was funded with a short-term debt facility.
After the year end, in July 2005, we announced the Since then, however, we have developed our debt strategy to acquisition of Ridley's the Essex brewer.
Ridley's has a high allow the company the financial flexibility to continue to invest for quality pub estate, some popular ale brands and a sound future growth whilst taking advantage of longer-term and lowerlocal free trade business.
The business is ideally located in a cost bond finance.
On 2 March 2005, we announced a 600 strongly developing part of the country which is close to the million bond issue that received an excellent response from centre of our operations.
We are delighted with the purchase investors leading to very attractive interest rates.
The highly and believe Ridley's will benefit from Greene King's scale innovative bond was securitised on just under half of the pub and investment and our expertise in managing an integrated estate, including both managed and tenanted formats, so that tenanted and brewing business.
Some of the brands we will we could retain the ability to transfer pubs between the two.
continue to brew include Old Bob and Tolly Original.
Through this re-financing, we have been able to save around 6 million a year in interest costs and enhance total returns to shareholders.
Pub Company Pub Company, our managed house division, reported an increase in turnover of 50% to 495.9 million and an increase in trading profit of 65% to 93.8 million.
As a result of the Laurel acquisition, the average number of pubs trading during the period increased from 551 to 801.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 9 10 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Our total like-for-like sales were up 1.7%.
This figure includes a expenditure in our estate and invested 31.0 million in the total of 398 pubs, all of which were in the estate at the start of the development of our estate.
We further improved both the year ended May 2004. targeting and execution of capital investment and, as a result, we have been able to bring down the average spend per pub without compromising on the final result.
Consequently, the returns that Trading Trading Trading we achieved on this investment increased to 16%.
Pub Turnover profit profit change profit margin Company m m % % Pub Company continued its focus on improving the customer offer and service.
During the year, we launched a state of the art 2004 331.6 56.9 4 17.2 2005 495.9 93.8 65 18.9 system that allows house managers to promote activities tailored specifically to their local markets.
This system then enables all our Both Pub Company and Pub Partners benefit from our ability to managers to share these initiatives, helping to increase levels of transfer pubs between the two divisions, thereby enabling us to best practice and drive organic growth.
Ten new food menus were maximise the profitability in each individual pub.
During the year, also launched to ensure we remain at the forefront of consumer we transferred 117 outlets from Pub Company into the separate tastes.
The focus of these is on high quality, healthy food at division that was set up following the acquisition of Laurel.
Examples of our new dishes include smoked pubs were smaller than our managed estate average and, in an haddock fishcakes and porcini mushroom risotto.
industry environment of rising overheads driven by external and regulatory cost, their earnings fell below the threshold needed to Pub Company is run in four divisions: Hungry Horse, Real Pubs sustain this model.
Conversely, their transfer into tenancies puts North and South, Town Local and Inns.
them at the upper end of Pub Partners estate, providing a very good business for the right tenants and a stronger, more Hungry Horse is our only overtly branded format and the pubs are sustainable profit stream for the company.
Over the year, the total mainly located in urban communities.
The outlets retain individuality size of the Pub Company estate increased by 292 pubs to 820. but are linked by the Hungry Horse branding and great value food The average sales per pub increased by 3% and the average menus.
The brand, which we acquired as part of the Magic Pub trading profit per pub was up 13%.
Trading margins improved 1.7 Company in 1996, is a considerable success with consumers and percentage points to 18.9%.
This strong improvement in margin was recently named Pub Retail Food Brand of the Year at the was achieved by improved sourcing arrangements and tighter Publican Awards.
At the year-end, we had 135 Hungry Horse outlets.
Following the acquisition of Laurel, we implemented an initiative to During the year, we continued our strategy of effective capital classify the range of Real Pub sites in order to help streamline our GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 11 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW marketing and site development Pub Company divisions Number of Number of processes going forward.
The exercise outlets at outlets at has helped us to identify a number of 2 May 2004 1 May 2005 formats or models that can be introduced to other houses within this division and Hungry Horse Branded pubs 137 135 include: with great value food business Quality Local: a more upmarket pub Real Pubs Unbranded 129 357 offer offering a traditional, quality community pubs pub feel Town Local Unbranded town 127 171 centre and town Champion: a concept retained from local pubs Laurel with a sport activity-led offer Inns Mix of inns with 135 157 trading to a local community rooms and destination M Series: a more modern interpretation of a community local food businesses business providing appeal across the age-range.
Total 528 820 Real Pubs continued to have a strong focus on sporting events and are predominantly located at the heart of the communities in the latest techniques in driving room and yield management as which they are situated.
These pubs operate more successfully well as a new booking system allowing us to improve the and efficiently without a collective branding.
During the year we utilisation of room stock.
introduced business models to help our managers clearly define areas within our pubs where customers can play or watch sport Pub Companys success relies on its ability to attract customers and helping to increase the number of customers and profitability.
provide them with an overall experience to ensure that they return.
Our strategy hinges on giving those who understand their customers Over the course of the year, we changed the name of our High the best our house managers the flexibility to run their pubs in a Street division to Town Local.
The change reflects the more way that meets the expectations of the customers whilst, at the same traditional town image of the majority of our properties with very time, maximising the returns for our business.
This ability to harness few being on the competitive high street.
Inns, our fourth division, the talent and enterprise of our managers whilst maximising the is made up of traditional coaching inns and hotels that provide benefits of our scale is a key factor in our success.
accommodation, and a strong emphasis on high quality food and a wide range of wines and cask ales.
During the year we implemented accommodation workshops for all hotels to teach 12 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Pub Partners Pub Partners, our tenanted and leased pub business, delivered another strong performance.
Turnover was up 8.8% to 125.1 million.
Trading profit increased by 13.0% to 54.0 million with trading margins that improved by 1.6 percentage points to 43.2%.
Volume sales of beer increased by 2.5%, wines and spirits by 4.7% and soft drinks fell by 2.4%.
Trading Trading profit Trading profit Pub Turnover profit change margin Partners m m % % 2004 115.0 47.8 9 41.6 2005 125.1 54.0 13 43.2 Pub Partners began the year with 1153 pubs.
During the period, we transferred 84 pubs from Pub Company and 33 from the Laurel acquisition and made one individual acquisition.
A total of The industry leading Pub Partners Extranet ensures that 27 outlets were sold during the year.
At the year-end we had 1244 Greene King licensees have a clear advantage over their tenanted and leased properties.
Average trading profit per pub competitors.
The Extranet is the most comprehensive increased by 8% based on an average number of pubs during the resource tool of its kind providing 24 7 access to legislation, period of 1187. advice and business building support as well as performance and trading information specific to each pub.
The capital investment in our estate totalled 10.4 million of which 4.5 million related to property improvements and 5.9 million to maintenance capital.
In addition we spent 3.8 million on property repairs through the revenue account.
The improvement capital was spread between 42 pubs at an average of 107k each.
The returns on investment remained strong.
We offer a number of different agreements to ensure the right match for both the individual pub and lessee.
We do, however, GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 13 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW differ from many other industry Pub Partners set up a specialist team that, following six months of operators in that, for the majority of our planning and preparation, has worked on behalf of all our tenants pubs, we prefer shorter, non-assignable and licensees to tackle the problems associated with the recent tenancies to longer assignable leases.
The team produced and distributed a full The shorter tenancy is a better fit for our briefing pack to them all, as well as visiting each one to help them high quality and well invested complete the premises licence and to give advice on how to community pubs and provides a complete their personal licence application form.
Pub Partners number of advantages for both our invested a total of over 1.5 million in this initiative and has saved tenants and ourselves.
For the tenants, each of our tenants and licensees up to 2.5k.
it allows a lower cost of entry and commits us to sharing the costs of Pub Partners has updated its Share and Save buying brochure maintaining the building.
The main which now includes over 50 suppliers offering licensees discounts benefit for us is that we retain the role of recruiting a new tenant if and saving them between 10%-20% against trade prices across our existing one decides to leave.
These shorter tenancies all product areas.
We have also introduced Starline, a dedicated accounted for 78% of our estate.
The balance of the agreements maintenance and repair customer service line to ensure tenants are longerterm assignable leases.
These play an important role in can report issues as they occur and receive a fast and effective attracting talented lessees to those pubs where there is a higher response.
This new service is achieving over 98.2% response rate entry cost because they are more food-led or include letting to tenant calls and continues to be seen as one of the accommodation.
Many of the original Old English Inns would fall cornerstones of our support package.
We have further enhanced into this category.
our product and marketing support with the launch of the Business Builder Toolkit, in addition to our seasonal and monthly The ability of our tenants and lessees to run successful businesses sales building offers.
Finally an enhanced pub investment package is fundamental to Pub Partners performance.
As a result, we have was launched, designed to make it easier for the tenant to plan focused on providing the very best information and infrastructure to how they might develop and improve their facilities in the future.
Our industry-leading support package has been designed to add value to all areas of their businesses including Pub Partners success is built on attracting the best tenants to its online systems to give them valuable customer information that they high-quality pubs and helping them to develop their businesses need to maximise their takings: initiatives to protect them from with an industry-leading support package.
We will continue to growing regulatory costs, and significant marketing support.
During invest in all aspects of our operations and are confident of a 2004, we were proud to win the British Institute of Innkeepings profitable future for both our tenants and our company.
NITAS Award for best licensee induction programme, which was deemed by the judges to be a role model for the industry.
14 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW Brewing Company Brewing Company produced another strong performance.
Total own-brewed volume grew by 3% and this was achieved at maintained prices in an overall cask ale market that declined by 4% in volume.
All of our brands performed strongly with volume sales of Greene King IPA up by 4%, Old Speckled Hen by 6% and Abbot Ale by 4%.
The performance of our brands led to an increase in turnover of 5.2% to 111.6 million.
Trading profit grew by 10.6% to 17.8 million with an increase to the trading margin of 0.8 percentage points to 15.9%.
Trading Trading profit Trading profit Brewing Turnover profit change margin Company m m % % In August 2004, Greene King IPA won Gold in the bitter 2004 106.1 16.1 21 15.2 category of the Champion Beer of Britain Awards.
We 2005 111.6 17.8 11 15.9 have always been proud of the beer, and this tremendous accolade from CAMRA was a welcome endorsement.
2004 was an historic year for the company.
Greene King IPA won Our focus on quality and consistency over the past few gold in the Champion Beer of Britain Awards and soon afterwards years means that our beer is the best it ever has been and according to AC Nielsen overtook Tetleys Bitter to become the this is reflected in the continued sales growth of all our brands.
In spring 2005 Abbot Ale won a silver award and Number One cask beer brand in the UK.
These are fantastic was the highest placed English beer in the prestigious achievements.
They are testament to the pride shown in the International Beer Competition.
brand by members of the Brewing Company team, and to the hard work they have put into product quality, marketing and sales.
Overall, our share of the UK cask ale market increased by 0.7 percentage points against a market that continues to show decline of around 4% per year.
According to data from AC Nielsen, Abbot Ale continues to be the number one premium cask beer in the South East.
Old Speckled Hen further cemented its GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 15 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW 16 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW position as the number one premium ale brand in the multiple to encourage people to drink beer with their meals.
As a result of grocery market, selling 11.4 million bottles this year.
successfully positioning the beer with a stylish and contemporary image and of promoting it through experiential marketing activity, the brand now sells in over 40% of UK supermarkets, including Market share Greene Greene Tesco, who, during the year, added this unique beer to its range of King King 2004 2005 Greene King products.
% % Further successful promotions designed to widen our consumer On-trade cask ale Great Britain 11.4 12.1 base included the March 2005 launch of the national Beer with Take home trade Great Britain Food Week in partnership with the Morning Advertiser, activity with - Ale 8.0 9.0 the All Parliamentary Beer Group and the BBC Good Food Show.
- Premium bottled ale 15.1 15.6 Source: AC Nielsen, Grocery Multiples, 11 06 05, MAT value The brewery at Bury St Edmunds continued to run at maximum efficiency and is currently at 95% capacity on a two-shift system.
The sale of our brands in all four external channels continued to Running the brewery in this way means we do not have to resort perform well.
These represent the independent free trade, onto lower margin contract brewing.
Capacity can be increased trade national accounts, the take home trade and exports.
During when necessary and at minimal cost.
We have planning the year, sales to these channels accounted for 79% of total own permission for additional fermenting vessels and we have started brewed sales and highlights the continued demand for our to run trials on the introduction of a third shift.
Brewing Company continuously strives to have the best brands, The effective advertising and marketing of our brands played an products and customer service in the sector.
The progress that important role in developing customer appeal, whilst supporting we have made in all of these areas brings us closer to realising our our position at the premium end of the market.
We remain the ambition of being Britains Best Beer Business.
largest advertiser of cask ale in the United Kingdom, successfully launching new advertising campaigns for Greene King IPA and Industry Challenges Abbot Ale.
Other marketing initiatives have included an Abbot Ale Applications under the Licensing Act 2003 for all of our pubs, in both Perfect Pub competition that attracted over 10,000 entries, the estates, will be submitted by the end of July 2005.
This is in advance Promotion of Six Nations Rugby and the continued support of the of the August deadline.
The trading hours in the majority of our pubs Wasps and Laurence Dallaglio.
will not change substantially but, where there is specific customer demand, we do expect to benefit from minor extensions to existing There were significant developments with our Beer to Dine For.
In the November 2004 White Paper, the Government This innovative beer was launched in 2003 as part of our campaign set out its proposals for a ban on smoking in public places at the end GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05 17 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW of 2008.
Consultation for these proposals continues but, in the mean beers as we do brewing them Drink Sensibly will be on all of our time, our planning is already at an advanced stage.
This is built on packaging by the autumn.
In Pub Company, we have strict our commitment to providing all of our customers non-smoking guidelines to ensure that alcoholic drinks are marketed and priced and smoking with continued choice and a memorable experience, appropriately, supported by extensive training programmes for our as well as ensuring a healthy working environment for our staff.
These efforts were rewarded during the year when estate is weighted towards food-led and family-orientated pubs and Greene King Pub Company was named as a finalist in the Morning these are perceived to be at less risk from the ban.
Within Pub Company, both smoking at the bar and back of house Prospects will be removed from all of our pubs by the end of 2005.
We are Last year was one of significant progress for the group leading to also committed to increasing the overall non-smoking floor space record results.
The acquisition of Laurel, its successful integration going forward.
At the same time, 83% of our managed pubs have and an improved funding structure have made Greene King a external space that will enable us, with limited investment, to stronger business.
provide an attractive environment for smokers after the ban is introduced.
So far in 2005, we have invested in 80 outlets and we Trading in the current year has begun well for all three of our will be continuing this initiative in the current financial year.
divisions and is in line with expectations.
In the first eight weeks, total like-for-like sales in Pub Company, excluding the Euro 2004 In Pub Partners, our tenants and lessees will decide how best to effect, were up by 1.9%.
In Pub Partners, beer sales have respond to the proposed ban in the context of their own businesses.
improved by 8.0% and Brewing Company's total beer sales by As with our managed pubs, this estate has a high proportion of outlets volume have improved by 3.0%.
We have a proven strategy that with external space at 89%.
We expect to begin consultation in delivers value for our shareholders and there are exciting October 2005 to support our tenants in advance of the smoking ban opportunities to deliver further growth in the future and to explore relevant capital investment in their sites.
Lastly, there has been considerable recent attention on responsible drinking and this has focused on promotional activity and issues surrounding city centre pubs, in particular.
We are not at the forefront of this debate because very few of our pubs are on the high street and we do not use pricing as a primary competitive tool.
However, this has not distracted us from our ongoing commitment Rooney Anand to running a responsible and sustainable business.
In Brewing Chief Executive Company, the message Please take as much care enjoying our 5 July 2005 18 GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 04 05
