Chief Executives Report Ian McLeod Halfords has a very strong brand Well Check It and Well Repair It name, synonymous with quality, underpin our Bikehut sub-brand, reliability and trust and has delivered which sells more than one in every 17 consecutive years of sales growth.
The financial year ended 1 April Our key objectives following last 2005 has been notable for years listing are to maintain and continuing the pace of change in develop Halfords core strengths by: the business and the substantial improvement in store performance Expanding the store portfolio and company profitability.
Broadening the product offer Supply chain and active trading Sales increased by 8.6% to 628.4m Marketing the Halfords service compared with the previous year, proposition while pre-tax profits have risen by 130.6% to 64.1m over the The financial results for the year same period.
clearly demonstrate that these actions are being translated into During the last 12 months We aggressively pursued the store improved profitability and we have worked hard to opening, refurbishment and product shareholder value.
development programmes outlined further consolidate our to investors at the time of the leading market position Companys successful listing on Expanding the store portfolio within our core categories, the London Stock Exchange in extend sales potential June 2004.
Supermezzanine Format The roll out of supermezzanine through leveraging our Halfords has a unique retailing stores continued with the number of brand equity into new proposition.
We are about 12 times supermezzanines increasing from markets and accelerate the size of our nearest competitor 11 at the beginning of the financial Halfords new store and and are market leaders in all of our year to 57 stores by the end of March key product categories.
Typically a supermezzanine portfolio improvement store of first choice for cycling and store will add a further 40% of selling programmes.
automotive requirements and have space to a standard superstore.
successfully widened our product offer into new areas including These stores allow us to design an camping equipment and a broader in-store environment, which includes range of leisure products.
much better sight lines and clearer product segmentation creating an A key competitive advantage is the automotive ground floor and a leisure Halfords Well Fit It programme: we mezzanine.
It also creates space for have fitted close to one million product range enhancement and for products, ranging from car parts, new product categories such as to child seats, CD players, DVDs Active Leisure and Kidszone.
and the latest satellite navigation equipment.
The Companys staff are Supermezzanine conversions have passionate about our products and generated significant uplifts in like-forare trusted by our customers.
like sales and 35 further conversions are planned for the new financial year.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 5 By the end of the financial year Halfords was trading from 398 stores in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
This will add over 100,000 square Our property team is actively feet of retailing space without continuing to progress our increasing our rent levels and will expansion plans through seeking enable Halfords to broaden its suitable new locations for both product offer to the consumer.
our supermezzanine and small store formats.
New Stores Halfords trades from 398 stores in the UK and the Republic of Ireland.
Broadening the product offer During the year Halfords opened 18 Store Development new stores and closed seven.
In During the year Halfords has Halfords is developing its property addition, supermezzanine conversions succeeded in growing like-for-like portfolio by converting existing were added to a total of 38 stores.
sales in all four key categories of stores and opening new stores.
Car Maintenance, Car Enhancement, Pictured is a smaller format We have also developed a smaller Cycling and Travel Solutions.
Metro store, located on high store footprint and been encouraged streets and a supermezzanine by the results generated by this type Car Maintenance out of town store.
Halfords is the largest supplier of car parts in the UK, in a market worth The decision to expand beyond the almost 1 billion annually despite UK into the Republic of Ireland has longer service intervals and increased also proved to be a success.
Halfords complexity of vehicle engines.
now trades from three stores in the Republic of Ireland and eight in We have increased sales and grown Northern Ireland and is continuing market share through a combination to seek further sites, following of good availability on specialist car the encouraging results from parts either held at branch or these developments.
through special order and by driving up average transaction value on Over the next 12 months we plan to consumable servicing products.
We open 16 new stores including four offer special deals on added value site relocations.
products, as well as offering a comprehensive Well Fit It service on items such as wiper blades and bulbs.
6 Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 We are developing the Ripspeed brand by sponsoring events, targeting young enthusiasts and marketing the brand in specialist publications that appeal to the young modifier.
We have also made good progress The Halfords Well Fit It programme through our business-to-business provides sustainable competitive initiatives.
We have reached advantage across our product agreement to supply a range of categories and combined with our Halfords branded merchandise to strong sales performance, gives us over 300 BP forecourt sites.
Products real confidence for the future.
are purchased, merchandised and managed by BP, with range We continue to enjoy a healthy recommendations provided by the business selling and fitting CD Halfords category team.
players to cars already on the road.
About 50% of the cars on the UK We have also introduced a Halfords roads are over six years old, which trade card into virtually all stores to presents us with a continued growth encourage more committed home opportunity.
Younger drivers, in car mechanics and smaller garage particular, create a strong market for proprietors to purchase an increasing trading up to an audio unit which is amount of their parts requirements MP3 compatible.
Early results from both initiatives are encouraging.
Ripspeed Ripspeed is an exclusive brand to Car Enhancement Halfords, and is firmly established as The 850m car enhancement market one of the countrys leading brands in is growing at more than 7% a year the growing market of and as market leader Halfords has car enhancement and modification.
seen significant growth in its sales Whilst all of our stores have and market share.
Ripspeed branded merchandise, we have seen strong sales growth The largest growth area has been in from the introduction of a dedicated in-car entertainment and technology.
Ripspeed sub-shop into our Eighteen months ago, satellite supermezzanine stores.
navigation units were a difficult aftermarket installation with few units As we introduce more superavailable below 1,000.
In recent mezzanine formats into our stores months, as technology has advanced, we are able to allocate extra space to we have reduced the entry price point create more dedicated Ripspeed to as little as 300 and demand has sub-shops and to widen the product grown substantially.
We have a wide offer through the introduction of new range of products and have invested and exciting ranges such as the latest heavily in training our store teams to alloy wheels and LED lights.
advise the customer of the products capability and fit products into We continue to develop and raise customers cars.
We are now satellite awareness of the Ripspeed brand by navigation specialists and are sponsoring events targeting car successfully marketing this together enthusiasts and marketing the brand with our expertise in fitting in-car DVD through specialist publications that and safety camera detectors.
appeal to the target consumer for this large and growing market.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 7 The Halfords Bikehut brand has gone from strength to strength since 1998.
It is now being successfully extended to include own label cycle accessories, and in-store specialists have helped to broaden Bikehut's appeal to both families and enthusiasts.
Bikehut Our Bikehut colleagues expertise Halfords, with its successful Bikehut enables us to also provide additional brand, continues to consolidate and fitting, maintenance and repair grow its position as the market leader services to our customers, which within the UK cycling market.
differentiate us from other mainstream multiples.
Our exclusive Apollo brand is firmly established as the number two cycle Bikehut also sponsors teams of brand within the UK and with the employee and professional cyclists recent launch of our new Apollo to heighten brand awareness and range we are confident that we can encourage independent product further improve its sales performance reviews or recommendations.
Specialist press is also used to advertise Bikehut and Carrera We are also successfully growing our branded merchandise to leverage sales in the premium and specialist credibility amongst enthusiasts.
sectors of the cycle market.
As well as offering recognised premium The Bikehut brand has been brand products such as Kona, GT extended to include own label and Saracen, we have also been cycle accessories to complement able to establish our Carrera the highly successful Carrera and brand as a credible alternative Apollo cycle brands.
within this market, particularly within the emerging Town and Trail Travel Solutions category.
Our specialist buying team This market is worth around 700m have secured a cycle range with a year nationally and Halfords is the right quality and design at market leader in this highly highly competitive prices through fragmented sector which includes sourcing product directly from Far travel equipment and travel East suppliers.
accessory products such as roof boxes, roof bars and cycle carriers.
Bikehut is one of the main We have updated certain key areas areas of the store where we and this, together with a strong experience strong sales uplifts promotion programme brought following store conversion to about good year-on-year growth supermezzanine format.
with Halfords continuing to grow market share.
We have improved the in-store marketing of Bikehut as our cycling New Category Development sub-brand in mezzanine stores in Active Leisure has been rolled out order to broaden general appeal across all stores nationally, providing and add credibility with enthusiasts.
camping solutions to satisfy all Employees who work in Bikehut needs, including developing a are frequently enthusiasts multi-purchase offer for families themselves which further helps in embarking on their first camping building customer confidence.
Our new combined tent and sleeping equipment packs at very competitive prices have proved extremely popular.
8 Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 A range of Halfords branded tents The roll-out of the Active Leisure and sleeping bags has also been range and the speed of development introduced for the 2005 season.
of the special purchase programme are good examples of the successful Kidszone has been developed for change in approach, with a focused supermezzanine stores and includes trial period and scale roll-out a broader range of child safety seats, following rapidly.
an extended range of wheeled products both pedal driven and The development of Halfords Asia electric and a range of larger has proved invaluable in supporting outdoor activity products.
Sales of the special purchase programme, child seats, underpinned by an facilitating bulk purchase of product aggressive marketing and pricing at source, specifically for promotion campaign including fitting advice in activity within the recently created store, have increased significantly.
bulk display space created in-store.
The widening of the product offer, There has also been a sustained particularly wheeled toys over the effort to increase the number of Christmas period, was also very product ranges we source directly Improving Product successful and will provide a good from the Far East.
This strategy has Sourcing Channels base to build on next year.
proved highly successful through the creation of a dedicated Far Increasing our direct East sourcing team based in product sourcing from Supply chain and active trading Hong Kong.
The growth of directly the Far East has meant sourced products enables us to A number of stores benefited from a reduce cost and utilise the benefit that Halfords has been low cost store renewal programme to either grow margin or reduce able to further improve ahead of last years listing, providing prices to grow market share.
The sales, margin and better linear merchandising and penetration of product sourced profitability.
Most of improved sales intensity.
directly from the Far East has grown significantly in the last year and is Halfords cycle and As well as delivering range extension targeted to rise further.
cycle accessory ranges benefits, these store layout changes are manufactured in the have also freed space at the front of Far East.
the store which allows us to Marketing the Halfords accommodate bulk displays of service proposition product, creating greater impact.
The benefits are an increase in Halfords has traditionally had a incremental sales from impulse reputation for providing good purchases, the development of a test service through knowledgeable bed for the trial of new product ideas employees.
This, together with our and giving consumers more reasons enhanced product fitting capability, to shop at our stores.
gives us a strong and unique competitive advantage.
The organisation has responded extremely well to the active trading The Halfords Well Fit It programme philosophy and we are reaping the is now an integral element of all our benefits from it.
marketing communications and central to the service message inherent within our latest TV advertising campaign.
Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 9 We have underpinned the marketing 80% of child seats in cars are communication message with a fitted incorrectly so the advice that series of in-store training Halfords provides in child seat fitting programmes to ensure that the is significant in providing reassurance service communicated can be to parents and guardians.
Outlook At a local level, colleagues are trained Following what we regard as a very to deliver fitting services on servicing successful first year since our Stock consumables such as wiper blades Exchange Listing, Halfords has and car bulbs.
They are also trained to reported its seventeenth year of build bikes and perform safety consistent sales growth.
This strong checks prior to customers receiving track record demonstrates Halfords their bike and also service them with ability to defend itself against cyclical a free six week post purchase check.
Halfords always endeavours to During the last 12 months we have employ colleagues in areas where worked hard to further consolidate they have a natural affinity or our leading market position within our preference.
Cycling and car core categories, extend sales enthusiasts will be available in most potential through leveraging our Travel Solutions stores to advise customers.
Halfords brand equity into new markets and A new range of tents and sleeping has been awarded official status as accelerate Halfords new store and bags have been introduced in an Approved Assessment Centre for portfolio improvement programmes.
2005 to further strengthen our the Institute of the Motor Industry and Active Leisure offer.
We are also over 500 colleagues have been We are encouraged by these results selling a greater range of child trained and accredited to deliver and are confident that the continued seats which combined with hardwire electronic equipment diligent application of our strategy strong deals and trained fitters installation, extending our fitting provides the opportunity to deliver has supported a substantial capabilities from in-car audio, to further positive results in the future.
include satellite navigation, safety camera detectors and in-car DVD.
Ian McLeod Frequently the individual who Chief Executive sells an electronic device will be 8 June 2005 the same individual who fits it in the customers car.
This provides additional customer reassurance and is a strong competitive advantage.
None of our competitors provide such a comprehensive service nationally.
During the year, we also relaunched our Child Seat Fitting service.
Approximately 1,000 employees have been trained and certified in child seat fitting during the year, which combined with strong deals has supported a substantial growth in sales volume.
10 Halfords Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Employee focus Bryan Wilson Ripspeed specialist High profile Bryan has worked for Halfords Ripspeed for four years including working at Ripspeed shows and on special projects.
He is a car modifying specialist and spends his free time working on his own Nissan Skyline.
