HALMA Chief Executives Review Actions to reposition the Group for higher growth will continue both operationally and structurally.
performance has been a key element Record sales, profits and ROCE, of Halmas continuing success in but.. delivering outstanding returns.
The Group delivered record sales, record profits and a ROCE of 62% Strong cash generation and a despite the headwind of currency and record dividend rising raw material prices particularly The Groups excellent cash generation stainless steel.
It is always pleasing to and outstanding ROCE record is not report such achievements together achieved easily but by the disciplined with a record dividend payment for management of our assets at all levels.
shareholders, but there is more to be During the year this enabled us to done if we are to achieve the make 9 million of capital investment performance levels we really aspire to.
in our existing operations, pay a record dividend to shareholders for the The Group did do well to compensate twenty-sixth consecutive year, make for some adverse factors, achieve two significant acquisitions and still excellent cash generation and make have 12 million of net cash available two high quality acquisitions.
the underlying level of organic growth was inconsistent with parts of the Flat sales performance in business failing to make satisfactory continuing operations progress, thereby eroding the growth delivered elsewhere.
Sales from continuing operations, excluding acquisitions, increased to all We take encouragement from our territories except for the US where achievements but do not shy away turnover fell by 10%.
Clearly currency from the challenges.
Setting high was a key factor, but again, is not the standards and expectations of our whole story.
We must become more see Financial Highlights 6 Halma p. l. c. 2005 HALMA Chief Executives Review continued active in the way we build the since acquisition, this was distribution channels of our encouraging and underpinned a businesses, particularly in the US reasonable sector performance and other key markets.
sometimes lacked clarity and speed of action in this area in the past and Water sector repositioned for not allocated a significant proportion new market needs of our resources to make it happen.
We have taken actions to position the business for better growth in the Exciting value-adding future.
There were significant changes acquisitions strengthen Optics to senior management and to the and Specialist sector product range, which had short-term During the year we acquired Ocean consequences for operating costs and Optics, based in Florida, and Diba margins.
For example, it was Industries, based in Connecticut, for necessary to rationalise our range of a total of 22 million.
They have instruments which measure flow and significantly enhanced our capability pressure in water networks to meet in optical sensing and fluid more precisely the growing demand technology and have performed well for these products worldwide.
This since joining the Group.
We remain resulted in additional costs associated committed to making such high with stock write downs, field service quality acquisitions as they become replacements, and adjustments to available in accordance with our product design and selling resources.
strategy of focussing more closely on In addition, there was no repeat of a those markets offering the best major US leak detection contract this growth opportunities.
year following last years success in Las Vegas.
However, we continue with Excluding these acquisitions and our investment in the US for leak costs of holding companies, the detection, UV treatment and water Optics and Specialist sector achieved quality.
Our water business is now in underlying profit growth of 12%.
better shape to meet the New product innovation, improved opportunities presented by this longsales processes and increasing term growth market.
efficiencies in manufacturing contributed to an excellent result.
Resistors struggle against impact of currency and raw material Elevator and Door safety prices maintains market leadership As indicated at the half year, the At constant currency, the sector margins on our Resistor business reported marginal increases in both came under intense pressure from profits and sales.
In the US, our stainless steel price increases.
In the voice communications equipment second half, we had some success in sales fell significantly.
Since the year mitigating these increases although end we have merged this business in certain cases long-term contract with our US elevator safety products terms proved difficult to renegotiate.
company to benefit from its wellWe have recognised for some time developed sales channels.
that our Resistors business has been struggling against rising raw material BEA, the door safety business, prices, currency and tough market performed slightly better in the conditions.
Since the year end, more second half than flagged at the vigorous action is being taken and Interim stage.
After rapid growth already we have consolidated two of Halma p. l. c. 2005 7 HALMA Chief Executives Review continued our manufacturing operations based a big difference to our customers near Cincinnatti, Ohio.
success and quicker new product introduction is another way in which Fire and Gas delivers solid result we can exceed their expectation for in changing market our mutual benefit.
We responded positively to the major Stephen OSheas retirement M&A activity in the global Fire and Gas market.
New product developments I would also like to record my thanks and industry-leading customer service to Stephen OShea for his generous levels helped us to compete with US help during the recent handover period based rivals who benefited from a and for his contribution to the Groups weaker dollar when selling into export many successes since he joined us as markets.
Whilst the market is MD of Apollo Fire Detectors 22 years undergoing a period of significant ago.
I am sure you will join me in consolidation we continue to find, and wishing him a long and happy exploit, new opportunities.
Process Safety introduces new A robust strategy although striving products for new applications for greater growth A number of products were launched Our ability to maintain strong returns targeting new applications for our reflects well on our strategy of creating safety interlock products.
The roll out unique, high value products which was more gradual than expected in protect lives, or improve the quality of some cases, but the year ended with life, for individuals and businesses greater momentum than it started, worldwide.
We will continue to invest particularly in the oil and in, and develop, high return petrochemical market.
Overall, the technology businesses which operate sector continues to deliver a in niche, demand driven global satisfactory return on sales and markets with strong barriers to entry.
Actions to reposition the Group for Talented people and excellent higher growth will continue both products operationally and structurally.
I am looking for greater consistency of During the year, I visited all of Halmas performance across the Group to principal subsidiaries and saw how deliver the sustained organic growth hard our people are working towards which provides valuable returns for our goal of higher growth.
Whilst there is still much talented workforce that creates, builds work to be done, there are good and sells excellent products covering a opportunities available to us and I am huge range of applications.
Improving very much looking forward to leading the timing of new product the Group in the year ahead.
introductions is an area we need to improve continually and, although great strides have been made recently, a further improvement will have a significant impact on our organic growth prospects.
It is encouraging to see the increasing Andrew J Williams commitment of our businesses towards exceeding the expectation of customers.
Our innovation often makes 8 Halma p. l. c. 2005
