04 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Chairman and Chief Executives review We are confident that the strength and diversity of our business will enable us to continue to deliver organic growth at the Group level, and we will continue to look for new opportunities to grow through acquisition.
Overview 90 products under development across our three main I am pleased to report that 2005 was an extremely successful business segments Generic, Branded and Injectable year for Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC.
strong set of financial results driven by new product launches, In our Branded and Injectable Pharmaceuticals businesses, better product targeting and enhanced sales and marketing we put considerable effort into developing our sales and capabilities, combined with a continued focus on API sourcing, marketing capabilities, especially in the MENA region.
Our performance We achieved market share gains in Saudi Arabia and in 2005 reinforces our track record of delivering growth maintained our market leading position in Jordan.
We also and demonstrates the underlying strength of our diverse expanded into the technically challenging lyophilised segment business model.
of the injectables market with the acquisition of the Italian On 1 November 2005 we successfully completed our manufacturing business, IBPP, in March 2005.
In December initial public offering on the London Stock Exchange and on 2005, our Generic Pharmaceuticals business successfully 19 December 2005 we joined the FTSE 250.
Through the offer renewed its sales contract with the Department of Veterans we raised gross proceeds of $124 million 70.0 million to be Affairs, an agency of the government of the United States, used to repay debt and fund capital investment projects across for the supply of Lisinopril.
As of 31 December 2005, our market capitalisation was $1.2 billion 675 million.
Through our Board appointments listing we have enhanced our international profile, gained In anticipation of our IPO, three Non-Executive Directors were financial flexibility to grow our business both organically and appointed to the Board in October.
In addition, Ali Al-Husry through acquisition, and enabled global investors to support joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director, having served our development.
as a Director of Hikma Pharma Limited and other Group companies since 1991.
Ali is Chairman and CEO of Financial results Export & Finance Bank in Jordan, as well as being a The Group performed well across all businesses in 2005, director of a number of other organisations.
achieving revenue of $262.2 million, up 23.5% from 2004.
Sir David Rowe-Ham joined the Board as senior independent Gross margin for the Group remained stable at 51.8%.
Non-Executive Director and took up the position of Chairman Operating profit grew by 10.3% to $69.2 million, while of the Nomination Committee.
A Chartered Accountant, operating margins decreased to 26.4%, compared to 29.5% Sir David is Chairman of Olayan Europe Ltd. BNP Paribas in 2004, primarily as a result of increased investment in South Asia Investment Co Ltd and Coral Products PLC.
The Groups profit for the year increased by 17.1% to $43.9 million and diluted Michael Ashton joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director earnings per share grew by 14.1% to 28.3 cents.
and took up the position of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Michael has been the chief executive of a number Business highlights of pharmaceutical companies and has over 32 years of We ended 2005 with a total of 140 products in our portfolio experience in the pharmaceutical industry.
in 303 dosage strengths and forms, including the ten products Breffni Byrne also joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director, launched during the year and 25 under-licence products.
taking up the position of Chairman of the Audit Committee.
During 2005 we were granted 98 regulatory approvals.
Also a Chartered Accountant, Breffni is Chairman of NCB In addition, we submitted a total of 73 regulatory filings, Stockbrokers and a director of Irish Life and Permanent plc, including 37 new product applications.
As of 31 December Coillte Teoranta the Irish state forestry company, Adsteam 2005, we had a total of 88 pending approvals and Europe Limited and other companies.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC 05 Dividend products sold in Algeria.
We expect to be able to minimise the The Board has recommended a pro rata final dividend for the effect of these price declines by introducing new products and period from flotation to 31 December 2005 of 0.89 cents by increasing the sales volume, through greater promotion of per share approximately 0.5 pence per share equivalent to those Hikma products that are on the reference price list but approximately 5.34 cents on a full year basis.
The proposed that have potential for sales growth.
final dividend will be paid on 30 May 2006 to shareholders on the register on 28 April 2006, subject to approval at the Outlook Annual General Meeting.
Our listing on the London Stock Exchange marks the beginning of an exciting new phase in Hikmas development.
Developments in 2006 In 2006, we will continue to improve the breadth and quality Early in 2006, we announced FDA approval of the of our product range and delivery of operational efficiencies manufacturing facilities of JPI, our associate company in with continued investment in research and development, Saudi Arabia, for the manufacture of oral cephalosporin sales and marketing and human resources.
products for sale in the US market.
The construction of Prospects for the Groups overall business performance our new cephalosporin plant in Portugal is well underway are positive.
We expect to continue our trend of strong and on track to begin production in the first half of 2007. revenue growth, especially in our Branded and Injectable The construction of our new penicillin plant in Jordan and businesses, through a focus on existing products, the launch the expansion of our lyophilised injectable plant in Italy are of new products and expansion into new markets.
This will scheduled for completion in 2007.
All three projects, as well be driven by the strength of our sales and marketing teams.
as the approval of the JPI facility, will significantly increase our We expect the pricing environment in the United States to manufacturing capacity and allow us to meet the growing remain competitive.
However, we will work diligently to demand across our core businesses.
minimise the effects of this pricing pressure on our Generic In 2006, we are planning to expand the penetration of business by introducing new products and retaining our our injectable products across the United States, Europe strategic focus on reducing raw material costs.
and the MENA region, through new product launches and We are confident that the strength and diversity of our greater investment in sales and marketing, including recent business will enable us to continue to deliver organic growth senior sales and marketing appointments.
Our sales in at the Group level, and we will continue to look for new Europe will be further enhanced by agreements signed opportunities to grow through acquisition.
in the beginning of 2006 with Hospira, Inc. a global specialty pharmaceutical and medication delivery company, for the supply and distribution of injectable products in European markets.
In early 2006, the Algerian Ministry of Labour and Social Security Affairs announced changes to its reimbursement Samih Darwazah system, including the introduction of reference pricing for a Chairman and CEO number of reimbursable products.
This new legislation is expected to impact current pricing of some, but not all, of our Launches include only new pharmaceutical compounds that are being launched for the first time by the Group or, for the first time within another business segment.
Filings include filings for new products, which include pharmaceutical compounds not yet launched by the Group and existing compounds being introduced into new regions and countries, and line extensions.
