Despite difficult economic conditions in the UK, Waterstones is now entering a new phase of growth, this has been a year of good progress for HMV Group after three years of investment in the skills and in which we delivered improved total sales and profit.
This year, we successfully In recognition of our strong cash generation, even after opened seven new stores, including a new 20,000 increased investment in the expansion of our HMV square feet destination store on Londons Oxford Street, businesses in the UK and Japan and Waterstones, and three stores in Northern Ireland, strengthening we accelerated the return of cash to our shareholders considerably our presence there.
The performance through an increase in the dividend and by of these stores has given us the confidence to expand commencing on-market share buybacks.
the Waterstones store portfolio in 2005 06.
Profitable new space Market leadership HMV UK & Irelands new store openings are the Our specialist retail formats have this year once more cornerstone of our medium term growth plans.
demonstrated their continuing resilience in highly This year we successfully opened 23 new stores, competitive conditions.
Market share performance including our 200th location, increasing year end in all areas of our business has been strong, trading space by 10%.
On an individual store basis, reflecting the skill and dedication of our employees, our new openings are smaller than the current chain the effectiveness of our operational systems and the average, as we continue to scope store size for small strength of our leading brands.
and medium-sized towns and suburbs, which are the In particular, HMV UK & Ireland continued focus of our new openings.
We consistently achieve to gain market share in both music and DVD, a high rate of return on these investments with the demonstrating its ability to successfully differentiate average cash payback on the capital invested in such itself from the general retailers and other specialist stores being comfortably inside two years.
Therefore, competitors on the basis of range, store environment, we believe it is firmly in the interests of our shareholders value for money and the advice and recommendations to continue, over the next four to five years, to exploit given by our employees.
this growth opportunity, taking us to at least 300 stores.
At key times of the year, HMV UK & Ireland has HMV Japan successfully opened eight new stores proved to be the primary driver for any growth in during the year, including its 50th location.
By taking the UK music market, whilst our stores continue best practice and learning from the HMV UK & Ireland to provide an important retail channel to support Blueprint and applying this to its own programme of new artists.
Franz Ferdinand, Keane, The Killers, store openings, HMV Japan has been able to meet the Scissor Sisters and Kasabian went on to be among Groups targets for consistency and speed of return the years best-selling artists after featuring in HMV on new store investments.
UK & Irelands new music promotions.
42 The Group opened a total of 42 new stores during the year.
Chief Executives statement Alan Giles We accelerated the return of cash to our shareholders through an increase in the dividend and by commencing on-market share buybacks.
Market share performance in all areas of our business has been strong.
16 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 DVD represents 44% of HMV UK & Irelands sales, Supporting up from 37% in 2004, and during the year total sales breakthrough grew by 27%.
As the most rapidly adopted new entertainment format of all time, it is inevitable that artists DVD growth will begin to slow.
However, third-party HMV continues to forecasts predict several more years of continuing provide an important growth, albeit at lower levels than we have seen to retail channel to support date.
HMV UK & Irelands strong market leadership CD albums by new gives us confidence that this category will continue artists.
Franz Ferdinand, to be a key driver of sales growth for the Group.
Keane, The Killers, We have strengthened our proposition in the Scissor Sisters and games market and are pleased with the early signs Kasabian, all featured in of success in both hardware and software sales.
HMV UK & Irelands new Although this product category is currently only 7% music promotions and of HMV UK & Irelands sales, the new generation of went on to become big consoles being brought to the market gives reason sellers during the year.
to be optimistic about future growth in this area.
In HMV Canada, our DVD sales increased substantially year on year as a result of our continuing strategy to become the categorys leading range authority retailer.
By introducing larger DVD departments into our stores, productivity has improved markedly and the additional footfall that has been created has helped to strengthen HMV Canadas sales and market share in music.
HMV Japan improved market share in both music and DVD in a difficult market.
However, household penetration of DVD hardware remains less well developed than in Western Europe and North America, whilst the release schedule for Japanese music has remained weak.
At Waterstones, the retailing skills of our booksellers have continued to benefit from further investment in training and development and our merchandising capabilities are now stronger than ever.
We also have in place highly efficient IT systems which have allowed us to enhance our ranges, whilst improving our working capital efficiency.
44% DVD is now 44% of HMV UK & Irelands sales mix, equivalent to music.
Left: In-store events Above: Craigavon Product launches New HMV stores in supported by in-store small and medium-size events, such as the Star locations in the UK and Wars trilogy on DVD, Ireland are the cornerstone give our customers a of our medium-term stimulating environment growth plans.
17 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Digital downloading In December 2004, the Group entered into a strategic partnership with Microsoft Corporation to develop software for HMVs new digital downloading service for the UK.
The market for paid-for digital downloads is at a very early stage and the Board believes that now is the time to take a central role in this developing market.
HMVs investment of 10m, divided equally between capital expenditure and launch marketing, includes the development with Microsoft of a customised Jukebox, which enables customers of the new HMV Digital service to find, buy, manage and enjoy their music all in one place.
This software will be distributed via our network of over 200 HMV stores in the UK, and online at www.
co. uk HMV Digital, which will launch on 5 September 2005, will deliver our core brand attributes of range authority, knowledgeable advice and value, whilst leveraging Microsofts expertise and unparalleled track record for developing consumer-friendly software for the widest possible online community.
In-store Music downloads from HMV Digital are compatible with the Windows Media Audio standard and therefore appearances usable with a wide range of portable players currently Whether it be supporting in the market, a choice of which are being sold in our new acts such as stores, assisted by the expert and trusted advice of Kasabian above or our employees.
hosting celebrities such as Ewan McGregor and Charley Boorman left, in-store appearances help us to add value and differentiate us from our competitors.
3.4m HMV Group trades from 3.4m square feet of retail space April 2005.
Below: Exclusive products Left: Digital music Sales of over 500,000 A range of portable exclusive HMV Little music players is being Britain DVDs raised over sold in our UK stores to 1.7m for Comic Reliefs complement the HMV 2005 Red Nose Day.
Digital service, available from 5 September 2005.
18 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Management The strength of our underlying cash flow continues Elsewhere in this report you will find reference to Director to allow us to pursue organic investment opportunities changes for the forthcoming year.
Here, though, I wish and still reduce our borrowings.
In addition to continuing to express my gratitude to Brian McLaughlin, the Groups investment in our existing businesses, we have been Chief Operating Officer, who will retire at the end of able to deal promptly with a funding deficit on our December 2005.
On behalf of everyone in HMV Group, defined benefit pension scheme and accelerate the I wish Brian a happy and fulfilling retirement.
return of capital to our shareholders.
The latter is being achieved through both the progressive dividend policy Outlook which we outlined at the time of our IPO, and a With the exception of the crucial trading period at programme of on-market share buybacks which Christmas, when our businesses traded extremely commenced in the final quarter of the financial year.
successfully, consumer confidence in the UK weakened during the year and market conditions are likely to remain challenging in the forthcoming year.
This has been in sharp contrast to much better trading conditions in Ireland.
Alan Giles Chief Executive Officer Despite the Groups cautious view for the outlook, 27 June 2005 we do not expect to be deterred from progressing our medium to long-term growth prospects.
With such consistent and assured returns on our new store investments in HMV UK & Ireland, we plan to open a further 25 or so new stores during the new financial year.
In Waterstones, we intend to invest in up to 10 new store openings during the new financial year, strengthening our presence in prime shopping locations.
We continue to run our businesses to tightly controlled financial and operating disciplines and are retaining our focus on stringent cost control.
Having established our plans for digital downloading, the Group is clear on the investment requirements for its existing businesses.
Where appropriate, we will continue to invest as rapidly as we sensibly can in the improvement and organic expansion of our existing businesses.
We will continue to invest as rapidly as we sensibly can in the improvement and organic expansion of our existing businesses.
Below: Cloud Atlas Below: Bloc Party Below: Games Waterstones bookselling Among the many new New generation games alumni includes bands to appear live in consoles herald exciting David Mitchell, whose HMV during the year times ahead for the  were Bloc Party.
was shortlisted for the 2004 Man Booker Prize.
19 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Were taking care of business.
Brian McLaughlin Steve Knott Paul Dezelsky Humphrey Kadaner COO and Acting Managing Managing Director, President, President, Director, Waterstones HMV UK & Ireland HMV Asia Pacific HMV Canada 20 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2005
