Chief Executives Review Our Policy Membership business provides underwritten cover for a range of domestic emergencies including plumbing and drains, electrical wiring, gas, central heating, electrical and other appliances and furniture.
We also reinsure half of the risks underwritten for water and utilities branded policies, through our offshore captive insurance company to share in the insurance pro ts from these policies.
Our own membership policies are af nity branded to our Business Partners in the utilities, appliance manufacturing and retail sectors.
Our Emergency Repair business is now a clear market leader in carrying out a broad range of claims repairs on behalf of Household Insurers, Richard Harpin, Chief Executive from re and ood restoration, glazing, locks, window and door frames, drainage repairs and Our vision is for Homeserve to be Your Home permanent building repairs plastering, painting Emergency Service Worldwide.
These trades are delivered selling policies to cover home emergencies and through a combination of employed, subcontract carrying out high quality repairs for a complete and franchised repairers.
In April 2005, we range of home emergencies.
rebranded our directly employed Emergency Repair operation as Homeserve in order to Having disposed of all of our Commercial increase awareness of our name for home Outsourcing operations in the year we are now emergency repairs.
focusing all of our resource on developing our core Home Emergency business.
The acquisition Homeserve now has over 3,300 employees, of Sergon and, subsequent to the year end, including over 700 directly employed engineers of Chem-Dry, signi cantly enhance our repair and operates a network of over 4,600 service offering and place Homeserve in a subcontract and franchised engineers providing a unique position to provide a fully integrated comprehensive range of trades nationally.
service to our Household Insurance Business Partners.
Homeserve has again delivered strong operating pro t performance and record levels of new customer and policy membership growth with continuing operations generating turnover including share of joint ventures of 223m and operating pro ts of 42.4m.
pre goodwill and exceptional items see pro t & loss account and notes 2 and 10 6 Report & Accounts 2005 HS Report P ges 1-33. indd 6 1 6 05 4:46:15 pm Overview Our vision is f Our vision is fo or Homeser r Homeserv five e t to be o be Y Your Home our Home Emer Emergenc gency S y Se er rv vic ice e W Worldwide orldwide.. T Th his means selling is means selling policies t policies to o c co ov ver home emer er home emergencies and carr gencies and carry ying ing out high qualit out high quality r y repairs f epairs for a c or a complet omplete r e range of ange of home emer home emergencies gencies.. Homeserve plc 7 HS Report P ges 1-33. indd 7 1 6 05 4:46:17 pm Chief Executives Review Policy Membership added during the year.
The recently expanded gas supply pipe cover, sold through our Energy Turnover including share of joint ventures Partners and as a cross sell product to water and operating pro t from these businesses company customers, has also started well with increased by 30.1% and 30.8% to 131m and 0.1m new policies sold in the year.
Average acquisition costs per policy were lower re ecting the improved performance of the Homeserve GB new mailings, particularly water supply pipe, and reduced mail pack prices.
This has been Our utilities branded policy business is the combined with the continued cost effective use market leader in the provision of plumbing of outbound telesales where the number of and drainage cover as well as a range of other agents has increased to 220 from 200 last year, emergency policies, to customers of water achieving over 0.4m sales.
This business had an outstanding year for policy, customer and pro t We have maintained our high policy retention growth, achieving excellent response rates for rate at 88%, re ecting our focus on increasing both direct mail and telesales operations.
Total the proportion of customers using continuous UK policies increased by 32% from 2.93m to payment methods such as direct debit and the 3.88m: excellent performance of our repair networks.
We continually monitor our repair performance 2.76m in plumbing and drains 2004: 2.10m and customer satisfaction using 48 hour call backs and achieved 96% customer satisfaction 0.60m in electrical 2004: 0.57m and levels on the core plumbing product.
0.52m in other including gas supply pipe and During the year we successfully renewed 14 of domestic heating policies 2004: 0.26m.
the 17 long term marketing agreements with our water company af nity partners.
The renewed The record level for new policies sold of 1.36m agreements represent 92% of our water 2004: 0.93m re ects a healthy increase in the company policy customer base.
The exceptions number of customers of 21% to 2.36m and were Wessex Water, Bristol Water and Welsh an improved average number of policies per Water representing 0.27m policies in total, customer of 1.65 compared with 1.50 last year.
where contracts expire in June 2005, July 2005 and November 2005, and will not be renewed.
Successful new creative styles for our direct We will retain ownership and revenue for all of mailings were introduced during the year.
the existing policies and shall continue to renew These were one page mailings, containing an these policies without paying a commission to application form without a lea et, which cost these water companies.
less to produce but resulted in increased take up.
In addition, our water supply pipe mailings performed well, bringing in new customers as well as being cross sold to existing plumbing and drains members, with 0.5m new policies 8 Report & Accounts 2005 HS Report P ges 1-33. indd 8 1 6 05 4:46:20 pm Policy Membership Our utilities br Our utilities branded polic anded policy business is the mark y business is the marke et t leader in the pr leader in the pro ov vision of plumbing and dr ision of plumbing and drainage ainage c co ov five er as w r as well as a r ell as a range of other emer ange of other emergenc gency policies y policies.. Homeser Homeserv five plc e plc 9 9 HS Report P ges 1-33. indd 9 1 6 05 4:46:21 pm Chief Executives Review International The water supply pipe product has been complemented by the successful launch of the The development of Homeserve International is full plumbing and drains product as a cross sell progressing well.
Our strategy is to replicate the and is achieving satisfactory take up rates.
Our proven UK model of water company branded 48 hour call backs are reporting similar levels of plumbing and drainage and water supply pipe customer satisfaction to those achieved in the cover offered via direct marketing, with fully UK.
Our organic growth will be supplemented by the acquisition of home In May 2005 we acquired United Waters assistance policies which can be integrated Leakguard business in New Jersey and Idaho, into our existing operations.
Turnover from the including 41,000 existing policies, similar to the international operations increased by 124% to water supply pipe product marketed in the UK.
This acquisition includes a 10 year marketing agreement to use the United Water brand Domo, the joint venture in France with Veolia providing access to over 0.5 million households Water, in which our share increased to 49% in eight States with the potential to extend the from 40% in November 2004, made its first full offer out of area and upsell plumbing and drains year operating pro t and grew the number of cover.
Domo now employs 49 staff, including 12 outbound The US market offers enormous potential for telesales agents.
There are approximately 12 Homeserve, with 57 million owner occupied million owner occupied houses in France of houses and a general propensity to purchase which Veolia provides water to 4.5 million using insurance products.
However, progress in the Generale Des Eaux brand.
During the year signing up new water company partners has we sent out 11 million door to door and solus been slower than expected, although we are in mailings across the whole of France, marketing discussions with a number of the larger water to 8.3 million households of which 40% were in companies and interest from potential partners areas where water is supplied by Generale des is high.
The market is fragmented and our ability Eaux, achieving satisfactory take up rates in all to sign up new water company partners will areas.
We have successfully cross sold the full determine the speed of our success.
We plan plumbing and drains policy to existing supply to signi cantly strengthen our management and pipe members and introduced an emergency resources in this business during the coming year.
Retention rates and customer satisfaction both remained at high levels.
During the year we commenced test marketing in Australia with our first partner, South The US business, which is based in Miami with Australian Water, which provides access to 18 employees, completed its first full year of almost 0.5 million households.
This operation trading with 33,000 2004: 13,000 policies is still at an early stage and is dependent on and in the second half signed its second reaching agreement with other Australian water business partner, Connecticut Water Services companies.
Inc. Connecticut Water is relatively small with less than 0.1m households, but is nevertheless Our ongoing objective is to test in one new important at this early stage of development.
10 Report & Accounts 2005 HS Report P ges 1-33. indd 10 1 6 05 4:46:24 pm Policy Membership T The dev he development of Homeser elopment of Homeserv five e Int International is ernational is pr progr ogressing w essing we ell.
Our ongoing objec Our ongoing objectiv tive is t e is to t o te est st in one new c in one new countr ountry y each y each year ear.. Homeserve plc 11 HS Report P ges 1-33. indd 11 1 6 05 4:46:26 pm Chief Executives Review Retail and Manufacturer Warranties During the year we signi cantly strengthened our resource in this business, combining our small but developing appliance manufacturer warranty operation and the existing furniture warranty business, under a newly recruited and highly experienced CEO.
These businesses share the same characteristics of longer-term policies three to five years compared to annual and signi cant potential for direct marketing to in box registrations for manufacturer warranty and to customers who chose not to purchase retail furniture warranties at the point of sale.
We have signi cantly strengthened our manufacturer appliance warranty operation, which operates out of our new London of ce.
Our furniture warranty business provides fully Additional senior management has been underwritten furniture cover, supported by appointed with speci c manufacturer warranty an employed network of 110 upholsterers sales and marketing experience.
In September, and cleaners providing a service for furniture we won the business of The Vaillant Group, retailers and manufacturers.
This business now the largest boiler manufacturer in the UK, suffered a set back following the appointment and are due to begin marketing policies for of administrators to Courts, its largest customer, Rangemaster, part of Aga Foodservice Group in combined with the dif cult furniture retail June 2005.
The services we provide include the market.
Our priority is to develop existing marketing and administration of their in box first sales opportunities with our existing Retailer year warranty scheme, direct mail campaigns Business Partners and to secure new national and outbound telesales together with initial and regional retailers to replace the lost business.
claim veri cation and out of hours call handling.
We have appointed a new Sales Director with Our existing clients include Ideal Boilers, Mira signi cant experience in selling to national Showers, Creda Heating, Sime Boilers, Redring retailers and are progressing discussions with a and Xpelair.
We have now signed up 359,000 number of leading national retailers and larger 2004: 138,000 customers on our warranty independents for furniture warranty.
In addition programmes and now have 90,000 2004: nil we are developing our range of warranty extended warranty policies.
products to include cover for tted kitchen cabinets and appliances.
The manufacturer and retail warranty markets are an important element of our overall warranty strategy, where we believe there are signi cant opportunities for growth.
12 Report & Accounts 2005 HS Report P ges 1-33. indd 12 1 6 05 4:46:28 pm Policy Membership T The manufac he manufactur ture er and r r and re etail warr tail warrant anty mark y marke ets ts ar are an impor e an important element of our o tant element of our ov five er ra all warr ll warrant anty y str strat ategy egy, wher where w e we e believ believe e ther there ar e are signi e signi cant cant oppor opportunities f tunities for gr or gro owth.
Homeserve plc 13 HS Report P ges 1-33. indd 13 1 6 05 4:46:30 pm Chief Executives Review Glazing, Locks, Plumbing and Drains Homeserves glazing and locks network is the UKs largest national directly employed repair network working for Household Insurers, providing a range of services including the repair and replacement of glass, frames, locks, garage doors, greenhouses and conservatories.
This business has over 500 directly employed engineers operating from 37 branches nationally and has continued to achieve a strong turnaround in operating and pro t performance despite the continued industry wide reduction in claims, particularly for crime and weather related damage.
The conversion of insurance leads to invoiced sales has increased from 80% to 85% re ecting improved work ow management Emergency Repair systems following the successful implementation of major IT system changes.
This has resulted in Turnover and operating pro t from these better job tracking, taking over one million pieces businesses increased by 37.2% and 80.7% to of paper out of the business together with 100m and 4.8m respectively, including 12.9m more ef cient branch management and reduced of turnover from Sergon, acquired in December administration.
Eleven of the branches now have 2004. new branch managers and this is re ected in the improvement in all aspects of branch and Homeserve Emergency Services is now engineer performance.
a market leader in providing repairs to homeowners relating to insurance claims paid Our business model is local branches with for by Household Insurers.
The Household managers controlling an average of 12 engineers Insurance repairs market is worth an estimated and three deployment staff for a single trade 2bn and is highly fragmented with most with national coverage and consistency of quality claims still being carried out by local jobbing and pricing for insurers.
builders with a long cycle time from start to nish.
Homeserves ability to offer re and ood restoration followed by permanent repair puts us in a unique position to provide a complete repair service to Household Insurers.
We operate a combination of employed, sub contract and franchised networks which enables us to achieve optimum ef ciency and provide capacity for exceptional peaks in insurance claims.
14 Report & Accounts 2005 HS Report P ges 1-33. indd 14 1 6 05 4:46:34 pm Emergency Repair Homeser Homeserv five Emer e Emergenc gency S y Se er rvic vices is no es is now a mark w a market et leader in pr leader in pro oviding r viding repairs t epairs to homeo o homeowners f wners follo ollowing wing insur insuranc ance claims paid f e claims paid for b or by Household Insur y Household Insurers ers.. Homeserve plc 15 HS Report P ges 1-33. indd 15 1 6 05 4:46:36 pm Chief Executives Review The glazing and locks operation has won a We plan to increase the productivity and number of important new accounts during quality of our employed network through the the year with potential turnover of up to 9m introduction of Fitter Package, our engineer once the accounts reach their full run-rate.
We incentive scheme, which is currently being were recently awarded 75% of the Royal Bank trialled in a number of glazing and locks of Scotland Insurance glazing volumes, having branches.
The scheme continues to pay a previously serviced one third: this additional basic salary but with signi cant additional work will commence in June 2005.
In addition, payments, calculated on a fortnightly basis, for we secured further volumes from Royal and improved productivity and provides excellent Sun Alliance for small scale commercial glazing remuneration packages for higher first time x repairs, where we already provide services for rates and reduced reattends.
The trial results are domestic emergencies.
encouraging and demonstrate that signi cant increases in productivity combined with higher The directly employed plumbing and drainage customer satisfaction are achievable.
Our network working for Household Insurers, intention is to roll this scheme out to all glazing established two years ago, is now one of the and locks branches during the coming year, market leaders, performing work last year for and for plumbing and drains, re and ood and Norwich Union, Royal and Sun Alliance and permanent repair over the next 18 months.
In Royal Bank of Scotland Insurance as well as December 2004 we opened our new engineer our own plumbing and drainage policy base.
training and assessment centre in Birmingham In February 2005 we were awarded one third for glazing and associated skills and this is already of the volume for Royal Bank of Scotland having a signi cant impact on improving the Insurance Groups account, including Direct Line, quality of the work that we perform.
Customer Nationwide and Churchill, as well as securing satisfaction has also reached record levels, half of Zurich Insurances volumes in this market, improving signi cantly during the year, from 94% which began in March 2005. to 96%.
16 Report & Accounts 2005 HS Report P ges 1-33. indd 16 1 6 05 4:46:39 pm Emergency Repair Homeser Homeserv five es glazing and locks netw s glazing and locks netwo ork is the UK rk is the UKs s lar largest national dir gest national direc ectly emplo tly employ yed r ed repair netw epair netwo ork rk w wo ork rking f ing for Household Insur or Household Insurers ers.. Homeserve plc 17 HS Report P ges 1-33. indd 17 1 6 05 4:46:40 pm Chief Executives Review Claims Management Sergon currently has 90 employees working from its national control centre near Homeserve Claims Management provides Nottingham.
Since its acquisition, we have claims handling for our own policyholders appointed a new Managing Director and an and a home assistance helpline for emergency Operations Director with experience of running repairs for Household Insurers and other a national building trades business.
As a result, financial sector customers.
Homeserve Claims the number of completed claims by the network Management operates a high quality national have increased signi cantly, customer service has subcontract network across a broad range of improved and the average claims cycle time has trades.
Last year we received over two million reduced from 78 to 61 days.
inbound emergency calls, an increase of 20% and managed over 520,000 claims.
In order to manage the increase in activity, the planned Fire and Flood Restoration move to a purpose built call centre close to the original operation in Preston, was completed in Our range of disaster restoration trades was July 2004, more than doubling our operational further complemented by the acquisition of capacity.
During the year, we introduced a Chem-Dry in April 2005.
Chem-Dry is a market number of new initiatives to improve further the leader in the re and ood restoration market already high levels of customer service, including with an estimated 30% share of a market worth performance league tables for individual 100m.
Chem-Dry has 230 franchisees providing engineers together with a trial of electronic job national coverage for eight leading Household tracking to enable better engineer management Insurers for re and ood restoration and carpet and customer communication.
and upholstery cleaning, with the potential to expand the number of insurers Chem-Dry is working with.
The ability to deal with re and Permanent Repair ood emergencies enables Homeserve to be one of the first businesses into a customers In December 2004 we acquired Sergon, one home following an emergency.
This places us of the UKs leading permanent repair networks in a unique position to offer a fully integrated working for Household Insurers, with over 280 service to insurers, from the answering of the independent contractors completing 5,000 initial claim right through to completion of the repairs per month.
Sergon provides emergency permanent repair.
and permanent repairs, such as plastering and decorating, arising from the escape of water, storm, re and accidental damage.
Sergon has Richard Harpin established relationships with seven Household Chief Executive Insurers and as part of Homeserve now has 23 May 2005 access to customer relationships with the majority of Household Insurers.
18 Report & Accounts 2005 HS Report P ges 1-33. indd 18 1 6 05 4:46:42 pm Emergency Repair Homeser Homeserv five e is in the unique position of off is in the unique position of offering ering a fully int a fully integr egrat ated ser ed servic vice t e to o insur insurers ers, fr from the om the answ answering of the initial claim right thr ering of the initial claim right through t ough to o c completion of the permanent r ompletion of the permanent repair epair.. Homeser Homeserv five plc e plc 19 19 HS Report P ges 1-33. indd 19 1 6 05 4:46:44 pm
