Chief executives review 2005 Since last October, we have stabilised and refocused MFI.
We have reconstructed the Group around three separate businesses Trade, Retail and Supply.
Each of the three now has its own CEO, with real control and the responsibility to reduce costs, grow sales, generate cash and improve margins.
To maximize our focus on our principal businesses we have closed or sold peripheral ones, including our Retail joint venture in Taiwan, the Howden pilot in the USA, Ethan Allen and Hygena Cuisines in France.
We have announced our intention to dispose of Sofa Workshop.
We have refinanced the Group via a new banking facility that will allow us to focus our efforts on the continuing growth of Howdens in a stable situation, the turnaround of Retail and the development of flexible sourcing.
And we have reached an agreement with the Pension Trustees and The Pensions Regulator that provides an orderly way to bring the Groups pension deficit under control.
Howdens is a very cash-generative business.
We intend to build on its success by continuing to expand in three main ways.
These are, firstly, new depots in new locations, of which we plan to add about 30 each year.
We have already taken on staff to open that number in 2006.
Secondly, we will be extending depots, where appropriate: and finally, we will also be introducing new product ranges, supported by new and better catalogues and DVDs.
Howdens is a business that is built on relationships with customers, staff and suppliers.
That is the key to its continuing success.
The Retail business is now focused on what it does best kitchens and bedrooms, which already contribute approximately 80% of its gross profit.
Retail sells 6,000 kitchens and 6,000 bedrooms each week, making it a major player in the UK market.
We have identified a significant opportunity to improve this business, by taking action in three main areas product, service and delivery.
Within Retail there is a great business waiting to get out.
The quality of our product is good, but its other aspects of our offer that needs attention: service, delivery and availability to name three.
Good product, poor service is not something customers tolerate.
Good design is not the preserve of the rich.
Sensible margins are, however, essential if we are to create a profitable business: which means we will not seek to compete at the bottom end of the market with companies whose cost structure and service proposition is very different to our own.
Service can and should be a key driver of sales, margin and cost control in the Retail business.
At present 250,000 people visit our stores every week.
Around 60% of them are not approached by our staff.
That opens up a huge opportunity for improvement.
We are reinstating training to make sure all our customers get informed advice, professional planning and suitable delivery arrangements.
Delivery has caused major problems in Retail.
Last year, only 40% of deliveries were successful ie delivered on time and in full.
We discovered that in 2005 it cost the Group 36 million to correct what should have been avoidable mistakes.
We are developing a new delivery model that enables sales staff, planners and fitters to co-ordinate what they are doing, locally.
The model is designed to address the issue of one item missing which in the customers eyes isnt a problem, its a crisis.
The only place to solve it is as close to the customer as possible.
Efficient delivery drives lower costs and higher margins as well as making for happier customers and staff.
Alongside these changes in our Retail business, we plan progressively to reshape our property portfolio.
Our aim is to achieve, at optimal cost, the right number of stores of the right size in the right locations.
We are not yet in a position to define these numbers, as we have yet to assess the impact of the refocused product offer, service proposition and delivery model.
We are conducting a store-by-store property review and will update shareholders on progress at the time of our interim results announcement in July.
Evidence shows that we are living busier lives, with more personal belongings, in smaller homes.
As a result, the market for storage solutions remains strong.
When people think about bedrooms, they think of MFI.
Fashions in kitchens and bedrooms change much faster than they used to.
Product lifecycles are now down to two or three years, rather than a decade or more.
Our factories, designed in the early 1980s for long runs of few items, could not flex enough to cope with changing demands.
Product proliferated as volumes of each item declined.
Very poor product forecasting led to significant additional inventory and associated costs.
We decided that the Supply business needs to be completely reshaped around flexibility, design expertise, global sourcing opportunities and, where appropriate, manufacturing excellence.
We propose to close two door and appliance factories, and are rationalising the number of product ranges so that we can focus on those that deliver good margins.
We have already started to source a higher proportion of product from overseas, where we can buy product with better specifications, at a better price, on better terms, than we can achieve in the UK.
By the end of this year we plan to increase the proportion of bought-in product from 50 to 75%.
We already have proven supply routes and can use our scale to advantage.
We plan to continue rigid and flatpack cabinet manufacture in the UK, focusing on making sure we can produce quality product close to our market at competitive prices.
The changes we are making to our Supply business will result in lower costs, more fashionable product, better speed-to-market and less working capital.
We are in the early stages of a major turnaround programme: 2006 is a year of transition.
There is a lot to do to put the Group on the right track for the future, and it will take time.
Having said that, already this year we are in line with our plan.
Howdens is back on the path of expansion, Retail margins are improving and Supply can again operate on a commercial basis.
Staff across the Group are motivated to address the exciting and surprising possibilities that are being revealed by our new structure.
Free home delivery is expensive.
Especially when it goes wrong.
Early trials suggest a better way.
Matthew Ingle Customers can collect themselves, or pay Chief executive officer for delivery.
