operating and financial review chief executives review our focus now is to accelerate in new product development key account management The disposal of Polypipe in September an increasing number of global, blue chip effectively brings to a close the portfolio clients.
Our focus now is to accelerate 2005 proved to be repositioning of IMI announced in 2001. investment in new product development With five businesses, each with leading and key account management, with a another positive market positions in clearly identified particular focus on improving the quality global niches, the new IMI can look of our people through both internal year for the Group, forward with confidence to further growth development and external recruitment.
The ability to We also see further opportunities to with profit before capture market insight, and to convert improve our efficiencies and reduce our tax, intangible that into practical, innovative and cost base through expanding our existing customised engineering solutions for our low cost manufacturing capabilities in amortisation and targeted customers is the common theme Mexico, The Czech Republic and China, across all our businesses, and is central to and accelerating our Far East materials exceptional items at delivering against our growth and margin outsourcing programme.
One example of such creativity We expect to invest around 20m per 175.5m, an all-time in 2005 was the launch of a new year for each of the next three years both pneumatic suspension system for Land in upgrading our people talent and record for IMI.
Rovers Discovery and Range Rover transferring more of our manufacturing models, providing a breakthrough in offcapacity to already established low cost road comfort, and delivering a real point facilities, raising the percentage of total of difference to Land Rover in the ever production in these territories from competitive automotive sector.
around 25% today to 40% in three years Across the businesses we see potential to time.
We would, in time, expect to develop further our growth and margin improve operating margins as a result by improvement.
End market trends are 150 to 200 basis points.
largely positive, our market positions are In addition to this accelerating internal strengthening, and we have a growing investment and the continuation of the reputation for successful innovation with share buy-back programme, we are 4 Chief Executives review investment and confident of spending at least 80-100m per annum on judicious top quality bolt-on acquisitions.
The acquisition of Truflo gets us off to a strong start in 2006.
This combination of internal investment, bolt-on acquisitions, and share buy-backs is expected to introduce overall debt of around 400-500m over the next three years, a level which we believe to be wholly consistent with optimising our balance sheet and enhancing shareholder returns.
Martin J Lamb Chief Executive 6 March 2006 Chief Executive Martin Lamb with a critical application control valve manufactured in Korea by CCI.
