AR6868 ICI Report ifc-8 13 3 06 8:49 pm Page 2 Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive ICI made satisfactory Overview We are pleased to report that ICI made satisfactory progress in progress in 2005 despite a 2005.
Despite a more challenging trading environment for most of our businesses, the Group delivered a strong overall financial performance.
more challenging trading The cost of many raw materials continued to rise throughout the year, driven by strong demand.
This in turn led us to seek price increases environment for our from our customers and our efforts were successful.
As a result, and combined with the further benefits of our restructuring programme, we businesses.
We remain reported a robust overall performance.
Whilst trading margins were slightly lower at 9.5%, comparable sales growth of 6% helped deliver ahead of our strategic plan earnings growth of 5%.
As a result, the full year dividend increased by 5% and with another good year for cash generation, Group net targets and expect to make debt reduced further to 745m, down from 989m a year ago.
We also made further progress toward implementing our strategic further progress in 2006. aim to become the leader in formulation science with a strong focus on profitable growth and a clear set of financial targets covering the four years from 2003 to 2007.
These are based around delivering significant cumulative improvements in sales, trading margin, return on capital employed, as well as positive cash generation before divestments or acquisitions.
More detail on our performance against these strategic objectives is set out on pages 7 and 8 and in the commentaries on each business.
Overall, our progress has been good, with performance against all four targets ahead of plan.
Areas of strategic focus Asia remains an important area of development for ICI as we look to build on the strong positions of our growth businesses in the region.
During 2005, comparable sales growth from ICIs International Businesses in Asia was 11%, with National Starch, Quest and ICI Paints all delivering good growth.
National Starch opened a new technical and manufacturing centre in China for electronic materials and we began implementing plans for new paints facilities in China and Vietnam.
As a result of our strong growth across the region in recent years, Asia now represents 24% of Group sales.
ICIs businesses in Latin America also delivered good growth in sales and profits as the region continued to benefit from economic recovery.
Performance in North America was also good, with sales growth led by price increases and modest volume growth in most businesses.
ICIs activities in Europe delivered a robust performance in generally weak trading conditions.
Our strategy focuses on actively managing our portfolio in different ways to create shareholder value.
Sales, capital expenditure, head count and profitability all increased in our targeted growth activities.
At the same time, ICI continued to achieve improvements in cost and capital effectiveness.
As a result of this strategic focus we completed the sale of Vinamul Polymers in February, and made the modest acquisition of the Celanese redispersible powder polymers business in September.
We have also made good progress towards completing the restructuring activities launched in 2003.
Cumulative savings from that programme reached 106m out of an increased target of 140m increased by 13m because we under-spent to achieve our original targets and have redeployed the resources to secure additional savings.
Since the programmes initiation, our headcount has reduced by 2,100.
Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive 2 ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Peter B Ellwood CBE Chairman left, John D G McAdam Chief Executive right AR6868 ICI Report ifc-8 13 3 06 8:49 pm Page 3 Improved profitable sales growth is driven by technological innovation, Outlook and ICI has maintained a satisfactory level of investment in R&D, 2005 turned out much as planned, although more work had to the long-term benefit of which is seen in new product launches.
be done to manage high raw material inflation and raise prices.
One of the most exciting has been the launch of Quests ImpaQ Taste We maintained our strategic progress and improved the financial Technology platform, a new range of flavour molecules that should performance of the business despite mixed trading conditions.
significantly reduce salt, sugar and fat content without reducing flavour With good strategic growth platforms developing in Asia and in a impact in food products where it is used, for example in ice creams or number of important, high growth industries, the long-term prospects snack foods.
National Starch also launched an innovative new printable for the Group look favourable.
However, more remains to be done adhesive developed for the latest faster, more compact electronics in the short-term to capitalise on the progress we have made to date applications.
This technology increases product reliability and reduces and our teams will be focused in 2006 on achieving our strategic plan assembly costs, creating significant savings for our customers.
targets and completing the 2003 restructuring programme, whilst developing our plans for 2007 and beyond.
Sustainability has also seen significant developments with the end of ICIs Challenge 2005 programme and the launch of the new Because of ICIs long history we have significant pension Challenge 2010 targets.
More details are available on our website commitments.
Principally as a result of changes in mortality, the www.
Managing sustainable development aggregate net deficit of our pension and other post-retirement plans remains at the heart of the way we operate, and the Group has has increased from 1.2bn to 1.7bn.
As a result, we have agreed established itself as a leader in its industry, reflected in its membership with the trustees of the two principal UK pension funds to make of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for a second successive year increased contributions from 2006 onwards.
More details are set as well as being a member of the FTSE4 Good Index.
out in the contractual obligations table in the operating and financial review on page 23.
People Our outlook for 2006 is unchanged.
At this early stage in the year Lord Trotman trading conditions look satisfactory, with growth opportunities in Asia, Sadly, in 2005 we mourned the sudden death of our former North America and Latin America likely to offset any generally weak Chairman, Lord Trotman, aged 71.
Alex Trotman, who joined ICIs trading conditions in Western Europe.
Against this backdrop, and with Board as a Non-Executive Director in 1997, became Chairman in further incremental benefits from restructuring, ICI expects to make 2002 and steered ICI through a critical period.
He retired from the further progress in 2006, towards its strategic plan targets.
Board at age 70, leaving behind a stronger ICI.
He will be greatly missed by his many former colleagues at ICI.
ICIs shareholders, employees and customers have provided strong support to the Group over recent years and we thank them for their Tim Scott ongoing trust and confidence.
We are mindful of our financial Tragically, the Group also lost one of its most talented leaders when responsibility to all stakeholders and the need always to act with the Tim Scott, our Chief Financial Officer, died suddenly in August, aged 43. highest standards of integrity and transparency.
We remain committed Tim had been with ICI, and previously Unilever, for over 20 years and to achieving both as we move forward.
had been CFO since 2001 when he was also appointed an Executive Director of the Company.
His contribution to strategy and the management of the business was immense, and he will be greatly missed by his friends and colleagues alike.
Towards the end of the year, the Group appointed Alan Brown to Peter B Ellwood CBE Chairman succeed Tim in the role of Chief Financial Officer and he joined the Board in November 2005 as an Executive Director.
Alan joined us from Unilever where he was Chairman of Unilever China and Hong Kong and previously Senior Vice President of Finance and Information Technology for Unilevers Food and Beverage division in Europe.
We are delighted that he has joined ICI, and are confident he will make an outstanding contribution to ICI in the years ahead.
John D G McAdam Chief Executive ICI also appointed a number of new senior managers to the business, including new leaders for our fragrance business within Quest and for the Group technology function.
Internal development has also been strong with a further six senior executives appointed by promotion within the businesses.
The performance in 2005 could not have been delivered without the continued dedication, hard work and support of ICIs employees around the world.
We have just under 32,000 people employed in over 50 countries.
Ensuring our teams have safe and stimulating working environments and good career opportunities remains critical as the Group continues to develop as a leading multinational company.
Statement by the Chairman and the Chief Executive ICI Annual Report and Accounts 2005 3
