OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Manufacturing We delivered further significant cost savings across our manufacturing base.
During the year we continued to focus on the simplification and standardisation of our business while reviewing our global manufacturing portfolio in order to remain competitive and reduce costs.
OUR PERFORMANCE The use of key performance indicators has also helped Productivity was up by an excellent 15 per cent with increases us in improving our supply chain, which moves more than in all regions.
Cigarette unit costs were down by 6 per cent.
700,000 tonnes of products per year.
We are implementing We further simplified our product portfolio reducing our an integrated IT system to improve our performance, blends, materials, ingredients and Stock Keeping Units.
in the areas of stock visibility, sales forecasting and Blends were down by 10 per cent during the year, bringing production planning.
the total reduction to 41 per cent in the past three years.
We continue to manage our Stock Keeping Units reducing the opening position by some 9 per cent.
OUTLOOK Reflecting our ongoing commitment to address our surplus We will continue to drive for improvements throughout our production capacity, we closed our factories in Dublin, manufacturing and supply chain activities as we have done Plattsburgh and Montreal enhancing our productivity and over the last 20 years, focusing on business simplification improving operational efficiencies.
In September, we in all areas, delivering both improvements in product quality announced the closure of the UK rolling papers factory in and cost savings, while remaining flexible and responsive Treforest, South Wales, and the transfer and consolidation to market dynamics.
of production to our larger papers plant in Wilrijk, Belgium.
We also announced plans to restructure our European cigarette operations, including the relocation of approximately 10 billion cigarettes for the Central and Eastern Europe markets from Germany to Poland.
Standardising our systems is key to our operational efficiency.
A consistent product quality rating system, a time to market system, standard factory data collection and control systems and ISO standards for quality and environment all contributed to reduced waste, lower write-off costs, lower energy usage and improved factory performance.
We have driven a number of improvements in the year, reflected in our key performance indicators, for example, four sites gained ISO accreditation.
