Chief Executives Review We are a unique media company.
Our results confirm our strength.
I am delighted to report that we start 2006 with great The reported 2005 results include IIR from 6 July 2005, the momentum following a year in which our vision for both date of its acquisition.
In the reporting period IIR contributed the merger of T&F and the acquisition of IIR came to fruition.
192.5m to turnover and 31.7m to adjusted operating profit.
We have broadened our geographical reach, enhanced the Organic results exclude the contribution from IIR to both resilience of our revenue streams and solidified our market turnover and adjusted operating profit.
Divisional Results Overview Academic & Scientific Division The Group traded strongly in 2005 benefiting from good organic The Academic & Scientific divisions reported turnover growth and an encouraging first six months contribution from increased by 37% and adjusted operating profit by 25%.
Turnover in the year ended 31 December 2005 increased Organic revenue increased by 4% and organic adjusted by 62% to 729.3m and operating profit by 47% to 91.4m.
Adjusted operating profit increased by 54% to 147.3m.
The academic journals subscription business remained Turnover, excluding acquisitions made in 2005 and currency resilient, showing an overall increase in organic revenue impacts, increased organically by 6% on a fully comparable of 7.5%, with the Humanities & Social Sciences HSS basis.
Adjusted operating profit growth on the same organic subscription business performing particularly well.
As reported at the half year, the academic book publishing business experienced tougher market conditions, particularly In recognition of the Groups performance and its encouraging in the UK and showed a marginal decline in organic turnover.
prospects, the Board is pleased to recommend a significant increase in the dividend.
The total 2005 dividend will grow Overall our Scientific, Technical & Medical STM business from 7.26p per share paid in respect of 2004 after adjusting showed organic adjusted operating profit growth of 10%, for the July 2005 Rights Issue to 8.70p payable in respect of while HSS saw profits grow by 9% on the same basis.
Professional Division Informa plc was formed from the merger between Taylor Trading conditions in the markets served by our Professional & Francis Group plc Taylor & Francis and Informa Group division were positive during 2005.
The divisions reported plc on 10 May 2004.
Under International Financial Reporting revenue increased by 133% and adjusted operating profit by Standards IFRS this transaction is accounted for as an 114%, driven by good organic growth and a pleasing first acquisition and accordingly the comparative 2004 results contribution from the Performance Improvement businesses shown in these financial statements only include the Taylor acquired with IIR.
& Francis contribution from 10 May 2004, making comparison between 2005 and 2004 difficult.
To assist comparability, reference is made in this statement to organic results, which include the Taylor & Francis results from 1 January 2004 in the comparative 2004 figures.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 5 Chief Executives Review continued The Group strategy is to build, maintain and develop a range of product and service formats with diverse and complementary revenue characteristics.
The Financial Data Analysis business saw strong Acquisitions renewals and increased margins contributing to an IIR, acquired in July 2005, produced excellent increase of 1% in organic revenue and a 13% rise results in its first period with the Group, reporting in organic operating profit.
The Finance, Insurance, turnover of 192.5m and adjusted operating profit Law & Tax businesses also experienced good of 31.7m.
A number of smaller acquisitions of organic growth, posting a 6% increase in revenues products and businesses contributed a further 3.7m and a 23% increase in adjusted operating profit, to turnover and 0.6m to adjusted operating profit.
IIRs Performance Improvement PI business, Overall the Professional division enjoyed organic which is a new area for the Group, contributed turnover growth of 3% and adjusted organic turnover of 106.2m and adjusted operating profit operating profit growth of 14%.
Another significant area of contribution was in Regional Events, where IIR contributed Commercial Division 60.1m to turnover and 8.9m to adjusted The Commercial division reported turnover operating profit.
growth of 50% and adjusted operating profit growth of 68%.
The addition of IIR significantly extends the Groups events presence and fully complements The Regional Events business, which operates across our pre-existing business, with little or no a wide range of geographical markets and vertical duplication.
Through the combination with IIR sectors, saw both turnover and adjusted operating we have significantly strengthened our geographic profit grow organically by 15%.
reach and vertical market positions.
Illustratively we now have critical mass in international financial The Telecoms & Media business achieved strong growth events and geographically, in the Middle East, in revenues, with the number of events held almost through our market leading position in the United doubling.
Turnover grew organically by 17% and Arab Emirates.
adjusted operating profit by 26%, as thirdgeneration mobile services reached end-users.
The IIR PI businesses, with their respected brands, strong market positions, and good cash generation, The Maritime & Commodities businesses benefited give the Group a substantial position in an attractive as the worlds economies generally remained new market which offers strong recurring revenue robust.
Organic revenue growth, driven particularly streams and exciting growth prospects.
through publications, was 4% and organic adjusted The PI businesses, which are built around operating profit growth was 23%.
specialist proprietary intellectual property, 6 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Dynamic and Resilient Revenue Streams The introduction of Performance Improvement adds another robust revenue stream.
1 2005 Pro Forma Revenue Mix by Delivery Format Subscriptions 24% Copy Sales 13% Events 37% Performance Improvement 22% Advertising 4% 1 Including IIR Revenue from 1 January 2005.
Above: IPEX: 130,000 sqm follow a similar model to the other Informa in 11 halls.
This has facilitated their integration just one of Informas many into the Group and we are encouraged by the delivery formats.
opportunities this new business brings.
We are pursuing a number of initiatives to drive synergies between our PI businesses and publishing operations.
We have successfully executed a detailed 90-day integration plan for the IIR businesses.
All the key IIR senior management have been retained and we are pleased with their high calibre, the cultural fit between the organisations, the progress to date and the prospects for the combined business.
Merger Update The merger of Informa with Taylor & Francis was completed on 10 May 2004.
New product development resulting from the merger continues to proceed to plan and we estimate that we have achieved 9m of incremental revenue in 2005 through a combination of new products and the increased sale of existing products driven by improved marketing access.
This revenue benefited not only the Academic & Scientific division in terms of additional events and advertising revenue but also businesses such as Finance, Insurance, Law & Tax and Telecoms, through the launch of new publications.
9m of cost savings were also achieved in 2005 from the merger.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 7
