08 UNiqUely placed Chairman and Chief Executives Review A transformational year 2005 January March June Inmarsat terminals used to First Inmarsat-4 satellite launches Inmarsat completes public offering Year in review provide vital communications successfully on an Atlas V rocket of shares and lists on the london in tsunami-devastated areas from cape canaveral, Florida stock exchange revenue with a portion of the remaining This is Inmarsats first Annual Report as a public limited company, revenues contributed by two subsidiary following our successful listing on the London Stock Exchange in companies which were disposed of during the year.
earnings before interest, tax, June 2005.
We have a long and successful history as a global mobile depreciation and amortisation eBItdA satellite communications services provider.
Our new public ownership year-on-year showed an improvement of 5% from us$301.7 million to us$317.1 million.
structure positions us well to continue delivering highly reliable and As part of the companys stock exchange innovative global mobile satellite services.
listing, we advised shareholders that we would be introducing a policy of paying dividends, and I am pleased to advise that your Board of directors is recommending a final dividend andrew Sukawaty our customers use us in business critical, and ChAIRmAN AND payment of 10.95 cents us$ per ordinary often life-saving tasks globally, on a daily basis.
ChIEF ExECUTIvE OFFICER share, making a full year dividend for 2005 they have come to rely on us in situations of 16.42 cents per ordinary share.
where other networks either cannot serve or cannot service them well.
We take this our full-year results for 2005, and our reliance very seriously, and over the last five dividend policy, reflect our confidence in years, have committed to a us$1.5 billion the companys future prospects and our investment programme, which allows us to commitment to deliver attractive overall introduce a new generation of mobile returns for shareholders.
Operations this next generation is enabled by our new once again, Inmarsat delivered on its global constellation of satellites, which we call commitments and produced high quality Inmarsat-4.
our new satellites are now in service and reliability in its core services.
place, covering approximately 85% of the 2005 was a transitional year for the business, landmass of the earth.
We have already progressing the Inmarsat-4 programme.
launched our first new service on these satellites.
We call it Broadband Global Area Key operational highlights for 2005 included network or BGAn.
the successful launches of two newly-built and tested Inmarsat-4 satellites.
these this is an important investment in our future.
state-of-the-art satellites form the central combined with the recent public listing of piece of our Inmarsat-4 programme, which our shares, it gives Inmarsat the stable also includes the development and launch platform it needs to provide its customers of our new BGAn service.
with high quality services into the next decade and beyond.
our staff and vendor partners who dedicated years of effort to this programme, deserve We enjoyed a strong finish to a transformational our congratulations and thanks.
We are pleased with our solid financial performance and significant operational during the year, we continued to experience achievements in 2005. our revenues for 2005 increasing data traffic and revenue growth.
were us$491.1 million, an increase of us$10.4 data now represents 68% of our on-demand million over 2004.
Voice revenue decline has slowed accounted for the majority of the overall INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005 09 UNiqUely placed It was a strong finish to a transformational year.
We are pleased with our solid financial performance and significant operational achievements in 2005.
July October November December 2005 successful migration of R-BGAn second Inmarsat-4 satellite launches launch of BGAn Broadband Global Inmarsat-sponsored aid agency, tlcoms customers to the Inmarsat-4 satellite successfully on a Zenit-3sl rocket from Area network service, delivered via sans Frontires tsF helps surviving families the sea launch platform in the pacific ocean the Inmarsat-4 satellites of the se Asia earthquakes to make contact with relatives using Inmarsat terminals due in part to increasing demand for social we are very proud of our maritime heritage core Inmarsat business, significantly our and crew calling voice services by our and that our services do help save lives.
maritime business, continues to grow and that maritime users.
We are committed to Another example of our continued our new BGAn business builds steadily in ensuring customer satisfaction for users of our commitment to our maritime background 2006, providing a further platform for growth established services, and in particular our new is Inmarsats support for the education of in the years ahead.
We believe that, through an maritime specialists through a funding grant excellent network of partners, we will be able to the World Maritime university.
An exciting new opportunity emerged this to expand the number and type of customers year for Inmarsat, as we were successful in using satellite communications as an extension our support of the charity tlcoms sans being part of the selected consortium to to their regular office environment.
We will Frontires has been established for many develop the european Global positioning also be there for users in times of crisis or years.
during 2005 they were often among system, Galileo.
We have been selected as the natural disaster.
the first to arrive at many of the worlds lead in the operating company in this eudisaster zones, setting up Inmarsat equipment supported programme.
this is a good fit for Board changes to provide communications for other agencies us as a european mobile satellite operator.
during 2005, we transitioned from a private and to provide a much needed and welcomed equity-backed company to a public company.
opportunity for victims to call their relatives.
Looking forward I would like to thank our directors and tFs worked extensively, using Inmarsat While we will seek to grow revenues in 2006 shareholders in place prior to our stock exchange equipment, to help other aid agencies and over 2005, we recognise that time will be listing for their stewardship of the company, survivors in the tsunami affected areas and needed for BGAn to gain momentum their absolute belief in the Inmarsat-4 again provided support following the south throughout the year.
programme and their commitment to east Asia earthquakes ensure that funding was in place to realise Inmarsats global business would not be what this achievement.
our services were vital for many days it is today without the excellent partnership following the devastation of Hurricane Katrina.
network we have around the world.
A close At the time of our listing, we reconfigured the there was significant use of them by the relationship exists with our distributors, Board to ensure we had a majority of department of Homeland security, civilian manufacturers, service providers and independent directors and welcomed three emergency services and the media to assess application developers.
new independent, non-executive directors the extent of the damage.
sir Bryan carsberg, stephen davidson and We achieved a number of significant Admiral James ellis Jnr Rtd.
We are delighted Strategy milestones in 2005. none of them would have that they decided to join the Inmarsat Board our focus will be on identifying opportunities been possible without the skills and dedication and also that John Rennocks agreed to take on to grow our revenues, increasing eBItdA and of our employees, and I would like to thank the enlarged role of deputy chairman and managing our costs to achieve efficiency gains them for their expertise, enthusiasm and senior Independent director.
I would also like to thank our Aamodt stepped down from the Board as shareholders for their support of the business, a non-executive director in november 2005 We currently have a diverse service offering and now that we are a public company, we and we thank him for his service to the Board.
for land, sea and air users.
As we take the look forward to welcoming new shareholders Full details of the experience of our directors company forward to the next phase, we are and to developing a strong relationship are given on page 21. seeking to grow our business in the defence with them.
sector, in the newly emerging opportunity in Social responsibility hybrid satellite terrestrial systems in the us We are uniquely placed in our markets and Inmarsat continues to be the only provider of and canada and in the hand held satellite remain committed to delivering attractive satellite communications services for the voice market.
these have all been identified as returns, plus a sustainable growing dividend, Global Mobile distress and safety system exciting growth opportunities for the business.
to our shareholders, good value to our GMdss, ensuring that those at sea can rely underpinning these opportunities, we will be customers and a motivated place to work upon our services in times of emergency maintaining our focus on ensuring that the and develop for our staff.
INMARSAT PLC AnnuAl RepoRt And Accounts 2005
