4 International Power Annual Report 2005 Chief Executive Officers statement Dear Shareholder excluding exceptional items of 57% up from 8.6p in 2004 to 13.5p in 2005, and an increase in free cash flow of over Our objectives going into 2005 were best summarised 174% from 104 million in 2004 to 285 million in 2005. in one word delivery.
Namely, delivery of the successful In light of this strong financial performance, the Board is integration of the acquisitions completed in 2004 particularly proposing a dividend of 4.5p per share 2004: 2.5p, an the international portfolio of assets acquired from Edison increase of 80% year on year and representing a pay-out Mission Energy EME delivery of an immediate and significant ratio of 33%.
Let me now give you a brief review of our increase in earnings and cash flow, and delivery of selected performance in our five core regions.
growth opportunities that would create both immediate and long-term value for our shareholders.
I believe we have made In the US, we saw the first signs of the anticipated market very good progress on delivering these commitments, and recovery in both Texas and New England.
A combination I would like to explain some of the main achievements and of higher gas prices, retirement of older, inefficient plant challenges, and, most importantly, how we intend to build on particularly in Texas, a warmer summer and steady increases this platform to create more value for you our shareholders.
in demand contributed to higher margins for our portfolio of modern efficient gas fired plant.
Operational performance was Performance good, with plant availability averaging over 95%.
There is still some way to go before we get to full market recovery, which The integration of EMEs international portfolio, comprising we continue to estimate in the 2007-2009 timeframe, but nine assets with a net generating capacity of some 3,200 MW, 2005 was a welcome improvement.
Our long-term contracted has proceeded very well, with the performance of the portfolio plants continued to perform well and benefited from a significant exceeding our acquisition plans.
The assets are now fully contribution from EcoElctrica in Puerto Rico.
Our focus on integrated into our regional management structure, and are operational excellence and high plant availability is a constant managed, operated, and traded alongside our existing portfolio.
We expect a further improvement in earnings in the This has enabled us to eliminate duplicated regional costs, US as our markets recover.
such as the EME London and Melbourne regional offices, and to extract maximum synergies.
We did very extensive due Europe is now the largest regional contributor to our Groups diligence work on all the assets and this has been invaluable earnings, and benefited from an improvement in the UK wholesale in setting key objectives and priorities, and allocating resources, generation market.
Power prices were higher in the UK, again both financial and personnel, to areas of highest return.
We have principally driven by high oil and gas prices, and this has made key appointments at some of the larger assets, such as particularly benefited our Rugeley coal fired plant.
First Hydro, First Hydro in the UK and Paiton in Indonesia, and have rotated our pumped storage hydro unit in the UK, also had a very good the plant managers of Hazelwood and Loy Yang B, our two year, with strong demand for its very fast response peaking major assets in Victoria, Australia.
These moves are designed services.
2005 also saw the introduction of carbon dioxide to ensure the transfer of best practices between assets and CO allocations and trading in the UK and Europe this has 2 regions, and recognise that we can also benefit and learn from worked well, but we are pressing the UK government to provide a fresh perspective.
The acquisition of Turbogs in Portugal, more clarity on the longer term allocations, as CO is a key 2 a 990 MW modern, efficient gas fired plant, was also an element in the cost base for a power plant, and therefore a very important step for us, significantly enhancing our position important consideration when evaluating further investments.
in this core European market.
Again, this asset has We are strong advocates of a clear UK energy policy that provides performed very well in 2005. a balanced fuel mix, and a level playing field for all participants.
We were also delighted to add Saltend 1,200 MW CCGT Clearly, these acquisitions have been an important driver of our significant growth in earnings and cash flow, but not to our UK portfolio in 2005.
Saltend was acquired with a gas the only one, as our base portfolio has also performed well.
supply contract and is already contributing to our earnings and cash flow.
Our assets in continental Europe all performed well Overall, our Group delivered an increase in earnings per share Chief Executive Officers statement 5 We have delivered on our short-term commitments in 2005: the Group is well positioned in its core markets, and has a stronger base both financially and commercially.
But this is only the start: we are a long-term business and are committed to delivering long-term value.
with major contributions from International Power Opatovice Cash flow remains a top priority, as this both fuels our dividend in the Czech Republic, Turbogs and Pego in Portugal, ISAB in policy and provides liquidity for our growth programmes.
Our Italy acquired from EME and Uni-Mar in Turkey.
cash flow performance is significantly up in 2005, with free cash flow namely after all pre-exceptional costs, including Our Middle East portfolio continues to grow and we will interest and tax at 285 million compared to 104 million see this more fully reflected in the financial results in 2006 in 2004.
We remain committed to maintaining good levels onwards, when the current construction projects transition into of liquidity and a prudent capital structure.
Our plants in current operation had excellent availability and good financial results.
Plants under People construction, namely the four cogeneration plants for Saudi Aramco and the power and desalination plant in Qatar are all Over the last year I have visited every major acquired asset and making good progress, and are scheduled to come into operation indeed many of our existing portfolio, and I can confirm that we on a phased basis through 2006, and early 2007.
We were also have not only very high quality assets, but also very experienced, delighted to recently sign an agreement to acquire an existing professional, committed and enthusiastic teams in place.
I would power and desalination plant in Bahrain.
We continue to review like to thank everyone for their terrific contribution.
acquisition and new-build opportunities in the Middle East, Health, safety and the environment remain at the core building on our reputation in the region to win high quality of International Power these initiatives are co-ordinated, projects often combining power generation with desalination monitored and reviewed from the corporate centre to ensure of water complete with long-term offtake contracts.
that best practices and experiences are not only shared across Our earnings were up in Australia year-on-year and this the Group, but are primarily implemented at asset and regional level.
Every asset in our Group has a detailed programme was due to the EME acquisition, with 2005 benefiting of initiatives, including community action programmes, and particularly from the contribution from Loy Yang B, in Victoria.
you can read much more about these in our corporate social Underlying market prices for power in our markets of Victoria responsibility section.
Health and safety, in particular, are and South Australia were lower in 2005 and, although we do personal responsibilities for everyone within the Group not expect a short-term correction, we remain confident of and we encourage and promote individual awareness future market recovery.
A lot has been achieved in Australia and responsibility wherever possible.
during 2005, including the commissioning of our first wind farm 46 MW in South Australia, the successful sale of Valley Power, a peaking plant in Victoria that the Australian competition Prospects authorities required us to divest as part of the EME acquisition, Overall, our Group is well positioned in its core markets, and and the formation of a retail business in partnership with has a stronger base financially and commercially from which EnergyAustralia, which is a major established retailer in the to deliver both dividend and earnings growth.
The latter move gives us an additional route to capabilities across the power generation value chain, and can market and we are actively pursuing initiatives to grow deliver on both greenfield and acquisition opportunities.
delivered on our short-term commitments in 2005, but this is only a start and we are in no way complacent we are a longOur Asian portfolio operates under long-term offtake term business and are committed to delivering long-term value.
contracts, and all assets performed very well in 2005.
The main reason for the improved profitability in 2005 was the acquisition of Paiton, where we have a 31% interest in this major, modern 1,230 MW coal fired plant in Indonesia, followed by Uch, where we acquired a 40% stake in this efficient gas fired plant in Pakistan.
Philip Cox Chief Executive Officer
