Chief Executives review a sixth, Group Services, which Business overview principally represents our PFI Our overall performance in 2005 was bidding activity, a range of strong.
Key drivers were the growing centrally-provided services and the trend towards public sector costs of the Board.
Group Services outsourcing in the UK together with overall cost was 14.8 million 2004: an increased level of activity in our 12.0 million.
This net increase was Middle Eastern businesses enabled by timely investment in people, substantially due to a greater level of investment in PFI bidding costs as systems and business infrastructure.
we pursue growth in this long-term market, with some incremental The highlights of our 2005 impact from share-based payments.
performance were: A strong set of results driven by Facilities Services drives structural, Slough Borough Council the performance of Facilities, cultural and performance change A helpdesk facility is one of the Project and Equipment Services into the processes that support the services Interserve provides to the occupancy of the built environment.
residents of Slough Borough Council Continued focus on driving to support the delivery of managed Increasingly our clients and through strategic change in repair and maintenance services for prospective clients are seeking to Industrial Services 70 corporate buildings and 6,800 consolidate their supply chain 1 Headline profit grew by 21.7 per homes in the Borough.
solutions into larger, broader-based cent to 47.7 million 2004: 39.2 contracts as the UK outsourcing million market continues to become more sophisticated.
By combining an 77 per cent of revenue was anticipation of these trends with our generated from long-term client relationships 2004: 75 per cent integration, management and delivery capabilities, we believe we UK future workload remains very are well positioned to deliver on strong, standing at 4.8 billion at growing client expectation and to the year end 2004: 4.9 billion maintain our competitive advantage.
Growing contribution from our PFI portfolio Our 2005 performance was 90 per cent visibility of 2006 excellent, resulting in a 39 per cent expected revenues in future increase in operating profit to 17.8 2 workload 2004: 91 per cent million 2004: 12.8 million.
The Army Training Estate visibility of 2005 expected majority of this increase came from now Defence Training Estate revenues volume growth in existing contracts Landmarc Support Services Limited, in the defence, health and Interserve's subsidiary managing the Operations 1 Headline profit comprises profit on ordinary Army Training Estate ATE, provides a education sectors, together with the A segmental analysis of results is activities before taxation of 47.9m 2004: comprehensive targetry support service ramp-up of activity on new MoD 41.4m less profit on disposal of property and shown on page 64 of this report.
not only to the ATE but also to other Prime contracts mobilised during investments of 0.2m 2004: 2.2m.
The Group reports under six ranges in the UK, Belize, Brunei, the year.
Margins on revenue net of 2 Cyprus, Germany, Gibraltar and Kenya.
Both expected revenues and future workload headings: we have five marketworks bills further improved to 4.6 exclude figures for Equipment Services facing divisions and per cent 2004: 3.9 per cent.
Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 7 Chief Executives review continued Significant developments during involving the supply of a broad revenue of 163.5 million the year included: range of services with an integrated 2004: 164.5 million.
management and direct delivery Financial close on three role, we develop durable and During the year we made further significant new contracts: committed relationships with our progress towards our strategic goals, South East Regional Prime, clients.
This, together with our achieving a more evenly balanced worth some 400 million ability to deliver continuous segmentation of revenue within which the oil and gas sector accounted for performance improvement, was a Newcastle Hospitals PFI project, Proportions of Group revenues significant factor in again achieving around 15 per cent of activity worth over 130 million a client retention rate in excess of 2004: 28 per cent and increasing Sector Telford & Wrekin Schools PFI 90 per cent.
the proportion of revenue from project, worth over 40 million long-term relationships to above 66% 34% to the division Industrial Services delivers a range 60 per cent 2004: 55 per cent.
of maintenance-led services, coPublic and privatised Private Five major contract mobilisations: ordinated through a single-point Other developments included: Work type University College London relationship with our clients.
Much an initial five-year contract with Hospital PFI project of our work is undertaken in safety- 77% 23% BAA for building fabric, mechanical concentration of facilities critical environments, where our and electrical maintenance at management FM activities ability to combine continuous Longer-term relationships Projects Heathrow Airport Terminals 1-4, and shorter-term in a new 595-bed acute improvement and the breadth of our worth around 50 million relationships health and teaching facility service offering set us apart from in central London our competitors.
an initial three-year agreement with British Energy to provide a Dudley Group of Hospitals PFI Our strategy is to develop a broadrange of maintenance services at project migration from four based presence in the UK industrial Hartlepool, Hunterston, Sizewell existing facilities in the West facilities management market, and Torness nuclear power Midlands to a new 757-bed generating revenue dominated by stations, worth in aggregate acute centre maintenance-led services, the aim some 30 million South Atlantic Prime of which is to enhance visibility and a number of further contracts in operational and logistics reduce risk by diluting our historic the high voltage power support for the MoD on reliance on cyclical markets and transmission market, including a Ascension Island and the one-off projects.
Whilst we framework agreement with Falklands continue to make progress in National Grid, contributing to developing new revenue streams Project Armada delivery over 20 per cent growth in this and customers in line with this of FM services for the Fleet part of our business strategy, its implementation has Accommodation Centre in been more protracted than at first strong growth in our Devonport naval base anticipated and we have faced a environmental services business Defence Sixth Form College number of issues relating to the formed in 2004, providing migration of FM and bursarial conclusion of legacy contracts.
This, asbestos surveying, testing and services to a new purpose-built together with the cost of further remediation services to clients residential teaching facility in investment in management such as Thomas Cook, British Gas, Loughborough resources and improved control Circle 33 Housing Group, Slough systems, has impacted operating Borough Council and Nottingham Through focusing on complex profit, which was 6.3 million City Council outsourcing projects, typically 2004: 10.1 million on 8 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 Our client retention rate was again over 90 per cent, reflecting the durability of the relationships we form.
Our ability to deliver productivity improvements through outsourcing in a range of complex, safety-critical operations, together with the breadth of service range in both process and the built environments, provides our clients with a highly differentiated 400m South East offering.
We see a trend amongst our industrial clients to bundle Regional Prime RWE npower Syngenta their procurement of services contract through integrated contracts and, Interserve was the primary service Interserve has a long-established increasingly, believe we have a provider for the Major Outage relationship with Syngenta at Mobilisation of planned shutdown at RWE npowers Huddersfield offering multirange of opportunities to extend our Aberthaw Power Station in South disciplined services including role further, through leveraging the facilities services Wales where we offer access, access, insulation and cladding.
capabilities of other parts of the in UCH and Dudley asbestos removal and thermal Group, and offering a total FM insulation services.
product to the industrial market.
hospitals 50m BAA Project Services provides a comprehensive service covering all Heathrow contract stages of the design and construction process in the UK and certain overseas markets.
Whilst the time, cost and quality of on-site delivery are vitally important in our risk management, increasingly, critical differentiators for our clients are derived from our early involvement in feasibility, predesign, procurement and just-intime production fabrication BAA Barclays processes as well as in after-care and maintenance activities.
As the preferred maintenance Ongoing frameworks with Barclays contractor, Interserve provides involve work at multiple sites around Our strategy is to work with clients mechanical, electrical and building the UK to refurbish, fit-out and fabric services in all existing upgrade banks and commercial who look for this increased level of terminals at Heathrow, BAAs largest premises, always dedicated to involvement and partnering with airport.
ensuring the client maintains their supply chain and who business as usual.
recognise the advantages of procuring services from a one-stopshop provider.
In the UK this approach is manifested in our focus Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 9 Chief Executives review continued on framework and other partnering growing relationships with BT, agreements and on other forms of Barclays, Mapeley and the sustainable work such as PFI.
The Highways Agency proportion of revenue coming from a new agreement with the long-term relationships remained at Home Office around 80 per cent.
In our overseas businesses we operate a parallel further PFI PPP successes: approach of being highly selective financial close on the Telford & in the clients for whom we work, Wrekin Schools PFI project, tending to focus on sectors with worth some 60 million to high levels of repeat business.
the division 5-year framework Our overall 2005 performance was preferred bidder on the with United Utilities very strong.
Operating profit was Addiewell Prison PFI project Swansea Liberty Stadium 18.3 million, an increase of 21.2 7-year framework with We have created a brand new, per cent over last year 2004: 15.1 Our international operations are an 20,000-seat stadium as the new HM Prison Service million.
In the UK we completed a important element in Project home for Swansea City FC and the Ospreys regional rugby team, giving number of large contracts including Services strategy.
They delivered an 56% increase in profits the city a premier sporting and Peterborough Prison, Liberty outstanding performance, increasing conference venue.
from Project Services Stadium in Swansea, the Defence their aggregate contribution to total Sixth Form College near operating profit by 56 per cent to international Loughborough and the HM Revenue 6.1 million 2004: 3.9 million.
operations & Customs Newcastle Estate Our businesses, in Dubai, Qatar and development, which contributed to Oman, focus on being their clients strengthened margins of 2.4 per contractor of choice, building cent 2004: 2.1 per cent and reputational strength for performing growth in UK operating profit to on technically and logistically 12.2 million 2004: 11.2 million.
Market conditions have been buoyant in the Middle Developments in the UK during the East, fuelled by oil price movements year included: and further expansion in tourism and real estate, backed increasingly further progress with framework by government policies to encourage agreements: development.
a five-year, 400 million, agreement in joint venture Notable successes in the year The Mall of the Emirates for United Utilities included: The project to build The Mall of the Emirates, Dubai's latest and largest a seven-year, 175 million, completion of the Mall of the completed shopping complex, with agreement for HM Prison Emirates, Dubai, reported to be 2 240,000m of retail space, was Service the third largest shopping centre completed in 2005 by Interserves in the world, comprising over associate UAE company, Khansaheb cumulative orders to date of 240,000 square metres of retail Civil Engineering.
over 275 million in NHS space for 440 tenants ProCure21 new contracts for the Wafi Raffles Hotel, Dubai, the Dubai Festival 10 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 City Golf Clubhouse and the Al markets, particularly in the Middle Rostamani Office Residential East.
Operating profit grew by some Tower 40 per cent to 20.5 million 2004: 14.6 million on revenue of 107.2 works in connection with the 2006 million 2004: 87.7 million, an Asian Games and for the new increase of 22 per cent.
airport, both in Doha, Qatar The business generates revenue a contract awarded in early 2005 to construct a desalination plant through both hire contracts and in Sohar, Oman, leading to equipment sales of both new and growing opportunities around used components.
Hire income, Equipment Services: the industrial complex.
which typically accounts for about half of our revenue, increased by 18 40% growth in La Serna Bridge Equipment Services provides per cent.
Revenue from equipment operating profit temporary structural equipment sales grew by 31 per cent, fuelled in Three tonnes of Interserve formwork solutions for complex infrastructure particular by a number of unusually and falsework were used in the Operating margin construction of La Serna Bridge projects.
The business operates in large orders in the Middle East.
many major construction economies Overall the significant volume increased to over 19% and we differentiate ourselves on growth led to an improvement in the basis of our design and operating margin to 19.1 per cent Outstanding Middle engineering expertise, client 2004: 16.6 per cent.
East performance relationship management and the breadth of our integrated product Regionally: range.
Middle East Our performance was outstanding.
Through early Our strategy is to operate across a investment and excellent market wide range of geographies and conditions, our operations in the market sectors to mitigate the region have more than trebled in effects of inherent country-specific size in the last few years.
Having cyclicality, whilst focusing on already invested significantly in boosting efficiency through design capabilities in the region, we enhancing the composition, see further opportunity and are now procurement and deployment of our focusing on the expansion of our  fleet.
Our materials storage and handling design services are delivered from infrastructure, management Dubai Mall three centres of excellence in the development and management UK, UAE and Australia.
The Dubai Mall shopping centre, fourth by revenue in terms of global currently under construction, is the competitors and aim to be the Australasia Having experienced largest single building project for which we have undertaken formwork leading player in our chosen softer market conditions in later and falsework design and supply in geographies and niche markets.
2004 and early 2005, our Australian the Middle East to date.
business showed improving Our 2005 performance was excellent performance throughout the secondand benefited from the significant half, with recovery being led by fleet investment made in 2004, infrastructure investment in which enabled growth in most Queensland and through the Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005 11 Chief Executives review continued introduction of new products, such PFI Investments is a growing We achieved financial close on two as Alshor Plus, to the fleet.
Market element of our overall business mix.
projects, those being for Telford & conditions in New Zealand were less Whilst our core strategic interest in Wrekin Borough Council and for the favourable, with increasing PFI PPP projects is as a significant Newcastle Hospitals NHS Trust, with competition: however, our operation channel to market for our Facilities a combined equity commitment of is lean on cost and the introduction Services and Project Services 8.7 million.
In both cases of a number of new products should businesses, the investment Interserve will deliver facilities opportunities associated with the management services over the life enable a niche-based approach going forward.
project financial structures are of the concession, and at Telford & attractive to the Group and we Wrekin we are well advanced in the Europe The UK infrastructure are an active primary investor in design and build stage of the market was quiet in 2005 with a projects where we have a direct project.
This takes the total number of high-profile projects involvement in the downstream committed value of our PFI Telford & Wrekin Schools suffering delayed starts, particularly facilities management and or investment portfolio to 49.5 in the roads sector.
We took the construction services.
Telford & Wrekins Hadley Learning opportunity to improve costCommunity PFI comprises an innovative campus development that efficiencies through a branch We manage our investment We were appointed preferred bidder provides early years, primary, rationalisation programme and activities through a centrally-run on two further projects, for Holy secondary and special needs facilities, through a reorganisation of our sales team, which is responsible for coCross School in Northern Ireland, together with learning opportunities force into a sector-based structure.
ordinating Group-wide business where we will deliver facilities and support for the entire community.
Albeit there are some encouraging development activities, particularly management services, and for the signs in terms of project start-ups in in the PPP market.
This involves Scottish Prison Service at Addiewell roads, any material upturn in the UK leading the bidding process for PFI Prison, where we will deliver the market is expected only in the opportunities, managing our design and build stage of the medium term.
Our Spanish operation investment portfolio and, in many project.
The combined equity had a strong year, benefiting from a cases, delivering management requirement of these projects will significant investment in a new services to Special Purpose be around 4.5 million.
depot and the associated fleet Companies.
Health and safety remains a key 2005 performance from our PFI priority for all our operations, Far East We had a strong year in investments was good.
Operating wherein our objective is to achieve Hong Kong but were frustrated in profit was 0.6 million 2004: 0.6 an accident-free environment.
To Korea, where progress was hindered million.
However, the pre-tax this end we continue to invest in by the prolonged delay of a major contribution including net interest ensuring that we provide a safe and project.
Whilst this specific issue receivable on subordinated debt healthy environment for our HM Prison Peterborough has now been resolved, our priority investments grew by 23 per cent to employees, the contractors working in Korea is to make good progress 3.2 million 2004: 2.6 million, with us and for the clients to whom This Category B, 840-place local with market entry into new sectors, reflecting an increase both in the we deliver our services.
We operate prison, delivered through PFI, such as high-rise residential number of investments and their under established safety continues Interserves strong custodial track record.
It is the first purposebuilding.
We have significantly overall maturity: 18 out of our 23 management arrangements that are built prison in England and Wales to retrenched our position in Taiwan, projects have reached the actively monitored through audit by accommodate both men and women.
with any future business being operational stage in their life cycle safety professionals and inspection operated on an export basis from 2004: 13 out of 21 projects.
There by senior management, including other locations.
were no disposals during the year.
the Executive Committee who 12 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2005
