8185 Intertek AR p01 07 KM 02 03. qxp 3 3 06 11:21 am Page 06 Annual Report 2005 Q&A with the Chief Executive What does Intertek do?
is protected when it comes to Are there any weaknesses more important to combine Q Q We help our clients achieve quality, safety and you are looking to address?
our services and, in this way, A success in the global market environmental issues.
If we have a weakness, its offer excellent value.
We do this by providing that we are not always the most business not by taking testing, inspection and How is Intertek structured?
leader in our industry sectors.
market share from our Q certification services, but we Our business units are Id like to see Intertek being competitors but by gaining A also go further.
We add value focused on the broad range first or second in all our core additional business through to our clients businesses and of industries we serve: service industries.
their products we become a Consumer Goods: are still regions where we are vital part of their success.
Commercial & Electrical some way from being in the What do you enjoy about Q products: Oil, Chemical & Agri top two in Japan for being CEO of Intertek?
How is Intertek helping Services: and Government example.
But I see this as an Intertek is a very exciting Q A customers achieve Services.
In each industry we opportunity for growth.
I like the fact that their goals?
have experts who live and we are creating so much value Our clients face many global breathe the needs of our Where do you see the main for our customers and, A Q challenges.
These experts areas of expansion?
through that, for our investors manufacturing is continually combine our different services Intertek is supporting global and employees.
I also like the A shifting across borders.
to provide solutions that meet trade which grows faster variety not many companies Customer demands in both our clients needs.
than GDP so our underlying cover so many different developed and developing markets will continue to show industries.
And of course as nations change on a regular What are Interteks main good growth.
We will also Chief Executive, you can get Q basis.
improve our competitive close to the customers and constantly being introduced We are very strong on both a position in these markets.
But industries we serve and gain a A covering quality, safety, global and local level.
Our the growth ultimately comes very good understanding of environmental and social local management are leaders from persuading our clients every market.
At the same in their industries.
We enjoy that outsourcing their quality, that we are involved in nearly time, new products must be solid relationships with our safety and environmental every technical area and all designed and introduced into customers, be they a multiservices to us will make them areas in natural science these markets as quickly as national retailer or a local more successful.
thats very challenging and possible.
Finally, as we are a product line.
And in many Are you concerned about people business, I enjoy Q We provide the support that industries we are in a leading the increasing competition?
nurturing the cultural identity keeps our clients ahead of the position.
Its a position weve It has always been a and passion of our employees A game.
We take care of all the gained through providing competitive market and this to succeed.
non-core activities related to quality, adding value and will continue.
We have to their products and commodities.
building long-term innovate and increase This frees them to focus on relationships.
productivity to keep ahead of running their business and the competition just like any makes sure their brand image other business.
But for us its 06 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2005 8185 Intertek AR p01 07 KM 02 03. qxp 3 3 06 11:21 am Page 07 Strategic drivers Whats your acquisitions in the oil and Crucially, we will continue to Q management style?
chemical industry and the offer our existing services but unrivalled global In a business with over electro-technical industry.
We will A 15,000 employees you have add more value, we will resource to be flexible and use a range Any downsides?
combine our services, and Q of different management The only downside has been eventually become number A key industry focus styles.
For me, active listening that we lost two contracts in one in more industries.
and leading by example is the Government Services Intertek is a business that adding value very important.
These contracts strives to add value for our through synergy put myself in the shoes of our provided excellent value for customers and through that customers, managers and our clients, but unfortunately approach, were adding value employees.
I expect everyone other considerations can play for our investors and at Intertek to follow this a part.
in a good position to win new contracts, particularly in cargo What have Interteks scanning services.
Q biggest achievements been over the past year?
Whats your view on the Q Were now promoting future and the year ahead A Intertek as a single company.
Wolfhart Hauser Our employees no longer see We are very well prepared for Chief Executive A just their traditional divisions the year ahead.
In Consumer they are proud of Intertek as a Goods, we have the capacity whole.
Its been very to keep up with growth in important to develop this developing countries.
We single brand and its not just have a very good approach to about a brand image, this all different industries in the one company ethos has also Commercial & Electrical sector helped us work together and the success we have seen more effectively.
One example to date in executing our of this is the RoHS Directive.
strategy in this area will This legislation, relating to the continue.
And in Oil, restriction of hazardous Chemical & Agri, we will substances in electrical continue to increase the products, is covering breadth and depth of our numerous industries and our analytical services and push to labs are set up to address do more upstream work that.
We also made good relating to the cargo side of progress by making the business.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2005 07
