Chief executives review 2005 was a good year across most of our main businesses, with profits in Oil and Gas up by 25 per cent and Engineering and Technical Services by 18 per cent.
However, whilst our PPP activities performed well, the overall outcome for the year was heavily influenced by poor performance in UK Construction.
Full details of our results for 2005 are given in the business and financial review that follows this section.
Sir Peter Mason KBE Chief executive Our continuing businesses present substantial but different opportunities 30 AMEC plc annual report 2005 disaster recovery projects.
Future growth Oil and Gas Recently, for instance, we were Looking ahead, confirmation of Oil and gas markets remain strong asked to lead the recovery at our strategy of the proposed sale and our particular skill set and Buncefield, the oil depot in the of AMEC SPIE, followed by the experience means we are well UK which was destroyed by a separation of remaining activities, positioned to benefit from market major explosion.
will allow us to capitalise on growth drivers.
In the mature North Sea opportunities in our core energy market, we are the market leader Meanwhile, we see real recovery and process markets and to in upgrading and extending existing in US industrial markets and our continue to build our portfolio assets brownfield work and we environmental business is benefiting of equity investments.
are the leading engineering player from the trend to greater regulation, in the fast-growing oil sands and strength in energy markets.
investments in Canada winning Engineering and Technical new work with our major Services ETS In the UK, our industrial business customers.
Beyond that, we have All of our major ETS markets, with is developing a range of power and a strong position in fast emerging the exception of Iraq, are either in gas storage and distribution assets.
regions such as Azerbaijan and recovery, already growing, or have This is a rapidly expanding market Sakhalin in Russia, where our real prospects for growth.
as ageing infrastructure and experience of partnering with concerns over security of supply In Continental Europe, AMEC SPIE local suppliers makes us a drive demand.
Spending in this continues to grow with increasing natural choice.
market is set to grow substantially levels of economic activity, and over the next five to ten years.
further improvement in margin is expected.
Meanwhile, we are beginning Iraq is now declining, as US funding to benefit from the global tails off.
While we will need to reassessment of nuclear power replace this income, our recognition and are well placed to win a good as a leading contractor in Iraq has share of the UK decommissioning helped build our reputation as a market and, beyond that, other natural choice to manage complex international contracts.
AMEC plc annual report 2005 31 Chief executives review continued enjoying quite dramatic growth, Project Solutions and in some cases this will be In our Construction Services sustained for some years.
AMEC business, the main growth is already a strong player in these opportunity is recovery following markets, but we need more our exit from unattractive markets resources to meet the demand.
and our substantial restructuring By making selective, quality of the business.
acquisitions, we can gain scale, In the Investments segment, and achieve growth more quickly, we have assembled a high quality from 2007 and beyond.
portfolio of assets, having invested In the UK Infrastructure business, selectively for a number of years.
we see rather different engines And the value of these investments for growth.
Recovery in the is increasing as discount rates Construction Services business have been improving.
We are will be one, and continuing to continuing to invest in quality release value from the investments opportunities and both our PPP portfolio will be another.
Beyond and Property Developments that, we must maintain the pipeline businesses are targeting several of investments.
However, there new schemes each year.
is also room here for selective acquisition, for instance in the Investment opportunities facilities management and building As we look to the future, and to services areas where we have the restructuring of our continuing a good base but can scale up.
businesses following the prospective sale of AMEC SPIE, Across our markets, therefore, the nature of the opportunity there is considerable opportunity is different in each of the to accelerate growth, and the Energy and Process and UK prospective sale of AMEC SPIE will Infrastructure businesses.
give us the balance sheet strength In our Energy and Process to pursue selected opportunities, businesses, notably oil and gas, in a planned way, with real focus mining, and downstream gas and on building our position in our power, we are in markets that are target markets.
32 AMEC plc annual report 2005 Restructuring will give us the balance sheet strength to pursue growth opportunities of infrastructure in Iraq will Sustainability continue throughout 2006, but During 2005, we took steps to place at a much reduced level.
This will more emphasis on sustainability lead to a smaller contribution to as a central aspect of the way we profits than in 2005. manage the business.
We made further progress in our overall Oil and gas markets are performance in health and safety, expected to remain robust and environment, community and our order book is strong.
However, it saddens performance for the Oil and Gas me personally and remains segment in 2006 is expected to unacceptable that we suffered eight be offset by a lower contribution fatalities at work and I remain from mining activity in North committed to promoting increased America following an outstanding vigilance in the workplace to year in 2005. ensure a safer year in 2006.
With construction activities now An overview of 2005 appears stabilised and another strong on pages 24 to 27 of this report performance expected from the and our sustainability report is PPP business, we expect to see available on-line at our website Project Solutions make satisfactory www.
Outlook Taking these factors into account, We continue to see generally the board maintains its earlier strong market conditions in our expectations for overall progress European Multitechnical and in 2006.
Environmental businesses and recovery in North American industrial markets is expected 15 March 2006 to continue.
Our activities which contributed to the rebuilding For the AMEC group as currently structured AMEC plc annual report 2005 33
