CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT 2005 For some time we have developed the Group in anticipation of modern information systems playing a pivotal role in the development of more efficient and effective healthcare economies.
A year of delivery countries are ahead of others in the procurement I am pleased to report that the year ended 30 April and implementation of modern solutions, but we 05 2005 was an important year of successful delivery are only at the start of the modernisation process.
In addition to delivering a Most of the work to implement the necessary strong financial performance, the Group realised the systems will be completed in the next five to synergies anticipated from our merger with Torex, ten years.
successfully launched the market-leading LORENZO iSOFT is in an unrivalled position to benefit from set of software applications into both existing and this, having developed the most advanced set of new international markets and won a number of application software solutions available for the important new contracts.
We also have the depth of Group revenues grew to 262.0m, an increase of international experience and expertise required 75.5% from the previous year.
Profit before tax, to understand the solutions needed by different exceptional items and goodwill amortisation grew healthcare markets, and the scale to continue 86.1% to 68.5m.
A robust operating cash developing them.
performance contributed to net cash generation As a result, the work that we undertake with our before financing of 48.9m.
The resulting year end customers and partners is recognised internationally net funds position of 56.4m, gives iSOFT sufficient as being at the very forefront of the development of resources to take advantage of an increasing modern healthcare information systems.
number of business development opportunities.
Importance of the strategic application set Looking forward, recognition of the key role that LORENZO was developed specifically to meet better information management has to play in the growing international need for modern scalable improving the efficiency of healthcare provision healthcare information systems.
We have long worldwide is creating a number of specific believed that the major healthcare economies face international opportunities for exciting sales a common core set of problems, though each growth.
We plan to take advantage of these, either usually also exhibit a number of individual local through direct sales, partnership with third party market characteristics.
service or technology organisations, or through acquisition of companies with established access Typically, the most substantive area of difference to attractive markets.
from country to country results from the funding models that govern the reimbursement of the The healthcare applications market opportunity cost of healthcare provision to the provider.
For some time we have developed the Group in Consequently, we have developed a comprehensive anticipation of modern information systems playing core application set capable of meeting the a pivotal role in the development of more efficient standard common elements of healthcare delivery, and effective healthcare economies.
The key while also being flexible enough to be configured challenge for every major healthcare economy is to to suit specific local characteristics.
balance increasing costs of healthcare delivery with the growing demands of ageing populations.
There is, therefore, great value in a core strategic Our view is now widely accepted and increasing application set such as LORENZO, built on a modern numbers of healthcare providers are investing in technology platform and designed to meet the large scale modern information technology systems requirements of modernising healthcare economies.
in order to connect up the supply chain.
Some We have achieved the flexibility to adapt LORENZO to local requirements by using the latest software Existing international operations development tools and technical architectures.
During the year, our first priority was to develop our 06 We recognised early that it is simply not possible existing international business units and we have to achieve this by iterating existing legacy software made good progress in introducing LORENZO product code bases constrained by old to customers in those markets.
organisations across the world have shown great interest in our success as application provider to Available from early 2004, LORENZO was the first three of the five regions in the National Programme solution on the market targeted to meet the for IT in the NHS in England, the worlds first demanding requirements of healthcare providers procurement programme to purchase systems on around the world.
It has achieved significant acclaim behalf of an entire national health community.
from healthcare providers who have performed detailed procurement evaluations, industry analysts Elsewhere, we achieved a number of notable and the worlds leading technology organisations.
We have now established a strong market position In Germany, further to our success in being selected and intend to leverage this at a time when demand to supply systems to Aachen University Hospital, we for information systems based on international best are delighted to now have an agreement to supply practice is growing.
LORENZO to the  in Stuttgart, one of the countrys leading private Consistent business strategy healthcare institutions.
Throughout the financial year, iSOFT has continued to be guided by the consistent and clearly defined In Australia, we have extended our patient business strategy employed since its listing on the management system supply into Queensland and London Stock Exchange in July 2000.
In simple we are currently engaged in contract negotiations terms, this strategy has been to focus on the for the supply of a state-wide patient administration development of world class software applications, system into Victoria.
which address fully the clinical and administrative Finally, in terms of development of existing markets, information management requirements of healthcare I am very pleased to announce that we are engaged provider organisations.
in advanced discussions with Leiden University As our revenues and profits have grown, we believe Medical Centre with regards to the first delivery of this strategy has now been well-proven.
management has established a reputation for Prospects for international growth effective delivery and execution, both in development Following the progress of the past few years, of software application products and the accessing iSOFT is increasingly being acknowledged as the of international markets.
leading supplier of modern healthcare applications.
In the year ahead, management will continue As a result, either directly or by way of third party to pursue this strategy, looking to secure market introductions, iSOFT is now invited to tender for share leadership in each of our existing territories most significant procurements of healthcare and respond to growing international demand by application solutions worldwide.
Our challenge, therefore, is evaluating the opportunities that arise and, for those that qualify, to identify the most appropriate means of response.
CHIEF EXECUTIVES REPORT 2005 In the coming year, we expect that our application offering will continue to become increasingly sought after by the marketplace.
Depending on the nature and size of the opportunity, position, or offer access to a significant new it may be more appropriate to respond directly geographic market for LORENZO.
In the 07 or through a partner.
circumstances, therefore, such a candidate would typically possess effective sales, application delivery We continue to make good progress with a and service capabilities.
number of significant current opportunities notably in Asia Pacific.
The Group is well organised and resourced to respond to business development opportunities.
In December 2004, we identified that SingHealth, There is substantial management strength, both the largest cluster of public healthcare institutions in at Board level and throughout the operational Singapore, had commenced a formal study to business units.
The announcement in April of the evaluate a possible roll out of LORENZO across the appointment of Gavin James as Group Finance cluster.
I am now pleased to confirm that iSOFT will Director adds further valuable experience in enter into a development partnership with SingHealth.
managing international operations, integration of With this partnership, iSOFT will deliver an initial acquisitions and managing distribution partnership solution to SingHealth by December 2005.
We are arrangements between application vendors and IT delighted to have this opportunity to demonstrate services companies.
the capability of a LORENZO-based solution working in partnership with one of the worlds most Outlook advanced regional healthcare delivery, research and In the coming year, we expect that our application teaching organisations.
offering will continue to become increasingly sought after by the marketplace.
Installations of LORENZO I am also pleased to announce that, further to the will grow in number providing further valuable RFI exercise initiated in November 2004 by the references for the strength of iSOFTs market Hospital Authority, the statutory body that manages leadership position.
all public hospitals in Hong Kong, a solution design and pilot exercise will be conducted with iSOFT as a We are excited about prospects in our traditional continuation of the Authoritys evaluation of the markets of Asia Pacific and Europe, where we are options available for the development of their next evaluating a number of major sales opportunities.
We are also now examining the North American market in greater detail.
Additionally, we continue to examine closely opportunities for acquisition that would accelerate The momentum now building in the international entry into a particular market.
iSOFT has a record iSOFT proposition, and the growing demand from of being a discerning buyer.
We are proud of our the market, provides the basis for further exciting ability to select transactions that create value, growth over the coming years.
As a result, we look execute them and complete integration exercises in forward to the current year with confidence and are a speedy and efficient manner.
on track for another year of success.
We expect to continue to be presented with a large number of potential acquisition opportunities, but will only take advantage of a transaction if it stands up to rigorous strategic and financial analysis.
Any acquisition candidate would have to Tim Whiston either enable us to consolidate an existing market Chief Executive Officer Surgeon.
I want patients to benefit from the best knowledge available.
Clinical excellence should be part of the standard service.
It has to be built deep into the fabric of care systems and processes.
