18 ITV plc 2005 annual report During 2005 we have continued with our Freeview growth Chief Executives review programme of developing our business Freeview was the fastest growing and changing our operations to enable us broadcasting platform across 2005 with to take advantage of the rapidly evolving three-quarters of all households that went digital television world.
In early 2006 we digital choosing Freeview.
We are actively re-branded our operations, from a fresh promoting our channels, both on air and in new look onscreen for our channels other display media, and expect Freeview through to new signage and logo for our rapidly to become the UKs number one ITV production business.
The feedback digital television platform in 2006. from our viewers has been very positive.
We acquired SDN in April 2005 for Improving and simplifying our structure 136 million.
This acquisition boosts our During 2005 we made some changes to digital strategy ITV now operates 38% simplify our management and structure, of commercial DTT bandwidth.
SDN and increase the focus on our core business.
contributed 16 million of revenue in eight Simon Shaps as Director of Television now months of 2005.
The market rate for a heads up our channels operations and he videostream in DTT has been increasing has brought in a number of key new and videostream contract renewals for SDN commissioning executives.
SDN has been an extremely increasing the emphasis on US programme profitable acquisition for our shareholders.
acquisitions across all our channels.
Channel schedule performance Ian McCulloch heads up the commercial Our new digital channels continued to grow operations, contracting with our their audience share and in November 2005 advertisers and marketing our channels we launched our latest channel, ITV4.
His role is to build channel is aimed at a male demographic relationships directly with our advertising and its schedule includes a higher customers, and to address the challenge proportion of US acquired material than our of reducing the burden that CRR places other channels.
share of multichannel viewing in its early months on screen.
ITV2 and ITV3 have Owning content and intellectual property increased their viewing share in 2005 and rights is key to ITVs future success and our share of commercial viewing across all John Whiston, amongst our most talented our channels in multichannel homes of programme makers, now heads up the increased by 7% to 32%.
As viewers move to the greater channel Jeff Henry has been developing our choice available on digital television, the consumer operations with a number of viewing share of ITV1 inevitably decreases.
successful organic developments and Under the CRR undertakings, agreed with acquisitions which are explained later.
the Ofce of Fair Trading as part of the We are also recruiting for a new head ITV merger, the consequence of that is of our international production and a proportionate decrease in the ITV1 distribution operations.
share of television advertising revenue.
During 2005 our ITV1 advertising revenue was 50 million lower than in 2004.
The success of our new business operations helped to increase our pro forma revenues outside ITV1 advertising by 144 million in 2005, more than offsetting the ITV1 reduction and increasing our revenues from these sources from 27% of the total last year to 33% of the total in 2005.
We are simplifying our operational structure to increase the focus on our core business, introducing key new commissioning executives.
19 As digital television approaches universal Growing consumer revenues Outlook takeup in the near future, the downward A major focus for ITV is the development In 2005 our first quarter advertising revenue pressure on ITV1 viewing share and of our consumer operations: those parts was particularly strong with Easter falling revenues will slow, enabling ITV1 to return of our business that deliver products and in March.
to growth alongside our rapidly growing services directly to viewers who pay for In 2006 both Easter and the Football World digital channels.
them through subscription, transactional Cup fall in the second quarter and will move or interactive revenues.
In December, we took the difficult decision money into that period.
As a result to close the ITV News Channel, as the ITV Play is the brand name for a portfolio advertising revenue has been lower in the increasing opportunity cost of digital of participation TV formats designed to first few months of 2006 and total ITV transmission capacity made running a engage our mass-market audiences in advertising revenue will be down by commercial 24 hour news channel high-quality original interactive approximately 10% in the first quarter.
ITV Play has been trialling In April we expect that ITV1 advertising across our Channels in night time.
We will Developing non-ITV production assets revenue will be up 2% year on year and be launching a dedicated channel in April.
in the UK and overseas our total advertising revenue will be up This has proved to be very popular and ITV productions had a very successful year, 6% year on year.
we are currently developing more Play we created Sex Trafc for C4, Casanova for programming and formats which will be People the BBC, another series of Brainiac for Sky shown across our family of channels I would like to join with Sir Peter Burt and and Countdown for C4.
the rest of the Board in thanking all of our International production part of ITV employees for their continuing work and We have acquired Friends Reunited, the Worldwide had another excellent year.
dedication to the Company and to our UKs leading reunion website.
There are In America we made Hells Kitchen and programmes and services.
The broadcasting five separate business strands: the Schools Nanny 911 for Fox, both US primetime world is seeing more change than many reunion site: Genes Reunited: dating and shows that will return, Hit Me Baby for NBC, other industries and we continue to lead jobs sites: and Connections, a general chat Airline and 1st 48 for A&E and Roomraiders and embrace that change as we move room and message board site.
In Australia and Germany we towards a fully digital environment in and jobs sites can already be found within made a number of primetime shows for which viewers are able to increase the level our existing itv.
com environment and we the top broadcasters.
We are able to create of personalisation of their viewing from are seeing increased trafc as a result.
and produce hits for international more channels and prospectively from broadcasters, increase our market share itv.
com is ITVs broadband site.
Our aim delivery systems such as broadband.
and add the new material to our media is to create a content-rich multimedia We look forward to these changes and to catalogue and distribution business.
com will be restructured remaining the producer and broadcaster and relaunched as a broadband content of many of the nations favourite shows.
We have increased the profitability of on demand portal later in 2006: improving Granada International and extended our functionality and consumer experience.
third party distribution sales worldwide.
This will increase dwell times and stickiness This includes such clients as HBO, Aardman, to drive subscription and advertising CNN and Chorion.
We have begun the revenues.
Internet advertising is increasing digitisation of our media catalogue and rapidly, and is likely to have overtaken radio have been trialling video-on-demand which and outdoor in 2006.
Charles Allen CBE should develop into a new means of Chief Executive content exploitation.
We believe that there will be an increasing competition in Local Loop unbundling and that prices for bandwidth will be driven towards marginal cost.
Consumers will pay for content, and we will strive to ensure that in this world of convergence, where viewers may be able to receive content via cable, satellite, DTT, broadband or mobile, that ITVs brand and content are available for them to enjoy.
Distribution Quarterly numbers of digital homes added to each platform 144m 900 800 The increase in our non-ITV1 revenues 700 in 2005.
600 500 400 300 200 100 0 Q3 2004 Q4 2004 Q1 2005 Q2 2005 Q3 2005 Q4 2005 E Q1 2006 E 000s of quarterly DSAT Pay DSAT FTA Digital cable DTT net additions Source: Ofcom digital television update Sales to mid Feb
