Total turnover for the accounting period, within our core business, increased marginally by 0.2 per cent to 773.3 million from 771.8 million.
However, the figures for the accounting period just ended benefit from an extra weeks trading and on a 52 week comparison total turnover fell by 1.1 per cent.
This latter figure includes a like-for-like decrease in the turnover of locations which have been trading for over 52 weeks, of 1.2 per cent.
A total increase in turnover of 41 per cent was achieved within the Leisure Division as the expansion of this Division continued and with the success of the value-for-money offering within the health clubs.
This was offset by an adverse performance from our clothing products where the relatively poor Summer weather, fragmented ranges and increased competition affected the level of turnover achieved in our retail stores.
The clearance of excess clothing ranges and fragmented stock was made through a discounted promotional policy, the resulting impact of which has contributed to a decrease in gross margin from 48.7 per cent to 48.0 per cent.
The fall in gross margin from this policy was partly offset by the increase in health club turnover at a near 95.0 per cent gross margin.
Operating expenses before goodwill amortisation and exceptional operating items increased by 6.9 per cent to 307.9 million from 288.2 million, an increase of 19.7 million.
This increase is partly accounted for by 5.8 million relating to the additional weeks trading in the accounting period just ended, and partly by an increase of 11.4 million from the number of operating locations within the Leisure Division compared to the previous accounting period.
4 The impact of a fall in gross profit of 4.9 million and Net interest the increase in operating expenses of 19.7 million resulted in operating profit before goodwill receivable of amortisation and exceptional operating items falling by 28.0 per cent from 88.0 million to 63.3 million.
0.3 million is Interest, taxation and earnings per share indicative of Net interest receivable by the Group of 0.3 million compares to 2.6 million net interest payable in the the continuing comparative accounting period, and is indicative of the continuing strong operating cash flow.
strong The total tax charge for the accounting period was operating 17.2 million compared to 22.4 million in the previous accoutning period resulting in an effective rate of taxation on the profits of the Group before goodwill cash flow.
amortisation, and the loss on disposal of a subsidiary undertaking of 27.0 per cent compared to 27.4 per cent in the previous accounting period.
Underlying headline earnings per share for the Group, stated before goodwill amortisation, exceptional operating items and the loss on disposal of a subsidiary undertaking see page 33 of the Financial statements, fell by 25.5 per cent to 20.12 pence per ordinary share from 26.99 pence per ordinary share in the previous accounting period.
Earnings per ordinary share for the Group fell by 25.5 per cent.
Operational review JJB Retail Stores Product performance from all categories, except clothing, remains resilient.
The high level of replica kit turnover achieved during the Euro 2004 tournament adversely affected sales of some clothing products: the relatively poor Summer weather and a fragmented clothing offer also contributed to the fall in turnover of those products.
We have instituted a number of policy changes which we believe will improve the clothing offer in our Spring Summer 2005 ranges.
5 Chief Executives statement continued High street competition, particularly within the clothing sector, continues to be strong and also had a material impact on our results.
The gross margin on our clothing products was affected by the discounted promotional policy which sold off a large part of the excess clothing stocks but also had the effect of considerably reducing the level of clothing stocks at 30 January 2005.
We have an authoritative range of footwear, equipment, replica kit and golf products, and the trading performance of these ranges has been satisfactory throughout the accounting period.
The following charts show the percentage of turnover for each product category: 53 weeks 52 weeks ended ended 30 January 25 January 2005 2004 Our product strategy continues to be focused upon an offering of branded products from the principal suppliers of Nike and adidas, supplemented by products at lower price points designed and sourced by our own staff and marketed under the exclusive brands of Patrick, Olympus, Lotto and Slazenger.
This strategy provides our customers with a variety of choice over a range of premium and value-for-money price points.
In addition, our close relationship with the principal suppliers is enabling us to obtain a range of exclusive products, differentiating our offerings from those of other retailers.
We have recently signed an irrevocable 999 year licence with Slazenger Limited at a cost of 10 million for the exclusive right to design, source and sell Slazenger-branded golf clubs, balls, clothing, footwear and accessories in the European Economic Area.
This licence replaces a previous royalty agreement between our two companies.
This agreement should ensure unrestricted product development, enhanced gross margin and income generation from this brand.
We will run an advertising campaign featuring our Slazenger products during the current accounting period with Tony Jacklin, the former British and US golf Open champion and successful Ryder Cup captain.
We have further strengthened our golf-branded offering by entering into a royalty agreement to exclusively design, source and sell Maxfli golf clubs, clothing, footwear and accessories in the UK and Eire.
Our Professional Teamwear division have recently signed a three year contract with Leicester City Football Club to supply and distribute team kits, training wear and retail merchandise from May 2005.
This will be the first kit that will carry JJB as the kit manufacturers brand.
This is in addition to two other kit contracts which started during 2004 - those of Everton FC and the Northern Ireland Football Association.
The icon format continues to use small high street stores which we have closed when a new superstore location has been opened nearby.
They retail a range of mens fashion brands which are not sold within JJB stores.
The growth in this format will continue as we gradually relocate from small high street stores to high street superstores.
6 We have continued the policy of carrying out complete refits and in some stores, refreshers, to some of our older sites.
Refreshers include new flooring, improved illumination and a re-paint.
A total of 15 stores have been refitted during the accounting period just ended, together with 11 stores being refreshed.
The total capital expenditure on these sites was 3.5 million and the net book value of assets which have been scrapped, amounting to 1.6 million, has been charged to operating expenses.
Trading results from the newly-refitted and refreshed stores is satisfactory: the average increase in turnover has been 9 per cent.
Our plan is to step up this policy in the current accounting period with 31 sites identified for refits.
These sites include 12 out of town superstores which will have mezzanine floors of approximately 8,000 square feet installed in the building.
Internet For some time we have been considering whether to trade our products on the Internet but had not yet believed that format to be appropriate.
However, the We have signed success of this market over the last 12 months has encouraged us to seek an agreement with Zendor, the leading distance-shopping fulfilment specialist in a 999 year the UK, to launch a JJB e-commerce web site.
Within a few months, this web site will offer a range of licence to design, products and fulfilment will largely be direct through Zendor, except for certain large items which will be source and sell dispatched direct from the supplier.
Slazenger branded Leisure Division During the 53 weeks ended 30 January 2005, the golf clubs, balls, Leisure Division opened 5 new sites, all of which comprised a health club and a superstore and in clothing, footwear addition, one site included an indoor soccer centre.
At 30 January 2005, the Leisure Division traded from 21 and accessories.
combined health club superstores, 4 of which included indoor soccer centres.
7 Chief Executives statement continued At 30 January 2005, the 21 health clubs had a combined membership of 88,400, compared to 67,300 members at 30 January 2004 from the 16 health clubs open at that date.
Of the 16 clubs which were open at 30 January 2004, membership has increased by 7 per cent from 67,300 at that date to 72,000 as at 30 January 2005.
The unique concept of a superstore being located on a mezzanine floor above a health club site has the key attraction of rent for both income streams only being paid on the footprint.
The success of the concept lies also in the attractiveness to members of providing a well-equipped gym, swimming pool, health spa, steam room, aerobic studios and bar area at very competitive value-for-money membership fees: this offering attracts large numbers of members and thereby contributes to the success of the concept.
Of the 21 health clubs trading at 30 January 2005, 16 are of this concept.
Operating results continue to be encouraging with turnover of the Leisure Division, including stores, having increased by 41% to 62.7 million from 44.4 million in the comparative period.
Adjusted operating profits before a share of head office and distribution centre costs increased to 10.6 million from 9.1 million in 2004 see page 4.
A combined unit reaches satisfactory profitability within 12 months of opening: the average operating profit before a share of head office and distribution centre costs of the 11 combined units which had been open for over 1 year, was 768,000 and the average capital expenditure of one of these units was 2.5 million.
The availability of sites throughout the UK and the profitability of the combined unit concept gives us confidence in its potential for growth.
Openings planned for the current year total 18 of which 3 had been opened up to 10 April 2005.
It is our intention to continue the health club superstore roll-out programme as a key part of future strategy.
Current trading At the time of the publication of our Preliminary Results for the 53 weeks ended 30 January 2005, on 13 April 2005, we reported that we were experiencing difficult trading conditions.
We advised that our total turnover for the 10 weeks ended 10 April 2005 had fallen by 1.3 per cent when compared to the same period last year, but warned that this comparison was flattered by the early occurrence of Easter in 2005 compared to 2004.
We have found that trading conditions have continued to deteriorate since 10 April across all product groups.
In addition, trading during May and June last year benefited from successful turnover levels of football replica kit in the build-up to the Euro 2004 competition.
We anticipate a turnaround in turnover of football replica kit in 2006 as a result of the FIFA World Cup.
Total turnover, for the 16 weeks ended 22 May 2005, fell by 7.5 per cent as compared with the same period last year, which included a fall in like-for-like turnover of 7.7 per cent.
The Group's gross margin during this period showed a slight improvement on the same period last year.
During the accounting period ended 30 January 2005, our clothing category has been the one area of the business which has not performed satisfactorily.
The Board believes this has been in part due to excessive range fragmentation and policy changes have been made to address this situation.
These changes of policy include a greater emphasis being placed on the ranges of the principal suppliers of Nike and adidas together with the offering 8 being concentrated upon a smaller number of styles of individual categories of clothing than in earlier seasons, but with the stocking of these styles in greater quantities.
We believe that these changes will limit the number of items which need to be discounted at the end of a season and result in a higher level of gross margin.
Whilst there are inevitable time delays in the order delivery cycle before the changes can be The turnover fully implemented, the Board believes that the new products ordered for Spring Summer 2005 will result in a more authoritative range.
The recent of the Leisure discount promotion policy has resulted in the levels of clothing stocks currently on hand containing Division has significantly less stock over 3 months old than at the comparative date last year.
increased by We have ambitious plans for the further expansion of 41 per cent.
the Leisure Division, with 17 combined units being planned for opening during the current accounting period, which will bring the number of combined units in operation at 29 January 2006 to 38.
An average of 11 openings per annum are planned for future years.
Since the beginning of the current accounting period, 5 combined units have been opened and the total membership of the 26 health clubs at 26 May 2005 was 106,000.
The growth of the Leisure Division will, due to timing issues, produce limited returns in the current accounting period followed by a significant improvement in the following accounting period.
In our retail business I believe that the strategic approach which I have outlined above is entirely appropriate and I am confident in the enhanced profitability from our successful combined health club superstore units.
T. W. Knight Chief Executive 26 May 2005 9
