Chief Executive Officers Review 2005 was a notable year for acquisitions with major advances in Scotland and Ireland.
The trading environment in 2005 Industry Development proved to be more difficult for the After a period of relative calm since regional press than at any time since 2002 when we acquired Regional the early 1990s.
For Johnston Press, Independent Media Holdings Ltd this resulted in a reduction in likeRIM, 2005 witnessed a resurgence of for-like advertising revenues of 3.7%.
industry restructuring with Johnston When using the term like-for-like, Press at the forefront of events.
this excludes all businesses acquired These changes have enabled us to in 2005 and compares the 52 weeks build on our consistent strategy of trading in 2005 with the same being a leading industry consolidator.
Against this challenging background, This process has been given renewed compounded by an increase in focus by the decision in late 2005 of newsprint prices, it is pleasing to be Daily Mail & General Trust plc DMGT able to report another set of record to explore the possible sale of results.
2005 was also a notable year Northcliffe Newspapers, its regional for acquisitions with major advances newspaper subsidiary and one of the in both Scotland and Ireland.
Our big 4 publishers in the sector.
digital publishing activities continued Although DMGT ultimately decided to to exhibit strong growth, our major retain Northcliffe, their willingness to capital expenditure programmes consider its disposal suggests that remain on track and our ongoing further change may well occur in our organic growth plans delivered over sector, providing yet more Tim Bowdler 50 new publications in the year.
opportunities for continued targeted Chief Executive Officer growth by Johnston Press in the coming years.
We are equally confident that consolidation is the 12 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 greatest possible safeguard for a On almost as large a scale, on The acquisition of Leinster Leader LL, healthy regional press and that it will 9 August, we acquired Score Press a private company owned by 27 prove to be in the best long-term Limited Score from Emap plc for separate shareholders, was completed interests of readers, advertisers, 155m.
Score represented the on 14 December.
LL publishes 6 titles, shareholders and the industry itself, newspaper interests of Scottish Radio and with the exception of the Limerick including those who work in it.
Holdings plc SRH and the deal was Leader which is published 4 times per made possible as a result of the week, all are paid-for weekly The changes introduced in the acquisition of SRH by Emap.
Combined with the 5 Communications Act 2003 have also The acquisition involved 35 weekly Score titles, the acquisition of LL gives helped to simplify the process of newspaper titles with 13 in Scotland, the Group critical mass in the Republic consolidation and during 2005 this has 17 in Northern Ireland and 5 in the of Ireland and the opportunity to enabled Johnston Press to complete Republic of Ireland.
28 of the titles are consolidate the separate operations transactions which might not have paid-for and 7 are free.
The integration into an integrated business.
There are been pursued under the previous of Scores Scottish titles into our considerable opportunities for the regime.
Whilst it is too early to form existing Scottish business is well combined business in this high growth any definitive views, we continue to advanced and the deal also provided economy, not least from much needed believe that over time, the regulators the Group with its first presence on investment in IT systems to improve will take a broader view of market the island of Ireland.
The overall efficiency and customer service.
definition in their assessment of performance of Score since proposed newspaper mergers, thereby acquisition has exceeded our Although on a much smaller scale, 3 easing the process of continued expectations at the time of the deal.
other acquisitions were also completed industry consolidation.
The first was Thorne Following the acquisition of Score we Gazette on 16 May, a publisher Acquisitions were keen to expand our presence in distributing 20,000 free newspapers in During 2005, the Group announced a both Northern Ireland and the Republic.
an area of South Yorkshire as well as a total of seven acquisitions, with a total This objective was entirely consistent title for the regions farming community consideration, excluding related costs, with our acquisitive growth strategy and and a visitors guide for Lincolnshire.
Of these, the largest and had the added incentive of becoming a The business has already been most recent was The Scotsman bigger player in the fast growing integrated with our existing activities in Publications Limited TSPL, for Republic of Ireland marketplace which the region and its performance has 160m, announced on 19 December has recently experienced double digit exceeded expectations.
In advertising revenue growth rates.
addition to its flagship Scotsman title, Two opportunities to meet this objective On 3 August, the Group acquired the the company also publishes a paid-for occurred in rapid succession and the entire share capital of Best Asian Sunday newspaper, Scotland on Group was successful in securing these Media Ltd, a company which distributes Sunday, and covering the Edinburgh to become a leading publisher of a fortnightly free newspaper, Asian Life and Lothian markets, the Evening regional and local newspapers both Magazine and EID magazine for the News as well as the weekly free Herald north and south of the border.
Asian community in the Northwest of & Post series.
The previous owners and website is one of Scotlands leading The first deal, completed on management have remained with the sites registering over 20 million page 4 November, was the acquisition of business and are working on plans to impressions and 3 million monthly Local Press Limited LPL, in which 3i expand its activities through a series unique users in the most recent ABC plc was the principal shareholder.
In of related new launches.
In addition to its stable of market addition to the daily News Letter, LPL leading brands, TSPL represents an also publishes 6 weekly newspapers in The third small acquisition, excellent geographic fit with our Northern Ireland and 3 in the County of announced on 9 December, was existing weekly newspaper portfolio Donegal in the Republic.
7 of the titles Ashwell Associates Ltd, publishers of in Scotland and will provide good are paid-for and 3 are free.
Combined the paid-for weekly newspapers, The opportunities for performance with Scores Northern Irish titles, the Rutland Times and Bourne Local, as improvement and growth.
As with all acquisition of LPL gives the Group well as Embrace, Your Perfect Day and of the acquisitions made during the excellent coverage across much of the Your Country, specialist publications year, we expect the acquisition of Province and integration opportunities focused on the county of Rutland.
The TSPL, before any non-recurring which will improve performance as well business has already been integrated restructuring costs, to be earnings as benefiting readers and advertisers.
with our Welland Valley Newspapers enhancing in 2006. subsidiary based in Stamford.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13 Chief Executive Officers Review continued We are pleased with the progress advertise in a very targeted and cost areas include leaflet distribution made so far in integrating all these effective manner.
through the Groups dedicated acquired businesses.
Letterbox Direct subsidiary, The continuing growth and promotional coupon offers through As a result of these acquisitions, development of our digital publishing Offer Pack which was acquired in Johnston Press now publishes 301 activities is a vital and central part of 2004, reader holidays, where we titles of which 3 are paid-for morning our organic growth strategy.
We have promote and provide tailored holidays newspapers, 15 are paid-for evenings, a total of 288 community websites and events packages, premium line 158 are paid-for weeklies, 118 are free including those operated by the newly offerings which primarily relate to weeklies, 2 paid-for Sunday titles and acquired companies.
These are an dating services, local exhibitions and 5 weekly magazines.
The total number integral component in each of our events such as fashion shows and the of copies published per edition stands publishing centres portfolios, offering syndication of our editorial content.
at 7.1 million with 0.2 million of these users the opportunity to access a vast being in the Republic of Ireland.
range of information and to interact Trading Performance Johnston Press is now the second with us via the internet and from As indicated above, 2005 was a largest regional newspaper publisher in mobile devices.
challenging period with trading the UK.
becoming more difficult as the year Without dismissing the possibility of progressed.
All advertising revenue Connecting Communities acquiring an internet business which percentages in this commentary are The Group also continues to pursue its would complement our local offerings, shown on a like-for-like basis.
After a organic growth strategy which our approach is primarily dependent on marginal advertising revenue decline recognises the opportunity and need to the organic development of digital of 1.5% in the first six months, the reach local communities through an platforms which build on the strength second half witnessed a fall of 6.0%.
increasing array of media channels, of our local brands and market We are confident that this advertising especially digital.
This strategy is built position, providing a natural extension downturn, which affected the regional on the underlying fact that Life is to our existing publishing activities.
press generally as well as many other Local.
The publishing rationale of More details of our digital publishing sectors of the media, was primarily Johnston Press is to be the leading activities are provided in a later section cyclical in nature reflecting weaker purveyor of news, information and of this report on pages 16 and 17. consumer confidence, partly fuelled by related services to the communities it a flatter property market and a cutback serves, thereby providing the primary In addition to the initiatives outlined in recruitment by a number of and most effective means for above, the Group is also pursuing employers.
Only the Northeast of advertisers to reach those communities.
organic growth opportunities in England and Scotland achieved growth Industry research continues to provide services which are closely related to with all other markets suffering year-onstrong evidence of consumer behaviour our local publishing and newspaper year declines.
Examples of such In print, the Group has an active policy of encouraging its local publishing companies to seek opportunities capable of generating new revenue streams.
During 2005, this resulted in the launch of well over 50 new publications including 47 community newspapers, 5 monthly lifestyle magazines and, additionally, numerous niche publications.
In total, we now publish 58 community newspapers.
These are typically monthly free pickup newspapers servicing small communities in rural areas and selected suburbs of larger cities.
They contain local parish pump news and allow small local businesses to 14 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 The greatest shortfall year-on-year was Given the difficult trading environment in recruitment advertising which fell by and taking into account the increased 17.3%, comprising 12.1% in the first cost of newsprint, the Group did half and 23.7% in the second, entirely well to raise operating margins, from as a result of reduced volumes.
34.0% to 34.8% as shown on page This represents our most volatile 20.
This performance reflects the advertising category and it followed a benefits of our continuing programme similar pattern in the last significant of investment in modern IT systems to downturn in the early 1990s.
drive efficiency, good control of costs The impact was felt across the entire and actions taken to mitigate the spread of the Groups publishing areas.
increase in the cost of newsprint.
Property advertising performed Operating Review strongly, up 13.7% overall and The Group maintains a strong focus increasing by 15.9% and 11.3% on revenue growth initiatives and, as respectively in the first and second outlined above, this resulted in a halves.
The healthy growth reflected record number of new publications the need for vendors, house-builders during the year.
Each is regularly in particular, to advertise more heavily monitored to ensure that it makes a in a flatter market.
All areas of the positive contribution to the Groups country grew, with Scotland the profitability.
Our intranet-based ADS4U strongest and the South of England database of advertising ideas and 301 weakest.
creative copy is now firmly embedded as an invaluable tool for all advertising publications Motors advertising continued its sales staff, assisting the dissemination lacklustre performance with an overall of best practice around the Group, decline of 5.2%, falling in each half by providing a more professional service 3.9% and 6.7% respectively.
to advertisers and helping to generate Continued dealer ownership changes additional revenues.
and consolidation, coupled with poor car sales, combined to keep Our close working relationship with performance depressed.
Only the Mediaforce, the independent national Northeast division achieved growth in sales-house which represents all this category.
Johnston Press titles with national and a number of regional advertising The other classified category agencies, continues to form an integral Top to bottom.
performed well, growing by 5.5%, part of our sales operations.
The recently - Limerick Leader acquired in 2005.
4.1% in the first half and the strong established creative sales unit within - Over 110 million invested in increase of 7.0% in the second fuelled Mediaforce assisted in the capture of upgrading our printing facilities.
by the need for licensed premises to new business for Johnston Press from - Upgraded distribution systems.
re-apply for liquor licences following clients such as Baxters and RIAS, as the introduction of new licensing laws.
well as winning back clients such as Powerhouse and ATS from other media.
In the display category, there was an National advertising also benefited from overall decline of 2.4%, made up of General Election advertising from 0.6% in the first half and 4.1% in the various political parties.
This was despite strong growth in special features as a result of The importance of the Groups the proactive efforts of our sales teams continuing programme of investment in to stimulate additional revenues.
The new IT systems cannot be overstated in overall performance reflected tougher terms of its positive impact on business conditions on the High Street in all efficiency and customer service levels.
markets, although marginal growth was During the year, progress was made in a achieved in the South Midlands.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 15 Chief Executive Officers Review continued Our drive towards common systems Suffolk Free Press and The Southern made strong advances with the Reporter in the Borders.
implementation of new advertising front-end systems in the Northwest A number of our newspapers and staff and new editorial systems in the South were also recognised for their and South Midlands.
This programme achievements with awards including will continue in 2006 with investment The Southern Reporter being voted as planned in Yorkshire, Ireland and the Newspaper Societys Scottish Scotland.
We are well into the roll-out weekly newspaper of the year for the of a Group-wide newspaper sales fourth successive occasion.
system which will be completed during the current year.
We have transferred Digital Publishing to Thus plc as our infrastructure The growth and development of our provider for our wide area network and digital publishing activities during 2005 continued progress has been made in has been considerable, reflecting the the installation of voice-over IP strong focus which Johnston Press telephony across the Group which will continues to place on this aspect of our deliver significant cost savings.
The Group now has 288 local or regional websites, including those Considerable progress has also been operated by the newly acquired made in automating our customer companies, with page impressions interfaces, with many estate agents having grown by 49%, exceeding 30 288 now producing and uploading their million per month and unique users now content electronically and more around 2.5 million per month.
Total regional websites advertisers using our internet-based online revenues increased by 32% to solution to place advertisements with reach 8.3 million, producing a us.
The growing extent of IT contribution to profit of 5.8 million.
standardisation across the Group has also enabled us to improve the The Group announced in September technical support function with the that it had agreed a 60,000 annual strengthening of our central help desk sponsorship of a Chair in Digital in Leeds.
All of this investment has Journalism at the University of Central allowed the Group to consolidate Lancashire UCLan for a three year further a number of pre-press centres period.
Johnston Presss partnership including those in the South, East with UCLan, which combines the Midlands, the North and Northeast.
expertise of one of the top journalism Top to bottom.
departments in the country with one of - Jobs Today, recruitment website.
Health and safety remains a key area of the UK's major regional newspaper - Lot 24-7, auction website, launched focus for the Group.
Improvements to groups, represents a unique opportunity in 2005. our monitoring, reporting systems and in the development of new digital - Leeds Today - local news, sport and training have been made during the applications.
The rolling audit of our systems and procedures by a third party has During the year, we increased the size indicated a further general improvement of our development team based in in adherence to our health and safety Peterborough by 20% and resource procedures.
There were 30 reportable around the Group was also accidents in 2005, a small number for a strengthened.
We have appointed company of our size, and the vast category managers for each of our majority were very minor in nature.
jobs, motors and property sites and, in addition, an online editorial content During the year, more of our titles champion.
Assisted by those celebrated important milestones, appointments, we are in the process notably 150th anniversaries for the of a further programme of Bury Free Press, the Sudbury based enhancements and upgrades to each 16 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 of our classified sites with re-launches Our auction site Lot24-7.
co. uk was digital publishing development planned during the course of 2006. launched at the end of 2005 programme, remains central to the In addition, we have launched a and will utilise the combination of our Groups overall progress.
project in Preston to act as a test-bed newspapers and local websites to in the development of the newsroom create a truly local and differentiated Printing of the future, in which content will be auction service.
Our digital offering is The key developments for our Printing gathered and disseminated through a also providing users with an increasing Division during 2005 have been variety of print and digital channels in range of services with developments in dominated by the major new press a media-neutral manner.
2005 including a real time news service projects at Dinnington, near Sheffield, to mobile phones, greater depth of and at Portsmouth.
With a total A number of new services have been content within our classified search expenditure in excess of 100m and developed and launched during 2005. engines and electronic versions of a backed by 15-year supply contracts The most successful in revenue terms number of our printed daily newspapers with News International NI, these has been the roll-out of our online CV available by subscription online.
represent by far the largest and most matching service which is now exciting press projects in the Groups generating around 30k per week from Our continuing investment in history.
It is pleasing to report that a database of 6,000 active CVs and advertising front-end systems has also both projects are proceeding to plan in over 60,000 registered users.
The improved the structure and quality of terms of cost and timescale.
redesign and re-launch of our local data obtained from our advertisers The Dinnington building is largely directory service under the Local and, together with a growing database complete and equipment is in the Pages brand has proved very popular of information on our readers, good course of installation for start-up in the with users and advertisers.
The sales progress is being made in the third quarter of 2006.
At Portsmouth, of links to electronically formatted introduction and use of our customer demolition work is complete, building versions of newspaper advertisements relations management CRM work has commenced, the publishing have generated strong revenue growth.
This, as with our entire offices refurbished and start-up is planned for 12 months after Dinnington.
At Leeds, a digital inking system has been installed and the refurbishment of the mailroom has begun.
At Peterborough, the press is being extended to ensure that we meet the increasing demand for colour.
Once completed, this project will allow the press to print 160 pages with every one in colour.
Reflecting the need of all of our titles for high quality colour printing and for the Group to maximise the return on its press investment programme, the Halifax press was closed during 2005 with printing being transferred to Leeds.
Plans have also been announced for the closure of our pressrooms in Scarborough, Wakefield and Sheffield, the latter two to take place once the new Dinnington press comes on stream.
The acquisitions made during 2005 have also brought additional pressrooms to the Group, in Edinburgh and Forfar in Scotland with two in the Republic of Ireland and three in Northern Ireland.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 17 Chief Executive Officers Review continued In view of the increased price of from our reported ABC figures.
All of newsprint in 2005, the Group took the daily newspapers we published steps to mitigate the impact on costs throughout 2005 achieved 100% including the standardisation of web actively purchased status.
The figures width to the NI standard.
This will also were also adversely affected by steps be helpful when the new presses in taken to address the issue of bad debt Dinnington and Portsmouth come on on our direct delivery sales.
stream in view of the NI contracts.
Prices of newsprint for the current year The Groups Daily Newspaper Sales have increased by a similar amount to Forum has made good progress in 2005 and further measures to partially ensuring the adoption of best practice mitigate the effect are already in place.
at all centres and in evolving new approaches to address the underlying Circulations circulation issues.
This includes using For the year as a whole, circulation the Groups strength to improve our revenues increased on a like-for-like reader offers and promotional activity, basis by 1.8%, the majority of the publishing our titles earlier in the day to increase coming in the second half of match the shopping habits of our the year.
During 2005, we increased readers and collecting detailed serving the cover price of over 70% of our customer data to enable us to tailor paid-for newspapers.
This takes no our service accordingly.
In addition, we account of The Scotsman and the have undertaken a number of research Leinster Leader Group, which only projects that have given us a clearer local became part of the Group at the turn understanding of our readers opinions, of the year.
purchasing habits and expectations for communities the future.
However, behind the After seven consecutive years of disappointing figures, the market growth, the total sale of our weekly penetration of our daily titles remains titles fell in the second half of 2004, strong and they continue to deliver a trend which continued in 2005 with good advertiser response levels.
reductions of 2.1% and 2.4% in the first and second halves respectively When combined with our local contributing to an overall fall of 2.3%.
websites, we can offer a significantly The more difficult trading environment, increased audience reach to with its adverse impact on advertising advertisers.
We have installed an online volumes, is undoubtedly a factor in market measurement tool which Top to bottom.
this decline but, that said, penetration enables us to provide advertisers with - The Dewsbury Reporter.
levels remain extremely high and, with an estimate of total market reach after - The News in Portsmouth.
relatively static population numbers, it removing those users who are also - The Sunderland Echo.
is unrealistic to expect a perpetual newspaper readers.
increase in the overall sale.
The key factor is the high market penetrations Content being achieved and thereby the Community involvement remains the unrivalled extent to which advertisers cornerstone of the editorial approach are able to reach local communities for all of our newspaper titles, within a with their messages.
framework which guarantees editors the freedom to edit without management The circulation performance of our interference.
The Corporate Social daily titles remains broadly unchanged Responsibility Statement on pages 37 with an overall decline over the year of to 42 provides details of the numerous 5.5% comprising 6.5% in the first half ways in which our newspapers serve and 4.5% in the second.
The first half their local communities through figure was depressed by the final stage campaigns, championing good in the process of removing bulk sales causes, supporting charitable 18 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 organisations, leading fundraising the heavy programme of acquisitions We have also strengthened our efforts, exposing wrong-doing and which inevitably places additional succession planning processes and celebrating success.
Quite simply, our burdens on those involved during the continue to embrace our commitment newspapers are the voice and negotiations and the subsequent to being a caring and responsible conscience of the communities they integration process.
Our ability to deal employer.
serve, having a pivotal role in with these added pressures is a community life.
As a Company, we are testament to the strengths and quality The fact that Johnston Press acutely conscious of the heavy of our management and has produced such good results in 2005 responsibility which our editors bear.
undoubtedly been assisted by the against such a difficult trading continuing stability within our Head background speaks volumes for the In recognition of the important role of Office and Senior Management teams.
professionalism, hard work and our editors, we have strengthened the commitment of all of our staff.
I would Editorial Review Group which has Following the various acquisitions like to express my personal thanks to continued to perform a valuable role in made during the year and the resultant all our staff and I am pleased that the supporting editors and encouraging the increase in the size of the Group, we Board has agreed to recognise and improvement of standards generally.
have made several key management reward those efforts by once again In addition to their involvement in the appointments and organisational permitting all qualifying employees, appointment of editors, we have changes.
Running our businesses in representing the substantial majority extended the use of a buddying Northern Ireland and the Republic of of those we employ, to receive free system for all those newly appointed Ireland respectively, we welcome Johnston Press shares to be granted to the editors chair.
Jean Long and Barry Brennan to the under the Groups Share Incentive Divisional Management team.
Our acquisitions during 2005 have Jean was the previous Chief Executive brought various new titles to the Group of LPL and Barry was Group Marketing and from an editorial standpoint, high Director at Independent News & Media profile newspapers such as The plc.
Michael Johnston has relocated Scotsman, Scotland on Sunday and from Portsmouth, where he was the News Letter in Northern Ireland.
Managing Director of our South of These titles, like the Yorkshire Post, England division, to Edinburgh to run Tim BOWDLER have a more discernable editorial The Scotsman Publications Limited Chief Executive Officer stance than is typical of many of our and the enlarged Scottish division.
8 March 2006 newspapers and, whilst we are totally Michael has been replaced in committed to the maintenance of the Portsmouth by Gary Fearon who was highest editorial standards and previously Managing Director of our investment in good content, we do not Northeast division.
We have combined intend to alter our editorial policy the North division, headquartered in which leaves content decisions firmly Leeds, with the Sheffield based North and clearly with each individual editor.
Midlands and South Yorkshire division In accordance with this, Johnston and the Northeast division based in Press editors are encouraged to Sunderland, under the leadership of vigorously pursue investigative Chris Green.
A similar combination of journalism and worthwhile campaigns.
the East and South Midlands divisions, In that regard, it is particularly pleasing led by Nick Mills, has been made to note the successful outcome of the possible by the appointment of Chris long running campaign by The News Pennock to the role of Group in Portsmouth to seek a specific Arctic Newspaper Sales and Marketing Medal for those men who took part in Director.
the Arctic Campaign of World War II.
We continue to place strong emphasis Organisation and People on skills-based training and 2005 has been a particularly management development which has challenging year, not only as we have included the introduction of a new had to manage through a more difficult Senior Management Development trading environment but also due to Programme run by Kaizen Training.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 19
