indd Proof: 10 Operator: Dave Date: 31 03 06 Server: Studio l Set-up: Tracy Annual Report & Accounts 2005 4 Kazakhmys PLC Q&A with the Chief Executive Mr Cha has served on the board of directors of Kazakhmys LLC since 2000.
He answers some of the most frequently asked questions since being appointed Chief Executive.
Yong Keu Cha Chief Executive.
What, for you, were the highlights of 2005?
I can think of a few highlights that stand out.
Our year-on-year financial performance has improved, albeit supported by higher copper prices.
Revenues are up by 106.2% and EBITDA excluding special items is 35.6% higher than in 2004.
Furthermore, although we faced operating challenges at the beginning of 2005, notably the slope failure at the nikolaevskoe mine, we managed to sustain our production levels returning to full operating capacity by June 2005.
We succeeded in expanding our production asset base, completing the Artemyevskoe mine project.
We have also made good progress on several other projects and expansions at some of the existing mines and will continue to work on these as well as developing new projects.
Key to our operations, our neighbour China, the principal destination for our copper products, continued to be one of the fastest growing economies in the world.
But most importantly, 2005 was a milestone in the history of the Group.
We successfully launched our shares on the London Stock Exchange and entered the FTSE 100 Index at the first opportunity: our share price increased substantially, which is good news for us and our investors.
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Kazakhmys PLC 5 2.
Can you elaborate on the effects of implemented a number of changes to the.
What are your views on the recent UK listing on the Groups corporate governance of the Company.
These changes were designed to give confidence to shareholders that it would Kazakhstans economy is one of the most Prior to our Listing, Kazakhmys had limited aspire to be well managed in a manner dynamic developing economies in the financial flexibility and low investor visibility comparable to other international mining region.
The country has enjoyed over 9% and access to international capital markets companies listed on the London Stock annual GDP growth rate for the last several all key components that are required for Exchange whilst taking into account the years and foreign direct investment in a company to compete successfully for unique circumstances behind the growth 2005 stood at over $40 billion.
The country significant investment opportunities.
and development of the Group.
possesses a wealth of impressive natural resources, which makes it an attractive Aware of these constraints, our 4. how are the new projects investment destination.
management team took the opportunity to progressing?
take Kazakhmys public and list its shares Recently, Mr nazarbayev was re-elected on the London Stock Exchange, thus We are very pleased with the progress we as President of Kazakhstan for another building a platform from which shareholder have achieved on our new projects.
We seven-year term and this will continue to value could be created and growth could completed Artemyevskoe, an underground provide a stable political environment.
be pursued, at the same time as unlocking mine project, well ahead of schedule and Mr nazarbayev is a strong advocate of the Groups existing potential.
The mine has an expected liberalising the economy and attracting mine life of 22 years.
Becoming a UK listed company has brought us a number of responsibilities: We have also made good progress towards 7.
What is your view on the outlook more transparency and detailed the completion of the Zhaman-Aybat mine.
disclosure, increased accountability to The shaft systems are commissioned and shareholders and compliance with all the underground development is almost In recent years, growth in demand has relevant regulations in the market.
We anticipate initial production resulted in steadily increasing copper the operational side, we have introduced to start later this year.
There is a generally accepted view T significant changes to our internal has reserves of 75.3 M of ore containing in the market that in the short-term, copper management information system and 1,069 kt of copper.
prices should remain above the long-term data analysis.
We are introducing a more historic average.
nonetheless, there are rigorous approach to budgeting, new At our largest future project, Aktogay, several projects being implemented in project approval and capital expenditure.
we are continuing with site studies response to higher copper prices but it All key elements of Group strategy are and preliminary works but the final should take some time before they can approved by the Board, which includes development decision still has to be made.
several independent Directors with Aktogay is an open pit mine with reserves T significant sector experience.
of 1,614 M of ore at an average grade of A major factor in performance of the 0.36% of copper containing 5,810 kt of copper market has been demand from Alongside these responsibilities, we have copper.
Refined copper consumption in recognised substantial benefits.
We have 2005, one of the factors most important access to much cheaper funding.
Do you have any acquisition plans to us, grew by 7% compared to 2004. current capitalisation and a much stronger for the immediate future?
China consumed 23% of global copper balance sheet with virtually no debt, we supply in 2005 and last year the countrys are well positioned to consider investment Kazakhstan is a very rich country with a GDP growth rate was an impressive 9.9%.
wealth of natural resources and a rapidly However, there are differing views as to However, for the time being, we remain developing economy.
These factors make how much longer China can continue its firmly focused on the surrounding region.
the projects in Kazakhstan attractive impressive economic growth.
There has We also remain focused on copper with the for both local and foreign investors.
We been a lot of speculation on a hard landing potential to diversify into other base metals are constantly reviewing investment for the Chinese economy but there has should we see an attractive opportunity.
opportunities in the region and believe been little evidence of it so far.
that there are several opportunities that 3. how do you respond to those, will allow us to deliver on our strategic particularly in the press, who say objective of opportunistic acquisitions that Kazakhmys does not conform in the area.
However, I cannot be more to the UK standards of corporate specific at this stage.
The Board believes that effective governance structures and procedures are essential to the long-term sustainability of its business.
As a result, in the period leading up to Listing, the Board
