Chief Executive Officers overview Kingston Communications HULL PLC Annual Report 2004-05 1 During the year we have improved our financial performance across all areas of the Group.
How has the Group performed over the last year?
It has been a very successful and very busy year, during which we have improved our financial performance across all areas of the Group.
We have delivered growth in sales organically, improved our margins and resumed paying dividends.
We have also accelerated our strategy of focusing on our UK target markets and strengthened our ability to deliver integrated, converged communications services to our customers.
Why did the Group acquire Eclipse, Omnetica and Technica?
The acquisition of Omnetica has given us access to extensive, high quality enterprise data and IP 2 networking skills together with a very attractive customer base.
The skills and customers we have gained through this acquisition complement our existing customer base and traditional strengths in providing voice and carrier services.
The acquisition of Technica supports the Groups existing capabilities in the growing UK storage market, and will enhance and strengthen our business-to-business service offering.
The combination of new and existing skills within the Group gives us a stronger position in the evolving converged solutions market, broadening our managed services proposition and improving our ability to serve key vertical markets.
At the same time, we have significantly reduced our dependency on basic voice services where there has been 1.
Malcolm Fallen, a continuous and substantial decline in prices.
Chief Executive Officer The UK market for broadband internet continues to grow.
While our successful Karoo internet brand 2.
Our expansion into Lincolnshire serves our East Yorkshire market, the acquisition is a natural extension of our successful of Eclipse gives us the opportunity to grow our operation in East Yorkshire broadband capability throughout the rest of the UK.
How are the business-to-business acquisitions Q.
How does Affiniti fit with the other identified.
The organic growth we have experienced being integrated within the rest of the Group?
during the last year reflects our success in winning A.
Our priority is to ensure that the integration of A.
The Group has a portfolio of market-facing new customers and increasing the depth of services these businesses is undertaken properly rather than identities such as Affiniti, Karoo, Eclipse, Hull Colour sold to existing customers.
The first phase, which was to Pages and, of course, Kingston Communications.
present a single sales and marketing identity to our These are distinct identities that serve particular Q.
Why has the Group decided to expand its existing and prospective customers by the start of target markets.
East Yorkshire operation to offer services to the new financial year, was completed successfully.
The first visible sign of that was the launch of Affiniti, Q.
When will the acquisitions have a positive A.
Many of the businesses with which we have our national business-to-business identity.
The next effect on the share price?
a long-established relationship in East Yorkshire also phase will concentrate on bringing together our A.
The market responded positively to the news have offices in North Lincolnshire.
We have already service delivery capabilities and integrating the about the acquisitions.
It is now up to us to realise secured several contracts in the area and we are processes and systems.
and drive value from the benefits they present to confident that our service proposition and our the Group.
While the performance of the Group reputation for excellent customer service will mean Ultimately, the core objective of the integration obviously affects our share price, it is important that many other businesses in and around Lincoln process is to optimise service delivery.
Our goal is to to remember that there are factors outside of and Grimsby will want to do business with us.
improve the customer experience and increase sales our control such as the performance of other productivity while continuing to drive efficiencies companies in the sector and overall sentiment Q.
What do you think are Kingstons key through the business.
towards our sector and the broader stock market challenges going forward?
that also have an impact on the share price.
It is important that we gain maximum benefit from Q.
Why did you create a new brand our acquisitions by integrating them successfully.
Affiniti for the Groups national businessQ.
Is the increasing level of debt bad news?
The increase in debt reflects the investment We need to achieve this while maintaining our A.
The new business has been created by bringing in the recent acquisitions.
The sale of the French focus on the day-to-day challenges of running our together Kingstons national business-to-business operation after the year end will reduce net debt business efficiently and ensuring that our customers operation with Omnetica and Technica.
Together and we are confident of further reductions as we remain at the centre of everything we do.
they offer a broader and deeper service offering continue to generate cash from the business.
than they did as individual businesses.
Can shareholders expect a larger dividend Q.
Will acquisitions be a part of the Groups next year?
The Kingston Communications brand is strongly future strategy?
Our ability to pay a dividend is directly related associated with voice and carrier expertise, while A.
We review all of our investment options based to the profitability and cash flows of the Group.
the market associates the Omnetica brand with on their strategic fit with the Group and their ability As improving our profitability is a key objective enterprise data networking.
We want our target to deepen our service capabilities and deliver going forward, I hope that there will be an markets to know that we are much more than just profitable growth and shareholder value.
Last years increased dividend payable next year.
a provider of voice communications or a data acquisitions were also undertaken to ensure that we networking company.
What weve created in the could meet the changing needs of our customers.
UK, under the Affiniti brand, is a new, end-to-end proposition as a communications integrator.
However, it is just as important that we continue to grow our existing business organically and we will The Affiniti brand only applies to our national do this by focusing on meeting the communications Malcolm Fallen business-to-business operation we have retained needs of the discrete market segments that we have Chief Executive Officer the Kingston Communications identity for all of our other activities.
