Operating and Financial Review Chief Executives review There is absolutely no room for complacency and the company remains committed in its mission to be the best.
REVIEW OF BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Getting ahead of the challenges of the next five 2004 05 has been an important Group profit before tax and exceptional items years, Yorkshire Water has negotiated a new five year for Kelda with the conclusion is up 16.8% to 223.7m due to another strong year pay deal with employees and contracts with of price reviews for both Yorkshire performance from our core business, Yorkshire service partners to ensure an early start to the Water and Aquarion.
Water, continuing underlying profitability from AMP4 investment programme.
Aquarion and an increased contribution from The groups non-regulated UK Service Operations Ofwats price determination for our UK service operations.
also made good progress, with operating profit Yorkshire Water provides certainty Adjusted earnings per share excluding deferred increasing to 6.4m.
Kelda Water Services for the business going forward and tax increased 15.2% to 53.2p.
previously Yorkshire Water Projects is now a allows us to make further real dynamic and focused organisation, with an annual On the back of this strong financial performance improvements to our infrastructure, turnover in excess of 100m going forward.
full year dividends have increased by 8.1% to the environment and customer 29.0p per share.
In January, Kelda Water Services signed a 700m, service, whilst delivering sustainable 15 year contract to provide waste water operations As well as growing both turnover and profits, and consistent shareholder returns.
The new contract means that the Yorkshire Water again out-performed its regulatory business now has operations in Scotland, Wales and The same is true of Aquarion, where, targets and will deliver over 120 million of operating the West Country.
following the rate case, the focus is cost out-performance for the 2000-05 period.
Other UK service operations had an on-plan year now firmly on improving returns.
The companys achievements in delivering value with KeyLand, Safe Move and Loop performing in to customers were also recognised by the water The expertise of the core business line with expectations.
regulator Ofwat, with Yorkshire Water becoming in efficient asset management and the first company ever to be awarded the topIn the US, Aquarions Connecticut rate case customer service delivery has also ranking A band for all four aspects of its relative was concluded with an outcome which was efficiency performance.
disappointing and management focus is now helped the group gain real on improving the rate of return to the allowed momentum in securing outsourced In December 2004, Yorkshire Water was also 9.75%.
The companys underlying profitability water and waste water contracts.
named Utility of the Year at the Utility Industry remains unchanged when the continuing effects Achievement Awards, great recognition of the of a weak US dollar are taken into account.
This progress has been made hard work and dedication of the companys Aquarion Operating Services, the companys possible by the commitment, 2,158 employees.
contract operations division, increased revenues passion and professionalism of our During the year Yorkshire Water invested a further with a number of contract wins.
people throughout the organisation 349m of capital, out-performing AMP3 targets by 13% and delivering the companys best ever water and I would like to use this report quality and service level performance.
Overall, as an opportunity to thank them pollution incidents were down by 15% despite for our progress over the last year summer storms, however the number of pollution and over the last five years as we incidents classified as serious has not reduced and look to the future.
we are taking steps to address this.
Sewer flooding incidents were reduced to their lowest ever level.
KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 05 Operating and Financial Review Chief Executives Review continued 2004 PRICE REVIEW PRO4 OUTLOOK We intend to optimise our balance sheet structure In December 2004, Ofwat made its Final Although the final outcome of the price by increasing borrowings in order to return capital Determination on price limits for Yorkshire Water determination was close to the plans submitted to shareholders through a limited share buyback for the AMP4 investment period 2005-10. by Yorkshire Water, it remains a challenging programme.
Subject to continued strong financial programme of work that will require the business performance by the group this could amount to In putting together our business plan for Yorkshire to continue to drive efficiencies and keep on 5% of equity over the next two years.
Water, our over-riding aim was to safeguard improving the quality of service it provides.
Yorkshires water and waste water infrastructure Throughout our operations our goal continues and maintain levels of service, whilst at the same We can expect that future efficiency reductions to be to deliver consistently good financial time making further efficiencies and keeping will be much more challenging to achieve, results which help the group to sustain low costs prices as low as possible.
however, and will require closer dialogue with of borrowing and sustained dividend growth.
service partners and the careful application of This strategy, underpinned by a clear focus on In doing this, we sought to balance price limits new technology and ways of working to enable efficiency and customer service in everything against the significant tax rises from 2005 and the us to make the further step change in service we do, will continue going forward.
additional obligations imposed by new European and performance we are looking for.
legislation, including the Freshwater Fish Directive.
There is absolutely no room for complacency and It is a balance which we believe we have got the company remains committed in its mission to right, with average annual price rises of 3.9% be the best.
over inflation and a total investment plan of KEVIN WHITEMAN 1.6 billion at 2005 06 prices.
We believe that Our non-regulated UK Service Operations continue Chief Executive this determination will provide good value for to make good progress and will account for over Kelda Group plc customers and allow Yorkshire Water to maintain 10% of group turnover.
The growing track record its infrastructure and provide the environmental and expertise of Kelda Water Services will ensure improvements to rivers that the UK Government that it is well placed to compete for further is looking for.
contracts with both private and public sector organisations who outsource the operation of The company has been able to strike this balance their water and waste water assets.
through making past and projected future efficiencies.
This focus has allowed Yorkshire In the US, initiatives are underway to achieve the Water to keep prices low for customers, ensure maximum allowable rate of return.
Aquarion is the financial and operational sustainability of the utilising knowledge and expertise from Yorkshire business and provide an appropriate return for Water to improve capital and operating cost Kelda shareholders.
efficiencies, whilst at the same time using new technology to drive improved service performance.
Based on the progress already made, we are confident of an enhanced return from the regulated water business going forward.
06 KELDA GROUP PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005
