CHIEF EXECUTIVES STATEMENT: BETTING AND GAMING LADBROKES: OUR KEY STRENGTHS ARE OUR BRAND, OUR DEPTH OF MANAGEMENT, OUR QUALITY OF STAFF AND OUR CLEAR STRATEGY FOR GROWTH.
I am honoured to be leading Ladbrokes into the Xtra also enables us to offer customers a wider future.
This new chapter in the Companys journey range of betting events including unique virtual promises to be more exciting than any in our horse and greyhound racing and horse racing 120-year history as we continue to differentiate from France and South Africa as well as our brand at home, and extend our reach greyhound and horse racing from the USA.
Importantly the service is under Ladbrokes editorial control enabling us to schedule our Our performance in 2005 represents our own broadcasts to maximise the number of second best ever year, following the record betting opportunities throughout the day.
Turning to eGaming, the business has once Highlights in 2005 included the acquisition again performed well.
Active player days are of Jack Brown Ltd. the largest bookmaker up across all parts of the business, our average in Wales.
With the rebranding and integration weekly rake in poker is up 79% and we are process completed swiftly we now have 2,282 encouraged by the increase in our gross win shops in the UK and Ireland.
conversion to 33.6% this year against last years 23.9%.
2005 also saw the development of Ladbrokes Xtra and the first phase of its roll-out.
The 2005 saw continued innovation with the service, which is now available in over 1,000 launch of new services such as Ladbrokes shops, will be available in every shop in time Financials which offers the opportunity to for the World Cup.
During the event, which bet on five minute movements in the FTSE will be the biggest betting event of all time, and Dow Jones indices, and a Live Dealer our Xtra screens will be used to screen live casino that combines online gaming with coverage of matches, and to promote our a live video stream of a casino dealer.
range of odds on each match.
The launch of a one-click casino also assisted ladbrokescasino.
com in achieving higher growth in 2005 compared to the previous year.
6,881 2m FOBTs at the year end, eGaming representing growth of With over 2 million registered customers 14.8% year on year.
in more than 200 countries the success of the eGaming business is an early indication of the international appeal of the Ladbrokes brand.
06 Annual Report and Accounts We have followed these with further innovations In 2005 we began a number of discussions in 2006 notably the launch of an online version about opportunities in markets around the of the popular Chinese game Mahjong.
world, mainly in Asia and Europe, which continue to progress.
While we will only pursue Our poker site has benefited from its strategy deals where the investment case is a sound of developing an online community that comes one, we are encouraged by these discussions together around offline events such as the and firmly believe that there is scope for Ladbrokes Poker Million and the Ladbrokes international expansion.
We are also encouraged by our consultancy With approaching half a million active customers agreement with the China Sport Lottery in over 200 countries the success of the Beijing Sales and Marketing Co. Ltd. Whilst eGaming business is an early indication of the this will not generate significant revenues for international appeal of the Ladbrokes brand.
a number of years we believe it is an indication The World Cup offers a unique international of what can be achieved in the international recruitment opportunity and we will exploit market, and clearly illustrates the reach of the this to the full.
Whilst Ladbrokes has already established Ladbrokes has strong foundations for the international credentials, we will continue to future.
We have a strong brand, an excellent seek out further opportunities in the global experienced management team, a track record market.
During 2006 we will conduct an early of success and a clear strategy for growth, review of our position towards US gaming underpinned by sound financials.
We look customers, and we will expect to be able to forward to implementing our plans for 2006 report the outcome before our interim results.
Our performance in 2005 represents our second best ever year, following the record results posted in 2004.
Christopher Bell, Chief Executive, Ladbrokes Worldwide, 22 February 2006 Annual Report and Accounts 07 ladbrokescasino.
