Chief Executives review Securing the future innovation and pro t of financial instruments, was 34.3 million in 2005, compared with Strategic Development Laird has made further good progress in 2005, and has again delivered 40.6 million in 2004. positive organic revenue growth together with good growth in underlying Underlying earnings per share in 2005 were 28.9 pence, 10% up on pro ts and earnings.
We have continued to strengthen and develop our the 26.3 pence in 2004. two market leading divisions, with recent acquisitions performing at or Exceptional costs of 15.5 million were incurred in the year 2004: ahead of expectations.
This was largely as a result of the restructuring of Laird Over the last five years the Group has been transformed from a Technologies Swedish antennae operations and their relocation diversi ed industrial conglomerate to a higher growth, increasingly to Central Europe, and of Laird Security Systems UK window pro table company focused on its two market leading divisions.
hardware business and the resultant relocation to China, all as Lower growth, low margin businesses have been and, where originally planned, together with the effects of the Pennsylvania ood appropriate will continue to be, divested.
Laird in April 2005 and the 4.0 million lease provision made consequent Technologies and Laird Security upon the disposal of Permacell Finesse in September.
Systems have been and continue Net borrowings at the year end were 148.1 million 2004: to be strengthened and expanded, 118.6 million, representing 52% of shareholders funds.
Interest both through organic investment and cover for the year was 6.2 times.
There was a strong trading cash through acquisitions, which have in ow in the year of 34.0 million, compared with an in ow of enhanced the technology, product 24.3 million in 2004.
There was a net cash out ow on acquisitions offering, market positioning and and disposals of 29.1 million compared with 77.3 million in 2004, geographic spread of the Group.
additional contributions of 5.8 million in 2005 2004: nil into the Groups fide ned bene t pension schemes above the normal funding Delivery of Pro table Growth level of 1.9 million and a cash spend on exceptional items of Total Group revenue in 2005 4.7 million compared with 2.6 million in 2004. was 508.7 million, 9% up on the 468.0 million Bene ts of Strategic Acquisitions of total revenue in Laird Technologies made two acquisitions in 2005.
Revenue in Taiwan and with a manufacturing facility in China, was acquired in from continuing January for approximately 13.0 million.
Cateron, a leading supplier operations, that is of EMI shielding products to the global PC notebook market, has including acquisitions performed ahead of expectations.
The acquisition of Melcor, for but excluding the approximately 11.0 million, was completed in October.
Melcor, with disposals made in facilities in New Jersey, USA and Quanzhou, China, designs and 2004 and 2005, produces thermoelectric coolers, expanding Laird Technologies was 490.3 million, existing thermal product range and broadening its served markets.
up 42% on the In May 2005 Laird Security Systems consolidated its position as 345.5 million in the largest UK provider of composite doors to the growing social 2004.
Underlying housing and Housing Association market with the acquisition of organic revenue Securidor for approximately 6.0 million.
In September 2005 the growth from acquisition of Builders Hardware in California, for approximately continuing operations 6.0 million, provided Laird Security Systems with an expanded was 7%.
presence in the growing West Coast market and complements the Underlying pro t before tax existing door hardware product range in the USA.
was 55.1 million in 2005, 19% higher than 46.4 million Maintaining Progress in 2004.
The Groups Laird has again made good progress in 2005, growing revenues underlying operating pro t and underlying pro t. The Group has continued to be developed margin increased to 12.9%, strategically, and is well positioned to make further progress in 2006. from 11.1% in 2004 as a result of organic growth, a greater proportion of Peter Hill manufacturing from low Chief Executive cost countries and the portfolio repositioning.
Pro t before taxation from continuing operations, after exceptional items, the amortisation of acquired intangibles and the fair valuing The Laird Group PLC 3 Securing the future through development May 2005 Unveiling of Laird April 2005 Technologies new antennae Laird manufacturing facility in Technologies Szombathely, Hungary Pennsylvania facility temporarily January 2005 closed due to Acquisition ooding of Cateron Corporation for Laird Technologies 20 May 2005 Acquisition of Securidor for Laird Security Systems January 2005 Construction commences on a 35,000 sq m agship facility in Shenzhen, China, for Laird Technologies 4 The Laird Group PLC September 2005 Ground-breaking commences for a new 23,000 sq m Laird September 2005 Technologies antennae Laird Security facility in Beijing, China Systems exits September 2005 the UK uPVC Laird Security window systems Systems market expands into US West Coast window and door hardware market with the acquisition of Builders Hardware Inc October 2005 Laird Technologies October 2005 acquires Melcor Centurion Wireless Corporation, a Technologies, a unit manufacturer of Laird Technologies, of advanced ships its one billionth thermal handset antennae management 05 solutions to a variety of enduse markets August 2005 NASA selects Laird Technologies Thermal Products T-pli gap ller for Extravehicular Activity EVA camera onboard Space Shuttle Discovery The Laird Group PLC 5 Laird Technologies Securing the future through technical expertise Partners in Design Centurion Wireless Technologies which Laird Technologies is a leading was acquired in October 2004, and international supplier of custom the organic revenue growth of 15% designed electronic components achieved in the year.
and solutions to the global EMI product line revenues were electronics industries, including 135.0 million in 2005, with organic telecommunications infrastructure, revenue growth of 16%.
Antennae cellular handsets, data transfer and revenues were 103.0 million, with information technology, and also organic revenue growth of 36%, while supplies the automotive, aerospace revenues from the lower margin power and defence, consumer electronics, products were 9.0 million, a decline medical and industrial markets.
of 58% organically as programmes Laird believes that Laird became end-of-life and were not Technologies is the global market replaced.
Thermal products revenues leader in the design and supply of both were 12.0 million in the year, with EMI shielding solutions and wireless the business undergoing a period of cellular handset antennae: it also has consolidation.
an increasing presence in the emerging Underlying operating pro ts also applications of telematics and Wi-Fi.
grew by some 82%, to 37.7 million, Laird has also established a growing compared with 20.7 million in 2004, presence in the design and supply as a result of the organic revenue of thermal management products growth, the bene ts of acquisitions and solutions for electronic devices.
and the increased levels of production Its products, often co-designed in from lower cost countries.
Operating conjunction with its customers, are margins were maintained, at 14.5%, critical in protecting or enhancing the despite the acquisition of Centurions performance of electronic devices.
lower margin businesses which have As leading global electronics a higher bought in materials content manufacturers look to focus their compared to Laird Technologies EMI internal processes around brand shielding and thermal products.
management and sales generation, they look increasingly to Laird Bene ts of strategic acquisitions Technologies to provide a more Laird Technologies made two comprehensive suite of products, acquisitions in 2005.
Cateron, based in design engineering and testing, as well Taiwan and with a manufacturing facility as integration with their global supply in China, was acquired in January for chain and research and development.
approximately 13.0 million and has performed ahead of expectations.
Strong growth in revenues and Cateron is believed to be the leading pro ts supplier of EMI shielding, fabric over In markets that generally remained foam gaskets and tape to the global buoyant in 2005, Laird Technologies PC notebook market.
Its strong bene ted particularly from the strong position with Taiwanese Original Design demand for its EMI shielding and Manufacturers has the potential to antennae products for the cellular provide sales of antennae and thermal handset market, where industry products and to provide a full service commentators believe that global design and supply offering.
unit handset shipments increased by The acquisition of Melcor, for approximately 20% compared with approximately 11.0 million was 2004, to approximately 820 million completed in October 2005.
has facilities in New Jersey, USA and Revenue grew by some 82% in the Quanzhou, China.
The Company year to 259.4 million compared with designs and produces thermoelectric 142.8 million in 2004.
This strong coolers, which actively transport growth in revenues was the result thermal energy across a semiconductor of acquisitions, most notably that of junction coupled with electron ow, 6 The Laird Group PLC The Laird Group PLC 7 expanding Laird Technologies existing tooling centre for Laird Technologies is thermal product range and broadening also being established there.
Construction of a new 23,000 The acquisition of Antenex, Inc. square metre facility in Beijing for for approximately 10.0 million was production of wireless handset announced on 8 March 2006.
Antenex, antennae, and incorporating a major Inc. designs and manufactures a design centre, is well under way, and range of antennae products for it is expected will be operational by communications in the transportation, June 2006. defence, public safety, system and Further expansion in Tianjin will medical sectors, complementing support growth in the production of Laird Technologies existing antennae shielding products for the wireless product offering.
handset market, as well as thermally Centurion Wireless Technologies, or electrically conductive elastomer acquired in October 2004, also ECE products and materials.
It performed ahead of expectations.
is expected from early 2006, the Cost synergies of $5.0 million in manufacture of ECE products for Asia 2006, announced at the time of the will be relocated to Tianjin from the acquisition, are still expected to be USA and Europe.
Additional production achieved, while the first synergy space was secured in Shanghai sales have been made.
Laird to support the increased output of Technologies, including Centurion, board level shields for the wireless shipped 170 million cellular antennae handset market.
units, a growth of 23% compared with Elsewhere in Asia, a new production Centurions shipments in 2004, as a facility was established in Johor Baru, result of strong market demand and Malaysia, to provide shielding products market share gains.
Strong growth for wireless handsets.
In Korea two was also achieved in telematics and facilities have been consolidated into other wireless antennae shipments.
a new facility in Seoul, to create a In October 2005 Centurion reached a single design and sales support centre milestone with the shipping of its one for all Laird Technologies products.
In Taiwan, facility consolidation has taken place following the acquisition Operational and geographic of Centurion and Cateron.
Antennae development design, prototyping and testing Asia continues to be of increasing capabilities will be established in both importance to Laird Technologies, Korea and Taiwan in 2006 to support both as a growing market and as a local customers.
low cost manufacturing base, and is In the USA, the EMI shielding plant in also becoming increasingly important Pennsylvania closed by ood damage as a design and development centre.
in April 2005 was re-opened and order In 2005, 50% of Laird Technologies intake restored.
Approximately 20% revenues by destination were from Asia of the preood production has been 2004: 45% and 54% of revenues by relocated permanently to other Laird origin 2004: 33%.
At the end of 2005, Technologies facilities, and the head Laird Technologies had approximately count has reduced by approximately 6,600 employees, of whom 75% were one third.
A new ood protection levee in Asia, the majority in China.
has been constructed on site.
In China, construction of a new In Europe, the two UK facilities were 35,000 square metre facility in consolidated into one, and the majority Shenzhen was completed by the year of UK manufacturing relocated to end, and it is expected that the facility Liberec in the Czech Republic where will become operational during the first production continues to be expanded.
half of 2006 focusing initially on EMI Liberec now supplies the majority of shielding products.
A global production European EMI shielding products.
Almost all antennae production from 8 The Laird Group PLC Sweden has been relocated to Extending global leadership Beijing, China and to a new facility Laird Technologies had another in Szombathely, Hungary, to supply successful year in 2005.
Its the Central European electronics close customer relationships, its manufacturing centres of Laird increasingly broad product offering, Technologies customers.
its expanding base of technical A new facility is planned for expertise and its well established, but Reynosa, Mexico during 2006, initially still growing, low cost manufacturing for antennae production but with base, is expected to provide a sound the ability to expand to cover other platform from which to extend further products, and a feasibility study in its global leadership positions 2006 will assess the potential for a during 2006. similar facility in India.
Technical development During 2005 Laird Technologies continued to expand and develop its technology capabilities with 370 patents issued and 180 pending and some 280 engineers and technologists were employed worldwide at the year end.
New EMI shielding products under development or commercialised during 2005 included Eco Green, a fabric over foam product for the consumer electronics industry and the development of a range of mould-in place environmental gaskets.
In antennae, Laird Technologies continues to develop new integrated antennae modules, including the first software controlled antennae, to cope with the increasing complex demands for multiple applications.
New antennae products included an enhanced, ceramic based production line for non-cellular frequencies.
A number of new thermal interface products including specialist thermally conductive greases, are being developed.
In August, Laird Technologies T-Pli2000 series gap ller was selected by NASA for use aboard the space shuttle Discovery.
Following the acquisition of Melcor, a new range of enhanced thermoelectric coolers, to improve thermal and mechanical performance is planned.
The Laird Group PLC 9 Laird Security Systems Securing the future through innovation Innovative home improvement 131.0 million.
Of this, 29% solutions represented window hardware, 27% Laird Security Systems is a leader in doors, 22% door hardware, and 12% the design, development, manufacture windows and conservatories.
and distribution of innovative products USA revenue in 2005 was and solutions.
These aim to improve approximately 100.0 million.
Of this, performance and thermal ef ciency, 60% represented window hardware, and enhance protection and security, 18% seals, 12% door hardware and for homes and buildings within the 10% uPVC extrusions.
UK and USA residential building and Laird Security Systems was again home improvement markets.
Its wide able to show underlying pro t growth, range of products include window of 5%, despite its mixed markets and and door hardware, composite doors, the adverse impact of commodity conservatories, uPVC products and prices.
Underlying operating pro ts for weatherstripping seals.
2005 were 28.1 million, compared In recent years the product range with 26.7 million in 2004.
Operating has been broadened and the business margin for the year was 12%.
is being repositioned towards the Commodity prices remained volatile higher growth segments of its markets.
Through carefully managing the Laird Security Systems sources an relationship between input and output increasing proportion of its hardware pricing, Laird Security Systems was products from its well established able to contain the adverse effect of supply base in China, both from its higher commodity prices in the year to own manufacturing facilities and from some 1.0 million.
Portfolio repositioning Bene ts of broad market spread In May 2005, Laird Security Systems Laird Security Systems markets consolidated its position as the largest were mixed in 2005.
In the UK the UK provider of composite doors to the overall housing market slowed, as growing social housing and Housing did the renovation market, while the Association market with the acquisition markets for replacement windows and of Securidor for approximately conservatories were particularly hard 6.0 million.
In contrast, the UK social housing acquisition of Intron in 2003 and market, where Laird Security Systems Lindman in 2004 and increases further is a major supplier of composite doors, the product range offered to this remained buoyant.
In the USA, the market overall In September 2005, the acquisition continued to be favourable across all of Builders Hardware in California, for of Laird Security Systems product approximately 6.0 million, provided lines.
In particular the renovation an expanded presence in the growing market remained relatively buoyant, as West Coast market and complements geographically did the Southern US the existing door hardware product and West Coast markets overall.
Pro tability should be Laird Security Systems delivered enhanced by re-sourcing the majority a solid performance in 2005, with of Builders Hardwares existing product continuing revenue up 14% to lines to our and our partner suppliers 230.9 million in the year, compared operations in China.
Organic The acquisition of Builders Hardware revenue growth was at overall for Laird was supplemented by the acquisition Security Systems as a whole, with a of Bandlock Corporation in March decline of 10% in the UK being offset 2006 for approximately 10.0 million.
by positive organic growth of 15% in Bandlock Corporation is a Californiathe USA.
based seals and extrusion business, UK revenue from continuing which will provide Laird Security businesses in 2005 was approximately Systems not only with the bene ts of 10 The Laird Group PLC The Laird Group PLC 11 a broader product offering close to consolidated into two in the first half customers on the US West Coast, but of 2006, with a capacity expansion will also complement its existing US at one of the facilities scheduled for seals and extrusions businesses.
completion at the end of the first Balance UK, acquired on 1 March quarter of 2006.
These actions, 2006, supplies a range of heavy duty together with Laird Security Systems window balances.
This will enhance technical capabilities and broad the product range of Lairds US product range, should leave this operations, to which Balance UK business well placed to take advantage will report, allowing sales of these of the continuing market growth window balances to Lairds existing expected in this sector.
In the USA, the window hardware, The disposal of Permacell Finesse door hardware, weather seals and in the UK, an extruder of rigid uPVC extrusions businesses each uPVC window pro les and cellular had an excellent year, with each uPVC products, was completed product line showing good growth.
Laird Security The capacity expansion at the seals Systems had a relatively small market business in the North Eastern US, share in this business segment, which was commenced in 2004, which was also under signi cant price became fully operational in 2005.
In pressure as a result of high oil and 2006, capacity of door hardware in resin prices.
The business was facing the Mid Western US, and of window increasingly dif cult trading conditions, hardware in the South Eastern US, will and recorded an operating loss in the be expanded to allow Laird to service year of 0.2 million through the point increasing demand from customers.
Following certain post closing Laird Security Systems in the adjustments, the net proceeds received USA is bene ting from the growing were approximately 5.0 million.
renovation and improvement market, The effect of these acquisitions and through favourable product trends in the disposal has been to continue its main market segments, and through to reposition Laird Security Systems market share gains, both directly and towards higher growth markets, through the continuing consolidation particularly in the USA, in line with the of its customer base.
It is expected that Systems design capabilities and its this overall strategy will continue to be high levels of customer service remain pursued.
key to its success in North America.
In Asia, sales of products Operational and geographic manufactured in Asia grew by development approximately 15% in 2005.
The In response to market conditions, facilities in Ningbo, China, were headcount in the UK window hardware expanded during the year.
Sourcing and components businesses was from partner suppliers was also reduced by some 300 during the year, expanded: these suppliers are or some 35% of the combined total in integrated into Laird Security Systems these businesses.
The hardware facility supply chain, which provides them in Essex was downsized signi cantly, with engineering expertise, specialised with the majority of manufacturing investment and quality control.
At Laird Lifestyle Products, manufacturing operations were consolidated further, to improve ef ciencies and provide a greater emphasis on marketing and product positioning.
In the UK composite door business, the three sites resulting from acquisitions in this sector will be 12 The Laird Group PLC Innovation Development of the strategy Laird Security Systems maintained Laird Security Systems has continued its focus on product innovation and to provide innovative local solutions development, continuing to develop to its customers allied to what are its intellectual property portfolio, believed to be industry leading while acting aggressively to defend service levels on a global basis, successfully a number of attempted underpinned by a still expanding low patent infringements.
There were sales cost engineering and manufacturing in 2005 from the new Springback capability in Asia.
Within the division sealing product range, innovative there is now a much broader presence new window balance designs, and an in a range of markets, products and increasing range of multipoint locks, all sales channels, allowing the division to developed since 2003.
Laird Security continue its record of pro table growth Systems continues with its product despite increased commodity prices innovation and new designs, both to and some weaker market sectors.
differentiate itself from its competitors Laird Security Systems is reducing its and to provide enhanced functionality exposure to the mature UK window for its customers.
market and continuing its repositioning Design teams in the UK and the to higher growth markets, particularly in USA are being integrated with the North America.
engineering, tooling and prototyping capabilities that are now rmly established in Asia.
As a result of this initiative, an innovative new range of window hardware products will be introduced into the US market during 2006 and 2007.
Laird Security Systems is targeting its product development to bene t from three macro trends which it sees emerging over the next few years.
One is more demanding construction standards in North America, to reduce hurricane damage.
A second is higher security allied to ease of use, including electronic access controls, which is seen to be particularly applicable as demographic trends move towards an increasingly ageing population.
A third is the expected trend towards even greater insulation and thermal ef ciency, as governments and consumers adjust to higher energy prices.
