P4 Chief executives review LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 Chief executives review Overall, 2005 was a good year for With the market for IT services continuing to In France we completed our programme to LogicaCMG.
We delivered a significant improve, the solid groundwork that we laid cut overheads at our existing French business improvement in profitability, order intake was following the merger of Logica and CMG at and focused on the better targeting of our strong and we accelerated the pace of the the end of 2002 is now delivering widespread pre-sales efforts.
This has enabled us to revenue growth we established in 2004.
We have always had a clear vision benefit from the improving market also took two significant strategic steps for our future.
We aim to create a worldwide environment.
The German market remained forward in 2005, with the acquisitions of top ten player in IT services with a balanced difficult for LogicaCMG in 2005.
However, the Edinfor and, most importantly, Unilog.
Both market sector profile, a powerful global enhanced scale and strengthened consulting these acquisitions have helped us build the delivery capability and with 30 to 40 per cent and systems integration skills resulting from scale we need to take advantage of improving of group revenues derived from value-based the acquisition of Unilog put us in a better market conditions and our customers desire outsourcing.
In 2005, we made excellent position to improve the operating performance to do business with a smaller number of larger progress towards achieving these goals.
of our business in Germany.
In Iberia, Edinfor suppliers who can provide them with a made a significant contribution, despite only broader range of offerings and who can Year of achievement formally joining the group in late April last year.
Despite difficult conditions in some European territories, we grew our revenues in most of In 2005, we moved our telecoms products With Edinfor we have shown that we can win our major markets and we continued to business back into profit, buoyed by demand a very substantial outsourcing contract against improve our profitability.
for messaging products, with operators the biggest and the best international undertaking significant upgrades to Internetcompetition.
With Unilog we have significantly Our UK business performed well.
Outsourcing based capabilities and increasing demand for increased our scale and geographical balance.
led the way in the UK, as elsewhere, with additional capacity, particularly from operators These two acquisitions enable us to shape our major contracts won from the Ministry of in developing countries.
future much better in a consolidating market.
Defence, Transport for London and Thames Today, LogicaCMG employs around 30,000 Water.
The Netherlands continued to achieve employees in 36 countries.
We have an good revenue growth with Financial Services extensive international network with a performing particularly strongly.
particularly strong presence in the UK, France and the Netherlands.
LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 Chief executives review P5 Outperforming in outsourcing Our service centres in territories such as India, Strategic developments Outsourcing remains one of our most the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Wales where In September 2005 we announced our important growth areas.
The markets in which we opened a new centre near Bridgend and intention to purchase Unilog, a top five IT we operate are consolidating and becoming Portugal provide our customers with a full services company in France.
There is a noticeable trend range of onshore, nearshore and offshore transaction successfully closed at the towards larger, more complex deals being application development, applications and beginning of 2006 with around 97% of awarded to a smaller number of larger infrastructure management, product shareholders accepting our offer during the suppliers who have access to a more engineering and, increasingly, business tender period.
France now becomes our third comprehensive set of offerings.
We continue to develop major profit and revenue generator in Europe, our presence in India where we now have over complementing our already strong positions in In 2005, we combined our worldwide service 2,000 staff and aim to grow this to around the UK and the Netherlands, improving our units to create an integrated global service 3,000 by the year end.
geographical balance and giving us increased delivery organisation GSD able to deliver a global scale to win even bigger contracts.
full range of outsourcing and business process Unilog has a long track record of success solutions and services to our customers.
and, like LogicaCMG, employs highly talented Through our blended sourcing model we people with deep industry knowledge and a provide our customers with the optimal strong commitment to delivery.
We are combination of onsite, onshore, nearshore pleased to welcome our new colleagues from and offshore resources, offering them a Unilog into our group.
seamless service across the geographies in which they operate.
Through Unilog we have improved our access to a wide range of blue chip French customers including EdF, France Telecom and BNP Paribas.
As a combined group we can now provide these clients with global support through LogicaCMGs range of industry competencies, repeatable solutions and high quality nearshore and offshore facilities.
P6 Chief executives review LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 The acquisitions of Edinfor and, most importantly, Unilog [... ] have helped us build the scale we need to take advantage of improving market conditions and our customers desire to do business with a smaller number of larger suppliers who can provide them with a broader range of offerings and who can support them internationally.
LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2005 Chief executives review P7 The acquisition of Unilog followed the I would particularly like to welcome a number Looking ahead completion in April last year of our acquisition of Unilogs top executives to LogicaCMGs The outlook for LogicaCMG in 2006 is of a controlling interest in Edinfor, the IT executive committee.
We will continue to improve the business of Energias fide Portugal EDP, and joined the executive committee and also the underlying operational performance of all our the signing of a 510 million ten-year main LogicaCMG board as executive vicebusinesses.
A major priority for 2006 is to outsourcing contract with EDP.
Not only does president with responsibility for France, successfully integrate LogicaCMG and Unilog.
the addition of Edinfor give us a strong Germany and Switzerland.
Aydin Azernour is Good progress has already been made.
presence in the Iberian peninsula, but it also chief executive of IT Services in Paris while Outsourcing remains an important growth enhances our position in the important energy Patrick Guimbal is chief executive of Unilog area for us and we will continue to leverage and utilities sector and increases both our Management in France, Germany and our global service delivery capabilities across SAP and our global delivery capability.
Switzerland and is head of our worldwide the business to give us competitive edge.
addition of Unilogs leading consulting The addition of Edinfor and Unilog significantly business, Unilog Management, enhances strengthens our position on the continent.
Releasing your potential our worldwide consulting profile and we Today, LogicaCMG is a leading European Through the merger of Logica and CMG at the intend to further strengthen this capability in player in IT services with a strong international end of 2002 and the addition of Unilog and the year ahead.
Through Unilog, we now employ Edinfor, we have not only significantly grown more people in France than in any other our international scale but we have also Following the acquisition of Unilog and Edinfor, territory and our German operations have broadened and strengthened our range of LogicaCMG is in a stronger position to doubled in size.
We have excellent services and solutions.
Against a background compete for, and win, larger contracts.
We are opportunities to cross-sell capabilities across of fluctuating markets, we have delivered a well placed as the IT services industry matures the enlarged business.
The increasing size consistent strategy focused on meeting our and the trend towards consolidation intensifies.
and international nature of our operations longer term objectives.
means that we can offer our employees an even wider range of exciting career Given our increasing scale, we undertook a opportunities.
We also have the scale and review of our market positioning in the second international reach to win the big deals large half of last year.
This review confirmed what multinationals are bringing to the market.
we already knew about the strengths of LogicaCMG.
Our differentiation lies in our Focus on integration deep industry and technical expertise, our Our experience gained from integrating Logica strong delivery skills and the long-term nature and CMG has been applied to both the of our relationships.
We employ hard-working, Martin Read integration of Edinfor - now substantially committed people with excellent domain Group chief executive complete - and Unilog.
behind our integration approach at Unilog is to take the best from both companies and to As an enlarged and stronger business, we create, as soon as is practical, one company want our brand identity to better reflect our with a shared culture and single set systems.
position in the market and our ability to enable This work is currently in progress across all change for our customers.
This is the territories affected by the transaction.
encapsulated in our new strapline - Releasing your potential - which we will roll out both internally and externally in 2006.
