Chief executives statement Transforming Anglo Americans asset base 04 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 nglo American continued Including the special dividend of was slightly weaker, though it was on its strong growth path 33 cents, our total dividend increased pleasing to note that the ramp-up of Ain 2005, with many of the 76% to 123 cents per share for production at the Buxton cement Groups commodities enjoying the year.
plant exceeded expectations, buoyant market conditions and averaging 97.5% of design capacity record prices as China once again Operating performance during the year.
proved to be the chief driver of Overall, we had a good operating global growth, with the US performance during 2005, with Cost savings and efficiency economy showing its resilience highest ever contributions from our improvements and signs of a long awaited base metals, coal and ferrous metals In the field of cost containment, recovery beginning to emerge businesses.
We achieved record 2005 was a challenging year for all from Japan.
production for nickel, zinc, niobium, mining groups.
Price escalations in zircon, coal, iron ore, vanadium, excess of inflation over a range of This upsurge in the prices of many diamonds and platinum group metals.
inputs from tyres to fuel, to steel metals and minerals over the past Our Chilean copper production was and contractors, exerted material year was further supported by fairly impacted by lower grades at pressure on running costs and constrained supply-side growth Los Bronces, and also at Collahuasi capital expenditure.
We achieved in part due to some operating where an earthquake and pit wall cost and efficiency savings of constraints, including the ability to failures led to rescheduling of the $730 million in 2005, up 32% on access new capital equipment and mining plan, exacerbating the impact the prior year, and are targeting low global inventories in a number of equipment problems.
In Namibia, $500 million in 2006. of metals as well as sustained Skorpion zinc mine ramped up to Anglo American is simplifying its structure and focusing more tightly on its core mining portfolio.
Chief executive Tony Trahar explains how the Group is putting the recent strategic review into practice.
In Australia, Safety demand from China.
Investment the Dartbrook thermal coal mine was After many years of steady funds have also shown an increasing affected by geological difficulties.
improvement, our injury rate appetite for investing in underlying New production records were appears to have reached a plateau, metals as a means of diversification, achieved across a number of Mondis while our fatality rate improved particularly against a background paper machines.
However, our slightly over the previous year.
Industrial Minerals profit performance Nevertheless, we incurred Financial results and dividends We posted record results in 2005, with operating profit increasing by Strategic review developments 36% to $6.4 billion and underlying earnings improving by 39% to Further rationalisation and simplification of the Groups portfolio and $3.7 billion.
Cash generation structure and an increased focus on controlled mining businesses that reached a new high, with EBITDA leverage the core skills of the Group: at $9 billion.
Mondi to be listed on the LSE in 2006 7 Our strong financial position affords us the opportunity to return Anglo American will reduce its shareholding in AngloGold Ashanti $1.5 billion of capital in 2006 in the form of a $1 billion buyback as well Tarmac review under way: first phase completed with businesses as a $0.5 billion special dividend.
in Germany, Hong Kong and UK concrete paving identified The capital structure will be reviewed for disposal regularly in light of market conditions, operating cash flows and progress on Sale of Highveld Steel progressing: Tongaat-Hulett to unbundle strategic delivery and capital projects.
and list Hulett Aluminium In line with our progressive dividend $1 billion capital return increased to $1.5 billion $1 billion buyback policy, the final dividend has been in 2006 and $0.5 billion special dividend.
raised 22% to 62 cents per share.
Zeppelin first Technology in action The development of the worlds first exploration airship will give fide Beers a competitive edge in prospecting.
The Zeppelins equipment measures magnetic field changes faster and more cheaply than traditional surveys.
Slower speed and low vibration give higher image resolution and promise improved discovery rates.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 | 05 Chief executives statement continued 46 fatalities amongst our own rather than as part of the make-up estimated potential cost of between employees and contractors and of a diversified mining group.
Anglo $10 billion and $15 billion under we continue our efforts to eliminate American is considering a number consideration, we are building a fatal accidents at our operations.
of options to effect the reduction.
powerful platform for future growth through the cycle.
We are directing many more resources In the case of Tarmac, the considerably to addressing issues of safety and in strengthened management team is in Anglo Coal has a substantial near trying to instil a safety culture the process of undertaking a review of term project portfolio spread across throughout the Group.
This has started its business with the aim of improving Australia, South Africa and South from the top with myself and the most returns on capital invested by turning America.
The Dawson and Lake senior executives all having undergone around, restructuring or divesting Lindsay expansions in Australia safety training with DuPont, the underperforming parts of the portfolio represent a $1.4 billion investment recognised leaders in this field.
while continuing to grow its core in Australias coal export industry businesses.
Since the year end the and will increase Anglo Coals Mining is generally regarded as a first phase of the review has been metallurgical coal capacity by around dangerous business sometimes completed, with businesses in 50% over the next three years.
justifiably so but that does not Germany and Hong Kong identified Subject to regulatory clearances mean accepting that injuries are for disposal as well as the concrete the $264 million Mafube coal inevitable.
It does mean taking paving business in the UK.
Tarmac project in South Africa will increase greater care and having the right has also made three acquisitions attributable thermal coal production systems in place to manage the risks.
in its aggregates business in the UK, by 2.5 million tonnes from 2008.
At People are being needlessly injured Poland and, in early 2006, in Romania.
Cerrejn in Colombia, a $280 million and killed in the workplace through two-phase expansion has been individuals taking short cuts and We are also progressing well with the approved to increase production to generally not adhering to our rules of remainder of our industries portfolio.
We are determined to bring Boart Longyear and Samancor feasibility study is currently under about a permanent lowering of the Chrome were sold in mid-2005 way to investigate additional Groups fatality and injury statistics.
and the disposal of our investment expansion beyond this.
In China, the in Highveld Steel is progressing.
Group has a 60% interest in the Strategy In addition, Tongaat-Hulett has Xiwan open cut coal mining project, We have In October 2005 we announced the recently announced that it intends where the feasibility of a large coal $6.7 billion of outcome of our strategic review, to unbundle and list its aluminium to chemicals project is being projects under which represents a further chapter business, Hulett Aluminium, and investigated with a number of development in our ongoing strategic development simultaneously introduce black partners.
In addition, we invested over the past six years.
Our aim is economic empowerment equity $153 million in the IPO of China to further focus the Group on its core participation in both Tongaat-Hulett Shenhua Energy, the largest coal mining portfolio and, in the process, and Hulett Aluminium.
producer in China and the fifth simplify our structure and enhance largest in the world, and we look returns and shareholder value.
The Group has approved significant forward to a mutually beneficial In early 2006, we provided a platinum expansion projects and strategic alliance with the company.
further update on our strategy.
negotiations for a further platinum Subsequent to the year end, we black empowerment transaction announced that Anglo Coal had Regarding our investment in Mondi, have commenced.
entered into a joint coking coal one of the largest and most venture in British Columbia in Canada.
successful paper and packaging Growth and projects Work continues on the feasibility groups in Europe, it is clear there Anglo American has one of the study for Monash, a fuel from are only limited synergies with our strongest growth profiles in the brown coal project in Australia.
We have therefore mining industry.
Across our portfolio decided to list Mondi on the London we have a broad suite of approved We are laying the foundations for Stock Exchange in 2006 7.
In the projects, and others that are being a significant expansion of production meantime, we will continue to considered, as well as significant at our Chilean copper operations.
support Mondis growth opportunities exploration prospects.
Having In 2005 we completed the Chagres as they arise.
completed a number of projects Smelter fide-bottlenecking project and during the year, we boosted our brought on stream, ahead of schedule The decision to reduce the Groups approved pipeline with the addition and under budget, the molybdenum shareholding in AngloGold Ashanti of a number of new projects totalling plant at Collahuasi.
Also at Collahuasi, relates to the higher relative $3.8 billion, bringing total projects a significant fide-bottlenecking valuations investors attribute under development to $6.7 billion.
opportunity that has the potential to to pure-play gold mining stocks, With further major projects, with an increase production at a relatively low State of the art analysis Taming methane The very latest instrumentation underpins Australias Dawson Central coal mine the work of the Anglo Research division, helps to improve the environment and which has one of the largest automated save energy by capturing methane and laboratories of its kind in the world.
From selling it to the local pipeline network.
exploration to metallurgical processing, Extracted from coal seams, the gas these analyses inform decisions on new provides enough energy to power projects, plant and environmental issues.
06 | Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 Focus on our mining asset base Acquisitions Disposals Li & Fung $0.3bn 2000 Shell Coal $0.9bn FirstRand $0.7bn Billiton $0.8bn Aracruz $0.4bn Elimination of fide Beers cross-holding 2001 SA Breweries $0.1bn Disputada $1.4bn Salobo $0.1bn 2002 Tati $0.1bn Coal Colombia and CDG $0.5bn 1997-2002 Avmin $0.2bn Avgold $0.1bn Kumba $0.9bn 2003 Terra $0.3bn HBMS $0.3bn 2004 Ashanti $1.8bn Li & Fung $0.2bn FirstRand $0.1bn Gold Fields $1.2bn Strategy announcement 2005 Samancor Chrome $0.5bn Future focus on controlled Boart Longyear $0.6bn mining businesses Diversified portfolio Mining portfolio capital cost, is currently under to between 2.7 million and 2.8 million Tarmac also has several growth and evaluation.
The pit expansion project ounces in 2006 and thereafter to expansion programmes under way at El Soldado is progressing well, grow production by around 5% per to enhance market penetration in while at Los Bronces a feasibility annum to meet ongoing demand.
key regional markets, mainly in study to examine a possible doubling During 2005, the company central and eastern Europe.
of production is due for completion announced the Mototolo and Marikana in 2007.
The feasibility study for the joint ventures.
Anglo Platinum Outlook $1 billion Barro Alto nickel project in approved mining replacement projects The outlook for the global economy Brazil is well advanced and Board totalling $770 million, including is encouraging, with leading approval is likely to be sought later the $230 million Potgietersrust indicators showing signs of this year.
In South Africa the replacement project, and is in continuing global growth and strong Namakwa Sands expansion project, the final stages of approving the underlying demand for our products.
which will increase output of rutile $692 million Potgietersrust expansion, If prices and demand continue at or and zircon, is under way.
which will bring on 230,000 ounces near current levels the Group should of additional platinum production have another strong year.
In May, fide Beers gave the go-ahead per annum by 2009. for the $513 million Snap Lake project Every effort will be made to contain and in November approval was given The $559 million Sishen iron ore cost increases and improve to develop the $791 million Victor expansion project in South Africa efficiencies against a background diamond deposit, both located in was approved by Kumba in March, of exceptional inflationary pressures Canada.
In February 2006 fide Beers which will raise annual production in the mining sector.
announced that it intended to re-open by 10 million tonnes to 41 million the Voorspoed mine in South Africa tonnes by 2009.
Further projects The Group has real momentum, and will develop the South African could see iron ore production more as evidenced by its performance Sea Areas marine mining project.
than double from the current level.
We expect to make significant progress on delivering Anglo Platinum expects to increase Mondi is considering a 1 million our recently announced strategy platinum production from tonne softwood pulp expansion at while at the same time pursuing our 2.45 million ounces in 2005 Syktyvkar in north west Russia at strong organic project pipeline and a capital cost of around $1.5 billion looking for further growth and to meet growing worldwide pulp acquisition opportunities.
demand, driven mainly by China.
Better buckets Anglo Coal is improving its dragline operations in inventive ways.
With lighter, quick-release designs, buckets can now be changed more quickly.
The weight saving allows increased capacity, improvements in flow design and a corresponding productivity boost.
Anglo American plc Annual Review 2005 | 07
