Chief executives statement Anglo American continued on its strong growth path in 2005, with Cost savings and efficiency improvements many of the Groups commodities enjoying buoyant market In the field of cost containment, 2005 was a challenging year for all conditions and record prices as China once again proved to be the mining groups.
Price escalations in excess of inflation over a range of chief driver of global growth, with the US economy showing its inputs from tyres to fuel, to steel and contractors, exerted material resilience and signs of a long awaited recovery beginning to emerge pressure on running costs and capital expenditure.
We achieved cost from Japan.
and efficiency savings of $730 million in 2005, up 32% on the prior year, and are targeting $500 million in 2006.
This upsurge in the prices of many metals and minerals over the past year was further supported by fairly constrained supply-side growth Safety in part due to some operating constraints, including the ability to access After many years of steady improvement, our injury rate appears to new capital equipment and low global inventories in a number of have reached a plateau, while our fatality rate improved slightly over metals as well as sustained demand from China.
Investment funds the previous year.
Nevertheless, we incurred 46 fatalities amongst our have also shown an increasing appetite for investing in underlying own employees and contractors and we continue our efforts to metals as a means of diversification, particularly against a background eliminate fatal accidents at our operations.
We are directing many more resources to addressing issues of safety Financial results and dividends and in trying to instil a safety culture throughout the Group.
This has We posted record results in 2005, with operating profit increasing by started from the top with myself and the most senior executives all 36% to $6.4 billion and underlying earnings improving by 39% to having undergone safety training with DuPont, the recognised leaders $3.7 billion.
Cash generation reached a new high, with EBITDA at in this field.
Mining is generally regarded as a dangerous business sometimes Our strong financial position affords us the opportunity to return justifiably so but that does not mean accepting that injuries are $1.5 billion of capital in 2006 in the form of a $1 billion buyback as inevitable.
It does mean taking greater care and having the right well as a $0.5 billion special dividend.
The capital structure will be systems in place to manage the risks.
People are being needlessly reviewed regularly in light of market conditions, operating cash flows injured and killed in the workplace through individuals taking short cuts and progress on strategic delivery and capital projects.
and generally not adhering to our rules of safety.
We are determined to bring about a permanent lowering of the Groups fatality and injury In line with our progressive dividend policy, the final dividend has been statistics.
raised 22% to 62 cents per share.
Including the special dividend of 33 cents, our total dividend increased 76% to 123 cents per share for Strategy the year.
In October 2005 we announced the outcome of our strategic review, which represents a further chapter in our ongoing strategic Operating performance development over the past six years.
Our aim is to further focus the Overall, we had a good operating performance during 2005, with Group on its core mining portfolio and, in the process, simplify our highest ever contributions from our base metals, coal and ferrous structure and enhance returns and shareholder value.
In early 2006, we metals businesses.
We achieved record production for nickel, zinc, provided a further update on our strategy.
niobium, zircon, coal, iron ore, vanadium, diamonds and platinum group metals.
Our Chilean copper production was impacted by lower grades at Regarding our investment in Mondi, one of the largest and most Los Bronces, and also at Collahuasi where an earthquake and pit wall successful paper and packaging groups in Europe, it is clear there are failures led to rescheduling of the mining plan, exacerbating the impact only limited synergies with our mining portfolio.
We have therefore of equipment problems.
In Namibia, Skorpion zinc mine ramped up to decided to list Mondi on the London Stock Exchange in 2006 7.
In the design capacity in May.
In Australia, the Dartbrook thermal coal mine meantime, we will continue to support Mondis growth opportunities as was affected by geological difficulties.
New production records were they arise.
achieved across a number of Mondis paper machines.
However, our Industrial Minerals profit performance was slightly weaker, though it The decision to reduce the Groups shareholding in AngloGold Ashanti was pleasing to note that the ramp-up of production at the Buxton relates to the higher relative valuations investors attribute to pure-play cement plant exceeded expectations, averaging 97.5% of design gold mining stocks, rather than as part of the make-up of a diversified capacity during the year.
Anglo American is considering a number of options to effect the reduction.
In the case of Tarmac, the considerably strengthened management team is in the process of undertaking a review of its business with the aim of improving returns on capital invested by turning around, restructuring or divesting underperforming parts of the portfolio while continuing to grow its core businesses.
Since the year end the first phase of the review has been completed, with businesses in Germany and Hong Kong identified for disposal as well as the concrete paving business in the UK.
Tarmac has also made three acquisitions in its aggregates business in the UK, Poland and, in early 2006, in Romania.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005 | 03 Chief executives statement continued In May, fide Beers gave the go-ahead for the $513 million Snap Lake We are also progressing well with the remainder of our industries portfolio.
Boart Longyear and Samancor Chrome were sold in mid-2005 project and in November approval was given to develop the and the disposal of our investment in Highveld Steel is progressing.
In $791 million Victor diamond deposit, both located in Canada.
In addition, Tongaat-Hulett has recently announced that it intends to February 2006 fide Beers announced that it intended to re-open the unbundle and list its aluminium business, Hulett Aluminium, and Voorspoed mine in South Africa and will develop the South African simultaneously introduce black economic empowerment equity Sea Areas marine mining project.
participation in both Tongaat-Hulett and Hulett Aluminium.
Anglo Platinum expects to increase platinum production from The Group has approved significant platinum expansion projects and 2.45 million ounces in 2005 to between 2.7 million and 2.8 million negotiations for a further platinum black empowerment transaction ounces in 2006 and thereafter to grow production by around 5% per have commenced.
annum to meet ongoing demand.
During 2005, the company announced the Mototolo and Marikana joint ventures.
Anglo Platinum Growth and projects approved mining replacement projects totalling $770 million, including Anglo American has one of the strongest growth profiles in the mining the $230 million Potgietersrust replacement project, and is in the final industry.
Across our portfolio we have a broad suite of approved stages of approving the $692 million Potgietersrust expansion, which projects, and others that are being considered, as well as significant will bring on 230,000 ounces of additional platinum production per exploration prospects.
Having completed a number of projects during annum by 2009. the year, we boosted our approved pipeline with the addition of a number of new projects totalling $3.8 billion, bringing total projects The $559 million Sishen iron ore expansion project in South Africa was under development to $6.7 billion.
With further major projects, with an approved by Kumba in March, which will raise annual production by estimated potential cost of between $10 billion and $15 billion under 10 million tonnes to 41 million tonnes by 2009.
Further projects could consideration, we are building a powerful platform for future growth see iron ore production more than double from the current level.
Mondi is considering a 1 million tonne softwood pulp expansion at Anglo Coal has a substantial near term project portfolio spread across Syktyvkar in north west Russia at a capital cost of around $1.5 billion Australia, South Africa and South America.
The Dawson and Lake to meet growing worldwide pulp demand, driven mainly by China.
Lindsay expansions in Australia represent a $1.4 billion investment in Australias coal export industry and will increase Anglo Coals Tarmac also has several growth and expansion programmes under way metallurgical coal capacity by around 50% over the next three years.
to enhance market penetration in key regional markets, mainly in Subject to regulatory clearances the $264 million Mafube coal project central and eastern Europe.
in South Africa will increase attributable thermal coal production by 2.5 million tonnes from 2008.
At Cerrejn in Colombia, a Outlook $280 million two-phase expansion has been approved to increase The outlook for the global economy is encouraging, with leading production to 32 million tonnes per annum.
A pre-feasibility study is indicators showing signs of continuing global growth and strong currently under way to investigate additional expansion beyond this.
underlying demand for our products.
If prices and demand continue In China, the Group has a 60% interest in the Xiwan open cut coal at or near current levels the Group should have another strong year.
mining project, where the feasibility of a large coal to chemicals project is being investigated with a number of partners.
In addition, we Every effort will be made to contain cost increases and improve invested $153 million in the Initial Public Offering of China Shenhua efficiencies against a background of exceptional inflationary pressures Energy, the largest coal producer in China and the fifth largest in the in the mining sector.
world, and we look forward to a mutually beneficial strategic alliance with the company.
Subsequent to the year end, we announced that The Group has real momentum, as evidenced by its performance in Anglo Coal had entered into a joint coking coal venture in British 2005.
We expect to make significant progress on delivering our Columbia in Canada.
Work continues on the feasibility study for recently announced strategy while at the same time pursuing our strong Monash, a fuel from brown coal project in Australia.
organic project pipeline and looking for further growth and acquisition opportunities.
We are laying the foundations for a significant expansion of production at our Chilean copper operations.
In 2005 we completed the Chagres Smelter fide-bottlenecking project and brought on stream, ahead of schedule and under budget, the molybdenum plant at Collahuasi.
Also Tony Trahar at Collahuasi, a significant fide-bottlenecking opportunity that has the Chief executive potential to increase production at a relatively low capital cost, is currently under evaluation.
The pit expansion project at El Soldado is progressing well, while at Los Bronces a feasibility study to examine a possible doubling of production is due for completion in 2007.
The feasibility study for the $1 billion Barro Alto nickel project in Brazil is well advanced and Board approval is likely to be sought later this year.
In South Africa the Namakwa Sands expansion project, which will increase output of rutile and zircon, is under way.
In this chief executives statement, operating profit includes associates operating profit and is before special items and remeasurements unless otherwise stated.
04 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2005
