2 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC Chief Executives review STUART ROSE MARKS & SPENCER IS A FINE BUSINESS WITH SIGNIFICANT STRENGTHS.
BUT IT NEEDS RADICAL CHANGE TO BECOME GREAT AGAIN.
Last year, within a tough marketplace, we embarked on a maintained across the year, although sales dipped by 2.6% programme of change to return the business to growth and in like-for-like terms.
Home had a year of transition as we to its traditional values, Quality, Value, Service, Innovation closed Lifestore and refocused on value and our traditional and Trust.
We did so with a clear understanding that, while areas of bedroom, bathroom, kitchen and dining.
Sales were we needed to move fast, we also needed to do the right 21.4% lower at 0.4bn.
things for the medium to long term and that there were no Our international operations performed strongly with quick xes.
operating profits up 47.1% at 65m up 51.2% at constant At the Operational Review on 12 July 2004, we stated exchange rates.
that we would refocus the business in 2004 05, drive it in We have clear objectives: better product and real choice 2005 06 and, beyond that, broaden its horizons.
We also in easy-to-shop ranges: sharper opening prices and real highlighted the actions that needed to be taken to refocus value across all ranges: and increased levels of new and and these have now been achieved.
In 2004 05, we reviewed all expenditure and put tight In Clothing, we have strengthened buying teams, controls in place.
Unacceptably high stock commitments reduced stock commitments and developed consistent were reduced by over 35% on the year.
We are on course working practices.
We are establishing regional ofces to deliver cost and margin savings and have a lower to better manage the supply chain.
Prices are constantly customer-focused capital spend.
We simplied processes to monitored.
We have reduced the total number of products make us more product and service driven, and removed over by around 17% to create more real choice and increased 650 roles from head ofce.
We also focused on 10 strategic the level of new product in store.
projects that will add most value.
In Food, we have also focused on innovation, removed We renegotiated supplier terms to reduce the cost of slow lines, simplied ranges, continued to open more Simply goods by 140m by the end of 2006 07, compared to Food stores and begun to emphasise the quality and 2003 04.
Overall, we are on course to achieve cost and uniqueness of our food.
margin savings of 320m by the end of 2006 07.
We have put our most experienced people in charge of Additionally, we closed Lifestore, acquired per una, improving standards and service in stores, and are putting returned 2.3bn to shareholders and sold M&S Money, our more customer assistants on the sales oor.
In addition, we Financial Services business, to HSBC.
simplied our return and refund policy, which remains the We reduced the Executive Board to a team of three.
most generous on the High Street.
The business unit directors all now report directly to the Last year, we fide-cluttered stores and improved signage.
Chief Executive and we have set up a stock planning function.
We also reinforced the Marks & Spencer brand with the These actions have laid the foundations necessary to launch of the Your M&S campaign, reduced the number of drive the business in 2005 06.
We are focusing on product, sub-brands and tested a new store concept.
This has been a year of great change at Marks & Spencer, Group profit before tax and exceptional items, although but it has also been a year of action and progress, thanks to the supported by strong cost control, ended the year 19% lower hard work and loyalty both of our staff and our suppliers.
I would at 618.5m on a 52 week basis.
UK retail sales at 7.8bn like to thank everyone for their support through a difficult year.
inc VAT were 1.9% lower than last year.
Clothing sales fell 3.1% to 3.8bn, led by continued weakness in Womenswear, although per una performed strongly.
All other product groups suffered.
Food sales were 3.5bn, 2.4% higher in total and market share was broadly Stuart Rose, Chief Executive
