Annual report 2005 Chief Executives review Ralph Findlay Chief Executive Business development A significant contributing factor to Our results were achieved by the success of these acquisitions is continuing to manage cost pressures the realisation of synergy benefits.
and improve operational efficiency, The combined cost savings achieved combined with an absolute focus on for these three acquisitions exceed 8 delivering quality and value to our million per year, mainly from reduced customers.
As a result, we were able overheads and better purchasing to deliver good organic growth whilst terms.
One of the reasons that we acquiring businesses that met our were able to exceed our original targets acquisition criteria.
for cost savings is our well-established integration process ensuring the swift Acquisitions have contributed to this absorption of the acquired businesses good financial performance.
2004 we acquired Wizard Inns, a managed pub estate of 63 pubs situated The development of the businesses mainly in the South of England.
In acquired also contributes to the January this year, we completed the achievement of return on capital acquisition of Burtonwood, an operator targets.
By the end of 2006 we plan of a good quality estate of 460 pubs to have refurbished 40% of the Wizard situated mainly in the North-West of Inns estate.
We have also acquired England and North Wales.
In May the freehold interests of four Wizard we acquired Jennings, a North-West Inns leasehold properties.
Within the regional brewer, with a tenanted pub Burtonwood estate, around 100 tenants estate of 128 excellent pubs.
In are currently agreeing terms for our September we acquired English 21-year Open House leases.
We have Country Inns which comprises 14 broadened the range of beers available high quality managed food pubs.
to Burtonwood and Jennings customers and have extended the distribution These acquisitions are consistent with of Jennings beers across the rest of our strategy to invest in good quality the estate.
We have clear financial targets for acquisitions: The success of these acquisitions is they must be earnings enhancing and also due to the operational flexibility must deliver a return on capital above afforded by the integrated model, with the weighted average cost of capital for benefits to each of our trading divisions.
We are able to integrate both managed W&DB 2005 06 Our results were achieved by continuing to manage cost pressures and improve operational efficiency, combined with an absolute focus on delivering quality and value to our customers.
Steve Brooks, Head Brewer, Burton Brewery The development of pubs as places to enjoy a meal with family and friends has been beneficial to the pub market Howarth Old Hall, West Yorkshire Annual report 2005 and tenanted pubs and achieve wider for separate smoke-rooms will remain distribution of our beers.
The timetable for implementation has been The strength of our balance sheet brought forward from 2008 to 2007. and relatively conservative gearing will allow us to consider further The development of pubs as places to acquisitions when the opportunity enjoy a meal with family and friends arises, or to return further capital has been beneficial to the pub market to shareholders.
The successful and has raised standards for customers.
refinancing of the Groups debt The proposals as presented will through a 805 million securitisation require pub operators to choose has further increased our financial between having a broad based appeal capacity, as well as reducing future or to cater for a predominantly drinking interest payments and extending the and smoking customer base.
We are preparing for the possibility Licensing that a ban may eventually be universal, Although the implementation of new and are introducing smoke-free pubs licensing legislation has been time where there is clear demand.
We now consuming and costly, the great have 15 smoke-free pubs in the majority of our pubs are now able to Pathfinder Pubs estate all pubs take advantage of more flexible opening with a significant food trade and hours, and in practice most are likely have seen satisfactory results.
Our to open for one or two extra hours on experience indicates that well invested two to three nights per week.
We and well located pubs which have expect that the impact of the new a significant food trade will not be legislation will be modestly beneficial.
materially affected by a smoking ban.
In both managed and tenanted pubs Smoking our investment plans are targeted at The potential ban on smoking in public the further development of food offers places will have an impact on the and making outside trading areas pub sector.
The outline proposals more attractive.
Over 80% of our distinguish between pubs which serve pubs have such outside trading areas.
food, in which customers will not be These plans, together with the fact allowed to smoke, and those which do that we have already disposed of over not serve food, in which customers 900 less well-positioned pubs in recent will be allowed to smoke, and it is years, should allow us to minimise the proposed that the ban will not apply risks and maximise opportunities to to private members clubs.
The potential our competitive advantage.
W&DB 2005 09 Annual report 2005 The Union Pub Company The performance of the core estate, Case Study - The Union Pub Company - 1,748 leased and tenanted pubs which excludes acquisitions, has been 2004: 1,162 pubs good despite the considerable resources invested by both licensees and our Turnover increased by 29.7% to staff in implementing the new licensing 153.3 million, including a 30.2 legislation.
The estate now includes million contribution from Burtonwood over 700 pubs let on longer term leases, and Jennings.
Like-for-like sales the majority of which are Open House increased by 2.8%.
We expect that margin increased by 0.4% to 42.5%, demand from Burtonwood tenants and underlying operating profit will increase the total to over 1,000 Catering for individual needs increased by 30.9% to 65.2 million.
In recognising that food is a massive growth area for pubs, we appointed a catering These strong results benefited from We invested 26.4 million last year, development manager to help licensees the acquisition of Burtonwood, which including 9.0 million acquiring 23 maximise the opportunities.
included 420 tenanted pubs, and individual pubs and 17.4 million on Jennings, which included 128 tenanted our existing pubs.
This refurbishment Since starting in 2004, Ben Bartlett, a pubs.
Both of these estates represent expenditure includes 260 development former British BBQ champion who achieved an excellent geographical fit, the schemes designed to broaden the pub an admirable second in the recent World North-West being adjacent to our offer involving improvements to BBQ Championships, has devised numerous core trading area.
kitchens, pub gardens and trading catering tools designed to help boost areas, tailored with the proposed business and worked onsite with almost The Burtonwood estate offers smoking legislation in mind.
150 pubs to develop their menus.
"And it's not all about earning a quick buck The estate is almost entirely freehold We aim to provide the maximum from low-cost high margin food, as Ben and represented by community pubs possible support to our tenant and explains: ""We use high quality menu with tenants on short term agreements."
"This includes designs which are personalised to include There has been strong interest from monitoring daily ordering patterns a pub's own regional dishes made from Burtonwood tenants in our 21-year so that we can identify opportunities fresh local produce. """
Open House lease, which is assignable, to improve performance, and the offers high discounts and has dedication of 39 Business Development One innovation is 'Active Ingredients', contributed to our good performance Managers each with fewer than 50 Ben's comprehensive menu-maker and since its introduction in 2003.
We pubs across the estate a lower ratio catering solutions pack which offers have also seen strong demand for the than most of our competitors, allowing licensees a framework for starting food or wider range of products we are able more support to advise on trading progressing their offering and includes a to offer Burtonwood tenants, and in issues and the development of our menu designer, GP calculator, legal forms particular for our range of Marstons customers offers.
W&DB 2005 10 During the year we continued to invest across the business to ensure that we provide the maximum possible support to our tenants and lessee partners across the estate.
Philip Jackson and Yolande Rankin, licensees at the Leopard Inn, Burton Pathfinder Pubs refurbishment and 6.7 million on Case Study - Pathfinder Pubs 542 managed pubs 2004: 513 pubs acquiring the freehold interests of leasehold assets.
Turnover increased by 15.3% to 317.4 million, including a 12.7 While the process of finding new million contribution from Burtonwood sites and obtaining planning and managed pubs and English Country licensing consents is time consuming Inns.
Underlying operating margin and painstaking, it does generate increased by 0.2 % to 20.0 %, and superior returns and provides scope underlying operating profit increased for development through freeholds by 16.1 % to 63.4 million.
or long leaseholds rather than short leaseholds.
This year we opened eight Total like-for-like sales increased by new pubs, all serving food and offering Customer focus through to retail offer 2.8%, a good performance achieved high levels of service and amenity.
Headed by Sharon Rehbock, the development against strong comparatives which team's focus is to concentrate on current benefited from Euro 2004.
Excluding We manage our community pubs as business opportunities whilst assessing this years acquisitions, average sales individual outlets rather than brands future trends and the impact of proposed per week across all Pathfinder Pubs and see little value in branding in this legislation.
As an example, Simon Taylor, is now 12,000 per pub.
We will segment of the market.
This approach Development Manager, and his team work continue to improve the quality of the helps to keep costs down and is to develop new ideas and improve our estate by a combination of investment a contributing factor to our high customer appeal by interpreting the latest in new sites and acquisitions operating margins.
customer research and turning those and through our significant pub insights into great pubs.
Investment in pub refurbishment is also generating good returns.
We A key part of our strategy is to recruit and The organic development of Pathfinder completed 52 major refurbishment retain the best managers in the business.
Pubs through new site development, schemes, including a number of Judy Jones, Induction and Training Manager, pub acquisition and refurbishment is former Wizard Inns pubs the Bell & has developed a programme that has a the cornerstone of our retail strategy.
Compass in Charing Cross, London, hugely encouraging track record in training, During the year, total capital investment the Anglers in Walton On Thames appointing and retaining candidates, with in managed pubs was 56.2 million, and the Caf Maximo Bar in Norwich over 80% of trainees appointed to their representing 18.5 million on new site now converted to a Pitcher & Piano.
own pub within 9 months of joining us.
development, 31.0 million on pub Pitcher & Piano, now comprising W&DB 2005 12 Annual report 2005 25 bars, has seen a significant The achieved cash return on incremental improvement in trading performance investment in pub refurbishment has following refurbishments this year in consistently been above 20%, and Nottingham, Bristol, Tunbridge Wells there remains considerable development and two in London.
We also opened a potential in the Wizard Inns and new Pitcher & Piano at Southampton English Country Inns estates.
This coming year will see further developments in London, We expect Pathfinder Pubs operating Swansea, Leeds, York, Harrogate and margins to reduce slightly in the coming Reading, as well as the conversion year through higher operating costs, of a former Wizard Inns pub site mainly related to Sky TV and energy Ralph Findlay and Derek Andrew pictured with and two more new openings.
As a consequence, operating Retail Manager of the Year, Jon Brown from costs will increase by approximately the Copt Oak, Markfield at the Pathfinder Retail Awards 2005, Ragley Hall, Alcester.
In our community pub estate, we 7 million.
We have recently transferred have continued to enhance performance 19 smaller pubs to The Union Pub through the refurbishment of existing Company and will continue to reduce pubs as 'Bostin' Locals', 'Service That costs elsewhere.
Suits' and other operating formats, depending upon the location of the pub.
This investment has contributed to significant growth in food sales across the estate, with like-for-like sales growth averaging 7.2% per annum over the last four years, and food sales now accounting for around 30% of total retail turnover.
Pitcher & Piano, Nottingham Annual report 2005 WDB Brands We brew Marstons beers, including Turnover increased by 5.2% to 126.6 the famous Marstons Pedigree, at the million.
Underlying operating margin Burton Brewery using the traditional was 14.4% 2004: 14.8%, and Burton Union system hence our claim underlying operating profit increased that Marstons Pedigree is a unique by 2.2% to 18.2 million.
This year we re-opened the Burton brewhouse after a 2 million Total volumes brewed, excluding investment to modernise the brewery, non-owned brands, increased by 5.2%, which will reduce costs and improve including a 14.8% increase in premium our environmental performance.
This strong performance was driven by growth in free trade, in sales to The performance of Marstons Pedigree other pub companies and in sales benefited from new packaging for its to the off trade.
Within premium ale, cans and bottles, giving the product Marstons Pedigree and Old Empire greater shelf impact, and from the contributed to our strong performance, continuation of the Marstons Dont whilst standard ale - our range of other Compromise marketing campaign Marstons, Mansfield, Jennings and currently showing on satellite and Bankss beers - also performed well.
A more recent initiative is the launch of CaskForce, WDB Brands has a reputation for an incentive scheme aimed at driving being passionate about ale.
We improved beer quality based around concentrate on marketing and cellar training.
The campaign will distributing high quality English ales, run until June 2006 when the prize and as a result of winning the contract will be a years free rent for the to brew Draught Bass on behalf of winning licensee.
InBev UK we are now the largest brewer of cask beer in the country.
Annual report 2005 Case Study - Marstons The performance of standard ales Current trading Marston's Don't Compromise has also been strong.
We achieved Whilst weaker consumer confidence In the autumn of 2002 Peter Jackson, good growth in Marstons Smooth, has produced more subdued trading WDB Brands' Marketing Director, launched which was launched in 2004 as conditions since the year-end, like-forMarston's Pedigree's 'uncompromising' Marstons FC, and the Bankss and like sales are marginally positive against approach to life on posters and buses Mansfield brands performed well with strong comparables in both pub divisions across the country.
This one word summed more localised marketing campaigns.
and our performance overall is in line up not only Pedigree's character but that The Bankss Seven Wonders campaign with our expectations, margins remaining of the whole Marston's range of beers.
won Best PR Campaign at the Drinks firm and costs well controlled.
Business Awards 2005, and generated Tina Martin and Hayley Aldous worked on excellent local coverage for the brand.
the latest manifestation of this positioning: Additionally, our timing in producing the hard hitting 'Marston's Don't Marstons Ashes Ale, a limited edition Compromise' campaign was launched in bottled beer, could not have been better.
This brings to life the attitude Chief Executive of the entire Marston's team.
Press adverts The beer market generally, however, feature the experience of Steve Brooks, the remains challenging with UK ale Marston's brewmaster: the determination volumes declining by 6.4% last year.
of beer quality technicians in trade, led We outperformed the market by 11.6%, by Jim Bligh, to ensure that only perfect which is a consequence of ale being pints are served to customers: and the the focus of the WDB Brands business, unique nature of Burton well water.
Posters continuing marketing support for our challenge drinkers to 'give a damn' and to brands, dedication to beer quality and 'go the extra mile' in search of a Marston's service and a great brand range.
Steve Benton, Channel Marketing Controller, manages the 'CaskForce' initiative Having acquired Jennings the which rewards loyalty and brings beer Lakeland Brewery - we see considerable handling training straight into 500 pubs.
opportunity to extend distribution All of these things are designed to continue of the Jennings range of ales, which Pedigree's drive to the number one spot have a strong heritage and a unique in premium ale.
provenance, and to continue to increase This is just part of W&DB's marketing plans.
our market share of the ale market.
Peter's team of 15 people is responsible for the development of effective consumer and customer campaigns in all business sectors from pubs to supermarkets.
The approach of his team is best summed up in the third 'Marston's Don't Compromise' poster: 'raise your game'!
