22 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Social Responsibility Translating international thinking on responsible corporate citizenship into relevant action Meggitt businesses have always operated Health, safety and environmental issues CSR management to high standards in quality, health and are critical for any business involving Terry Twigger, Chief Executive, takes overall safety and the environment, interacting manufacturing, areas on which Meggitt responsibility for CSR issues, assisted by positively with our local communities and rightly focuses as a cornerstone of CSR Philip Green, Group Corporate Affairs acting as responsible neighbours.
Progress on the certification Director.
Day-to-day responsibility rests the end of 2002, however, Meggitt of our environmental management with our business unit managing directors.
undertook a formal, Group-wide social systems, for example, continues apace responsibility survey CSR survey, with many businesses either achieving Governance measuring the results against defined or on their way to achievingthe Corporate governance, described in detail corporate social responsibility principles.
under the Directors Statement on Corporate Governance page 30 has always been Based on these principles, we continued Involved, as we are, in manufacturing pursued vigorously by Meggitt.
During 2003, to monitor our performance in 2003, mission critical products, a robust quality the Board considered the recommendations translating international thinking on ethos is fundamental to maintaining market of the Higgs Review and Smith Report and responsible corporate citizenship into leadership in our chosen fields.
This has is planning to implement the new provisions action relevant to the needs of our operating been affirmed by numerous certifications of the Revised Code on Corporate Governance.
to ISO 9001:2000, the international quality management standard.
Risk Our CSR principles Risk management is fundamental to a sound corporate governance standards Training and the pursuit of modern, successful business.
We have systems in compliance with all relevant legislation operational practice is also vital to the place across the Group to identify and and regulations Groups continuing success, enhancing manage financial, operational, continual improvement of our the value of employees for us and, just environmental and compliance risk.
Our financial, social and environmental as important, themselves.
Operations Executive and Board of performance embracing: Directors conduct regular risk reviews.
- a supportive, rewarding and safe With our increasing role as a defence working environment for employees contractor, we continue to adhere to the The Combined Code requires the Board to - minimisation of the environmental highest standards of export control as part be responsible forand to maintaina impact of products and processes of our approach to business ethics.
sound system of internal controls.
Meggitts - ethical business conduct process for identifying, evaluating and - local community support And we remain, of course, an managing Group risk is a robust one.
It is international business with a diverse described in detail under Internal Control Principles into practice workforce arising from our equal page 31.
Our reputation for financial probity in an era opportunities employment policies.
when distrust of corporate entities is high In 2003, we placed special emphasis on continues unblemished.
This remains key to All this enables Meggitt to meet the business continuity management planning our approach to financial management: our requirements of our stakeholders and to ensure that, should a disaster occur, the profits are real, evidenced by the high make an important economic contribution affected business would be operational as rates of cash generated by the Group.
to the communities in which we operate.
With independent Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 23 consultants, Marsh Risk Consulting, we them against key performance indicators Business continuity planning launched a major exercise in which our to help identify further minimisation sites will review their existing business opportunities.
We continue to focus on Initiation, review and continuity plans.
The process includes pollution prevention measures throughout management identifying operational risk, assessing our businesses, based on better impact, defining emergency responses and operational control and designing Business devising specific business recovery plans.
Endevco, Plan impact We aim for Group-wide standardisation of for example, a California-based sensors maintenance analysis business continuity policy and processes by business within our Electronics division, early 2005, using industry benchmarks and reduced its waste water storage to recognised best practice.
zero with a new evaporator and on-site Recovery Emergency treatment system in 2002.
In 2003, it went strategy response Health and safety on to target chemical use, substituting We take the health, safety and welfare cleaning solvents with environmentally Crisis of our employeesand those who visit acceptable alternatives.
By the last quarter management our sitesvery seriously.
We promote of 2003, these initiatives had reduced the safe working conditions through safety companys hazardous waste generator training and provide protective equipment liability from thousands of dollars to zero.
Management System In 2003, a number of our businesses Steps towards ISO 14001 certification In 2003, we implemented a rolling achieved the internationally accepted Brief senior management and agree policy programme of health and safety audits environmental management accreditation, throughout the Group with Marsh Risk ISO 14001 for their environmental Consulting.
These reports identify management systems EMS.
This followed Identify significant environmental aspects, deficiencies in process and operations and the implementation of a specialist impacts and legal requirements make specific recommendations.
Site programme through independent advisors, managers must comment on these Environ.
To help all our businesses devise Develop manual, management plans recommendations and timetable the environmental management systems and procedures appropriate action.
Six sites were audited in that will qualify for the international 2003 and a further six are planned for 2004. standard, this programme includes the Assign responsibilities and provide provision of EMS toolkits and ready access appropriate training The environment to a comprehensive environmental We are committed to minimising legislation database.
Accreditation of all Establish document control, communication the environmental impact of our Meggitt businesses should be achieved and record keeping systems operations through good environmental in 2004 5. management practices.
Establish internal audit system Meggitt has systems in place to react All Meggitt businesses record energy to nuisance complaints.
None were use and waste quantities, benchmarking reported during 2003.
Implementation period Review EMS and make improvements Pre-certification and certification visits by thirdparty certifier leading to ISO 14001 recommendation Maintain EMS to sustain continual improvement 24 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Our relationships with aerospace and defence customers commonly span decades Customers and suppliers motivated people.
All our businesses The nature of our markets, which often actively embrace non-discrimination and involves the supply of safety or mission equal employment opportunities and critical products, is such that compliance we take care to provide all staff with with the highest standards of performance, appropriate training and encourage delivery and quality is critical if we are to skills development.
Apprenticeships are bid for and then win business.
Our common at Meggitt while we sponsor relationships with aerospace and defence further education through MBAs and customers commonly span decades other Masters degrees.
some have endured for half a century.
In 2003, Vibro-Meter, an engine diagnostics Many of our staff have been with us for business within Meggitts Aerospace at least five years and some for decades.
Systems division, attracted two awards: Above: In March 2003, the UK Ministry of Defence honoured Meggitt Avionics with a top civil award Best Supplier of the Year electronics Local communities the Chief of Defence Logistics Commendation category from Embraer and the other from Providing highly skilled, local employment for supplying oxygen equipment and systems ahead Airbus for Outstanding Customer Support.
is key to Meggitts local community of schedule for Chinook helicopters about to enter combat in Afghanistan in 2001.
Dick Black, presence: the percentage of employees senior designer for the systems, received the Ethical business living within a 4km radius is as high as commendation from Group Captain Atkinson.
We are committed to conducting business 95% for many businesses.
Group-wide, relationships in an ethical way and to our economic contribution through salaries, honouring contracts with suppliers, tax and social security contributions is contractors and customers.
We do not significantalmost 150.0 million in 2003 permit gifts or donations to political parties, 37.5% of sales.
trade unions or other organisations and we actively discourage gifts to Meggitt staff Meggitts economic contribution in 2003 that result in a conflict of interest.
Our long 000 standing business ethics policy is actively Wages and salaries 110,048 communicated to staff and outlined in our Tax on profit on ordinary activities 21,100 corporate manual, which is available to Social security costs 16,504 all employees.
Total 147,652 As a growing defence contractor, we place special emphasis on complying with export We also add value to local communities control regulations to ensure that Meggitt through a range of education partnerships Above: James Whitefield, son of technical author, Owen, enjoyed an open day alongside hundreds of equipment is not supplied to hostile regimes.
involving community and technical colleges employees and their families at Meggitt Avionics and state universities.
Sometimes used to UK sites in 2003.
Working at Meggitt train staff, such initiatives also provide Meggitts success stands or falls on students with work experience, internships, attracting and retaining skilled and mentoring and careers guidance.
Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 25 Avica UK, one of our Aerospace Equipment providing a main board director as a Employees by length of service years division companies, continues to provide governor, and sponsoring the Bournemouth aerospace manufacturing and design Symphony Orchestra to help the school Less than 5 yrs 1389 experience to engineering and management develop music and performance skills, 5 to 10 692 undergraduates from several UK and and raise money for musical instruments 10 to 15 374 European universities through industrial and professional tuition.
The company also takes part a yearly award for outstanding student 25 535 in UK Ministry of Defence undergraduate musicianship.
In 2003, we awarded placement programmes.
additional funding to this school and committed funds to another to enable Employees by segment In 2003, S-TEC, our US-based general both to qualify for specialist school status.
aviation avionics facility, received a skills For the first time, we supported a special development grant from Texas State school for autistic students.
Aerospace Systems 1200 Technical College which specialises in Aerospace Equipment 1105 avionics technology tuition and maintains Meggitt PLCs continuing sponsorship, Defence Systems 412 Electronics 908 a multi-million dollar aerospace centre now in its seventh year, of a local National Discontinued businesses 39 and the Texas Workforce Commission.
Health Service hospital trust involves an Affirming the importance of the role that educational bursary and a number of S-TEC plays as a local employer, the grant morale-boosting awards for service and Employees by location covered training for 65 employees.
We also provide donations towards specialist equipment through We believe that continuity of support various appeal mechanisms.
is an important element of the sponsorship we undertake.
For more than 20 years, The future United Kingdom 996 Endevco has provided an annual Meggitt will continue to develop and North America 1872 Europe 796 engineering scholarship for a student implement practices that benefit our to attend a local college and continues businesses, employees, customers, with several initiatives involving child suppliers and local communities.
development, clinical research, As an engineering business, this includes after-school clubs and local community continuing emphasis on the Group-wide organisations that support the poor and health and safety audit process, the underprivileged.
This exemplifies the implementation of environmental Group-wide pattern of local, communitymanagement systems that will qualify oriented donations, sponsorships and all our businesses for accreditation to education programmes.
recognised international standards, and a rigorous risk management process to Meggitts headquarters in the United protect our businesses and the interests Kingdom has a longstanding relationship of our stakeholders.
with the local comprehensive school,
