14 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Smart engineering for extreme environments.
Meggitts roots are in precision Yet, whether Meggitt products are engineering.
Investing over 100 million controlling, connecting, communicating, in development activity over the last measuring, monitoring, protecting or five years, we continue to make our training: whether we are responding to the hardware lighter, smaller, longer lasting needs of the larger systems providers with and more efficient to meet the challenges critical components: or integrating our own of environment, performance and highly specialised sub-assemblies, Meggitt commerce associated with advancing products are increasingly developed with 21st century technology.
turbinesoften used as localised generators that Protecting continue to function during brown outs.
Generator Communicating Micro-processor based hazard detection design is also being improved with Meggitts Intelligent displays electrically actuated engine controls, which are more reliable than conventional high maintenance, highly degradable hydraulic models.
Whats more, we are reducing the re-engineering costs associated with upgrading existing equipment with an end-to-end solutioninserting a reliable, digitally controlled electric system at the hydraulic interface, compatible with our customers primary control software.
Our latest cargo bay smoke and fire detection system can diagnose the criticality of in-flight events with Upgrading fast, military aircraft with intelligent unprecedented reliability and accuracy.
Ambient Measuring flight deck instrumentation reduces pilot workload, smoke, temperature and carbon monoxide levels are Complete systems on a single chip enhances aircraft performance and extends service continuously monitored in the networked detection life.
Meggitts three-inch digital displays, which environment and reported to a microprocessor in replace and integrate the function of multiple real time for active analysis.
electro mechanical gauges, can be simplified further to show critical information only.
Operating intelligently, they monitor parameters invisible to Training the pilot in normal operation.
Abnormal data Threat simulation and real-time scoring such as an unusually high temperatureis displayed immediately.
During landing, flap position and airbrake deployment are shown on pop ups.
By integrating mechanical elements, sensor Engineers can use the displays monitoring data for actuators and electronics on a common silicon the preceding eight flights to improve performance, substrate using micro fabrication technology, we reliability and operating cost.
can provide the complete system on a single chip required to develop an almost limitless range of smart products.
We were among the first to develop Connecting Doppler radar, processed with our algorithms, smart sensors with on-board mechanics and to A revolution in information and power transmission can characterise a projectile at sub and supersonic manufacture modules that give analogue sensors speeds.
Integral to Meggitts sophisticated gunnery intelligence.
We recently coupled this technology training and weapons development systems, the with high speed networking for satellite guidance technology is used to confirm hits, indicate miss and aircraft testing applications.
distance and attitude, and model a missiles trajectory for real time analysis.
Proven with Meggitts surface and airborne targets, it is enhancing the functionality Monitoring of our recently acquired ground-based targetry: Engine diagnostics expressed through is integral to our advanced marine target system: pure electronics and, combined with our remote controlled four Conventional organic cabling cannot withstand wheel drive vehicles, is creating a new generation the intense heat generated by advancing aerospace of highly mobile armoured vehicle targetry.
Our unique silicon dioxide cabling fulfils a range of safety and mission critical applications where performance and reliability Controlling are challenged by such operational extremes.
Creating a digital interface We responded to the technical challenge posed An evolution of our power and signal transmission by Embraers 170 190 jet whose competitive edge technology used in military aircraft and nuclear turns on reduced weight and reliability.
Our new installations, our SiO2 cabling combines the engine vibration monitoring unit is based on effective flexibility, light weight and structural integrity charge amplifier design, and deft, first-stage needed to withstand current and future temperature handling of the pico-coulomb engine sensor signals, and vibration extremes.
Today, we are using this which, readily susceptible to interference, can distort product with our fire detection technology in an information.
This development expresses the value advanced fire detection system that is enhancing the In an era of electricity deregulation, power producers of a half centurys vibration monitoring experience reliability of current commercial aircraft and are substituting large-scale oil or coal powered plant in the pure electronics solution required for the reducing operating costs.
with smaller, cleaner, cheaper, natural gas powered aircrafts advanced integrated avionics.
Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 15 Doppler radar scoring Our electronic scoring systemsincluding the unique application of Doppler radar combined with digital signal processing, telemetry and data display systemsprovide the critical link between training and combat: gunnery and missile performance assessment.
On the ground: we score subsonic, supersonic, and hypervelocity projectiles of 5.56mm to 200mm in diameter, flying from 500 to 5500 ft per second.
In the air: 360 coverage of scoring range, miss distance, vector and scalar accuracy fromdepending on the missiona few inches to a few feet.
Because todays warriors must train as they fight.
