Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Including the Directors Report INTRODUCTION During the year, grants of options were made under the The Board takes regular account of the significance of Executive Share Option Scheme in which 33 employees social, environmental and ethical matters to the business other than the directors in the Europe and Middle Eastern of the company, and is identifying and assessing the Region participate and also in the UK under the Sharesave significant risks to the Companys short and long term value Scheme in which 273 employees other than directors arising from those matters as well as opportunities to participate by entering into a three or five year savings enhance value that may arise from them.
EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc operates in various Service Excellence is the Groups UK customer service countries and values highly the rich ethnic and cultural programme which came into operation in May 2000. diversity of its people.
The Group strives to build on the The programme is based on research findings from over qualities inherent in its global environment by encouraging 3,000 guests who were asked for their views on the type people with different views, styles and approaches.
of customer service they expected.
In Asia, three of the groups hotels, Grand Copthorne Waterfront Singapore, The Group encourages the employment of disabled people Copthorne Kings Singapore and M Hotel Singapore, all on the basis of their ability to perform the job and complies received awards for Security jointly presented by the with the relevant legislative requirements in all parts of the National Safety Council, Singapore Civil Defence Force and world in which it operates.
Proper attention is paid to the Singapore Hotel Association.
Copthorne Hotel Newcastle opportunities, training and work prospects of people who was presented with the Pride of Northumbria Large Hotel become disabled during their employment with the Group.
Award and the Group was named by BTI UK as the Best UK Conference Hotel of the year.
Millennium Hotel Rotorua, Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc encourages employee New Zealand, was for the second successive year presented consultation through staff consultative groups at each the regional award of Best Hospitality and Attraction location and believes that the dissemination of appropriate Business.
information, goals and objectives is pivotal to success and motivation.
It is the Companys and the Groups policy to adhere to the payment terms agreed with the supplier.
It does not All employees at every level are encouraged to develop their follow any particular guidelines established by third parties.
A variety of internally managed Payments are contingent on the supplier providing goods development programmes are available and, in certain or services to the required standard.
The effect of the regions, the Group offers a tuition support programme for Groups payment policy is that its trade creditors at external courses.
The principles of the national standard of the financial year-end represent 28 days purchases best practice in employee development and involvement are 2002: 29 days.
At the year end the Company had no being followed in the countries in which we operate.
practice in terms of labour standards is also upheld.
The Board has adopted a Business Integrity Policy which, amongst other things, sets standards on relationships with suppliers and customers.
This requires directors and employees to act honestly, with integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care.
20 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 COMMUNICATION Good internal communication is a key element in our business.
A structured programme of staff training and workshop seminars is carried out.
Staff at all levels are encouraged to enter into constructive dialogue with the Company.
The Companys People Talkback Survey provides a feedback mechanism via which staff can make a valuable contribution in the future development of the Group.
Viewpoints is a magazine about the Group which provides communication to staff and guests.
Communication with shareholders is equally important.
In addition to its annual report, the Company publishes an interim report and announces its results on a quarterly basis.
General presentations are made after the announcement of preliminary, half-yearly and quarterly results.
A regular programme of meetings exists with major institutional shareholders to review the Groups performance and prospects.
There is also an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the Chairman and other directors including the chairmen of both the remuneration committee and the audit committee at the Annual General Meeting.
At general meetings, the Company prepares separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue and does not combine resolutions together inappropriately, a schedule of the proxy votes cast is made available for inspection at the conclusion of the proceedings and the Annual Report & Accounts is laid before the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
HEALTH AND SAFETY AND THE ENVIRONMENT Safety and environmental management are key management responsibilities.
The Groups hotels are responsible for ensuring that the hotels take every reasonable and practical step to maintain a safe and healthy environment for employees, public visitors, guests and contractors and performance in this area is measured and judged in the same way as other key business parameters.
Staff are trained to meet the needs of disabled customers.
The Board established a revised general statement of policy on health and safety in 2001 to reflect the international nature of the business.
This policy is being managed on a practical level by the established regional health and safety management groups.
The system has continued to be developed throughout the year.
The audit committee receives a report from all regions at each meeting.
Specialist health and safety and food safety consultants have been appointed to provide advice and guidance in all aspects of compliance with relevant legislation and to monitor, audit and review systems to ensure compliance with such legislation.
Training needs are being met at all levels.
The Board has issued a General Statement of Policy on the environment and is working towards the establishment of an Environmental Management System.
The Group is committed to meeting regulatory requirements in the different countries in which the Group operates, minimising the use of energy, water and materials, managing effectively the waste and emissions produced and managing any specific environmental risks associated with any of its operations.
The Company is in the process of defining a chain of responsibilities for environmental management within the current health and safety structures established by the Board.
21 21 Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Including the Directors Report The Group operates strict controls to reduce consumption THE COMMUNITY of energy, for example by installing low energy light bulbs The Group has extensive links with the community through and water saving showerheads in all its hotels.
Hotels have local partnerships established by the hotels and at a energy committees that gather information on a monthly corporate level.
In the UK the Group supports Hospitality basis and report on energy use, water use and waste Action UK and, as a Patrons Company member of the management.
The Company will continue to investigate Outward Bound Trust, it is funding a project in the Glasgow ways to improve the efficiency of waste disposal and area to encourage young people to experience work in the recycling whilst minimising any adverse effect on the hospitality industry.
During the year the Copthorne environment.
The Company only uses refrigeration Slough-Windsor received a special award from the East equipment which complies with current legislation.
Berkshire Education Partnership for the hotels involvement Obsolete equipment is removed by nominated waste with work experience students.
In New Zealand, as a disposal companies for safe disposal.
significant employer in the Far North District, the Group has been involved with the Ministry of Economic To ensure the delivery of the Boards policies in respect of Development to create a work-place programme to bring health and safety and the environment, Tony Potter has local people into the hospitality industry, develop a career been identified as the Board member responsible for both path and contribute to the local economy.
The Company has been a member of the FTSE4Good UK Index of socially responsible companies since the Across the group staff and management are involved with indexs establishment in July 2001. a range of charitable organisations.
The Group gave 45,000 2002: 21,000 to charities during the year.
The Groups policy is to consider charities that improve the economic or social wellbeing of ordinary people or those who are deprived in some way within the Groups area of operation including local and national charities.
The Group made no political contributions during 2003.
The Corporate Governance and Corporate Social Responsibility report, which incorporates the Directors Report, was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: David Thomas Company Secretary 18 February 2004 22 22
