Corporate social responsibility The Board continues to recognise that the Group has a responsibility to act ethically, over and above narrowly defined or short term economic interests, in relation to the physical and social environment in which it operates.
Its operations potentially impact on local communities, and in this area the Board takes regular account of social, environmental and ethical matters, paying due regard to local laws and customs, whilst prohibiting practices which are considered improper.
Our people A significant part of the Groups corporate responsibility is represented by the global workforce of over 6,500 people.
Their health and safety is of paramount importance within a culture of equal opportunity, in which they can feel valued and supported, and the Group aims to assist their development by giving fair consideration to everyone.
Access to the broadest range of skills and experiences is thereby ensured by this uncompromising attitude to equal opportunities for all.
Misys invests in the training of its people and development of appropriate skills by encouraging them to focus their learning around business needs, and by the pursuit of suitable development opportunities.
The Group strives to be flexible in its approach towards its employees and in order to attract and retain the best people in todays highly competitive society with its heavy workloads, it is receptive to arrangements which support them in achieving an optimum work life balance.
Implementation of these arrangements will vary according to regional and functional needs, as determined by local management.
Top: Two of the Misys scholars in Bangalore.
A well motivated workforce is essential if Misys is to continue Bottom: Misys ICT suite at Parklands Junior School, Romford, Essex.
to prosper and grow, and there is in place a comprehensive range of bonus and incentive schemes, both cash and equity linked, which are designed to encourage individual and collective success.
The environment As all its businesses operate in the fields of computer software and support systems, Misys has very low primary and direct environmental impacts: as such, it is intrinsically a clean company.
Nevertheless, it remains firmly committed to developing and maintaining good environmental standards across its range of businesses.
I really appreciate Misys financial help for my continued education.
I hope I can now go on and achieve my potential without the extra worries or stresses financial strain can cause.
com 25 Corporate social responsibility continued Misys acknowledges that there are environmental impacts The Foundation offers support in three distinct areas: associated with running any operation, and it is committed Scholarships representing the core support activity of the to quantifying these wherever possible and to evaluating the Foundation, which aims to establish scholarship programmes scope for reducing them over the medium and long term.
with leading educational institutions, to enable exceptional The Board believes that in many circumstances the needs of students, particularly from less privileged backgrounds, to the Groups businesses can be aligned with environmental undertake undergraduate and postgraduate studies.
concerns, so that the reduction in environmental impacts can benefit the Group in cash terms.
Purchase of equipment grants may be given towards the purchase of equipment for use in teaching information The Environmental Committee, established in 2001, continues technology in educational institutions that have limited funds to be responsible for developing a coherent Group wide for IT resources, usually in an area where there is a Misys environmental policy, and for encouraging its implementation presence.
across the Group with a view to reducing environmental impacts, where possible, and setting targets for the future.
General grants in a few cases, the Foundation is prepared to support special projects where there is a broader In particular, Misys remains committed to reducing energy and contribution towards the enhancement of information paper consumption and to minimising waste.
During the year, technology education.
it has continued to encourage more extensive use of electronic delivery systems such as video conferencing and e-mails, to Donations by the Group to charities other than the help achieve this aim.
In addition, methods of reducing water Foundation, amounted to 505,000 during the year consumption have been examined and implemented.
Misys in the community As a global information The Company made no political donations during the year technology leader with operations spanning six continents, under review 2002: nil.
Misys makes its broader contribution to society through the activities of the Misys Charitable Foundation.
The Foundation was formed in November 1997, with the aim of supporting the advancement of education in information and communications technology worldwide.
The Foundation is funded directly through donations from Misys, whose Board is firmly committed to the Foundations aims.
In addition to the 1.1m that the Company has already put into the Foundation, the Board has further agreed to provide funding for the next five years of a minimum of 100,000 per annum.
Contributions totalling 32,000 were made by the Company during the year 2002: 33,000.
During the year, 53 students were funded in higher education, both in the UK and overseas, and the network at university Above: Misys scholars at Cambridge University.
level continues to be widened.
The Foundation has now undertaken to provide scholarships for a total of 68 students through to the year 2004.
The generous support of the Misys Charitable Foundation is very much appreciated and makes a real difference to the students.
Sir Kevin Satchwell Headmaster, Thomas Telford School 26 Misys Annual Report 2003
