Corporate Social Responsibility At MITIE we recognise that our Company does not operate in isolation.
IOSH TRAINING 2003 IOSH WORKING SAFELY OR CITB HVCA EQUIVALENT Building Services 921 employees Support Services 308 employees IOSH MANAGING SAFELY OR CITB HVCA EQUIVALENT Building Services 156 employees Support Services 49 employees We constantly challenge ourselves to improve our performance in the areas of health, safety and environmental impact.
We are committed to proactively managing Many of our managers are currently training issues related to health, safety and the for one of the four levels of management environmental impact of our business qualifications available within the Company.
We constantly challenge Human Resources Managers are employed in ourselves to improve our performance in each individual MITIE discipline to assist the these areas.
The Chief Executive retains continuous development of recruitment, training responsibility for these areas at Board and retention of quality people.
level and continually drives forward improvements throughout the Group.
Health & Safety People MITIE strives at all times to achieve a dynamic and positive safety culture.
Over MITIE provides equal opportunities and is the past year we have clearly defined safety committed to the principle of equality regardless of management responsibilities at all levels of the race, creed, colour, nationality, sex or disability.
We organisation and instituted new procedures for apply employment policies that are fair, equitable managing work related stress and other and consistent with the skills and abilities of our occupational risks.
employees and the needs of the business.
A series of workshops have been held for the The Board of Directors has identified a number of subsidiary company directors.
All subsidiary policy areas that are essential to the future success company directors have attended the IOSH of the Company.
These include, among others, Safety for Senior Executives Course.
However, the recruitment and selection of employees, the principal focus for health and safety training communications, consultation and participation remains with our workforce and some of the and equal opportunity.
We also recognise that for training that has taken place is shown in the these policies to be successfully implemented, chart above.
operated and developed, there should be an awareness and acceptance of them at every level This year we are setting clear improvement of the organisation.
targets focused on our principal areas of health and safety risk.
By the end of 2003, we anticipate We do not condone any discriminatory act that five out of our six operational areas will or attitude in the conduct of our business with come under the externally accredited safety the public or our employees.
As part of MITIE is an Investor in People organisation and this process, twelve of the Groups safety advisers aims to maximise the potential of all our have already undertaken formal accredited employees.
We recruit, train and retain quality training in accident investigation and evaluation.
people by adopting best practice in every phase Our aim is to build on our capabilities to enable of the employment life cycle.
Current training us to protect all of our employees, customers and programmes in place across the Group range from the public.
craft apprenticeships to the MBA Programme.
10 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Environment Sustainable development lies at the core of MITIEs operations, delivering significant business MITIE recognises the potential consequences benefits whilst protecting resources and if we do not operate in an environmentally improving the quality of life for both current responsible way.
Our companies operate in and future generations.
This view is backed accordance with our environmental policy by our commitment to include the principles and more than 60% of our activities of sustainability into business strategies and are already accredited to the ISO 14001 processes at a high level and incorporating it environmental management standard.
We encourage the highest level of awareness and In the last year, we have initiated a more understanding of environmental issues and work stringent process of collecting data relating to the closely with our clients when selecting methods environmental impacts of our use of energy, fuel, of working and use of building materials, paper and water and our generation of waste.
The chemicals and the like.
data has enabled us to set clear progress targets in We maintain a policy of minimum waste all of these areas.
which is essential to the efficient running of our operations.
We promote this policy internally Community and encourage employees to avoid unnecessary Providing opportunities for the people living or extravagant use of services, time, energy, in the communities in which we work is one materials and machinery.
The Company seeks of our main employment objectives.
During the to promote conservation and the use of natural course of this year, we formed a partnership with resources to minimise environmental pollution.
St Lukes School in Portsmouth where we have The Company undertakes to act wherever worked with the school to improve their training necessary to meet the standards of current facilities.
Our craftsmen and managers are environmental legislation and continues to teaching their skills to the pupils and we have review its policies, programmes and services started a programme of employing the pupils as towards this end.
All waste generated is MITIE apprentices at the end of the course.
We properly disposed of in accordance with current intend to roll this programme out to other areas legislation.
Our waste management service has of the country.
achieved considerable success in reducing clients Our major nominated charity this year has waste, resulting in major financial savings for the been Leonard Cheshire.
The association with clients and a reduction in waste going to landfill.
Leonard Cheshire has given our employees a greater understanding of disability issues.
Our employees are also actively working with several local charities.
MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 11
