qxd 4 6 03 1:57 pm Page 22 Corporate responsibility We have a clear ambition at mmO to put corporate responsibility During the year, the Board was regularly briefed and discussions 2 at the heart of all we do as a Company.
were held on a range of social, environmental and ethical issues facing the Company.
These included community investment, Real importance is attached to this goal and we are determined business ethics, health and safety and environmental protection.
to make our achievements tangible and our procedures open to In addition, our Directors attended a two-day off-site conference genuine internal and external scrutiny.
Our aim is to engage fully covering among other things specific social and ethical matters.
with our employees, our customers, our suppliers and wider society Some of our new Directors participated in a training seminar through active involvement and dialogue.
in February 2003 which covered elements of corporate responsibility.
We believe that creating a culture of responsibility at all levels of our More details on risk management compliance and procedures for business is the best way to offer excellent mobile services to our verification are available in the Internal control section of this report customers, deliver lasting value to our shareholders and to society on pages 49 and 50. around us.
Two particularly significant corporate responsibility risks confront mobile telecommunications companies: public concerns about the Milestones and external recognition safety of hand sets and other portable equipment and worries about We are in the process of embedding corporate responsibility the siting of communications masts.
In common with other risks, we throughout the Company so that we can truly manage, measure manage these specific risks by assessing their potential impact on and account for the social, environmental and ethical impact our the Company, measuring our appetite to manage them and by operations have on the people and the communities we serve.
developing strategies to mitigate them.
Wherever we operate, our We have made significant progress during our first full year approach is to consult directly and openly with communities and of operations.
to address their concerns in an active way.
Dedicated community To give direction to our policies in this area we established a relations managers are employed to engage in dialogue and to Corporate Responsibility Advisory Council, under the leadership encourage increased interaction with local communities.
In the UK of the mmO Chairman, David Varney.
The Council, on which senior this process is supported by a helpline dedicated to inquiries about 2 management, representatives from across the businesses and our mast location or health related issues.
internal audit team are represented, meets every two months to We participate and provide funding for a number of industry groups oversee and review social, environmental and ethical policy.
During including the UK-based Mobile Operators Association MOA.
The the year we also published an environmental policy, an ethical MOA champions the Ten Commitments on the responsible siting procurement policy, launched the Can Do in the Community of mobile telecommunications masts.
This initiative aims to address programme, reviewed our ethics policy and started an in-depth community concerns about the siting of masts so that necessary review of our approach to diversity and human rights.
network development can take place whilst conforming to a The investment community has recognised our achievements in commitment to best siting practice.
O UK and O Airwave are 2 2 corporate responsibility.
We are now represented in some of the committed to complying with the Ten Commitments, which has also main sustainability indices and funds.
These include the FTSE4Good been subject to an independent review, which will be published and Dow Jones Sustainability indices and the new Business in the during 2003.
Our other operating business have committed to Community Corporate Responsibility Index, where we reached the complying with similar guidelines that have been developed by top quintile.
mmO is also a member of Ethibel investment and the GSM Association.
Although research has found no evidence of health risks from Clear and explicit accountability is fundamental to our approach to mobile technology, we are aware of our customers real concerns in corporate responsibility and to all social, environmental and ethical this area.
We are therefore helping to fund a joint UK government matters.
We fully support the Disclosure Guidelines on Social and industry Mobile Telecommunications and Health research Responsibility laid out by the Association of British Insurers.
programme, and contributing to EU WHO research programmes.
In Germany we are part of the Informationzentrum Mobilfunk 12MF Risk management group, set up to address concerns about radio frequency emissions The corporate responsibility programme is managed across all and to improve consultation with stakeholder groups.
businesses, with direct responsibility for all issues resting with As mobile communications advance new issues are arising including, individual Directors and ultimately with the main Board as a whole.
for example, privacy and the availability of adult content on next Social, environmental and ethical issues are integral to the business generation phones.
We take these concerns extremely seriously and and included in the risk management procedures.
A number of are developing appropriate strategies to deal with them.
Where our employees have explicit objectives to meet in this area.
All Directors customers and other stakeholders express concerns about our charged with managing risks are remunerated on the basis of their operations, our policy is to address these actively and openly and success in meeting set targets.
to engage in direct dialogue with customers and communities.
Our risk management procedures are guided by the Turnbull Internal Control Guidance on the Combined Code.
Environment Our environmental policy focuses on minimising the impact of our operations on the environment.
We are committed to using 22 mmO plc 2003 2 mmO2 AR pp022-041.
qxd 4 6 03 1:57 pm Page 23 resources efficiently, by conserving energy and water, minimising declarations.
We aim to treat all employees fairly, impartially and waste and pollution and reducing the levels of emissions.
We do not tolerate harassment of any sort.
We have launched a diversity project to test our employment practices We have won Group corporate registration under the ISO 14001 and to ensure that we provide real equality of opportunity to all international environmental standard.
O UK has maintained its 2 current and potential staff.
We have a code of business principles registration since 2000 and all of our other operating businesses and demand that all staff act ethically in all their dealings with each plan to apply for individual registration within two years.
The other, and with people and organisations outside the Company.
environmental management of our operating businesses is reviewed regularly through third-party audits that form part of the operational We encourage all staff to increase their skills through lifelong risk reviews conducted within our insurance programme.
We communicate with staff and encourage them through a dedicated campaign called Breathe to We are also committed to working towards sustainable development, engage with the customers we serve.
Our Reflect O programme 2 through our membership in the Global e-Sustainability Initiative.
This has been set up to encourage this engagement and to provide a initiative forms part of the United Nations Environment Programmes channel for regular feedback from staff.
We also consult with industry initiatives.
Another sectoral initiative we are part of in the employees either through trade unions, works councils or UK is the innovative mobile phone recycling scheme Fonebak.
scheme allows customers to return old handsets and equipment for refurbishment, re-use or recycling, leaving as little waste as possible.
Action in communities Through staff and customer campaigns we have pledged to plant Engagement with the communities we serve is an essential part some 17,000 trees in six newly created forests in Europe, to promote of our approach to corporate responsibility.
In December 2002, we bio-diversity and to support native species.
launched our Can Do in the Community programme which aims to use our resources, particularly our technology, to benefit in Ethical procurement particular local communities in the UK, Ireland, Germany, the In February 2003 the Executive Committee approved a new ethical Netherlands and the Isle of Man.
procurement policy that spells out the standards we apply as a Among the projects we are currently supporting in the UK are Company and the standards we expect our suppliers to adopt.
an internet cafe, providing training and mentoring in Slough as part Our aim is to encourage suppliers to make similar demands of of a youth crime initiative, and an asthma monitoring project in the companies further along the supply chain.
In implementing the Thames Valley, where we in collaboration with e-San Limited are policy, which is based on the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code, making our technology available to put asthma sufferers in better we will work collaboratively with our suppliers and guide relationships touch with their doctors.
We are also participating in the Leeds and by the principle of continuous improvement.
Our aim is to ensure Manchester Cares schemes.
On the Isle of Man we have sponsored that suppliers comply with all national and other applicable law and the Island Games and the islands international business school.
regulations relating to the standards, including health and safety, A group of 42 employees from the Netherlands, Ireland and the payment of living wages, and the use of child labour.
UK were also part of a team who went to Konongo in Ghana to support a local housing project.
Our German operations were Health and well being actively involved in supporting the aid workers during the major The health and well being of our staff and all who work for the floods that struck Germany.
Company is of paramount concern.
We have an established, Group-wide health and safety strategy agreed at Board level We have also made a series of donations to charities chosen by our and keep this under constant review.
The policy details an employees across our countries of operation.
In the current year organisational structure, roles and responsibilities from the Board we intend to focus our work on charities set up to tackle youth crime to functional levels.
We expect and improve youth education.
Last year we donated 444,000 to our zero-tolerance of injury and ill health arising from work activities.
chosen charities and community organisations through direct funding, in addition we have made in-kind contributions which included The British Standards Institute has recommended O UK for registration 2 extensive participation by our employees in the charities we support.
to the internationally recognised health and safety system OHSAS 18001.
In addition, the management of the health and safety Looking ahead procedures of every operating business is regularly reviewed through We have made good progress in strengthening our corporate external audits, which are carried out as part of our insurance responsibility strategy and practice during the year.
we have much further to go to achieve best practice and we are determined to keep our policies and achievements under constant Our people detailed review and scrutiny.
The success and growth of mmO depends, above all, on our 2 employees, and we strive to create a working environment for them More details about mmO s approach to corporate responsibility, 2 that reflects our core values: to be bold, open, trusted and clear.
will be found in our first independently verified Corporate Responsibility Report, which will be available online in July 2003 Our employment policy is guided by the UN Universal Declaration at www.
of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation www.
