16 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Carbon Electrical Carbon In Asia, the focus has been on efforts providing cost reductions in the core carbon brush business.
excess of 6% of sales were The continuing turnover for Sales grew in China by over 30% and highlighted by major restructuring the year was 186.0 million by 15% across the region.
2003 saw efforts in the Americas and Europe 2002: 199.9 million with an significant increase in market share in along with the transfer of select operating profit before goodwill railway traction and the mining sector operations to low cost satellites amortisation and operating in China, which are two very high continuing to offset the significant exceptionals of 13.4 million growth areas.
price pressures in the commodity 2002: 14.6 million.
In 2003 the Auto Consumer business Our Industrial and Traction business continued its strategic transformation Performance ratios remain below designs, manufactures and supplies from being a regional components expectations due, in part, to the components and systems for supplier of carbon brushes, continuing recession in the US industrial and rail tractions commutators and magnets to a economy magnified by the worldwide.
The business offers a global provider of energy conversions accelerating shift of the consumer comprehensive range of products systems for original equipment product sector to Asia.
carbon brushes, brush holders and electric motors in automotive, commutators used in DC motors, Major new contracts were recently appliance and power tool markets.
traction current collectors used as secured in the Americas stabilising The business began to improve in pantographs, third rail shoes and downward trends and underpinning the second half of 2003, despite a trolley bus inserts, linear and rotary growth prospects for 2004 and continued adverse economic current transfer systems and beyond.
The business is well environment, on the strength of new assemblies used in many applications.
positioned to continue profitable technology product orders in the growth in excess of 20% per annum In the Americas, efforts to leverage Americas and a continued significant in Asia.
the divisions strong market position expansion in Asia.
Lean Enterprise and sales channels have led to successful growth initiatives involving complementary products and services that promise to provide a source of revenue and market differentiation well into the future.
Together with the relentless pursuit of cost improvement by the regions highly integrated low cost manufacturing operations, these actions resulted in significant profit improvement in 2003.
In 2003 the major economies in continental Europe continued to be in recession, so the focus has been on specific projects and increasing market share.
Success in the industrial 2 markets has been achieved through differentiation from competition based on unparalled Fast Turn service and technical support.
1 17 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Carbon 1 Precision pressed Carbon components.
Engineered Carbon In these traditional markets, there has As the Specialty Graphite business been a continued focus on securing continues to increase production for The continuing turnover for strategic alliances and long-term the supply of fabric for the Space the year was 78.4 million agreements with large key accounts.
Shuttle programme, NASA has 2002: 74.6 million with an taken an increasing interest in operating profit before goodwill A major contributor to the strong the promotion of the business amortisation and operating performance in 2003 was the leading to visits by an astronaut exceptionals of 6.2 million securing of major contracts for Andrew Feustel and by a 13-person 2002: 2.5 million.
personal body armour as highlighted NASA technical delegation to the on page 6 and aircraft protection.
With a wide and continually Fostoria, Ohio plant.
Significant investment has been expanding range of materials, made in this area and manufacturing Morgans superabrasive business this business provides seal faces, capacity for these components has grown dramatically in 2003, bearings, rotors, vanes and other has been nearly doubled on the culminating in November in the components providing the technical back of additional orders received.
launch of next-generation technology solutions required for a large variety Whilst military markets are more for the synthetic diamond industry.
It also produces and cyclical in nature, our additional Continuing strong growth is supplies precision high purity capacity can be easily utilised in the anticipated as production capacity specialty graphite products for use more stable, traditional markets.
for the new technology is installed.
in high temperature and corrosive environments.
Reinvestment in US and European Morgans global supply to the facilities was aimed at reduced semiconductor business has been The traditional fluid handling market cycle time with improved quality.
greatly enhanced by installation of a stabilised in 2003 after two years of Further financial and technological state-of-the-art purification facility in declining component usage.
Signs of investment has taken place in India, Taegu, South Korea.
Morgan is now recovery were seen in the second half China and Korea to take advantage well positioned to take advantage of of 2003 and a modest expansion is of domestic market growth, the strong growth of this market in expected in 2004. customer migration and to provide a Asia and to provide a low-cost source After two very depressed years in the low-cost high-quality manufacturing to America and Europe.
aircraft and aerospace market, 2003 source for US and European markets.
saw a slight recovery, with further improvement forecast in 2004.
