30 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Corporate social responsibility In the 2002 Annual Report, Morgan reported for the first time on Corporate EHS audits of the European and North American facilities have now been Social Responsibility, which the Board recognises as an integral part of completed.
The programme to cover major facilities in the rest of the world is Corporate Governance, and for which the Board takes overall responsibility.
During 2003, Nigel Howard was responsible for CSR and following his The programme of regular EHS compliance audits of the European and retirement in December 2003, responsibility has been taken by Warren American facilities has been maintained, and extended further to include Knowlton, supported by Dr Alan Begg who is the Executive Committee member facilities in Africa and Asia.
These audits have been supplemented by specific responsible for the Groups environmental and health and safety matters.
environmental assessments associated with the Group restructuring projects.
Advances have been made across a number of the areas highlighted in the Although the extensive changes across the Group have postponed the 2002 Annual Report, but given the extent of the reorganisation of the Group, establishment of Group-wide baseline EHS performance indicators for overall progress has been slower than anticipated, and the Board intends to implementation of improvement programmes, significant progress has been address this in 2004. made at individual sites.
Morgan also continued to achieve compliance with Core values statement internationally recognised Environmental Management Systems.
Murugappa Morgan Thermal Ceramics Ltd in India and Morganite Inc in the USA are two In the 2002 Annual Report the Board reiterated Morgans long-standing manufacturing sites that were accredited to ISO 14001 in 2003. commitment to its social, environmental and ethical responsibilities, and it is currently formulating a statement which summarises these core values.
The targets for 2004 2005 include: Although employees are already made aware of this commitment through a 1.
To extend compliance with ISO 14001, or equivalent environmental variety of training programmes, a key objective for 2004 is to ensure that management systems, to 50% of the Groups manufacturing capacity.
these values are embedded in the culture of every operating company.
To maintain reporting by the Groups manufacturing facilities of CO 2 Human resources emissions, water usage, and waste to enable collective and individual site Morgans employment policies insist on full compliance with UN guidance on improvement targets to be set.
human rights and minimum working age, and ensure equal opportunity and 3.
To agree Group-wide health and safety improvement targets on lost time diversity amongst employees, regardless of sex, race, religion, culture, creed, from work place injuries.
To develop baseline health and safety policies and procedures to minimise 2003 was a year during which all Morgans global businesses were involved in the impacts on the business of occupational health and safety issues.
substantial restructuring, which included business closures, disposals and redundancies.
Morgans policy of implementing these actions in a fair, Ethical trading dignified and respectful manner was fully operational.
Corporate and local The majority of appropriate employees throughout the World have now management worked hard to ensure that full and effective communication completed anti-trust compliance training.
In addition, for those employees processes were in place, alongside appropriate employee support structures.
who received training during 2002, the first annual independent audit, Whilst restructuring was the predominant HR activity during the year, Morgan since the introduction of the new procedures, has been carried out.
continued to devote time and resources to the development of its people This demonstrated that such procedures have been strictly followed within through a number of high quality developmental programmes in Europe and those businesses.
The standard terms and conditions of purchase are in the North America.
process of being amended to ensure that every supplier is aware of and agrees to abide by Morgans own core values.
The appointment of a Director of Communications in April has helped progress Morgans declared intention to extend and enhance its internal and Community involvement external communication processes.
A quarterly magazine, Morgan Update is Our businesses continue to support the local communities within which they now issued, and is translated into 8 languages.
The establishment of an operate and provide support for schools, youth organisations and local effective communication network, during the year, coupled with the charities, not only through money raised but through time spent.
implementation of focused Employee Surveys, has created a solid platform from which to move forward in 2004.
In 2003 Morgan provided 113,562 in charitable donations 2002: 173,463.
Environmental and Health and Safety EHS matters CSR verification The main features of the Groups EHS policy are: Having undertaken an extensive external review of its CSR policies and procedures in 2002, the Board concentrated in 2003 on strengthening CSR to comply with EHS legislation, regulations and other applicable performance across the Group, where appropriate.
The Board has considered requirements: the potential external verification of the Groups CSR performance, but has to minimise the environmental impact of historic, current and future limited this to external professional advice on specific health and safety and operations: environmental matters as required.
to conduct operations in such a manner in order to avoid unacceptable risk By Order of the Board to human health and safety: David Coker Secretary to supply products that will not present unacceptable risk to human health 18 February 2004 and safety when used in compliance with product safety communications and common safety practices: to establish measurement tools for and continuously monitor EHS performance: to set objectives for the continuous improvement of EHS performance.
