CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IS CENTRAL TO THE FUTURE SUCCESS OF THE NATIONAL EXPRESS GROUP: ITS ABOUT WHAT WE DO AND HOW WE DO IT.
The services provided by the National Express Group are at emissions of greenhouse gases and other atmospheric pollutants.
the heart of the development and support of sustainable and We believe that public transport will play a key role in the efficient public transport.
transition to a low carbon economy and in meeting Government targets for reducing the emissions of greenhouse gases.
As We provide public transport services that deliver a wide social Government Policy to tackle climate change takes effect, the benefit carrying people every day from A to B in safety, on business environment will change.
The cost of energy is likely to time, economically and with minimum impact on the increase significantly but there may be considerable opportunities environment.
We support, direct and guide our people by if transport projects that save carbon are permitted to enter into providing systems and expertise which enable them to emissions trading schemes.
The Group has recently formed a integrate responsible practices into their working day.
This partnership with the Carbon Trust, an independent organisation ensures we deliver services that meet the needs of the local set up by Government, to help organisations make business communities we serve.
sense of climate change and to help the UK make the transition to a low carbon economy.
We have been elected to participate Our second Corporate Responsibility Report, which we have in its carbon management pilot programme to develop a published alongside the Annual Report and Accounts 2003, comprehensive carbon management strategy.
explains how we are improving our services in order to encourage more customers to use public transport.
Full details Our people operate at the front line of our businesses and can be found on our website www.
make a huge contribution to the quality of our services.
We are Whilst such an outcome is clearly good for business, it is also committed to making the National Express Group a safe and good for the environment and for local communities.
In our rewarding environment in which to work.
This year we have view, there is nothing incompatible between corporate carried out extensive communications with staff, including the responsibility and profitability.
As committed in our Corporate Responsibility Report 2003, we have also developed our first 2003 was a year of rewarding progress, as we focused on UK-wide Equal Opportunities and diversity policy.
improving the quality of our services, while also protecting our environment, enabling our people and supporting the local As local companies operating at a local level, National Express communities we serve.
Group businesses play an important role in helping to overcome social exclusion by providing public transport As part of a devolved organisation, our local management services in their local communities.
In 2003, we continued to teams are responsible for the day-to-day running of their invest in order to meet the requirements of the Disability operations.
Our corporate team is there to set policy and Discrimination Act DDA and to enable more citizens to standards, support the adoption of best practice and the access our services.
We have now incorporated many DDA implementation of improvement plans and to monitor and compliant facilities into our facilities and work closely with report on performance.
We are in regular contact with all our key stakeholders: At a local level, our operations provide expertise, funds and customers, rail passenger groups RPCs, local and regional other support to a wide range of organisations.
During 2003 government, transport bodies, employees, suppliers and we continued our support for the National Missing Persons shareholders.
We also continue to meet investors interested in Helpline.
We provide travel facilities and sites where posters of the Groups corporate and social policies.
We are pleased to be a missing persons can be displayed as well as financial support.
member of both the Dow Jones Sustainability and FTSE 4 Good Our efforts have helped to result in a number of positive Indexes, the first indexes which track the financial performance of outcomes for families whose loved ones have gone missing.
This the worlds leading  companies.
support will continue during 2004, most actively within our bus and coach divisions.
To mark 2003 being the Year of the Public transport has huge potential to deliver social and Disabled, the Group also developed an association with a environmental benefits and we have made good progress against number of disabled charities including Candoco, which the environmental objectives we identified in last years promotes dance amongst both the able and less able.
The most significant Group also regularly contributes to a number of industry environmental issues that arise from our operations are related bodies.
