NEXT PLC SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT The NEXT Group takes social, environmental and ethical SEE matters seriously.
The Group is committed to corporate social responsibility from Board level and throughout the Group.
The Group has taken actions to contribute to ethical trade and, within commercial constraints, sustainable development.
The Board has identified and assessed the key business risks, issues and opportunities arising from SEE matters.
An executive director has responsibility for SEE matters and considers all aspects of the Groups conduct in this respect.
The Groups efforts to improve sustainable development will continue to focus on waste and climate change.
The Group has, within commercial constraints, taken steps to reduce waste and in particular has reduced consumption of energy and CO emissions per 2 square metre over last year.
The Group will continue these initiatives where commercially possible.
The Groups social policy addresses the diversity of its workforce, and safety and ethical requirements for suppliers.
People are a key asset to the business.
The Group has developed policies for recruitment, training and development of personnel which are contained in comprehensive staff handbooks.
The business is committed to achieving excellence in the areas of health, safety, welfare, fire prevention and protection of the working environment and has therefore adopted policies aimed at minimising risks in the Groups activities to ensure that they do not harm employees, customers or the general public, all of whose interests are regarded as critical to business success.
The NEXT Group is an equal opportunities employer and will continue to ensure it offers career opportunities without discrimination.
The Group continues to invest in improving the health, safety and well-being of its employees.
A major health and safety programme has been implemented throughout the Group, with increased training in NEXT Distribution and improved communication between staff and management.
Increased resources have been devoted to the promotion of health and safety matters during the year and the resulting policy has been reviewed by the Board.
The directors consider that the Board has complied with the five action points set out in the Health and Safety Commissions guidance document Directors Responsibilities for Health and Safety published in July 2001.
The Groups ethical policy is extended to its suppliers.
NEXT Brand introduced a supplier Code of Practice in 1998 in respect of working conditions, including minimum compliance standards for child labour, environmental protection, wages and other issues.
A team of dedicated auditors, based in the UK and overseas, work exclusively to inform, monitor and improve supplier compliance to the Code of Practice.
In 2002 the Group became a member of the Ethical Trading Initiative in addition to its commitment to its own Code of Practice.
The Group has a well established corporate charity and sponsorship programme, donating time, funding and resources to a wide portfolio of local and national charities.
A committee made up of employee representatives meets regularly to ensure that a diverse range of charitable causes are supported.
