969 18-23 18 3 04 12:59 pm Page 23 Novar annual report 2003 Corporate Social Responsibility 23 Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is an essential element of Health & Safety modern business practice.
The Board of Novar plc recognises its The Directors believe that the health, safety and welfare of the responsibilities to develop and promote policies and management Groups employees should be an integral part of the overall systems to enhance the Groups performance in the key impact business strategy.
areas, and to maintain the highest standards of ethical and social behaviour in all business dealings.
This report describes the The Boards commitment is set out in the Groups Health & Safety framework for the Group and outlines how this is applied across Policy Statement, a copy of which is available on the Novar the Groups businesses.
Below Board and Chief Executive level, Sector Chief Executives and business unit managing directors are responsible The Groups Code of Conduct, a copy of which is available on the for developing health and safety policies which are specific to their Novar website, outlines our conduct across a range of social, operations, and the associated organisation and arrangements ethical and environmental areas which are core to the effective and necessary to secure the achievement of the Group policy.
Each efficient functioning of our business.
sector has formal management systems and programmes in place in relation to health and safety for their businesses.
Accountability for managing CSR issues in the business sectors rests with the Sector Chief Executives, who report to the Group Environment Operating Committee and the Board of Directors.
The Group is committed to developing and promoting products and processes that reduce waste and negative environmental Employees impacts.
This includes both the efficient use of materials and The Directors recognise that the Groups goals and vision can be energy in designs and product development, and an awareness achieved only through the efforts of its employees.
The Board of the effect on the environment of manufacturing processes.
The remains committed to ensuring that all Group employees are Groups environmental policy, a copy of which is available on the treated with dignity and respect, and that the working environment Novar website, sets out five key principles as a framework for each is one where each employees contribution is recognised and Novar business to develop and implement policies and valued.
All employment-related issues are judged on the basis of procedures which are relevant and appropriate to their operations.
individual ability and performance without regard to race, colour, nationality, culture, ethnic origin, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age Each of the sectors has its own environmental programmes which or disability.
Discrimination and harassment are not tolerated, and are carried through at the local level.
Most European sites are basic human rights are upheld wherever the Company operates.
accredited to the environmental management standard ISO14001 or EMAS, and programmes are currently under way to achieve With some 14,000 employees spread across operations in the further accreditations during 2004.
All companies have sought to UK, North America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia, the Group optimise recycling of packaging and other materials and waste has a diverse and multi-cultural workforce.
Novar has policies where financially and economically viable.
on compensation, benefits and ethics which are designed to reflect national differences, for example in compensation The Supply Chain philosophies and labour relations.
Wage levels are designed to The Group is developing policies to take account of socially be competitive in the local market and are tested using a number responsible practices in the supply chain.
Activity is focused on the of independent sources.
environmental performance of suppliers and their working practice standards, supported by appropriate audit processes.
The Company believes in taking prime responsibility for communications with its employees in order to keep them fully Community Support and Charitable Donations informed on matters which affect them, and to enable them The Board receives an annual report on charitable payments to identify with the competitiveness and success of their across the Group.
The Group focuses on providing support for enterprise.
The Company operates an Inland Revenue approved organisations which are local to, or linked commercially with, savings-related share option scheme in the UK, providing Novars business units.
Community involvement is organised at employees with the opportunity to own shares in the Company.
a local level within the sectors.
The Group has for many years supported CRASH, the UK construction and property industry Proper consideration is given to applications for employment charity for the homeless as a founder member.
In North America, made by disabled people, and for training and personal and career both Clarke American and Indalex have well-established development as appropriate for disabled employees.
In the event programmes to support the United Way.
In 2003, donations of an employee becoming disabled whilst working for the Company, to charitable organisations within the UK amounted to 14,870 efforts would be made to continue their employment and suitable 2002: 24,725. arrangements made for retraining as necessary.
