Corporate social responsibility ARM considers itself to be a good corporate Supporting education.
Our support for through on-the-job and formal training, citizen.
While we know that there will always education stretches from funding an coaching and mentoring.
Our staff turnover be more to do, we strive to reduce the impact information technology centre at a local junior is approximately 5% a year.
we make on the environment and to increase school, to working on specific projects with our connections with the communities in which students at the Judge Institute, Cambridge Our Employee Assistance Programme helps we operate.
We also work hard to connect with Universitys business school.
We have helped staff and their families with issues such as our shareholders, partners, suppliers and three schools near our Cambridge, UK offices care for children or elderly relatives, legal and employees.
and one near our Maidenhead, UK offices to health advice, and stress or other counselling.
achieve specialist school status: we support We were named Employer of the Year in both We are corporate members of the Institute of mathematics lectures for gifted school the Midlands and East of England regions, and Business Ethics IBE and were one of the first students at the Royal Institution and contribute in the UK National Business Awards 2003. members of GoodCorporation, which was to the funding to train the UK team for the founded in 2001 to help organisations to International Maths Olympics.
In addition, we Equal opportunities.
We need highly-qualified develop, manage and monitor their corporate have relationships with a number of staff and do not see age, colour, disability, responsibilities.
Based on principles set out by universities.
Our Chairman, for example, is a ethnic origin, gender, political or other opinion, the IBE, the GoodCorporation charter enables visiting professor at Liverpool and we worked religion or sexual orientation as a barrier to companies to measure how effective they are with Loughborough to design a degree course employment.
If any member of staff becomes in achieving these responsibilities.
Our which is based on the ARM architecture, with disabled, we assess their needs and abilities commitment to the charter includes being the result that we now have a number of with a view to their continuing in their current verified against it each year.
Loughborough graduates working with us.
If this is impossible, we seek to offer them alternative employment.
In addition, we are listed on the FTSE4Good Supporting good causes.
We encourage our Index and take part in the Business in the people to support their local communities.
Employees receive private healthcare: Environment Index and the Corporate Some are school governors, some help permanent health, travel and life insurance: Responsibility Index.
children improve their reading skills, others pensions: sabbaticals: flexible working: stock support charities.
Our employees at our Austin, options: and a save-as-you-earn share scheme.
The environment Texas office have, for example, helped with We encourage understanding and acceptance Our business focuses on designing IP which Special Olympics Texas and worked on a new of national and cultural diversity by giving enables devices to use less power and, as a home for an underprivileged family, and employees the opportunity to work in our result, to be more environmentally friendly.
employees at Austin and at Los Gatos have offices other than in their home country.
Our activities do not produce harmful waste given their time to charities for the homeless.
or emissions and the Ethical Investment Accessibility Research Service EIRIS grades us as an We double the efforts of employees who We endeavour to provide access to all whether environmentally low impact business.
raise money for approved charities by matching it be through building design to allow easy Nevertheless, we monitor our environmental the funds they raise with the exception of disabled access or through improving access to performance to enable us to set targets for political donations or other causes that might our website for those with visual impairments.
reducing paper usage and increasing the damage ARMs good reputation.
Charities for amount we recycle, and controlling water cancer, children, cystic fibrosis and MS have Health and safety consumption.
There are recycling bins for been some of the beneficiaries of this scheme.
The safety of employees, contractors and aluminium cans in the majority of our offices visitors is a priority.
We measure and analyse and our air conditioning systems run on less Connecting with our investors all accidents and near misses we have had environmentally damaging refrigerants.
We take care to provide accurate and timely only one RIDDOR reportable accident in the information for our investors large and small.
Companys history : by monitoring patterns or We discourage the supply of company cars: in Board members and other senior managers trends we can identify potential problems and a company of 740 people, there are only 20. communicate regularly with our institutional work to avoid them.
We are verified by We encourage our people to cycle to work shareholders.
Our retail investors are sent the GoodCorporation each year to ensure that we or to share car journeys, and we measure annual report and a six-monthly report each meet its health and safety requirements and business travel.
In addition, our website www.
com our UK offices are also audited by the British carries comprehensive information about our Safety Council.
In the UK, we have a health Connecting with local communities business, partners and products, including all and safety committee and each office has fire Our aim is to be a good corporate citizen of the press releases.
Our overseas offices communities in which we operate.
As such, we have the health and safety cover required by support local initiatives and fundraising.
In the Connecting with employees local legislation.
Health and safety is high on UK, we tend to focus on educational projects Our aim is to attract and retain the best our agenda: we publicise work-related matters, particularly for pupils who are interested in people available by being a good and ethical advise employees to be prepared for winter mathematics, science, IT and business subjects.
The skills, knowledge and motivation driving and to take precautions to prevent hay This support is sometimes financial, sometimes of our people are crucial to ARMs success.
in the form of our employees time and skills.
promote and support individuals and teams ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 21 Directors report UK GAAP The directors present their annual report and Going concern Impact of International Financial Reporting audited financial statements for the year After making enquiries, the directors have a Standards IFRS ended 31 December 2003. reasonable expectation that the Group and During the year, the Group has considered Company have adequate resources to continue the impact that implementing IFRS in 2005 Principal activities and review of business in operational existence for the foreseeable will have on its financial statements and The principal activities of the Group and its future.
For this reason, they have adopted the reporting functions.
The project is ongoing, and subsidiaries are the licensing, marketing, going concern basis in preparing the financial the Group continually monitors the new research and development of RISC-based statements.
announcements being made by the IASB microprocessors and systems.
The nature of in furthering its plans for implementation.
the global semiconductor industry is such that Dividends To date, the key areas that the Group has most of its business is conducted overseas The directors recommend a combined interim reviewed and which may affect the financial and, to serve its customers better, the Group and final dividend in respect of the year to statements are derivatives and financial has sales offices around the world.
These 31 December 2003 of 0.6 pence per share instruments, revenue recognition, intangibles, include six offices in the US and offices in total cost 6,106,000 which, subject to share-based payments, acquisition accounting Shanghai, PR China: Tokyo, Japan: Seoul, South approval at the Annual General Meeting on and accounting for R&D costs.
Further areas Korea: Taipei, Taiwan: Tel Aviv, Israel: Paris, 26 April 2004, will be paid on 7 May 2004 are currently being assessed, and the Group France and Munich, Germany.
Design offices to shareholders on the register at 2 April 2004. is confident that it is well positioned for the are based in Cambridge, Maidenhead, transition.
Sheffield, and Blackburn, UK: Sophia Antipolis, Research and development R&D France: Leuven, Belgium: and Austin, Texas in R&D is of major importance and, as part of Directors in the year the US.
More information about the business is its research activities, the Group collaborates The following served as directors of the set out in the Chairmans statement on pages closely with universities worldwide.
Key Company during the year ended 31 December 4 and 5, the Chief Executive Officers review areas of product development for 2004 include 2003: on pages 6 and 7, the review of operations on the development of further power saving pages 8 to 13 and the financial review on technologies OptimoDE and central processing Sir Robin Saxby KBE Chairman pages 16 and 17. unit CPU cores based on symmetric Warren East Chief Executive Officer multiprocessor technology, improved security Tim Score Chief Financial Officer Future developments through the TrustZone and SecurJC technologies Tudor Brown Chief Operating Officer The Groups stated objective is to establish and developments in superscalar CPU Mike Muller Chief Technology Officer a new global RISC architecture standard for architectures.
Mike Inglis Executive Vice President, the embedded microprocessor market.
The Marketing directors believe that to achieve this goal it The Group incurred R&D costs of 48.1 million Peter Cawdron independent non-executive, is important to expand the number and range in 2003, compared with 48.7 million in 2002, Senior Independent Director, financial expert of potential customers for its technology.
The which have been charged to the profit and Doug Dunn OBE independent non-executive Group intends to enter into licence agreements loss account.
John Scarisbrick independent non-executive with new customers and to increase the range Lawrence Tesler independent non-executive of new technology supplied to existing Donations customers.
Relationships will continue to be During the year the Group made donations Election of directors established with third-party tools and software for charitable purposes of 42,486 2002: In accordance with the Groups Articles of vendors to ensure that their products will 27,939.
The total amounts given for each Association, Warren East will retire by rotation operate with the ARM architecture.
As a result such purpose were: at the Companys Annual General Meeting of its position as an emerging standard in its AGM and will seek re-election at that industry, the Group is presented with many Local Cambridge charities 9,411 meeting.
See page 14 for his biography.
opportunities to acquire complementary Promotion of education 6,687 Lawrence Tesler has completed two three-year technology or resources.
It continues to review Wider understanding of science, terms as a non-executive director and will these opportunities and in July 2003 the Group maths and information technology 12,500 retire from the board at the AGM on 26 April acquired Adelante Technologies N. V. which Medical research 7,439 2004.
It is intended that Jeremy Scudamore is developing configurable data engine Relief of poverty 6,449 will be appointed as an additional nontechnology, OptimoDE.
executive director immediately following the The Group does not make any political AGM on 26 April 2004.
ARM employees are encouraged to included in the corporate governance report offer their time and expertise to help charities on page 18. and other groups in need.
The Group operates a gift matching system for employee fundraising.
22 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 Directors shareholdings in the Company Policy on payment of creditors The interests of the directors in the Companys The Groups policy is to pay suppliers before ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, all of which the end of the month following receipt of the were beneficially held, are disclosed in the invoice, unless terms have been specifically remuneration report on page 26. agreed in advance.
This policy and any specific terms agreed with suppliers are made known Substantial shareholdings to the appropriate staff and to suppliers on The directors are aware of the following request.
Trade creditors of the Group at substantial interests in the issued share capital 31 December 2003 were equivalent to 23 days of the Company as at 17 February 2004: purchases for the Group 2002: 19 days and nil days for the Company in both years.
Percentage of issued ordinary share capital Annual General Meeting AGM Capital Group Companies 10.1% The AGM will be held at the Groups offices Fidelity Investments 6.9% in Cambridge, UK, on 26 April 2004 at 2pm.
Legal and General A presentation will be made at this meeting Investment Management 4.5% outlining recent developments in the business.
Threadneedle Asset Management 4.3% The Group will convey the results of proxy Janus Capital Corporation 3.8% votes cast at the AGM.
Shareholders are Aviva plc 3.0% invited to submit written questions in advance of the meeting.
Questions should be sent to Save for the above, the Company has not The Secretary, ARM Holdings plc, 110 Fulbourn Road, Cambridge CB1 9NJ.
been notified, as at 17 February 2004, of any material interest of 3% or more or any nonA resolution to reappoint  material interest exceeding 10% of the issued share capital of the Company.
LLP as auditors to the Group will be proposed at the AGM.
Disabled persons Notice of the AGM is set out in the circular to The Group has a strong demand for highly qualified staff and, as such, disability is not shareholders accompanying this annual report.
seen to be an inhibitor to employment or career development.
In the event of any staff By order of the board becoming disabled while with the Group, their needs and abilities would be assessed and the Group would, where possible, seek to offer alternative employment to them if they were Patricia Alsop Company Secretary no longer able to continue in their current role.
Employee involvement As the Group is an intellectual property enterprise, it is vital that all levels of staff are consulted and involved in its decision-making processes.
To this end, internal conferences and communications meetings are held regularly which involve employees from all parts of the Group in discussions on future strategy and developments.
Furthermore, employee share ownership is encouraged and all staff are able to participate in one of the Groups schemes to encourage share ownership.
The Group has a very informal and delegated organisational structure.
It does not presently operate any collective agreements with any trade unions.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 23 Remuneration report UK GAAP Remuneration committee The remuneration committee has responsibility for determining and agreeing with the board, within agreed terms of reference, the Groups policy for the remuneration of the executive directors and the individual remuneration packages for the executive directors including basic salary and annual bonuses, the level and terms of grants of options and awards and the terms of any performance conditions to apply to the exercise of such rights, pension rights and any compensation payments.
Where the remuneration committee considers it appropriate, the committee will make recommendations in relation to the remuneration of senior management.
The committee also liaises with the board in relation to the preparation of the boards annual report to shareholders on the Groups policy on the remuneration of executive directors and in particular the directors remuneration report, as required by the Companies Act 1985 as amended, the Combined Code and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The committee is chaired by Doug Dunn, and Peter Cawdron, John Scarisbrick and Lawrence Tesler are members.
The committee met three times during 2003 and all meetings were attended by all the committee members, with the exception of the December 2003 meeting when Lawrence Tesler was unable to attend.
Given their diverse experience, the four independent non-executive directors are able to offer a balanced view with respect to remuneration issues for the Group.
The committee has access to professional advice from external advisers, generally appointed by the Executive Vice President, Human Resources, in the furtherance of its duties and makes use of this.
During 2003, Linklaters, Watson Wyatt, Deloitte & Touche and the Executive Vice President, Human Resources, have provided advice or services to the committee.
Linklaters provided other legal services and Watson Wyatt provided pension advice to the Company during this period.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President, Human Resources, normally attend for part of the remuneration committee meetings.
No director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
Remuneration policy The remuneration committee in its deliberations on the remuneration policy for the Groups directors seeks to give full consideration to the principles set out in the Combined Code.
The committee also monitors developments in the accounting for equity-based remuneration on an ongoing basis.
The Group operates a remuneration policy for executive directors designed to ensure that it attracts and retains the management skills necessary for it to remain a leader in its field.
This policy seeks to provide rewards and incentives for the remuneration of executive directors that reflect their performance and align with the objectives of the Group, and comprise a mix of performance-related and  remuneration.
The committee believes that a directors total remuneration should seek to recognise his worth in the external market.
The nature of the Groups development has meant that there has been a good deal of focus on the attainment of short-term objectives with a high level of variable remuneration.
Currently, variable remuneration consists of three elements: annual cash bonus, discretionary share options and conditional awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan.
All these incentives are performance-related and, as a result, more than half of each executive directors remuneration is targeted to be performance linked.
Following a review of the Groups variable remuneration structure, the remuneration committee concluded that, in order to align better the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders, and to ensure that these key individuals are appropriately incentivised to remain with the Group, a higher proportion of executive directors remuneration should focus on longer-term objectives.
As a result, in 2003 a shareholding guideline was introduced under which executive directors and certain senior managers are required to build up a holding of shares in the Company over a period of five years.
The shareholdings will be built up of shares received under the Companys discretionary share option schemes and or the Long Term Incentive Plan and, in the case of executive directors, the required holding is 100% of basic salary.
Incentive arrangements The remuneration committee aims to ensure that individuals are fairly rewarded for their contribution to the success of the Group.
There is a strong bonus element to executive directors remuneration with a bonus of up to 50% of basic pay being available through the executive bonus plan if all targets are met.
Payment of bonus is subject to the achievement of targets set by the remuneration committee which are directly related to the Groups financial results.
No bonuses are payable to executive directors in respect of 2003.
For the 2004 operation of the bonus plan, three targets have been set by the remuneration committee, namely growth in profit before tax and growth in revenues each of which account for 50% of total bonus potential with the proviso that no bonus will be payable unless earnings per share exceed a defined target.
If the Groups targets are achieved, bonuses will be payable on a linear basis between the minimum and the maximum of the agreed range.
Annual bonuses can be doubled under the deferred bonus plan if payment is deferred for three years.
Details of the deferred bonus plan are set out on page 29.
The Group operates a number of share option plans and employees generally receive a number of share options according to their grade, past performance and length of service.
Typically, share options are allocated to employees on an annual basis.
Discretionary options under the Approved, Unapproved and Incentive Stock Option Schemes are always issued at market value, while options issued under the Save As You Earn and Employee Stock Purchase Plans are issued at a 15% discount to market value.
In line with practice among the Groups peers in the technology sector, there are generally no performance conditions attached to the issue or exercise of discretionary options except for those issued to executive 24 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 directors.
Share options issued to executive directors prior to their appointment to the board of the Group do not have performance conditions attached to them.
However, discretionary options issued to executive directors after their appointment to the board of the Group will have performance conditions attached to them.
The executive directors do not currently receive options under the Approved Scheme and Incentive Stock Option Scheme.
Under the Unapproved Scheme, share options with a value of up to five times base salary may be issued on the executive director joining the Group.
In addition, discretionary options with a value of up to two times base salary may be issued each year.
These discretionary options will vest after seven years, but may vest after three years from grant if the performance conditions are satisfied.
For options granted before January 2003, the performance condition is that the Group must achieve average real EPS growth of at least 33.1% i. e. 33.1% greater than the percentage increase if any in the Retail Prices Index over a performance period of three years from the start of the financial year in which the options were granted the performance period.
For options granted from January 2003 under the performance condition, 50% of the shares under option will vest after three years if the Group achieves average real EPS growth of 9.3% over the performance period.
If average real EPS growth of at least 33.1% is achieved over the performance period, 100% of the shares under option will vest after three years.
Where the average real EPS growth over the performance period is between 9.3% and 33.1%, the number of shares which vest after three years increases on a straight-line basis.
For options granted from January 2004 under the performance condition, 50% of the shares under option will vest after three years if the Group achieves average real EPS growth of 12.5% over the performance period.
Where the average real EPS growth over the performance period is between 12.5% and 33.1%, the number of shares which vest after three years increases on a straight-line basis.
Pensions The Group does not operate its own pension scheme but makes payments into a Group personal pension plan, which is a money purchase scheme.
The rate of Group contribution is 10% of the executives basic salary 25% in the case of the Chairman subject to the Inland Revenue salary capping limits.
Service agreements Executive directors have rolling service contracts that may be terminated by either party on one years notice.
The service contracts also terminate when executive directors reach age 65.
With the exception of the Chairman, these agreements provide for each of the directors to provide services to the Group on a full-time basis.
The agreements contain restrictive covenants for periods of three to six months following termination of employment relating to non-competition, non-solicitation of the Groups customers, non-dealing with customers and non-solicitation of the Groups suppliers and employees.
In addition, each service agreement contains an express obligation of confidentiality in respect of the Groups trade secrets and confidential information and provides for the Group to own any intellectual property rights created by the directors in the course of their employment.
The dates of the service contracts of each person who served as an executive director during the financial year are as follows: Director Date Sir Robin Saxby 31 January 1996 Warren East 29 January 2001 Tim Score 1 March 2002 Tudor Brown 3 April 1996 Mike Muller 31 January 1996 Mike Inglis 17 July 2002 Where notice is served to terminate the appointment, whether by the Group or the executive director, the Group in its absolute discretion shall be entitled to terminate the appointment by paying to the executive director his salary in lieu of any required period of notice.
Non-executive directors During 2003, each non-executive director received a total fee of 24,000 per annum.
This fee was arrived at by reference to fees paid by other companies of similar size and complexity, and reflected the amount of time non-executive directors were expected to devote to the Groups activities during the year, which is around 10 to 15 working days a year.
Peter Cawdron, an independent non-executive director who currently holds more than five directorships, has devoted during his term of office, and continues to be able to devote, the agreed amount of time to the Groups activities.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is set by the board and their term of appointment is three years.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts, are not eligible to participate in bonus or share incentive arrangements and their service does not qualify for pension purposes or other benefits.
No element of their fees is performance-related.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 25 Remuneration report UK GAAP continued Performance graphs A performance graph showing the Companys total shareholder return TSR together with the TSR for the FTSE Global Technology Index of 50 companies from 31 December 1998 is shown below.
The TSR has been calculated in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The TSR for the Companys shares was 101% over this period compared with -29% for the FTSE Global Technology Index for the same period.
TSR on 100 of ARM shares vs FTSE Global Technology Index sterling 1,800 1,600 1,400 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 31 December 1998 31 December 1999 31 December 2000 31 December 2001 31 December 2002 31 December 2003 ARM share price FTSE Global Technology Index The directors consider the FTSE Global Technology Index to be an appropriate choice as the Index contains companies from the US, Asia and Europe, which reflects the global environment in which the Group operates.
In addition, the Index includes many companies that are currently the Groups customers, as well as companies which use ARM technology in their end products.
Directors shareholdings in the Company The directors beneficial interests in the Companys ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, which excludes interests under its share option schemes, are set out below.
31 December 31 December 2003 2002 Director Number Number Sir Robin Saxby 22,363,060 25,632,860 Warren East 174,920 174,920 Tim Score 10,000 10,000 Tudor Brown 1,496,460 1,496,460 Mike Muller 1,891,860 1,891,860 Mike Inglis 10,000 10,000 Doug Dunn 48,000 48,000 Peter Cawdron 98,000 98,000 John Scarisbrick 10,800 10,800 Lawrence Tesler 111,000 111,000 In addition to the interests disclosed above, all the executive directors together with all the employees of the Group are potential beneficiaries of both the ARM Holdings plc Employee Share Ownership Plan and the ARM Holdings plc Qualifying Employee Share Ownership Trust.
They are, therefore, treated as interested in all the shares held by these trusts, being 5,000,000 ordinary shares and 721,080 ordinary shares respectively at 31 December 2003, and 5,000,000 and 1,796,754 shares respectively at 31 December 2002.
Sir Robin Saxby sold 1,000,000 shares in the Company on 3 February 2004 taking his interest to 21,363,060 at the date of this report.
There have been no other changes in directors interests in the Companys shares to the date of approval of the remuneration report.
Auditable information The following information has been audited by the Companys auditors,  LLP, as required by Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
Denotes share options issued under the Groups Unapproved Share Option Scheme.
Denotes share options issued under the Groups Unapproved Share Option Scheme with performance conditions attached.
Denotes share options issued under the Groups Unapproved Share Option Scheme which are exercisable as follows: 25% maximum from first anniversary, 50% maximum from second anniversary, 75% maximum from third anniversary, 100% maximum on fourth anniversary.
No options lapsed in the year.
On 22 April 2003 Sir Robin Saxby exercised an option over 600,000 shares and made a donation of such shares to the University of Liverpool.
The gain calculated at the exercise date was 330,000 2002: nil.
The share price on the date of exercise was 0.57.
ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 27 Remuneration report UK GAAP continued Share options with performance conditions attached normally vest after seven years.
If, however, the Group achieves an average EPS growth of at least 33.1% greater than the percentage increase if any in the Retail Price Index RPI over a period of three years from the start of the financial year in which the options are granted, then the options will be exercisable after three years from grant.
EPS is defined as the Groups fully diluted earnings per ordinary share.
The method of calculating EPS will be adjusted if necessary so that the calculation of the EPS for each relevant financial period of the Group is broadly comparable with that for any other financial period of the Group taken for the purposes of the performance condition.
On 30 January 2004, discretionary share options were granted to the following executive directors: Warren East 400,000: Tim Score 320,000: Tudor Brown 320,000: Mike Muller 288,000: and Mike Inglis 288,000.
The exercise price is 125 pence and all are subject to performance conditions.
These options vest after seven years, but may vest after three years if the following performance condition is satisfied.
Where the Group achieves an average EPS growth of at least 12.5% greater than the percentage increase if any in the RPI over a performance period of three years from the start of the financial year in which options are granted, then 50% of the shares under option will vest three years from grant.
For an average EPS growth of at least 33.1% greater than the percentage increase if any in the RPI over the performance period, 100% of the shares under option will vest after three years from grant.
Where the average EPS growth is between 12.5% and 33.1% greater than the percentage increase if any in the RPI over the performance period, vesting increases on a straight-line basis.
Conditional share awards were made on 25 July 2003 to directors, as follows: As at As at 1 January Conditional 31 December 2003 award 2003 Vesting Director Number Number Number date Warren East 248,447 248,447 January 2006 Tim Score 211,180 211,180 January 2006 Tudor Brown 198,758 198,758 January 2006 Mike Muller 198,758 198,758 January 2006 Mike Inglis 198,758 198,758 January 2006 Conditional awards will vest to the extent that the performance criteria are satisfied over a three-year performance period from 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2005.
The performance conditions are based on the Companys TSR when measured against that of two comparator groups each testing half of the shares comprised in the award.
The first index comprises UK companies across all sectors FTSE 250 and the second comprises predominantly US companies within the Hi Tech sector FTSE Global Technology Index.
For each comparator group, the number of shares that may vest may be up to a maximum of 200% of the shares if the Companys TSR ranks in the upper decile, 50% will vest in the event of median performance and between median and upper decile performance vesting will increase on a straight-line basis.
No shares will be received for below-median performance.
In addition, no shares will vest unless the committee is satisfied that there has been a sustained improvement in the underlying financial performance of the Company.
28 ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 Except as described above, there have been no changes in directors interests under the Groups share option schemes since the end of the 2003 financial year up to the date of approval of the remuneration report.
The Companys register of directors interests contains full details of directors shareholdings and options to subscribe.
Share prices The market value of the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2003 was 128.5 pence.
The closing mid-price ranged from 43.75 pence to 136.0 pence during the year.
Deferred bonus plan The deferred bonus plan was introduced in 2001 and enables directors to double their annual bonus if payment is deferred for three years, and to receive 6% interest per annum on the deferred element.
Warren East elected to participate in the plan in 2001 and deferred 12,680, being one-third of his bonus, for three years.
Provided Warren East remains with the Group until 31 December 2004, the bonus payable on that date will be 25,360 representing an increase of 100% plus interest.
There are no other outstanding arrangements under this plan.
For J Brooks and P Magowan, the comparative figures show the salary up to the date of their resignations from the board in 2002.
All the executive directors receive family BUPA and annual travel insurance as part of their benefits in kind.
In addition, T Score has the use of a company car and R Saxby, W East, T Brown, M Muller and M Inglis receive a car allowance.
Mike Inglis was appointed as a non-executive director of Superscape Group plc on 16 July 2003.
The Group holds 12% of the issued share capital of Superscape Group plc and more details about this investment are included in note 13 on page 43.
In this capacity, Mike Inglis received remuneration totalling 7,000 up to 31 December 2003 and was awarded options over 20,000 shares in Superscape Group plc at an option price of 33 pence on 7 January 2004.
The shares will vest in thirds over the next three years providing that performance targets are met.
All the executive directors are accruing benefits under a money purchase pension scheme as a result of their services to the Group, contributions for which were all paid during the year.
Doug Dunn OBE Chairman of the Remuneration Committee ARM Annual report and accounts 2003 29
