10 HEALTH, SAFETY, ENVIRONMENT AND SECURITY Premier is committed to continuous improvement in the management In 2003, safety cases with formal safety assessments defining of operational risks.
In 2002, an integrated approach to the the risk profiles and risk reduction measures were issued and management of all Health, Safety, Environment and Security HSES implemented for our operating facilities in Indonesia and Myanmar.
risks was adopted and resulted in development of an integrated Project safety reviews and audits were also carried out in compliance HSES management system.
The cornerstone of this management with our policies and our commitment to continuous risk reduction system is the Corporate HSES policy.
This integrated policy describes for the Yetagun field development in Myanmar and operating Premiers holistic approach to managing HSES risks and is applied facilities globally.
and communicated throughout our operations.
The management system comprises a hierarchical structure of policies, standards, Considerable progress was also made in demonstrating Premiers guidelines and procedures to ensure that the corporate policy is commitment to environmental management.
Management of the cascaded throughout the companys worldwide activities, that environmental impact of our operations is achieved through the use sufficient resources are made available within the organisation to of environmental impact assessments EIAs for current operations, achieve effective implementation, and that performance is monitored and new business ventures, resulting in robust environmental and regularly reviewed.
management plans for all activities.
EIAs were carried out in preparation for exploration activities in Jaipur and Cachar in India, Premiers policy is to ensure that the impact of our activities on the and drilling operations in Pakistan in 2003. health and safety of employees are reduced to a level that is as low as reasonably practicable, to maintain the security of its personnel In 2003, Premier collated environmental performance data for and assets and to strive to achieve excellence in environmental public reporting in our Sustainability Performance Report.
The company ensures that its operations meet statutory was compiled in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative, and requirements and that they are carried out with minimal environmental we are committed to open reporting of our HSES performance.
Over and above its legal responsibilities, the company 2004, we will be continuing this strategy by seeking to certify key commits to protect the health, safety and welfare of all its employees Premier functions to international occupational health, safety and and of all personnel affected by and involved in its activities.
environmental standards ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001.
We strive for world-class standards in our management of HSES risks, Increased terrorist activity and military action in Iraq resulted in and benchmark our performance against the industry in pursuit of continued close attention to the management of the security continuous improvement.
2003 was another year of exceptional HSES risks associated with our global operations.
One of our key performance measures, also used by reviewed in preparation for the consequences of a war in Iraq and others in industry, is the lost time injury frequency LTIF.
In 2003 there a comprehensive review of security was undertaken in Indonesia were four lost time injuries in over 5 million man-hours worked following the Marriott Hotel bombing in Jakarta.
Security threat throughout our global operations, resulting in a LTIF of 0.79 lost time assessments are reviewed regularly to maintain the security of our injuries per million man-hours worked.
This represents a 39 per cent global assets and personnel.
improvement from 2002 and continues the significant improvements achieved over the last three years.
This outstanding performance Throughout Premiers involvement in production operations, is made more remarkable when taking account of the challenging project development and pursuance of new business ventures, environment in which Premier operates.
Notable achievements in 2003 our commitment to the protection of the health, safety and security include continued production operations offshore Indonesia without a of our employees, the security of our assets and excellence in lost time injury since June 2001, and our first exploration project in environmental management remains paramount.
India was completed in the Assam jungle without lost time injury.
