co. uk Corporate Social Responsibility For the Group to be successful, the Board recognises that all aspects of Corporate Social Responsibility need to be firmly embedded into the culture of the company.
Arriva has a clearly defined and structured contractors, from hazards arising from the The overall policy will be determined by the approach to Corporate Social Responsibility.
Groups operations: provide reasonable Board of Directors.
This is reflected by the commitment of the reassurance to directors of the continuing Board of Directors and the companys brand adequacy of the Groups policies Whilst the Board accepts the responsibility values, and is supported by a robust set of for the overall health and safety policy, policies and procedures.
commissioning external independent expert the success of the policy rests largely advice on health, safety and environmental with employees at all levels.
Employees For the Group to be successful, the Board issues that may affect the Group have a legal responsibility to ensure that recognises that all aspects of Corporate Social they do nothing to endanger themselves Responsibility need to be firmly embedded monitoring all relevant legislative, or others whilst at work.
They must also into the culture of the company.
regulatory, scientific and technological co-operate with management and comply developments which may affect the with regulations and procedures for During 2003, Arriva adopted a policy of Groups approach to health, safety and safe working.
external verification of its Corporate Social environmental issues.
The Groups businesses are accountable for This has provided a valuable review and In the last six years there have been no safety their own safety performance, and are highlighted opportunities to develop our or environmental prosecutions relating to the supported by the central health and safety approach to Corporate Social Responsibility Groups activities.
Arrivas in-house safety management in 2004 and beyond.
system supports the Groups health and safety Health and Safety policy, which seeks to reflect industry best Arrivas health and safety policy, which is practice and in any event has legal Health, Safety and in place across all of the Groups operations, compliance as a minimum acceptable Environment states that: standard.
As part of this system, selfThe maintenance of high standards in health, certification and self-auditing processes safety and environmental practices continues It continues to be the policy of the Board have been introduced, which follow Health to be of paramount importance to the Group of Directors of Arriva plc to ensure, so far and Safety Executive guidelines for successful and is reviewed regularly by the Health and as reasonably practicable, the health, safety health and safety management.
Chaired by the Groups and welfare of all employees when at work.
non-executive Chairman, this Committee of Equally we accept that a responsibility exists Introduced in November 2003, the selfthe Board meets on a quarterly basis to to other persons who may visit our premises certification process requires safety identify and address key issues that may in furtherance of our business.
accountable senior managers to conduct impact on the company, as well as to review annual reviews of their business, to ensure the Health and Safety key performance In particular, we recognise that it is the that they meet all safety standards set by the indicators across the company.
responsibility of managers at all levels to Group.
This process, which is subject to prevent personal injury by providing a safe external verification, ensures that safety is The Committees membership comprises the working environment and effective training reviewed regularly by senior management Chairman, a number of non-executive and and supervision.
A detailed policies and and that common safety standards are in executive directors, the Group Safety and procedures manual is published separately place across the Group.
The process is Environment Manager and senior managers and is updated in response to changes in underpinned by an audit procedure.
both legislation and working circumstances.
The Group Safety and Environment Manager Arriva is committed to the safety of its The Terms of Reference for the is always available to address any queries employees and customers and supports this Committee include: that may arise.
commitment by ensuring that health and considering the adequacy and the safety remain core elements of management effectiveness of the Groups health, safety A continuing interest in, and awareness of, responsibility.
A wide range of training and environmental policies and procedures all aspects of health and safety at work will initiatives has been introduced to support this.
regarding the continued protection of be maintained and regular reviews of the employees and the public, including arrangements will occur.
20 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 www.
co. uk Through the sponsorship of the Arriva Trains Cup rugby competition and in conjunction with the Rugby Football League sportsmatch initiative, funding was provided for grass roots development to increase the awareness of rugby amongst young girls, through the Department of Culture, Media and Sport.
These include: commissioned to assess all of the companys and the minimisation of the risk Institution of Occupational Health and public access properties in the UK, including of environmental harm.
Safety IOSH approved in-house training bus stations and garages, rental locations courses have been developed for directors, and depots.
A report, to be produced in It is recognised that managers at all levels managers and supervisors, across the June 2004, will identify any remaining access have specific duties under the legislation Group.
The programmes Working Safely issues that need to be addressed to ensure to ensure that nothing is done to cause and Managing Safely, were introduced DDA compliance.
Details last year, and as indicated this has been of policies and procedures are extended, with over 660 training days Both Arriva Trains Wales Trenau Arriva Cymru published separately.
delivered in 2003, leading to the award and Arriva Trains Northern have had their of over 180 IOSH certificates Disabled Persons Protection Policy DPPP All employees will receive the necessary approved by the Strategic Rail Authority.
As training to enable them to understand safety champions have been introduced part of the DPPP, working with external and operate company systems.
In the across Arriva Vehicle Rental to promote consultants, each station is assessed to ensure event of any queries, the Group Safety health and safety at every branch that it complies with the DDA, and that and Environment Manager is always remaining access issues are identified.
bus drivers from Arrivas operations in the Netherlands have been provided with Customer facing employees within Arrivas A continuing interest in, and awareness training to deal with possible conflict from UK bus and train operations are receiving of, all aspects of environmental practices customers, with plans to extend the disability awareness training, to enable and legislation will be maintained and the programme during 2004. them to provide appropriate support review of policy will be ongoing.
As well as providing safety training, Arriva has The overall policy will be determined by introduced a number of practical initiatives Recognising that public transport is the safest the Board of Directors.
to ensure the safety of its employees and means of land travel, Arriva, alongside other customers.
Arrivas bus operations in the organisations including Esso and Scania, The company will assist and support our UK have developed a CCTV black box data has signed up to the European Road Safety industry in the development of approved recording system to contribute towards Charter, laid down by the European codes of practice and in the consultation improving the safety of employees and Commission.
The aim of the Charter is stage of legislation in this field.
to achieve a 50 per cent reduction in the number of deaths on the road by 2010.
The Board of Directors recognises that the Arrivas commitment to safety was recognised three key environmental areas for the at an awards ceremony held by the UK road Environment Group are: safety charity Brake, which is dedicated to Arrivas environmental policy, in place across the reduction of emissions and waste reducing deaths and injuries on the roads all of the Groups operations, complies with water and energy usage through awareness-raising campaigns and all legal requirements and incorporates the promotion of the use of public transport.
The company was industry best practice.
It is reviewed regularly shortlisted in six categories at Brakes Road by the Board and monitored by the Health The company aims to reduce the levels of Safety Awards, which resulted in wins in and Safety Committee.
The policy states that: harmful emissions being released into the two categories and being highly commended environment through the effective selection in two others.
It continues to be the policy of the and maintenance of vehicles, and by the Board of Directors of Arriva plc to ensure, investigation of appropriate alternative In preparation for the implementation of the so far as reasonably practicable, the fuel sources.
Disability Discrimination Act DDA in October maintenance of our operations in such 2004, Arriva has been working to ensure a way as to ensure compliance with Across the Group some 90 million was that customers with disabilities are able to use relevant environmental legislation, the invested in new buses during 2003 with all Arrivas services in the UK, with confidence.
development of our undertakings in order vehicles in line with the latest environmental An external consultancy has been to promote environmental efficiency standards.
Arriva is leading the way at its rail Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 21 www.
co. uk Corporate Social Responsibility continued Arriva is leading the way at its rail operations in Denmark with the introduction of 29 new Coradia Lint trains in 2004.
These trains will be fitted with a new generation of environmentally friendly EURO III engines.
operations in Denmark with the introduction to supervisors and managers across the UK Investment In Our People of 29 new Coradia Lint trains in 2004.
These Bus operations, and in Denmark and Sweden, Arriva is committed to creating an environment trains will be fitted with a new generation of learning academies have been established where everyone can succeed, and has an environmentally friendly EURO III engines.
to provide a training environment for all extensive range of training and development Arrivas bus operations in Italy have successfully bus drivers.
initiatives in place for all employees across the trialled a special fuel mix of diesel and water, UK and mainland Europe.
which has resulted in a significant reduction Leadership competencies and a feedback in fuel usage, as well as a reduction in process have been developed, which enables The Group currently employs around harmful and particulate emissions.
In Wigan, senior managers to identify strengths and 30,000 people across seven countries.
Over Arriva Vehicle Rental is currently operating areas of development to be included in the last five years, the number of employees vehicles using Liquefied Petroleum Gas LPG.
has increased by some 50 per cent, reflecting LPG vehicles emit half of the amount of the number of acquisitions made.
The Group carbon monoxide into the environment in Vocational Training has a series of well-established policies and cold start conditions.
In Portugal a pilot Arriva is committed to investing in the procedures in place for the integration of all project, providing advanced driver training, development of its employees, and a key new employees, ensuring that training needs has resulted in reduced fuel consumption and area of investment in the UK is the Groups are addressed and that a common set of a subsequent fall in the level of harmful vocational training programme.
values remains in place across the Group.
emissions released into the environment.
This commitment is highlighted by the Leadership Management and As indicated last year, across operations in appointment of a dedicated Learning Supervisor Development the UK and mainland Europe, Arriva aims to Manager in the Groups UK Bus operations, The Board of Directors firmly believes that dispose of all waste using environmentally to focus on basic skills and support vocational leaders, managers and supervisors are key to sympathetic means, including recycling, to training alongside the Vocational Skills the companys success, and is committed to reduce the amount of waste being sent to Support Manager.
This is highlighted landfill sites during 2004.
Targets are in the by the introduction of the Arriva Development process of being established to capture The Trade Union Congress, and the Learning Academy, which aims to train and develop quantitative data for energy usage, water and Skills Council have jointly funded four individuals, from both inside and outside of usage and levels of waste.
learning centres, which have been opened at the company, to be future leaders and to bus depots in Leicester.
Each learning centre contribute towards making the companys Following a three-year review, Arriva Trains has between four and eight computers and vision a reality.
The Academy recruits Northern has successfully been re-accredited access to Learn Direct courses as well as to graduates, or individuals of graduate calibre, with the International Organisation for the Arriva Learning and Development with two to three years work experience, Standardisation certificate ISO 14001 for its Gateway.
Plans are in place to start a roll-out who undertake an Arriva development environmental management system at the programme across the UK during 2004. programme with a view to being appointed Neville Hill train depot.
This accreditation to a significant management role in the requires an environmental policy to be in place On a regional level, the National Vocational company, within 12-18 months.
that complies with environmental legislation, Qualification NVQ in Customer Service and shows a commitment to the continuous has been expanded in UK Bus, with over Over half of the managers in the Groups UK improvement of environmental standards.
200 NVQs awarded during 2003, and a vehicle rental operations have attended a further 400 employees working towards management development programme, Arriva is committed to promoting public qualification.
Customer service improvement and a series of management development transport, because of its positive impact teams have been established in each business initiatives, linked to the Arriva brand, have on the environment, through increased to review and implement customer service been delivered within Denmark, and to all marketing, the effective use of technology, improvement ideas arising from the NVQ.
developing partnerships with local authorities and improving customer service.
Within Arriva Trains Northern, following a In 2004, a two-day programme entitled successful pilot scheme, 37 NVQs were Mastering People Skills is to be delivered 22 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 www.
co. uk Over 1,500 employees from across the Group have attended diversity awareness training workshops.
Pictured: Group Finance Director Steve Lonsdale welcomes employees to one of the workshops.
awarded to employees in 2003, 20 of which Working in partnership with the Garnett develop and communicate the Group were at level three.
Over 200 employees are Foundation, a training organisation that uses diversity agenda to deliver the business case currently working towards their qualification.
performing arts to help address issues, Arriva develop the Arriva definition of diversity In 2004, the NVQ will be extended to include has adopted an innovative theatre-style define Arrivas diversity agenda employees in Arriva Trains Wales Trenau Arriva approach to diversity awareness training, with develop Arrivas diversity action plan to Cymru and Arriva Vehicle Rental.
over 1,500 employees attending workshops, deliver the diversity agenda including members of the Board.
define measures of success against which The Foundation Modern Apprenticeship to monitor and evaluate progress against scheme is available in five of the Groups Valuing Employees the business case regional bus companies.
The programme, The Board of Directors values all of the which is unique to Arriva, aims to attract Groups employees, recognising that they are manage and enable the Arriva Best Practice younger members of the community into the key to the success of the company, and is Forum the bus industry by providing a structured committed to investing positively in them.
devolve responsibility to make happen and transparent training and development Arrivas diversity agenda and action plan pathway for young people during their first With the introduction of a Balanced develop processes for communication 12 months.
In the North East of England Scorecard across the Group a number of between the two seven employees from Arrivas bus operations areas are measured and targets set including have qualified under the Foundation Modern sickness absence, the number of people identify opportunities to promote diversity Apprenticeship scheme, and 20 more are leaving the business, and training days.
In all success within Arriva and externally working towards the qualification.
three categories improvements were determine key messages to convey within achieved in 2003.
The initiative was and outside of the organisation In London a new BTEC qualification for all shortlisted in the Personnel Today Awards recommend best practice approaches for new bus drivers is available.
The company has 2003, under the category Innovation in communication been awarded a grade A in both examining Measuring Human Capital.
identify key external contacts audits.
The course includes defensive driving including trade union representatives skills, health, safety and security, and the As part of the Groups commitment to build appropriate external relationships.
creating an environment where everyone can succeed, all employees have access to the On an annual basis the Groups workforce Valuing Difference Arriva Learning and Development Gateway.
mix across the UK and mainland Europe is Arriva aims to acknowledge, understand and This includes access to an on-line library and benchmarked against other companies by value the differences in people, whether an extensive range of on-line learning courses Opportunity Now, the business-led campaign customers or employees.
Through its ranging from strategy, finance and customer that works with employers to realise the programme, the Arriva Approach to service, to personal development, economic potential and business benefits that Diversity, the Group seeks to gain advantage management and leadership development.
women at all levels contribute to the by creating an environment that maximises Learning and information that supports the workforce.
Across the businesses, a system is the potential of all employees and future Arriva brand, brand values and behaviours, in place to monitor the recruitment and employees without anyone being and the companys approach to leading, decision-making process.
managing and developing people, are also available on the Gateway.
Diversity behaviours have been developed, and This commitment to diversity is highlighted incorporated into the Groups Working With with the introduction of a Diversity For the first time, the Board has sought the Others performance management process.
Committee and Diversity Best Practice Forum.
views of all employees from across the Group.
This process is being cascaded to all managers, Membership of the Committee comprises Every employee received written feedback, supervisors, professional and administrative senior managers from the companys business and local teams are now working to address employees across Arriva.
The Groups units, and the Group Human Resources any concerns raised, and to look at ways in approach to diversity has been profiled in the Director.
The Terms of Reference for the which the Group can improve on areas that Personnel Today magazine.
It was also highly Committee are: employees indicated they liked about working commended by Opportunity Now.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 23 www.
co. uk Corporate Social Responsibility continued Arriva launched a new community partnership with the Leicester Racial Equality Council LREC.
Pictured from the left: Chanda Chawhan LREC volunteer, Iris Lightfoote chief executive of LREC, Secretary of State for Trade and Industry and Minister for Women Rt.
Patricia Hewitt MP, and Arrivas Chief Executive Bob Davies.
The Board has given at Liverpool John Moores University, and UK Institute for the Blind RNIB.
The RNIBs a commitment to conduct this survey on online.
The programme supports activity at specialist college of further education a regular basis, and to support local managers three levels corporate, individual businesses in Redhill, Surrey offers education and to implement any improvements.
training to blind and partially sighted people aged between 16 and 65 years.
Arrivas Working in Partnership support has enabled the college to invest Community Relations The portfolio of organisations that the Group in new computer magnification and screen As one of Arrivas brand values, developing works with was strengthened in 2003, with reading equipment.
strong local relationships is at the core of the the launch of three new community Groups Community Relations activities.
Developing Partnerships The Group is committed to making a positive Having established this successful portfolio of contribution in the communities in which Secretary of State for Trade and Industry and a range of partnerships in line with the needs it operates, and seeks to build sustainable Minister for Women, the Rt.
Patricia of the business, the Community Relations relationships which are relevant to the Hewitt MP, launched Arrivas partnership Committee is seeking to further develop Groups activities, both in the UK and across with the Leicester Racial Equality Council these relationships.
As one of the largest Racial Equality Councils in the country, LREC aims to A pilot project has been approved, which The Community Relations policy focuses both promote equal opportunities in Leicester will provide business mentoring to community financial and practical support towards and runs a number of projects which target partner Changing Faces, the charity that charities and projects that help people with socially excluded groups.
supports people with facial disfigurements.
disabilities, the elderly, the young, including As part of the project, Arrivas bus operations education, and the environment.
As part of the partnership, Arriva is in London will provide advice and support to supporting the Positive Images Project which the charity on developing its financial systems, Arrivas Community Relations Committee, aims to provide opportunities for women and to ensure that they are efficient and effective.
which is chaired by the Group Human girls to take part in sport.
The project involves Business mentoring is to be developed further Resources Director and whose membership the design of a series of posters, leaflets and with other community partners.
includes one other executive director and five banners depicting positive images of sporting senior managers, was established in black and ethnic minority women.
Working Employees in the Community November 2000. on an individual business level, Arrivas bus Employees across the Group continue to have operations in Leicester are providing an active involvement in the Community The Terms of Reference of the marketing support for the initiative, by Relations programme.
Committee include: advising on how to effectively market the reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups campaign, and displaying posters on vehicles.
Now in its fourth year, Arrivas Charity of the Community Relations activities Year initiative in the UK is well-established, reviewing the Community Relations Arriva is supporting the environmental with employees across all of the businesses policy to ensure that it reflects the needs charity Encams, by working with the involved in selecting one charity that they of the Group Eco-School, St Christophers in Wrexham, would like Arriva to support for 12 months.
approving the Community Relations North Wales one of only eleven in the UK The 2004 Charity of the Year is Cancer budget.
to have been granted permanent Eco-School Research UK, the charity which was status.
The company is supporting the established to protect and promote the health The Committee has worked to develop schools Millennium Eco-Centre, which of the public by research into the nature, a sustainable Community Relations enables pupils to carry out a range causes, diagnosis, prevention, treatment and programme, and has established a portfolio of environmental projects.
cure of all forms of cancer.
of partnerships with a range of organisations, including Age Concern and Age Concern The company has launched a new project Scotland, Common Purpose, the Community with existing partner, the Royal National Foundation, the Foundation for Citizenship 24 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 www.
co. uk Arriva is supporting St Christophers School in Wrexham, one of only 11 in the UK to have been granted permanent Eco-School status.
Pictured: back row are pupils Emma Jones and Caroline Pool, and front left: Tom Balshaw from Arrivas bus operations in North Wales, Peter Strachan of Arriva Trains Wales and Ian Lucas MP for Wrexham.
Last year, the initiative was successfully individuals within Arriva are representing the A pilot reading programme has been extended to the Groups mainland European company and supporting a number of local established at Arrivas vehicle rental operation operations with organisations benefiting initiatives in the Groups operating areas.
in East Anglia, whereby employees spend including the Swedish Cancer Foundation: time at a local primary school, listening Instrada in Italy an organisation that helps The Group has continued to support the to youngsters read.
During 2004, this the elderly and young living in poor Market Towns initiative in Yorkshire, which programme will be extended to involve other conditions: and Clinic Clowns in the aims to improve the growth and retention of employees from Arrivas bus and vehicle rental Netherlands which cheers up children who services and businesses across Pateley Bridge, operations in Middlesbrough, and head office have to stay in hospital.
Following this Thirsk, Bentham, Malton, Norton and Whitby.
success, during 2004 Arrivas operations in As well as providing financial support, Richard mainland Europe will continue to select their Hill, Arriva Trains Northerns PTE account A number of senior managers are continuing own charities and projects that they would manager, represents the company on a local to support BitCs Partners in Leadership like to see benefit from their support.
programme, which offers business advice and support to head teachers at both primary The Groups Community Action Award Arriva is also involved in a similar initiative in and secondary schools.
initiative recognises the valuable contribution Sheerness in Kent, with managing director of that employees make to their local local bus company Arriva Southern Counties Community Relations The Way Forward communities through voluntary work.
Bob Scowen, and general manager Terry East Over the past three years, Arriva has worked The initiative has now been extended to involved in the local steering group.
hard to establish and implement a sustainable include employees from mainland Europe, community relations programme, working with 50 per cent more awards being granted Managing director of Arrivas bus operations with a number of credible charitable and in 2003.
Awards ranging from 50 to 500 in the North East of England, Steve Noble, community organisations that meet the needs were given in 2003, with the three awards for is a member of the Rural Action steering of the business.
Work is to continue, not only 500 going to Welfare and Support in group, reviewing and addressing issues in to develop this programme, but to also the Ukraine, the NSPCC and the Childrens Northumberland and the surrounding strengthen and develop the relationships that Hospital Appeal Trust.
are already in place, using the companys own expertise and resources.
These relationships Business in the Community BitC also runs an educational campaign which will benefit both Arriva, and the many Business in the Community BitC is is supported by Arriva.
The third mentoring communities that it serves.
a charitable organisation which helps programme at Arrivas head office in businesses contribute to the social and Sunderland is now under way, with economic regeneration of local communities.
employees offering help, advice and support As a national member, Arriva actively to pupils at local secondary school Sandhill supports a number of their initiatives.
View, to help them achieve the transition from school to the world of work.
Arrivas Arrivas Chief Executive is a member of BitCs involvement in this programme was highly North East Leadership Team, which develops commended by BitC, in its North East Awards strategy and direction for the organisation in for Excellence.
As indicated last year, the the North East.
He is also a member of BitCs mentoring programme has now been National Rural Steering Group.
Rural Action, extended, and now involves employees from one of BitCs programmes, seeks to inspire other parts of the Group, including Arrivas companies to make a positive impact in rural bus operations in North West, Arriva Trains communities.
In support of this programme, Northern, and Arriva Vehicle Rental in the and in recognition of its importance, South East.
Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 25
