CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY The successful execution of its sustainability strategy positions Reckitt Benckiser among the leaders of the industry SAM RESEARCH INC. 20 NOVEMBER 2003 Were committed to moving our business However our contribution is much more than towards greater sustainability and encouraged just what we give externally and is evident from by what weve accomplished so far.
the passion of our people to do the right thing throughout our operations.
For example, our Our strategy here is clear and simple.
We firmly environmental and health & safety management believe that a more sustainable business will and performance is showing significant not only better fulfil our responsibilities to improvement globally.
society but also deliver greater long-term shareholder value.
External recognition In 2003 Reckitt Benckiser joined both the World We view corporate social responsibility CSR and and European Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes sustainability as one and the same.
DJSI, in addition to our existing membership of Our objectives are: the FTSE4Good Global Index, European Index and UK 50 Index.
We also participated in both the to achieve continuous improvement in our Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility environmental performance, in line with our Index and Business in the Environment Index of Environmental Policy, by running our business Corporate Environmental Engagement during 2003, in a responsible, environmentally sound and being placed well above average in both.
Reporting transparently to meet our obligations to society by: Were as committed to reporting publicly upon our performance across the economic, social and a conducting our business operations responsibly environmental dimensions of our activities as we and ethically, in line with the values laid down in are to improving that performance.
our Code of Business Conduct.
For example through respecting human rights, ensuring our This Annual Report presents our financial results products are safe when used as directed and during 2003.
Weve publicly reported on our safeguarding occupational health & safety.
Community activities since 2000 and well be publishing our first Social Report later in 2004. b undertaking community programmes that Our annual Environmental Reports are now well share with the disadvantaged in society some of known and have been independently reviewed the wealth our business generates to make a real from the start: the next is due shortly.
We deliberately report through our corporate Accountability website.
Internet-based reporting reduces our The Board conducts an annual review of CSR impact on the environment, allows more management and performance.
The Chief regular updating of information and means Executive Officer is the Board Director with that we spend most of our time and money specific responsibility for this issue.
Actions louder than words Please take time to look at During 2003 we rolled out two major social www.
cfm a global partnership with Save the Children to sponsor a number of projects connected with child hygiene and health, initially in India, Bangladesh Edward Butt and Kenya.
This partnership was launched in Environmental and Health & December 2003 by Burkhard Gnrig, CEO of the Safety Director International Save the Children Alliance.
the Dettol Trust for AIDS in South Africa.
A cause-related marketing programme that funds a trust to help children affected by HIV AIDS.
In August Nelson Mandela hosted a groundturning ceremony for the Dettol-Garies Community Hospital in the Northern Cape, which includes a dedicated AIDS unit.
