OUR PASSION FOR PEOPLE WERE FASCINATED BY - PEOPLE HOW THEY THINK.
OBSERVING CONSUMER BEHAVIOUR AT HOME & IN THE STORE GIVES US VALUABLE, ACTIONABLE INSIGHTS 6 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 OUR PASSION FOR PEOPLE Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 7 OUR PASSION FOR PEOPLE HYPE 0 DEMO 1 Maybe consumers have been subjected to too Its potential became clear when we tested the much marketing hype.
Perhaps theyve come concept with consumers.
Instead of the usual across one spurious claim too many.
They certainly photo of a product with a written description, approach TV commercials with an air of suspicion.
It was a home-made effort, but it captured the reality of Vanish Oxi This insight led to our communication plans for actions performance.
Both video and product got Vanish Oxi action.
Wed found a genuine product rave reviews.
improvement that people could see for themselves.
Instead of hyping it up, we could We realised that if we could get this real-life demo demonstrate it for real.
on television, wed close the viewers credibility gap.
Theyd see on TV exactly what theyd So what exactly is the action with Vanish Oxi experience at home.
Essentially, it removes stains from It wasnt expensive.
Importantly, it removes the need It simply demonstrated Vanish Oxi actions stainto hope for the best.
People know it removing action.
will work because theyve seen it work.
With the commercial on air, we took the show on the road.
We performed the identical demo in supermarket aisles.
In many countries, we took the demo onto live daytime television.
Our Turkish marketing assistant appeared on TV every day for a month.
Imagine the effect on a typical doubting housewife.
One evening, she sees our real-life commercial.
The next morning she watches the same demo on live breakfast TV.
At her supermarket, she witnesses the exact-same demo.
And a vivid demonstration of how our passion for people leads to critical consumer insights.
8 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 OUR PASSION FOR PEOPLE Housewives and house-husbands are a disbelieving, cynical bunch.
theyll say, if we tell them about a new product improvement.
George Zarifi Category Director, Fabric Treatment and Carpet Cleaners Victoria Coe Category Marketing Manager, Fabric Treatment Europe Why Ilginay took time off work during our busiest month Our peoples passion for hard work is well-known.
So why did Ilginay Gobut continually turn up late for work during a critical time?
Instead of demonstrating her prowess as a Marketing Assistant at our Turkish HQ, Ilginay was demonstrating Vanish Oxi action on Turkish television.
She volunteered for the role when a TV station gave us a slot on their breakfast programme, watched by 2 million, every morning for a month.
As a result, both Ilginay and Vanish Oxi action were recognised as star performers.
Its cool to be clean A fresh way to light a room Parents of Western teenagers wont believe Plug-in air-fresheners are great for this, but Eastern teens actually shower a lot.
bathrooms but weve only one socket Its their response to the humid conditions.
and thats used for a nightlight.
Unfortunately for us, though, they didnt Listening to American consumers gave us feel that Dettol was for them.
If we could build a nightlight into Our response was to launch Dettol Cool, our air-freshener wed meet two needs in a variant with menthol to cool the skin.
And if we could add an automatic The advertising, featuring youths playing sensor that would turn the light on and volleyball, made clear that it was a brand off, wed have an extra benefit.
They were certainly active It wasnt easy.
We had safety, costing and in the shops.
After just a couple of months, timing issues to deal with.
However, after the new variant grabbed a cool 30% of many late nights, we did it.
And after six our shower foam sales.
months on sale, its a success.
Nick Horn Category Director, Germ Protection Carlos Zuccolo Category Manager, Home Care North America Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 9
