CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW Redrow is one of the countrys leading developers and as such training trades skills through to courses provided by external recognises that as well as its responsibilities to shareholders it also business schools for Directors and Senior Managers.
The new has responsibilities to its employees, customers, suppliers and Redrow Training Centre with a dedicated Training Manager sub-contractors together with the environment and the wider underlines the commitment by Redrow to enhance the skills of its community in which it operates.
employees and provide a consistent approach to induction.
All staff receive at least an annual appraisal to review performance, During the year, Redrow reviewed the role of the Environment set goals for future performance and assess training requirements.
Committee and has replaced it with the Environmental Corporate Responsibility Committee under the chairmanship of Health & Safety Brian Duckworth, a Non-Executive Director.
The main focus of It is fundamental that the importance of health and safety is the Committee is on environmental and community issues but recognised by all employees and becomes part of the culture of it embraces other aspects of the corporate social responsibility Redrow.
Redrow has put in place significant changes to its agenda.
practices and controls in recent years to achieve an increased focus on this important issue.
Employees Redrow has a dedicated Human Resources Director reporting Redrow recognises that the health and safety of all employees and directly to the Chief Executive.
All employees receive a detailed those who work within its supply chain is essential to its business.
Staff Handbook clearly setting out the terms of employment and To this end all employees receive a copy of the Health, Safety and Neil Fitzsimmons Group Managing Director outlining the requirements in respect of the conduct of employees Environmental HSE Policy on their first day of employment and and the Company.
There is a defined procedure for dealing with are required to read it and positively adopt its principles.
staff grievances that is available to all employees.
There is a separate specific procedure to deal with instances of harassment, Redrow has a dedicated department to provide a quality health bullying or victimisation.
The handbook clearly indicates that and safety service to our operations.
It includes a Director Redrow is an equal opportunities employer and will not tolerate reporting directly to the Chief Executive and it provides regular discrimination on grounds of gender, marital status, race, colour, formal written reports to the Board as well as to all subsidiary nationality, ethnic or national origin, disability, sexual orientation, company and regional board meetings.
They review activities at religious belief, trade union membership, or any other non-job all development sites and offices to monitor compliance with related criteria.
legislation and best practice in health and safety matters.
Training Redrow believes that well trained employees are key to its success and so provides opportunities for employees to develop skills through both in-house training and external courses.
These opportunities are wide ranging from apprenticeship schemes for Right School site visit Far right Sales Consultant assisting a customer 22 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW The in-house health and safety team provides training to all employees.
The relationship between Redrow and the customer is established through Suppliers and sub-contractors It is Redrows policy that all employees receive suitable and sufficient the sales process.
Customers receive a Homefile at the reservation stage Redrow places orders with suppliers and sub-contractors that clearly set training in this area and to ensure this, it operates a Safety Training to assist them in the buying process.
The home is demonstrated to the out the terms and conditions of trading.
It operates a policy of making Credit Scheme ST-CRED requiring all employees to achieve a level of customer prior to legal completion and after occupation, Redrow payment to suppliers and sub-contractors in accordance with terms and credits set by the health and safety team with regard to training relevant maintains contact to ensure the home meets customers expectations.
conditions set out in the order.
In addition, the Construction Act to their role or function.
This is recorded on each employees STCRED governs relationships with contractors both as regards payment and card.
The team together with other employees also provide training to A quality control file is maintained in relation to each home and at resolution of disputes.
sub-contractors through on-site toolbox talks.
each stage employees and sub-contractors are required to confirm completion of specific stages in the construction process.
This process is A policy is contained within Redrows Buying Procedures regarding the There are specific health and safety standards in place applicable to independently monitored by the NHBC or an equivalent building ethical relationship with suppliers and sub-contractors that does not all sectors of the business that are contained in a detailed manual.
control body and they are required to confirm in writing to a mortgagee permit employees to receive payments or favours from suppliers and These also deal with the safety of customers visiting the sites and those that the home is complete and ready for occupation by the customer.
Responsibilities on each development are A 10 year warranty is also provided through the NHBC or similarly included in the Site Health & Safety Plan and Management Procedures recognised insurer.
Redrow has long standing relationships with a number of suppliers and and accountabilities in relation to each site are agreed with individual this enables an understanding to be developed of how each operates to team members.
All persons must be properly inducted before they can go Redrow encourages and welcomes the views of its customers and takes assist in the development of both businesses, to improve products and on to the construction areas on site and are required to wear appropriate them seriously.
All customers receive a standard customer survey that the efficiency and effectiveness of operations.
For example, Redrow has personal protective equipment.
seeks views on a wide range of questions as well as providing an worked with British Gypsum to reduce waste generated on site from opportunity to express any other specific comments regarding the home plasterboard by both having board delivered to site pre-cut to length and Customers and the buying process.
Each site and subsidiary company is assessed on a subsequently recycling surplus board.
Redrow has always been committed to providing quality homes and monthly basis in respect of these returns and performance is reviewed at customer service and this has been recognised in numerous awards.
Board meetings at all levels.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 23 Surveys are undertaken within Redrow to assess the performance of these awards included the Civic Trust Award for Princewood in Redrow believes in looking forward and has previously worked key suppliers and sub-contractors and the Group also surveys key Birkby near Huddersfield, for a development that blends into the with the National Museum and Galleries of Wales and architects, suppliers and sub-contractors regarding the performance of its landscape and enhances the community, and the Tree Council Jestico Whiles on building a House for the Future that subsidiary companies.
The findings of these surveys are discussed Award for Northop Country Park in Flintshire which cited Redrow recognised the issues of sustainability, changing lifestyle patterns at meetings with suppliers and sub-contractors and at internal as providing the best example of the way new homes and mature and new eco-friendly technologies.
All the subsidiary companies work with planners to retain and protect fauna and flora and their habitats Looking to the future, Redrow is to construct in excess of 400 Environment affected by Redrow developments.
Nearly 60,000 trees have been homes in South Manchester in partnership with the National Trust Redrow recognises the importance of sustainability.
In addition to planted on Redrow developments over a three year period.
to develop a site to an enhanced environmental performance measures already taken it is initiating further policies in this area.
This will include homes with high-energy efficiency The approach to this important issue also embraces commercial performance standards in excess of current building regulations The Company has embraced the Governments objective of using property development and this was recognised when Redrow that will be monitored by Leeds Metropolitan University.
The data brownfield land and increased this element of its land bank to over Commercials 138,500 sq.
ft. Windsor Office Park development was from these homes will be used in determining changes to 70%, well in excess of the Governments target of 60%.
For awarded an Excellent rating in the Building Establishments regulations.
Water saving appliances will be used, including low example in Lancashire, Redrow has worked with the former Environmental Assessment Scheme.
flush toilets and pressure reducers on taps, with parts of the site owners, BAE Systems, to remediate the 400 acre Royal Ordnance being serviced by a SUDS system.
site near Chorley, one of the largest brownfield sites in the Over a number of years, Redrow has been proactive in ensuring the North West.
timber it uses is from managed sources and any hardwoods used are Materials used on this development will be from sustainable from certified sources.
As a consequence, it has been invited to or renewable resources and designed to have minimal This development will provide a new quality mixed use scheme for join the WWF95 Group and will now be working with them to environmental impact.
In addition, the development has been 130 acres of commercial property development and 2,000 new improve further Redrows record in this area.
In addition, Redrow designed to optimise solar gain through the orientation of the homes.
Redrow also recognises the importance of energy efficiency is involved in the WWF One Million Sustainable Homes project properties.
Waste minimisation will be a feature of the and water management.
It has been investigating ways to reduce focusing on the impact in environmental terms of the housing construction process and facilities will be provided to the occupiers energy consumption and a number of the larger sites now industry as regards use of resources in construction and domestic of the homes to make recycling easier.
Finally, the site will incorporate sustainable urban drainage systems SUDS as part energy usage.
incorporate substantial community woodlands and a brook that of the development process.
All new Redrow homes have dual flows through the development will be restored.
Both features will flush toilets incorporated into the specification to reduce water Redrow is currently developing an environmental management provide an enhanced ecological habitat.
system that will ultimately be applied to each of its development sites to provide a common operational system with regard to Redrow takes pride in producing quality environments in which environmental issues.
It will provide a framework to manage people want to live and work.
As regards housebuilding, this has environmental concerns, one part of which is the introduction of been recognised by the award of some 39 Daily Mail Green Leaf a standard waste management system across its sites to increase Right awards in the last four years in recognition of the extensive the amount of material recycled both on and off site and reduce The Brambles development, Northwich, winner of both Greenleaf and Best landscaping and planting on its developments.
During this period, the level of landfill waste.
Scheme in the North West awards Far right Jason Newton, Sales Director Redrow Homes North West, presenting certificates to schoolchildren as part of the Redrow Schools Partnership 24 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW excess of 60,000 through various fund raising activities.
Redrow In addition, in order to assist children improve communication and Community encourages all its subsidiary companies to undertake similar initiatives learning skills, Redrow pioneered a Curriculum Resource Pack for Upper Redrow believes it has a wider role to play in the community and within their local communities.
In Scotland, the subsidiary company was Key Stage 2 children in conjunction with Education and Learning Wales encourages the involvement of its employees in providing benefits to involved in a project, Art for Everyday featuring furniture and called Plan it, Build it.
It explains the planning and construction of a those communities.
Redrow is playing an active role in the Cares accessories made by local designers that are displayed in showhouses.
development but also builds on the knowledge acquired through the initiative being developed by Business In The Community BITC.
This The project was awarded a Financial Times Arts and Business Award.
National Curriculum containing activities in English, Mathematics, aims to find new approaches to volunteering through links between the Science and Design Technology.
private sector, community organisations, the public and Government in Redrow also entered into a three year programme in May 2002 with the taking effective community action.
National Trust called The Redrow Schools Partnership and is providing Summary sponsorship of 150,000 over the period.
The aim is to build bridges Redrow remains committed to not only delivering value to its As part of its involvement with the BITC, Redrow is now in its fourth between communities by offering opportunities for schools of contrasting shareholders through delivering sustainable and profitable growth, year of participating in Learning Link, a project whereby employees backgrounds to work together on arts based activities at National but doing so in a way that recognises its responsibilities to other mentor secondary school children and assist primary school children Trust properties.
The programme is to establish 36 partnerships over the stakeholders, the environment and the wider community.
It will also be the fourth year in which employees in the period involving 156 school classes.
Companys graduate programme have been involved in a challenge within the community.
This year, the team worked to create a more Redrow believes in working with schools to explain the housebuilding homely atmosphere in a suite used by North Wales Police for victims industry.
It invites schoolchildren to spend a day on site learning about of sexual abuse.
They also worked on a project for North Wales Police the industry, the materials used and environmental and health and safety to suggest ways to improve awareness and funding for their Crimebeat issues.
Members of the construction teams regularly visit schools local to campaign.
developments to educate children on the dangers associated with construction sites.
As Redrow upgrades its IT hardware, suitable surplus In South Wales, the subsidiary company has supported a local hardware is often donated to local schools.
Neil Fitzsimmons Group Managing Director childrens hospice charity for a number of years and has now raised in CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW 25
