736505 1140 g 52 53 2 21 04 12:25 PM Page 53 OTHER OPERATIONS The appeal decision is not expected Kelian Rio Tinto: 90 per cent before mid 2004.
BCL is not a party to this Kelian Equatorial Mining Kelian operates an action.
Rio Tinto believes the claims are open pit gold mine in East Kalimantan, wholly without merit and the action is being Indonesia.
It is the largest of Rio Tintos contested vigorously.
Kelian is required to offer The Papua New Guinea Internal Revenue for sale up to 51 per cent of its equity to Commission has issued assessments Indonesian interests according to a specific claiming additional tax and penalties of schedule under the terms of its Contract of approximately US$10 million arising from an Work with the Indonesian Government.
audit of BCLs accounts covering the years Kelians offer to sell 41 per cent in 2003 was 1990 to 2001.
BCLs tax returns for those again not taken up.
and all other years were prepared on BCLs Mining at Kelian ceased in 2003 with considered view of the appropriate tax law.
production from stockpiled ore planned to be BCL believes its view is correct and has completed in early 2005.
A mine closure lodged objections to the assessments.
consultative process was completed in 2003 with stakeholders agreeing on the key mine closure directions.
Major decisions have been made regarding classification of the mining area as protected forest after closure, the upgrade of the Namuk Tailings dam, environmental criteria, alluvial mining to sterilise the future wetlands area and the use of site assets.
Kelian employs approximately 1,800 people including 45 expatriates and 1,300 contractors.
A two year collective agreement, was renegotiated in July 2003 and will cover activities through to completion of operations.
2003 operating performance Rio Tintos share of Kelians production was 422,000 ounces in 2003, 13 per cent below 2002 with lower grades more than offsetting the seven per cent increase in throughput.
Bougainville Copper Rio Tinto: 53.6 per cent Bougainville Copper BCL is a Papua New Guinea company listed on the Australian Stock Exchange with a market capitalisation of A$96 million US$72 million at 31 December 2003.
Operations at BCLs Panguna mine on Bougainville Island were suspended in 1989 following periods of disruption resulting from civil unrest.
At 31 December 1991, a full provision of US$195 million was made in Rio Tintos financial statements for its investment in BCL.
Peace has been restored on most of Bougainville Island.
However, the mine site is still under the control of elements that deny access to the area.
An agreement has been signed between the National Government and Bougainville leaders providing for increased autonomy for Bougainville.
Towards the end of 2000, two class actions, since consolidated, were filed in the US District Court in California claiming unspecified damages against Rio Tinto arising out of the mining operation at Panguna and the civil unrest leading to and following mine closure.
The Court dismissed the claims.
An appeal was heard during 2003 but the decision has been postponed until another case which does not involve Rio Tinto, involving some common legal issues, is heard by the Supreme Court.
Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements 53 OPERATIONAL REVIEW 736505 1140 h 54 2 21 04 12:26 PM Page 54 Operational review continued The Technology group provides technical major investment proposals being considered assistance to Rio Tintos product groups and by the Group.
The unit also continued with Technology their businesses, and advises executive the programme of post investment reviews, management.
In support of the drive towards and has established a database system to group operational excellence a key focus is to consolidate the findings so that lessons identify and implement best practices, to learned from completed projects can be improve safety and environmental shared within the Group.
performance, maximise operating efficiency The Project Management unit provides and add value across Rio Tinto.
ongoing support to major project teams Technology staff includes experienced across Rio Tinto, both for projects in professionals covering all the main industry execution and those still in the feasibility related disciplines, while the Office of stage.
There was also continued involvement the Chief Technologist manages the Groups with some major projects at non managed involvement in external and collaborative operations.
In addition, the scope of the unit research.
was expanded during the year to include The total staff in the Technology group at the secondment of resources into project year end was 350 compared with some 260 in teams, earlier involvement in major project 2002.
The increase was mainly to provide studies, and support to more modest capital information technology IT services to Western projects of high value.
A shared role with Australia business units through Rio Tinto Technical Services during the year focused Shared Business Services and provided the on improving the performance of current and basis for reduction of business unit IT staff.
future Rio Tinto underground bulk mining John OReilly, head of Technology, is projects.
Asset Utilisation 2003 operating performance This unit is now well established and its Technical Services workload continued to expand, adding value Technical Services increased its involvement across all product groups.
Current areas of with Rio Tinto operations and also continued focus include process control, operational to provide significant contributions at non readiness, warranty management, and the managed operations.
Activity over the year formulation and implementation of was again at record levels, with Group wide maintenance standards and audits.
initiatives launched in 2002, particularly water There is an emphasis on ensuring that management, having increasing effect.
An safety, operability and maintainability issues initiative aimed at improving metallurgical are fully addressed and incorporated into any performance is focussing initially on copper new designs or retrofits.
With a number of projects in the FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE commissioning phase and others under study The charge for the Technology group against that involve large scale underground mining, net earnings was US$16 million.
The resources in this area have been strengthened, comparable figure for 2002 was as has expertise in risk management.
The increase was mainly due A number of the current development to the weaker US dollar, sponsored research, projects are linked with external research and activities of the Foundation for a programmes in order to leverage value for Sustainable Minerals Industry.
Others are focussed on innovation and best practice in key areas to add value in OTHER OPERATIONS a shorter time frame.
Lihir Rio Tinto: 14.5 per cent Lihir Gold is a publicly quoted company Office of the Chief Technologist formed to finance and develop the Lihir mine The Office of the Chief Technologist is in Papua New Guinea.
Rio Tinto did not responsible for the identification and the participate in an equity placement in transfer of technology based opportunities for November in which 140 million shares were the Group.
issued to raise US$150 million, resulting in The external research portfolio continues Rio Tintos interest being reduced to 14.5 per to support a broad range of industry related cent from 16.3 per cent.
The project on in situ barrier 31 December 2003, had a market technology included some site trials during capitalisation of A$1.9 billion US$1.4 million.
Work Lihir directly employs approximately 1,000 is continuing in areas such as the use of people, of whom 91 per cent are Papua New microwaves in ore comminution and in bulk Guineans including 38 per cent Lihirians.
Some 1,200 are also employed as contractors The Rio Tinto Foundation for a of whom a large proportion is Lihirian.
Sustainable Minerals Industry approved 32 projects for funding.
2003 operating performance Gold production at Lihir was nine per cent Technical Evaluation and Project lower than in 2002 due to lower head grades Management and below budget mine and plant Technical Evaluation continued in its principal performance.
role of providing independent review of all 54 Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements OPERATIONAL REVIEW 736505 1140 i 55 56 2 25 04 1:04 PM Page 55 accountability and the application of Rio Tintos assurance activities.
These include appropriate standards and internal controls.
reviews every four years of each business to Society and It sets the basis for how Group employees identify and manage strategic risks in relation work and also provides guidance for joint to health, safety, the environment and environment venture partners and others.
Every employee community: audits against Rio Tinto is responsible for implementing the policies in standards: annual risk management audits: Group employees the document.
risk reviews for specific concerns, such as average for year Rio Tinto has adopted the Association of cyanide management and smelter operations: British Insurers 2003 disclosure guidelines on procedures and systems for reporting critical social responsibility in preparing this report.
and significant issues and incidents: Details of the Groups overall and individual completion of annual internal control businesses social and environmental questionnaires by all Group business unit performance continue to be published on the leaders covering financial, social, health and Rio Tinto website: www.
com safety and environment matters: and findings and recommendations of the independent Board responsibilities external assurance and data verification The directors of Rio Tinto, and of Group programme.
companies, are responsible for monitoring Joint ventures adherence to the Group policies outlined in Policies, programmes and performance and associates The way we work.
Assurance for Implementation of the policies in The way we performance in these areas involves work is discussed in the following sections.
Subsidiaries checking, reviewing and reporting each Known risks arising from social and and joint businesss implementation of the policies, environmental matters and their management arrangements 00 01 02 03 their compliance with regulations and in Group businesses are described in the voluntary commitments, and the effectiveness relevant Group operations section.
Principal employee of management and control systems, while locations 2003 also providing mechanisms for improvement.
Safety As discussed in the section on Corporate Safety is a core value and a major priority.
governance on page 70, the board Rio Tinto believes that all injuries are established a process for identifying, preventable and its goal is zero injuries.
evaluating and managing the significant risks To achieve this, full and consistent faced by the Group.
Directors meet regularly, implementation of and accountability for have regular scheduled discussions on Rio Tintos comprehensive standards, aspects of the Groups strategy and full and guidelines, systems and procedures is timely access to the information required required across the world.
The Group is also Australia New Zealand 10,000 to discharge their responsibilities fully building a supportive safety culture that and effectively.
requires visible leadership, ongoing education North America 10,000 Rio Tintos Compliance guidance requires and training and a high level of participation Africa 6,000 that the identification of risk be systematic by everyone in the workplace.
It recommends that each However, there is still some way to go in Other 10,000 Group company should undertake a achieving the goal.
In 2003, regrettably, there structured risk profiling exercise to identify, were six deaths at Rio Tinto operations: three The way we work categorise and weigh the risks it faces in the were Group employees and three were Rio Tinto is in business to create shareholder conduct of its business unless its board is contractors.
There were 468 lost time injuries value by finding and developing world class confident that all relevant and material risks during the year.
This equates to a rate of 0.81 mineral deposits and operating and have already been identified in a similar lost time injuries per 200,000 hours worked eventually closing the Groups operations exercise.
Each Group company should put 2002: 0.85.
Fines for infringement of safety safely, responsibly and efficiently.
To do so, systems in place to ensure that risks are and occupational health regulations involved the Group takes a disciplined and integrated reviewed at an appropriate frequency and 12 operations and totalled US$162,000 approach to the economic, social and that its board and management are made 2002: 12 operations and US$80,000.
This environmental aspects of all its activities.
aware of changes in the risk profile.
includes a fine of $A206,250 paid by The approach is through implementation Total remuneration is related to Northparkes in relation to an underground of the policies described in The way we work, performance through the use of annual collapse that resulted in four fatalities in the Groups statement of business practice, bonuses, long term incentives and stretching November 1999.
This event occurred under at all levels of the business.
targets for personal, financial and safety the previous owner and prior to any Rio Tinto The statement, redistributed in 2003 in performance.
Environmental performance involvement in Northparkes.
18 languages, is the result of many months of parameters are also included.
wide internal and external consultation and The boards Committee on social and Occupational health discussion and represents shared values from environmental accountability reviews the Rio Tinto strives to protect physical health around the Group.
The document was effectiveness of policies and procedures.
and wellbeing in the workplace.
This requires published initially in January 1998 and The committee comprises four non executive clear standards, consistent implementation, revised in light of experience in 2002, directors and is chaired by the chairman of transfer of best practice and improvement following further review and consultation, the main board.
It meets three times annually through Group wide reporting and tracking external benchmarking of policies against the with the chief executive and heads of of remedial actions.
During 2003, business best practice of other organisations and Technology, Health, Safety and Environment units worked to implement the occupational approval by the Rio Tinto board.
and Communication and Sustainable health standards and full implementation is The way we work commits the Group Development.
targeted for the end of 2004. to transparency consistent with normal Reports for the committee summarise Setting quantitative occupational health commercial confidentiality, corporate significant matters identified through targets to drive performance improvement Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements 55 28,292 6,107 34,399 30,023 6,493 36,516 8,003 37,173 29,170 29,040 6,976 36,016 ???
