Cumulative lost-time incidence Cumulative major injury incidence frequency rate frequency rate per 200,000 employee man hours per 200,000 employee man hours 2003 838 incidents rate 2.64 2003 112 incidents rate 0.35 2002 853 incidents rate 2.64 2002 121 incidents rate 0.37 Corporate responsibility 2001 1,091 incidents rate 3.34 2001 135 incidents rate 0.41 Since our business involves the extraction and processing The major injury incidence rate continued to improve in 2003. of raw materials, we treat as matters of the utmost importance Although there were fewer lost-time incidents in 2003, the lost-time the health and safety of our employees, contractors and the incidence rate has remained the same as in the previous year due to a public, and the potential impact of our operations on the reduction in the number of employees.
environment and the wider community.
We are committed to improving our performance and have introduced For the first time, we have produced a separate publication a recognition scheme that aims to achieve at least a 50% reduction in this year describing RMCs approach to corporate responsibility as major and lost-time injury incidence rates within five years worldwide.
a fundamental part of business practice.
This deals with our health The scheme is also aiming to cut the number of incidents involving and safety, environmental and community engagement policies and third parties by the same amount.
performance in greater detail than the sections below, which focus principally on developments in the year under review.
Standard setting The Groups International Health and Safety Forum developed two Health and safety new health and safety standards during the year.
These standards, Maintaining high standards of health and safety in all our operations which relate to health and safety induction training for all new continues to be the highest priority.
We aim to reduce to a minimum employees and road haulage vehicle driver training for employees the risks that are inherent in our industry, with the overall objective of and contractors, will become policy requirements to be adhered creating within the Group an ethos in which all work-related injuries to by all our operations.
and illnesses arising from our operations, whether major or minor and whether to employees, contractors or members of the public, are We have continued to highlight the importance of safe driving, regarded as being preventable.
following our road safety video produced in 2002.
In addition to the new driver training standard, measures, for example in London, The Board Health and Safety Committee is responsible for ensuring include the installation of additional safety features on trucks.
there is an effective Group health and safety policy and setting GroupThe Group has also produced for Group-wide distribution a CD-ROM wide standards for health and safety practices, where appropriate.
explaining how to improve mirror visibility.
The Committee oversees the work of the Groups International Health and Safety Forum, which comprises specialists from throughout the The forum has been implementing our international health Group.
Health and safety is the first item for discussion at all Board and safety auditing programme, which has now completed its and management meetings across the Group.
Every country has undergone an audit as part of the programme, which aims to identify best practices Incident statistics as well as areas for improvement.
We deeply regret that two RMC employees died following incidents in the workplace during the year.
A plant supervisor in Great Britain Benchmarking who was injured when he fell from the lower section of a ladder, later RMC has been leading an initiative to introduce health and safety suffered a heart attack, while in Argentina, a driver was fatally injured benchmarking with other companies.
We now benchmark our health in an explosion as he inspected the fuel tank on his truck.
These two and safety performance against more than 20 other companies, both tragic incidents have served to strengthen our resolve to work towards within the industry and in other sectors.
Comparisons include rates achieving a zero incidence rate in future years.
for fatal incidents, major and lost-time injuries.
New safety measures New safety features have been fitted to vehicles in Our responsibilities in health London, including sensors, additional mirrors and a and safety are central to caution board to help improve road safety.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 27 No1in our sector for environmental performance: Business in the Environment Index.
28 RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Land reinstatement provisions m Operating and financial review continued at 31 December 2003 65 2002 67 2001 75 Corporate responsibility continued 2000 83 The environment As an international company operating in 22 countries we place RMC has embraced the concept of environmentally sustainable importance on compliance with legislation.
Last year business units development.
Following consultation with stakeholders and opinion in five countries were fined for compliance failure.
These failures are leaders, we have identified climate change, energy use and biodiversity a reminder that this basic element of environmental management as those areas where we have potentially the most significant global remains a constant challenge.
With Group-wide policies and solid management systems already in place, the focus during 2003 was Cross-border audits on continuous improvement and progress towards achieving our As part of the environmental management system, we launched in environmental targets in these areas.
Nine country audits were carried out during the year with an environmental professional from Climate change one country auditing another and vice versa.
The three-year rolling A core element of how we manage and reduce our climate change programme is designed to transfer good practice as well as identify impact is through participation as a founding member of the Cement areas for improvement.
An initiative of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, the CSI looks forward to 2020 and has RMC companies continued to receive awards for their environmental established a series of short-term actions that will be reported in 2007. efforts.
In Croatia, for example, RMC company Dalmacijacement Using the CSI CO Inventory Protocol we have developed detailed received a commendation from the Ministry for Environmental 2 baselines of cement plants worldwide and are moving rapidly to the Protection for its four-year investment programme in environmental point where we will meet our CSI obligation to report publicly on our improvement.
2 Plans for 2004 Progress towards this goal has been helped by the integration of 2004 will be another year of strategy implementation, with environmental data collection into our business reporting and auditing programmes focused on our globally significant impacts climate processes.
This has strengthened our data verification process with the change, biodiversity and energy efficiency.
In addition, our crosseffect that, for example, we now have verifiable CO emissions data border audit programme is expected to assess another seven 2 available from 1990 to 2001, and are developing forecasts and countries.
Underlying these activities is the constant need to be scenarios to 2012. vigilant with respect to more traditional compliance requirements.
Biodiversity Community We believe in serious engagement with external partners whose RMC companies work in partnership with their local communities and expertise is invaluable in enhancing our contribution to a more contribute time and support to charities.
Individual companies choose sustainable society.
Nowhere is our licence to operate more fragile which charities to support since they are best placed to judge both than in our aggregates business.
Consequently, we recognise the need what is needed and their capacity to respond.
The total recorded to work in partnership at many levels to ensure that we have a donations for charitable and educational purposes in Great Britain coherent biodiversity strategy.
During the year, significant progress was in 2003 amounted to 186,000 2002: 215,000. made in defining this strategy in order to protect, mitigate and create areas of land with important biodiversity value.
Following the launch of our global partnership with BirdLife International in 2002, last year saw national level progress between RMC companies and BirdLife Florida wetlands find Partners in several European countries.
In addition, three BirdLife Botanists have discovered a globally directors participated in an RMC management development threatened species of the lily family, programme as part of our skills exchange commitment.
bracted colic root, at the Florida wetlands site, donated by RMC to Florida International University.
Environmental management Our strategy is to introduce systems in line with ISO 14001 and or EMAS at our large-scale aggregates and cement operations.
Further progress has been made during 2003 so that over 90% of our cement plants are planned to be ISO and or EMAS-accredited no later than the end of 2004.
RMC Group Annual Report and Accounts 2003 29
