RPS Group Plc 53 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate social responsibility report Social Responsibility The Board arranges the affairs of the Group to ensure RPS operates in a social and responsible manner and implements policies and procedures accordingly.
The responsibility for ensuring compliance with these policies and procedures is delegated to the Boards Executive Directors and in turn to the Divisional Boards and Divisional Directors.
The responsibility for complying with Group policies is devolved down to all employees.
The Board keeps the management of the Group under continuous review and is able to amend management policies or operations at any time.
Individual parts of the Group are encouraged to develop more detailed policies suited to their own specific activities.
The Group Board requires to be informed of such policies.
Social Policy The RPS Board is committed to ensuring the Group undertakes its business in a responsible way.
Taking care of our clients, suppliers, employees, the wider community and environment, the health and safety of our employees and conducting operations with a high standard of business integrity are in our opinion essential to the success of our business.
The Group has specific policies on the following: Standard of Conduct RPS expects all its staff to conduct business to the highest standards.
It is essential that the reputation of the Group is upheld at all times with regulatory bodies, governments, customers, suppliers and all other parties with whom the Group has dealings.
All employees, agents and other persons acting on its behalf represent the Group during their normal day-to-day activities and are, therefore, expected to conduct their duties at all times in a professional manner, maintaining rigorous standards of integrity, honesty and conduct, together with adherence to all applicable laws, rules made by any official or regulatory body and Group policies.
The Group respects the rights and interests of all its employees.
The Group requires its entire staff to adopt the highest standards of behaviour when travelling on business whether within their country of operation or elsewhere.
The Group Companies and employees are required to comply with the laws and regulations of the countries in which they operate.
Clients and Customers The Group aims to understand its clients objectives in order to be as effective as possible in helping them achieve those objectives.
The Group aims to develop and maintain strong and lasting relationships with its clients.
Quality reports and services are delivered on time which meet our clients requirements and the Group works with the client to anticipate and meet their future needs.
Conflicts of Interest All RPS employees are required to avoid personal activities and financial interests, which could conflict with their responsibilities to the Company.
Where conflicts of interest arise, they should be openly acknowledged and reported.
RPS employees must not seek personal gain from third parties nor should they abuse their power within the Company for personal gain.
Section 02 Management RPS Group Plc 54 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate social responsibility report continued The Community Community Involvement The Group aims to be sensitive to cultural, social and economic needs of the communities in which we operate.
Modest donations to local charities are made on an irregular basis.
RPS has made charitable contributions at local office level throughout the year.
In Dublin we raised over 14,500 for WaterAid in undertaking the Six Peaks Challenge and the Newbury office raised over 1,000 for Cancer Research UK in completing the Three Peaks Challenge.
Members of the Edinburgh office raised 1,818 for WaterAid, participating in the Munro challenge another mountaineering event.
The Huddersfield office entered into a charitable football tournament and raised over 1,700 for MenCap.
The Bristol office contributed 1,000 towards a sponsored walk for the Juvenile Diabetes Research Fund.
A member of the Glasgow office raised 720 for Community Integrated Care through a sponsored-parachute jump.
A number of our staff in Ireland were involved in the 2003 Special Olympics World Games, held in Ireland, in which they prepared waste management and traffic plans and three RPS staff worked in various roles at the event.
We also sponsored several foreign athletes at the games, and contributed 15,000 to fund displays at sports venues and 15,000 towards the cost of waste management plans.
These donations in cash and kind totalled in excess of 50,000 for 2003 as a whole.
Environmental Management RPS is Europes largest environmental consultancy.
Our expertise includes the full range of environmental disciplines, covering areas such as risk management, health and safety, town and country planning, environmental impact assessment, environmental monitoring and utilities management.
We advise international bodies, governments, local authorities and private companies on improving their environmental performance.
As a result of these activities RPS has a positive impact on the environment.
One of the Groups larger shareholders after reviewing the Group confirmed in August 2002 that they fully recognised that RPS does not have a substantial direct environmental impact.
The Group has been included in the FTSE4Good Index since its inception, passing in all three categories, Environmental, Human Rights and stakeholder criteria.
RPS seeks to improve its performance in all fields, including environmental protection, through systematic management.
Our management systems follow the principles of the ISO 9000 and ISO 14000 series.
Formal certification to these international standards is not a required procedure for all offices, though the majority of RPS office management systems are currently certified to ISO 9001 and our Oxford office is certified to ISO 14001.
Several offices in the UK and Ireland are now actively working towards accreditation to the ISO 14001 standard.
RPS concentrates on implementing practical measures to improve its environmental performance.
Those activities that are managed at Group level, such as our fleet car leasing, office leasing and IT and stationery purchasing are driven through our procurement strategy.
During the year the Group instigated a review of the energy efficiency of office premises that we own or lease.
We have also begun an evaluation of a better mix of renewable energy services.
The Group continues to monitor business mileage and has a policy that encourages staff to use public transport wherever possible.
RPS Group Plc 55 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate social responsibility report continued The Community continued Office Waste and Recycling AIl UK offices of RPS Group Plc use stationery printed with low toxin inks, on Evolve Business Wove, a 100% post consumer waste recycled paper.
Card material, like business cards, is printed on 100% recycled ivory board.
The majority of offices recycle all waste paper.
Waste paper is also routinely used at the office as scrap paper prior to deposit in the recycling bags.
This is a practical housekeeping method of minimising the waste stream.
The offices also recycle other office consumables, such as toner cartridges and ink cartridges, at regular intervals, proceeds from which are regularly donated to charitable causes.
such as the NSPCC and Tearfund.
Older computer equipment is returned to head office for data and software clearance prior to despatch to CKS Group.
CKS specialise in the refurbishing and reselling of good used IT equipment PCs, monitors, keyboards, printers etc.
whilst older working equipment has been given as donations to third world charities.
Cleaner and Renewable Energy Sources and Energy Efficiency All RPS offices seek to minimise their use of energy by controlling the hours of heat and power usage, with certain offices conducting energy awareness campaigns, minimising both CO emissions and unnecessary 2 energy costs.
Some offices in Ireland have their electricity supplied by wind power, through Airtricity.
Transport and Vehicle Management When RPS has reviewed its company car fleet from an environmental perspective it looks at not only reducing emissions, but to also reduce risks amongst its driving community when they are on the road.
Several UK offices have employed in-house resources to conduct travel surveys, which promote alternative, more sustainable, means of getting to work, whilst some of our Irish offices carried out transport surveys and use tax incentives for staff who use public transport.
RPS Water Services, which leases over 350 vans, operate a fleet policy on using vans on 1.7L low CO 2 emitting diesel engines.
All leased vehicles across the Group are regularly serviced and have mileage levels under 60,000 miles to ensure greater fuel efficiency and cleaner emissions.
Environmental Effects of Vehicle Fleet 2003 2002 Year Diesel Petrol Total Diesel Petrol Total Fleet size 352 64 416 296 83 379 Average CO emissions 145 175 169 49 178 164 2 Average engine size litres 17 17 17 17 17 17 CO2 data is not available for 231 vans.
CO2 data is not available for 257 vans.
Using these management techniques, RPS ensures that it: complies with all relevant EC, national and regional legislation as a minimum standard: complies with codes of practice and other requirements such as those specified by regulators and our clients: utilises suppliers that offer products which are sustainable, recyclable or environmentally sensitive wherever practicable and economic: promotes practical energy efficiency and waste minimisation measures: provides a shared inter-office IT networks and communications technology which reduces the need for business travel.
Section 02 Management RPS Group Plc 56 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate social responsibility report continued The Community continued The Group Board has responsibility for the implementation of all policies.
Having evaluated the situation the Board believes that our major suppliers have an environmental policy in place.
Health and Safety RPS offers a range of commercial health and safety consultancy services covering building health and safety, fire safety, asbestos management, occupational health and safety, occupational hygiene, safety auditing, safety engineering consultancy and emergency planning.
The Groups Dutch subsidiary, RPS Certificatie BV, is an internationally recognised and accredited certification body for safety management systems.
RPSs health and safety professionals hold a variety of academic and professional qualifications and include recognised specialists in safety critical systems in the defence, nuclear, offshore, petrochemical, transport, construction and engineering industries.
RPS is committed to achieving and maintaining high standards of health and safety.
The Group Board is responsible for health, safety and welfare within the Group and for ensuring that safety remains a priority and an integral part of all its activities.
It is RPS Group policy to provide and maintain safe working conditions, equipment and systems of work for all employees, contractors, visitors and other people affected by the Group operations.
We intend to comply with all health and safety legislation, Codes of Practice, best guidance and work methods available, in accordance with the management of Health and Safety at Work Act 1999.
Directors and Managers are responsible to the Group Board for ensuring that the policy is implemented.
Information, instruction, training and supervision will be provided as required to comply with this objective.
Divisional and local policies are developed to satisfy specific activities.
These policies will be approved by the Group Board.
A health and safety budget is maintained to facilitate training and other requirements.
Consultation with employees on health and safety policy are achieved through local and divisional meetings.
Employees who fail to meet their obligations under the health and safety policy may be subject to disciplinary action.
Health and Safety training is available to all staff.
The Group employees Health and Safety Managers who ensure that staff are properly trained in all the Health and Safety systems.
The Group has never suffered a work related fatality.
RPS Group Plc 57 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate social responsibility report continued Staff professional memberships Members of Institutions in the UK IRTE Institute of Road Transport MRTPI Members of the Royal Town Engineers, staff memberships Planning Institute ISPE International Society of MRICS Members of the Royal Institute Pharmaceutical Engineers, of Chartered Surveyors staff memberships AMIEMA Associate Members of the Institute IHEEM Institute of Healthcare Engineering of Environmental Management and Estate Management, and Assessment staff memberships MLI Members of the Landscape Institute IIRSM International Institute of Risk MIHort Members of the Institute and Safety Management, of Horticulture staff memberships MIEEM Members of the Institute of Ecology SaRS Safety and Reliability Society, and Environmental Management staff memberships MIFA Members of the Institute of Field FSRP Fellows of the Society for Archaeologists Radiological Protection MCIWEM Members of the Chartered MIGEM Members of the Institution of Gas Institute of Water and Engineers and Managers Environmental Management IEnvSC Institute of Environmental Sciences, MIWEM Members of the Institute of Waste staff memberships and Environmental Management MIBiol Members of the Institute of Biology MCIWM Members of the Chartered Institute MIOSH Members of the Institute of of Waste Management Occupational Safety and Health MICE Members of the Institution of BOHS British Occupational Hygiene Civil Engineers Society, staff memberships MIStruct.
E Members of the Institute MFOH Members of the Faculty of of Structural Engineers Occupational Hygiene IMechE Institute of Mechanical Engineers, MIOA Members of the Institute staff memberships of Acoustics IChemE Institute of Chemical Engineers, IWA International Water Association, staff memberships staff memberships MRSC Members of the Royal Society IWO Institute of Water Officers, of Chemists staff memberships FInstP Fellows of the Institute of Physics MInstMC Members of the Institute of SOE Society of Operations Engineers, Measurement and Control staff memberships FIM Fellows of the Institute ARIBA Associates of Royal Institute of Management of British Architects FinstLM Fellows of the Institute of Leadership ABIAT Associate Members of the British and Management Institute of Architectural Technologist IQA Institute of Quality Assurance, ACIOB Associate Members of the Chartered staff memberships Institute of Building FRSA Fellows of the Royal Society of the MCIBSE Members of the Chartered Institute Academy of Arts, Manufacturers of Building Services Engineers and Commerce MIHT Members of the Institution of MIP Members of the Institute Highways and Transportation of Petroleum MILT Members of the Institute of Logistics PESGB Petroleum Exploration Society of and Transport Great Britain, staff memberships Section 02 Management RPS Group Plc 58 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate social responsibility report continued Staff professional memberships continued FRGS Fellow of the Royal Geographic Members of Institutions in the Netherlands Society ONRI Dutch Society of Engineers, SUT Society of Underwater Engineers, staff memberships staff memberships KIVI Royal Dutch Institute of Engineers, MHS Members of the Hydrographic staff memberships Society NEDECO The Netherlands Engineering MIME Members of the Institute of Consultants Foundation, Marine Engineers staff memberships MTS Marine Technology Society, LEAF Lettinga Associates Foundation staff memberships for Consulting Engineers, RIN Royal Institute of Navigation, staff memberships staff memberships NVVK Dutch Society of Safety Geol Soc Geological Society of Great Britain, Professionals, staff memberships staff memberships NVVA Dutch Association of Industrial FGS Fellows of the Geological Society Hygienists SEG Society of Exploration Geophysicists, Staff Memberships of International Institutes staff memberships EUROTOX the European Institute for SEPM Society of Economic Eco-Toxicology Palaeontologists and Mineralogists, FIDIC the International Federation staff memberships of Consulting Engineers MPA Members of the Palaeontological IAH International Association Association of Hydrogeologists BMS British  Society, ISSMGE the International Society for staff memberships Soil Mechanics and TMS The  Society, Geotechnical Engineering staff memberships EFG the European Federation FCIS Fellow of the Institute of Chartered of Geologists Secretaries and Administrators EAEG the European Association of Members of Institutions in Ireland Geoscientists and Engineers MIEI Members of the Institution of EPSG the European Petroleum Survey Engineers of Ireland Group MIPI Members of the Irish Planning IAS the International Association Institute of Sedimentologists PGeo Professional Members of the Institute INA the International Nannofossil of Geologists of Ireland Association PMI Project Management Institute, AAPG the American Association of staff memberships Petroleum Geologists IWEA Irish Wind Energy Association, AASP the American Association of staff memberships Stratigraphic Palynologists IBEA Irish BioEnergy Association, GSH the Geophysical Society of Houston staff memberships HGS the Houston Geological Society ICHPA Irish Combined Heat and Power PESA the Petroleum Exploration Society Association, staff memberships of Australia CRE Composting Association of Ireland, APPEA the Australian Petroleum Production staff memberships & Exploration Association RPS Group Plc 59 Report and accounts 2003 Corporate social responsibility report continued Staff professional memberships continued ASEG the Australian Society of Exploration VOAM Association for Research on Geophysicists Asbestos and Environmentally MSAICE the South African Institute of Hazardous Substances Civil Engineering VKB Association of Quality Assurance ECSA the Engineering Council of in Soil Research South Africa Irish Corporate Memberships: MHKIE the Hong Kong Institution IEI Institution of Engineers of Ireland of Engineers Company subscriptions to external quality UK Corporate Memberships: audit schemes: IEMA Assessor Member of Institute BSI British Standards Institute of Environmental Management UKAS United Kingdom Accreditation and Assessment Services CIWEM Chartered Institute of Water and RVA STERIN The Dutch Council for Accreditation Environmental Management WASP HSE Workplace Analysis Scheme for LI Registered Efficiency Occupational Hygiene Practice Landscape Institute UK NEQAS UK National External Quality NHBC Assurance Scheme Professional Biological Analysis Register National House Builders Council Aquacheck Water Quality Analysis Scheme UKELA UK Environmental Law Association Chemical Analysis BVCA British Venture Capital Association RICE Regular Inter-laboratory Counting EVCA European Venture Capital Exchange Asbestos Analysis Association ARCA Asbestos Removal Contractors Association STA Source Testing Association ANC Association of Noise Consultants IEI Institution of Engineers of Ireland WINDFAL Group Water Industry Flow Advisory Liaison Group FWR Foundation for Water Research BW British Water DMA Defence Manufacturers Association BNIA British Nuclear Industry Association BWEA British Wind Energy Association TWF The Workplace Foundation Dutch Corporate Memberships VOC The Netherlands Association of Certification Bodies FENELAB The Netherlands Federation of Laboratories NIA The Netherlands Institute of Hygiene NVP The Netherlands Society of Venture Capital Section 02 Management RPS Group Plc 60 Report and accounts 2003 Growth Clarity RPS Group Plc 61 Report and accounts 2003 Section 03 Accounts In this section: 62 Report of the directors 66 Report of the independent auditors 67 Consolidated profit and loss account Statement of total recognised gains and losses 68 Consolidated balance sheet 69 Company balance sheet 70 Consolidated cash flow statement Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net funds 71 Notes to the financial statements 93 Five year summary Section 03 Accounts
