A29424 S&N accounts 16 7 03 12:48 pm Page 30 29 Scottish & Newcastle Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Introduction We are recognised by industry bodies as having a leadership role in S&Ns second Corporate Social Responsibility Report covers an important the promotion of responsible drinking.
For example, we have had significant year for the Company.
involvement with the development of best practice in the area of selfFollowing our commitment in last years report, and the Groups regulation of advertising.
We have also worked with others in the industry international expansion, we have reported on our businesses further afield, on development of the new Licensing Bill in the UK and have contributed in a number of developing markets, with new challenges to address.
to a detailed submission to the UK Government Strategy Units National This year we have been very aware of external influences and the need to Alcohol Harm Reduction Strategy.
protect our licence to operate.
There has been concern in society about anti We operate in many markets outside the UK and are very sensitive to social and binge drinking and there are also potential changes in the UK different cultural and regulatory environments.
We are currently addressing regulatory environment, influenced by the Licensing Bill and Strategy Unit the challenge of developing an alcohol policy that can be applied and review of the National Alcohol Harm Reduction Strategy.
monitored in an international context.
We are also working with our partners Internally there has been much change.
The appointment of Tony Froggatt in BBH to ensure that businesses in the accession states to the EU are fully as Chief Executive has brought renewed emphasis to the CSR agenda.
aware of the regulatory environment in the European Union.
The continued international expansion of the company brings the challenge of communicating our values and policies, including our alcohol policy, in Being a good neighbour a diverse international environment.
We are very aware of our responsibilities to the communities in which we In order to report effectively on the key issues for the organisation, the operate, especially in countries whose cultures and infrastructures are very report focuses on four main areas: different to our own.
Diversity and change The CSR report contains several examples of work we have undertaken Alcohol: brands and products within the supply chain in order to influence the social and environmental Being a good neighbour performance of our suppliers, to share our knowledge and to support the Sustainability of resource use.
We also undertake many activities to support our local communities.
Diversity and change These range from funding the building of a new fire station in Portugal The structural changes to the Group during the year have had a significant to a mentoring scheme for small businesses in Belgium.
Where possible we have involved staff and the Works Council has provided valuable input.
Sustainability of resource use The increased internationalisation of the Company means that our We recognise that environmental concerns are a potential area of risk for workforce has become more geographically and culturally diverse.
Since the last CSR report, a system of Key Performance a key management challenge.
Initiatives to address this issue have included Indicators has been established, allowing us to measure and manage our our International Graduate Programme and the changes to the Works environmental performance in a structured way.
Environmental considerations are increasingly part of mainstream decision In this situation, effective communication is vital.
The continued high morale making, for example in the development of packaging for new and existing at S&N Retail since the sale was announced is an excellent example of the products.
Summary Alcohol: brands and products During the next year, S&N is developing a more structured approach to We see the promotion of responsible drinking as key to our long term CSR strategic development.
The next report will describe the implementation success.
We exercise this responsibility in several ways: as a brewer, in the of this structure, together with progress on the key areas described above.
marketing of new and existing products: at the point of sale in our retail outlets and: employing appropriate techniques for both on and off trade promotions.
This philosophy is not a new initiative, implemented as a reaction to recent publicity about the social impact of binge drinking.
As a responsible brewing company we already had well-established procedures, principles and policies that we have reviewed in the light of recent experience.
For example, Scottish Courage has a rigorous New Product Development programme, developed with reference to industry best practice, to assess possible risk in the content, packaging and marketing of all new products.
This programme should ensure that any products which may encourage dangerous drinking patterns are rejected before launch.
Scottish & Newcastle plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2003 RESPONSIBLE&SUSTAINABLE
