15 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate social responsibility Our corporate vision is to be at the forefront of the environmental services industry.
Our corporate values of environmental leadership, service and quality, enshrined in our Code of Business Principles and Conduct, define our business culture and guide our strategies.
Our policy Through our employee volunteering To set an ethical framework for our We strive to be a responsible corporate programme, we encourage our people activities we have published our values citizen and recognise that Severn Trent to share their expertise with the charities and a code of business principles, which has an important role to play in achieving we support.
In 2002 2003, we supported are available on our website sustainable development for society as a employees in holding workshops with the www.
As part of this commitment we seek Fairbridge charity in the West Midlands to conserve natural resources and to support to provide disadvantaged young people The code of business principles guides our the communities in which we operate.
with guidance about setting up their people as they face day-to-day challenges own businesses.
and covers issues ranging from obeying Our role as an environmental services the law to displaying integrity.
company means that our activities are In addition to the community affairs of intrinsic benefit to society.
However, programme, our Biffaward landll tax our ability to achieve business success also credit scheme, which is administered by makes a significant contribution to building the Royal Society for Nature Conservation, a sustainable future.
As well as delivering provided 17 million for environment and shareholder value, we support the wider community projects.
community in ways that range from the employment opportunities we offer to our Around the world charitable donations.
Severn Trent Water International shares its skills to improve water management in Vision, values and principles the developing world and in Eastern and We aspire to high standards of corporate Central Europe.
behaviour as we pursue our vision of leadership in the environmental services industry.
To For example, we are an active participant in set an ethical framework for our activities the UK Governments Partners for Water and we have published our values and a code Sanitation initiative.
Under this scheme, we of business principles, which are available on are working to improve water and sanitation our website www.
com services in Nigeria, South Africa and Uganda.
Our values articulate the companys Environmental management commitment to disposing of waste safely, We have a robust environmental management providing value for money, conserving natural system, which has achieved the international resources, maintaining infrastructure, and ISO 14001 accreditation.
To ensure that complying with all appropriate standards.
environmental management is pursued The code of business principles guides our at a strategic level, it is overseen by our people as they face day-to-day challenges Environmental Advisory Committee, which and covers issues ranging from obeying reports directly to the Board.
the law to displaying integrity.
Our progress Community support We are committed to being open about our Our community affairs programme focuses corporate social responsibility performance.
on the key themes of environmental During the year we were again ranked top education, the built environment and the of our sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability natural environment.
Index and featured in the FTSE4Good Index.
We publish full details of our progress in our In 2002 2003, we donated more than Stewardship report and on our website.
Among the charities to benefit were Bridle Gate in Staffordshire, which provides educational opportunities for children with special needs, and the Cromford Venture Centre in Derbyshire, which helps young people build confidence and self-esteem.
