Corporate citizenship The purpose and values of the business Associated British Foods is an international food, ingredients and retail group with annual sales of 4.9bn and over 35,000 employees.
The group is one of Europes largest food companies with a wide range of successful brands and products in the food sector, and an increasingly strong presence in advanced research and technology, where we are turning natural products into innovative ingredients for the food, personal care and pharmaceutical industries.
A significant supplier of branded and non-branded grocery Twinings approach to ethical sourcing products and a leading textile retailer, we have major businesses in Europe, Asia, the US and Australia.
Our aim Twinings is a founder member of the Tea Sourcing is to concentrate our energies and expertise on segments Partnership TSP, which was set up in April 1997 of the market where we can establish a leading position.
and which represents most of the major UK tea As a group, we are also constantly searching for better, companies.
The members have joined together more efficient and more profitable ways to manufacture to share responsibility for the social and ethical foods and ways to employ our technology in other related conditions involved in the sourcing of tea and sectors.
Our watchwords are efficiency, quality, shareholder share three core beliefs: value and growth.
We have a shared responsibility for the social As a responsible corporate citizen, ABF aims to act in and ethical conditions involved in sourcing the a socially responsible manner at all times.
organisational structure is highly decentralised and as such our companies devise procedures appropriate to and 2.
Activities in this area should be non-competitive compliant with local laws, culture and operating conditions and apolitical.
but within the overall context of the following minimum 3.
We respect the cultural and legislative differences overriding principles: in tea producing countries and seek to work closely with producers.
Employees Our employees are our most crucial resource, and therefore Five main areas are independently audited in relation we abide by the following principles: to achieving the above: Equal opportunities we are committed to offering equal opportunities to all people in their recruitment, training 1.
Employment including minimum age and and career development, having regard for their particular wage levels aptitudes and abilities.
Full and fair consideration is given 2.
Education to applicants with disabilities and every effort is made to give employees who become disabled whilst employed 3.
Maternity by the company an opportunity for retraining.
Health and safety Health and safety we consider health and safety as equal 5.
Housing in importance to that of any other function of the company and its business objectives.
The chief executive managing The TSP is a member of the Ethical Trading director of each operating company has responsibility Initiative, a UK government-backed strategic for health and safety.
We seek to provide a safe and healthy alliance between the commercial sector, trades workplace and system of work in line with local regulations, unions and non-governmental organisations.
to protect all employees, visitors and the public, insofar as they come into contact with foreseeable work hazards.
Our 28 Associated British Foods plc We recognise our obligation to protect and preserve the environment and our responsibilities as a member of the communities in which we operate.
We remunerate fairly with respect to skills, performance, our peers and local conditions.
Communication we will brief employees and their representatives on all relevant matters on a regular basis.
Ethical business practices Competition we are committed to free and fair competition and we will compete strongly but honestly complying with all local competition laws.
Bribery ABF will not condone the offering or receiving of bribes or other such facilitating payments to any person or entity for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business for ABF or inuencing political decisions.
Political donations financial donations are not permitted to political parties within the European Union.
The consent of the Chief Executive is required for any other donation to a political party.
Confidentiality and accuracy of information the confidentiality of information received in the course of business will be respected and never be used employees are expected to adopt a proactive attitude for personal gain.
False information will not be given towards this end.
We will continue to develop safety in the course of commercial negotiations.
awareness amongst all employees, and we will measure and manage health and safety performance.
Conflict of interest any personal interest, which may prejudice or might reasonably be deemed by others to Harassment we will not tolerate sexual, mental or physical prejudice, the impartiality of employees, must be formally harassment in the workplace.
We expect incidents of declared to a senior manager.
Examples of this include harassment to be reported to the appropriate human owning shares in business partners and personal or family resources director.
Human rights managers must take account of the core Business gifts and hospitality gifts, other than items International Labour Organisation labour conventions and of very small intrinsic value, are not accepted.
Employees strive to observe the UN Declaration on Human Rights, by who receive hospitality must not allow themselves to reach respecting the dignity and human rights of our employees a position whereby they might be deemed by others to and in particular as stated below: have been inuenced in making a business decision as Universal respect for an observance of human rights and a consequence.
However, giving and receiving reasonable fundamental freedoms for all without discrimination as to business related products, marketing materials and race, sex, language or religion.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 29 Corporate citizenship continued Environment steps to ensure the safety and quality of the goods or ABF recognises the impact that its businesses have on the services that we produce.
Therefore, as a minimum, we will comply with current applicable legislation of the countries in which Shareholders we operate, and our operations will be conducted such that: ABF is committed to increasing shareholder value, and we will communicate our achievements and prospects to our Emissions to air, releases to water and land lling of solid shareholders in an accurate and timely manner.
Apart from wastes do not cause unacceptable environmental impacts the annual general meeting the company communicates and do not offend the community: with its shareholders by way of the annual report and significant plant and process changes are assessed and accounts, the half yearly interim report and at www.
co. uk positively authorised in advance to prevent adverse the companys website.
significant matters relating to the environmental impacts: trading or development of the business are disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange announcements.
Energy is used efficiently and consumption is monitored: The company also holds meetings with its major institutional Natural resources are used efficiently: shareholders to discuss the companys operations.
Stockbrokers, Hoare Govett, offer a low cost share dealing Raw material waste is minimised: service in our shares.
Solid waste is reduced, reused or recycled where practicable: Suppliers The amount of packaging used for group products is We will carry out our business honestly, ethically and minimised, consistent with requirements for food safety with respect for the rights and interests of our suppliers.
and product protection: We will settle our bills promptly and we will co-operate Products are transported efficiently to minimise fuel usage, with suppliers to constantly improve quality and efficiency.
consistent with customers demands, production We seek to develop relationships with supplier companies arrangements and vehicle eet operations: consistent with the basic principles as set out above, and specically with respect to human rights and conditions Accidents are prevented so far as is reasonably practical: and of employment.
Where supplier audits show shortcomings Effective emergency response procedures are in place in any of these areas, we will strive to encourage a to minimise the impact of foreseeable incidents.
programme of improvement leading to compliance.
Responsibility for specic supply codes and agreements The environmental performance of our businesses will be rests with individual companies.
regularly reported to, and reviewed by, the board.
The wider community The responsibility for achieving compliance with this policy We recognise our obligation to protect and preserve the is devolved to the chief executive or managing director environment and our responsibilities as a member of the of each of our businesses.
The nominated officer for communities in which we operate.
ABF encourages its environment is Paul Lister, Director of Legal Services operating companies in engagement with the local community and Company Secretary, but each of our businesses has in their areas of operation.
Examples of this include cultural nominated a director with specific responsibility for and community sponsorship in Australia through George environmental matters.
Weston Foods and the community activities of British Sugar through the British Sugar Foundation whose Stakeholder relationships Policy and Guidelines are reproduced in full on the Customers British Sugar website.
We seek to be honest and fair in our relationships with our customers and above all to provide the standards of product The Gareld Weston Foundation was set up by the late and service that have been agreed whilst at the same time W. Gareld Weston in 1958.
It is one of the UKs foremost offering value for money.
At all times we take all reasonable philanthropic organisations and derives a substantial 30 Associated British Foods plc Improving sustainability at every stage of sugar production British Sugar is recognised internationally as the most efficient sugar manufacturer in Europe.
The company transforms all of its inputs into sustainable products.
After the sugar is extracted, the sugar beet is marketed for high energy animal feed and molasses, the final syrup, is used as a feedstock by the fermentation industry.
The small amount of soil adhering to the sugar beet is marketed to landscapers, architects and farmers, ensuring that this valuable non-renewable resource is used in a sustainable way.
The lime products produced as part of the purication process are sold for soil conditioning.
Even the stones delivered along with the sugar beet are separated, graded and washed and sold to the construction industry.
All factories generate their own electricity using the combined heat and power process CHP.
At several factories, more electricity is generated than the factory requires and the excess is sold to the electricity supply companies and is probably the cleanest fossil fuel electricity available.
Hot water and carbon dioxide from Wissingtons CHP plant are pumped to a glasshouse to help with the production of tomatoes, rather than being released into the atmosphere.
These by-products are utilised to maintain a warm temperature in the glasshouse and provide the necessary elements for photosynthesis.
As a result, British Sugar is the UKs largest grower of classic round salad tomatoes producing over 34 million tomatoes each year between April and November.
British Sugar is also investigating the feasibility of producing bioethanol from sustainable, renewable crops such as cereals and sugar beet.
Introduction of a bioethanol industry proportion of its funds through its interests in ABFs would benefit the environment by reducing ultimate holding company, Wittington Investments Limited.
harmful carbon dioxide and greenhouse gas emissions by at least 50% compared with Applying our principles fossil fuels such as petrol.
These business principles apply to all our employees and are a minimum standard for their behaviour: operating companies may have additional standards.
Failure to comply with our principles may result in disciplinary action.
If any employee feels that any laws are being broken or principles breached, this should be reported either to their manager or the group Company Secretary.
We will make all efforts to protect the condentiality of those who raise concerns, and employees may come forward without fear for their position.
