The broader view of business, incorporating social and environmental Corporate social issues into the operational agenda, has received increasing focus in the last few years.
SIG continues to respond to this responsibility agenda by integrating this whole range of issues into its strategic and routine management of its operations.
delivering sustainable solutions SIGs Core Values To build long term sustainable shareholder value through continued growth and solid financial performance.
To provide our employees with the opportunity for secure, sustainable employment and the scope for personal development.
To develop long term customer relationships, based on our commitment to service, support and honesty.
To work with our suppliers to deliver a cost effective and dependable route to market, and to develop long term relationships based on mutual benefit, honesty and trust.
To ensure that our impact on the environment, society and the community is positive and reflects our position as a responsible company.
12 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 1 2 3 The Board continues to develop an integrated framework that targets and measures the performance of the Group in the areas of: Marketplace, Workplace, Community and Environment.
Board responsibility for Corporate Social Responsibility is held by David Williams, Chief Executive and the board are working towards compliance with the relevant guidance on CSR.
SIG believes that the financial stability and strength of the Group is key to protecting its 1 Driver training forms an important stakeholders interests.
The health and vitality of its operations, its employees, its part of SIG's vehicle policy, which impacts customers and its suppliers are of paramount importance in securing and developing on reduced maintenance and insurance the Groups long term sustainability.
costs, enhanced pedestrian and site safety, and improved working environment.
Daily The Group works with its subsidiary operations to ensure that all current employment inspections complement periodic training legislation is complied with fully, and that each workplace offers a positive and to keep the vehicle and driver at peak performance.
Where possible, staff are recruited from the local neighbourhood, and are trained as required to allow them to perform their current jobs Staff at one of SIG's operations, UK.
2 effectively as well as being encouraged to develop their careers at all levels of the Employees and local management in organisation.
each branch work closely together to deliver fast and accurate responses to customers, Each operation or location tailors its response to the local community as appropriate to together with organising same day or next the local situation, but in some places this might be working with local community day delivery.
Branch staff are supported by central 'back office' functions which ensure associations to agree acceptable traffic patterns for delivery vehicles, whereas in others that they can concentrate on satisfying it might be branch staff working as school governors, or as local parish councillors.
SIG plc is a national member of Business in the Community which gives it further opportunity to develop a positive impact on society.
3 SIG works with its suppliers to SIG has developed close relationships with a number of suppliers who can source minimise primary and secondary and supply sustainable products to the marketplace which impact positively on the packaging, while maintaining necessary levels of packaging to ensure that the environment.
As well as providing a range of products across all its sectors which product arrives with the customer in perfect contribute to energy efficiency and the long term sustainability of the environment, SIG condition.
Re-usable packaging and pallets encourages recovery and recycling of a number of products from the construction are returned to suppliers, and often re-usable process, in close collaboration with its suppliers.
pallets are recovered from customers.
As a founder member of the Association for the Conservation of Energy, SIG is active in raising mandatory standards for thermal and acoustic insulation.
Energy consumption is a priority for its operations, and many closely monitor their overall impact on the environment, whether through reducing the amount of fuel used in delivery, or in increasing the efficiency of lighting in their warehouses.
SIG meets its responsibilities under the packaging waste regulations in the UK by working closely with the UKs leading compliance scheme operator.
For further information visit: www.
co. uk csr SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 13
