Corporate social responsibility Background and management responds to all requests for information from Interact positively with our communities The importance of corporate ethics was We believe that the effective management of socially responsible investment funds.
through partnership initiatives aimed at emphasised to employees at the time of the our social responsibilities is a moral obligation delivering real benefits distribution of the groups first CSR report.
This that can also bring significant commercial Developments in 2003 Operate our business in line with the helped to raise awareness of our aims in this area.
We published our inaugural CSR report in May expectations of our capital providers We also gathered feedback from a representative 2003 and were pleased with its reception.
We Work in partnership with our customers and selection of employees on the introduction of Corporate social responsibility CSR is closely aim to ensure that all of the feedback received is suppliers under clear and reasonable terms.
employee forums to prepare for the new aligned to the risk management activities reflected in the next annual report which will be Information and Consultation Directive in 2005. described on page 77.
The risk management published later this year.
Senior managers reporting to the Group Chief process provides the board with information on Executive are responsible for the management As part of the development of our CSR all risks, including significant social, As in many other companies, CSR is a new of the different elements of the groups CSR management systems, we increased the environmental and ethical risks, which could concept for most employees.
number of areas on which we collect and affect the groups shortand long-term awareness of it within the group, we have monitor employee-related data.
Our CSR programme provides a provided all senior managers with training on Employees intend to further extend the coverage of our formal mechanism through which to manage the subject.
The board also receives formal In an effort to improve our overall feedback to systems by gathering data to support the these risks over time and report progress to the updates on the groups CSR activities.
We employees and goal setting, we redesigned and measurement of the diversity of our workforce.
developed our CSR management structure extended our performance development during the year by allocating local responsibility system to include all employees during the year.
Health and safety The group has established a risk management for CSR issues to senior management within This aligned the feedback and objective-setting During 2003, the group suffered two workworking group to oversee its risk management our operating entities.
processes more closely to key indicators, related fatalities at its UK ports.
It was also fined activities and a CSR management committee to including health and safety.
Including manual 100,000 in relation to a 2002 incident at the develop and manage its CSR programme.
Both Our CSR programme aims to ensure that the grade employees on a mandatory basis is Port of Ipswich.
These incidents illustrate why it are chaired by Richard Adam, Group Finance group is able to monitor, manage and deliver on intended to improve both feedback and the is so important that the group maintains its Director.
The committee is responsible for its obligations to its various stakeholders.
Our quality of performance-related information.
We commitment to health and safety.
Our view is reviewing and co-ordinating the groups goals are to: believe focusing on front line manual grade that injuries and cases of ill-health suffered at strategy and policies in all key areas of social employees should also help to improve safety work are preventable.
responsibility including the environment, health Ensure that the health and safety of our practices.
and safety, employees, communities and employees and third parties, such as visitors Our policies are backed by a very strong corporate ethics.
to our ports, is not put at risk by our activities We improved our internal communication commitment from all levels of our business.
Provide employees with opportunities for processes by producing annual communication They were updated and reissued to all UK The group continues to develop its CSR active participation through equal plans for each business unit, including an employees during 2003. management systems and engagement opportunities, access to information and annual meeting between business heads and mechanisms.
It publishes an annual CSR report, clear and fair terms of employment their employees, as well as publishing regular In addition, we developed our procedures for engages positively with socially responsible Operate our business with due regard for its local newsletters.
the management of contractors by providing ininvestors, participates in various indices and potential impact on the environment house training and running four safety 86 campaigns, the last of which focused management.
To this end, we launched a major index for European listed companies.
We were specifically on contractors.
In October 2003, the campaign to raise awareness among also pleased to be selected for the Kempen Institution of Occupational Safety and Health employees, customers, tenants and other SNS Smaller Europe SRI Index during the year.
IOSH launched the first independently stakeholders of environmental issues and the accredited safety induction passport scheme potential benefits of improved environmental Future developments for cargo-handling contractors in the ports management.
The campaign was timed to CSR remains a developing area for our business industry, which it developed in partnership with coincide with the re-launch of our environmental and we are working to improve our policies and ABP.
We will begin rolling out the training website, which can be accessed at management systems.
In our first CSR report, programme in 2004 using our IOSH-accredited www.
we committed to a range of initiatives and trainers.
targets against which we have made progress Engagement of varying degrees during the year.
We will Environment We were pleased that ProShare recognised our provide full details in our 2003 CSR report and We have continued to develop our continued focus on communication and make new commitments based on our environmental management systems and the engagement by adding our 2002 annual report experience to date.
application of our policies throughout our to the shortlist for its best non-FTSE 100 annual business.
During the year, we broadened the report award.
Electronic copies of our CSR reports can be scope of environmental data collated at head obtained from our website at office and extended our management As part of our 2003 interim report, we www.
co. uk: hard copies of the 2003 framework to our USA business.
conducted a shareholder survey and were CSR report can be ordered using the enclosed pleased to receive more than 1,000 responses.
Ongoing risk assessment continues to play an We welcome the views of all of our stakeholders integral part in our environmental management.
and believe that discussion and debate is key During 2003, we carried out major risk to helping us to understand their needs.
assessments at all of our UK ports, the findings Comments received through this process and from which will be incorporated into our the feedback received on our 2002 CSR report management programme for each location.
will be taken into account in the development of In October 2003, the EU introduced new future reporting.
Richard Adam legislation aimed at improving the management Group Finance Director & Chairman, of ship waste.
We took advantage of this Participating in socially responsible indices CSR Management Committee opportunity to further develop our waste enables us to benchmark our performance 18 February 2004 management practices while reviewing and against other companies and provides investors updating port waste-management plans.
with an independent means of assessing our social responsibility credentials.
During 2003, We continue to believe that education and we maintained our membership of FTSE4Good awareness lead to improved environmental and DJSI STOXX, Dow Joness sustainability Associated British Ports Holdings PLC 87
