26 27 corporate social responsibility SkyePharma annual report 2003 Corporate Social Responsibility Employment issues environmental performance.
We now undertake As a pharmaceutical company, our mission is to SkyePharma is committed to a policy of equal routine monitoring of various measures of our develop better medicines to improve the treatment opportunities in its employment practices.
environmental performance at our main R&D of human disease.
We believe that this in itself We believe that the contribution an employee and manufacturing sites in Switzerland, France is a worthwhile enterprise.
Furthermore, the can make should not be affected by factors such and the USA, the results of which are submitted pharmaceutical industry as a whole is intensively as gender, age, marital status, disability, sexuality, to external review bodies.
regulated to ensure that all medicinal products race, colour, religion, ethnic or national origin are both safe and effective and manufactured or any other conditions not relevant to the The chart below showed that we achieved to the highest standards.
However, we also performance of the job.
Our formal Equal significant environmental improvements in recognise that our business will prosper for the Opportunities Policy is posted on the companys 2003.
Despite raising our manufacturing output long term only if we act in a responsible manner.
We also recognise that a safe, secure by 23% and more than doubling its value, We are encouraged that there is now growing and healthy working environment contributes our use of energy only increased by 8% and interest among investors and other stakeholders to productivity and improved performance.
we actually reduced our consumption of water in the compliance of companies with ethical, All employees are encouraged to participate by 5%.
Furthermore we cut the amount of waste social and environmental issues.
As a matter in the companys share purchase scheme, disposed by landfill by 8% and the amount of policy, we respond to the increasing number and we promote internal communication of the incinerated by 36% while increasing the amount of questionnaires on CSR matters.
Companys progress by means of an intranet recycled by 26%.
Although we are proud of this and our periodic company magazine, Skye News.
achievement, we are determined to do better in Ethical issues the current year.
We aim to demonstrate and promote the The Environment highest standards of honest and ethical conduct As a Company we are committed to protecting The Community throughout our company.
We have now the environment in which we conduct our We aim to be a good neighbour wherever we established formal policies and procedures, activities.
Our formal Environmental Policy have business units and to be active participants including a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial aims to foster a positive attitude towards the in the community.
While we do not believe that Officers and a Complaints and Whistleblower environment and to raise the awareness of we have a mandate from shareholders for the Procedure.
A new Code of Business Conduct employees to responsible environmental company to make charitable donations, we do and Ethics has been introduced this year practices at all sites operated by the company.
encourage our employees to support various throughout the company that complies with We will ensure compliance with all relevant charitable causes.
For example, our San Diego or exceeds the requirements of the published legislation and regulatory requirements and employees raised nearly $5,000 for the victims US SEC Nasdaq Code of Business Conduct where practical and economically viable we of the forest fires that ravaged the surrounding and Ethics.
will develop standards in excess of such area in November.
The picture below shows one requirements.
We aim to set a high standard of the burnt-out homes.
through continuous improvement in our Key environmental metrics Waste recycled 26 -36 Waste incinerated -8 Waste to landfill -5 Water used Energy used 8 Production value 103 Production volume 23 -40 -20 0 20 40 60 80 100 200 % change 2003 vs 2002 SkyePharma annual report 2003
