Corporate Social Responsibility A growing number of our stakeholders want to be reassured that Somerfield is acting as a responsible corporate citizen.
We aim to improve our performance in all aspects of corporate social responsibility CSR and are reporting our policies and action in more detail.
htm A growing number of our stakeholders In recruitment we have improved Health and safety our assessment and selection process to Our health and safety performance want to be reassured that Somerfield is acting as a responsible corporate citizen.
identify people who can best help us matters not only to staff but also to enhance customer satisfaction.
And we customers and contractors.
Last year we We aim to improve our performance in all aspects of corporate social responsibility are recruiting more graduates into our said that we were creating the accelerated management training schemes.
mechanisms to prepare an annual report CSR and are reporting our policies and action in more detail both in reports to complying with the Health and Safety To attract and retain good people we want Commissions guidance on health and shareholders and on our website at to be recognised as one of the best UK www.
This is a summary of our employers.
In retail, family-friendly policies first report, which is published in full on Details of the work of the Corporate are particularly important: last year we our website at www.
uk, Governance Working Group are set out in enhanced maternity and paternity leave together with our new health and the Report of the Directors on page 42: the and introduced adoptive and parental safety policy.
Group has now been renamed the leave.
We invested more in staff pay and Corporate Social Responsibility Group and improved facilities for store staff.
In January 2003 the newly appointed will be chaired by the Company Secretary.
director with responsibility for health and Effective training and development are The Group is charged with developing, safety established a high level crosscrucial to our future success.
Last year benchmarking and reporting progress on a functional Health and Safety Forum.
Its investment in our people increased by composite CSR policy for 2003 04 and brief was to engage all areas of the 34% and we launched a new performance beyond.
The Corporate Governance business in meeting the objectives of the management process.
This sets Working Groups existing activities will be new health and safety policy setting performance objectives and defines absorbed within that wider CSR brief.
targets, monitoring progress, identifying required behaviours so that we can problem areas and encouraging effective identify training needs and reward good Our people two-way communication about health and performance.
We began with senior The quality of the business, and of its safety issues.
managers and will add store managers customer relationships, depends this year and extend the scheme to all There is much work still to be done fundamentally on the quality of our people.
We have also launched particularly in collecting data on working We continue to improve the way we new induction and basic skills training days lost for health and safety related recruit, develop, manage and reward them.
courses in our stores, aimed at further reasons and in reversing the disappointing We aim to make all communication with improving customer service.
increase in convictions for health and staff two-way, informative and inspiring safety offences.
The development and Administration of the performance so we were pleased that our staff implementation of our policy has been newspaper won two awards from the management programme will be aided by undertaken in close consultation with the new HR system now being introduced.
British Association of Communicators in employees and we aim to maintain Business.
During the year we conducted a The limitations of our previous, papergood two-way communication on all based system hindered our ability to major staff attitude survey Viewpoint related issues.
Survey and the findings will guide the manage our most valuable resource our employees.
Our new system, MyPeople, There were no fatalities or reportable development of our HR policies.
All directly-employed staff were invited to will improve management of recruitment, dangerous occurrences during the year.
training and pay including new benefit The number of reportable accidents was take part and over 23,000 employees responded.
This reflects our employees packages and family-friendly policies and down 10%, on top of the previous years will help us to make our organisation 6% reduction.
Legal compliance and confidence that we will act on the views expressed.
Our feedback to staff will more efficient.
standards audits showed scores remaining steady in Kwik Save and improving by an report what action we intend to take and explain what we can and cannot deliver.
These audits will be completed electronically in the coming year, giving much greater visibility of specific issues.
12 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 Facts Our degradable plastic bags, supported by the Soil Association, start to degrade after 18 months and completely vanish within 3 years.
Two prohibition notices were served on the company in the year, along with 13 improvement notices.
We responded to all of them in a timely manner to the satisfaction of the enforcement authorities.
Against that positive background, it is disappointing to report that we were convicted of offences at four stores during the year three relating to events in 2001. Business conduct Somerfield is an active member of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI, an alliance of companies, non-governmental organisations and trade unions working to promote good employment practice.
We are applying ETI principles to ensure that our suppliers and their suppliers meet acceptable standards of employment practice.
Our ETI Report for 2002 is on the Group website at www.
uk and our code of conduct is set out at Appendix E of that Report.
The primary focus in 2002 was on suppliers working outside the developed world.
We identified areas of non-compliance in health and safety, working hours, and collective bargaining rights.
We need to improve the way we resolve compliance: on the one hand we believe that engagement is more likely to lead to improved standards than simply switching to new suppliers and we stress that in our initial discussions.
On the other hand, the policy will only be effective if suppliers know that contracts will be placed elsewhere if non-compliance continues.
We are in discussion with the ETI over a more proactive response to noncompliance in 2003.
In addition to our engagement with the ETI, we remain active members of the Race to the Top CSR initiative co-ordinated by the International Institute for the Environment and Development IIED.
We expect the first formal IIED report to be published during 2003.
Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 13 Corporate Social Responsibility continued www.
htm Many of our customers want to make Community and charity materials for primary school teachers and pupils, linked to the Materials and their own contribution to ethical trading Our staff have an outstanding record by buying from suppliers who are actively of raising money for charity and Properties section of the National Curriculum.
These can be combined with working to give third world producers a community projects both on a national better deal.
So in 2003 we launched the scale and on a neighbourhood level opportunities for pupils and teachers to visit their local Somerfield store for an Somerfield Fairtrade range.
products are approved by the Fairtrade educational tour.
Other initiatives during the Each year we choose one national cause year included a 38-tonne truck delivery of Foundation, which ensures that farmers, as our Corporate Charity of the Year.
Our usually co-operatives of small producers, humanitarian aid including clothing, fabric 2002 charity was the Meningitis Trust for and detergent for refugees in Kosovo.
get a good return for their products and a which we raised a record 1.4 million, plus fair say in the way the proceeds are a further 100,000 of benefits in kind.
The range includes bananas met our original target of 1 million in one The refurbishment of our store portfolio, from Costa Rica and pineapples from the night, with our largest-ever charity ball with its increased emphasis on chilled, Caribbean and will include coffee and tea.
when we also raised 155,000 for the fresh food, led to a 4% increase in total In addition, our stores carry branded Spinal Foundation and staff raised the electricity consumption in the year but Fairtrade lines including Divine and Dubble rest through initiatives ranging from fancy continuing investment to improve existing chocolate bars and a broad selection of dress days in stores to sponsored dragon equipment means that we remain on track Caf Direct and Fairtrade coffees.
Our charity for 2003 is the to achieve our target of a 13% reduction in We have a long-established policy of Muscular Dystrophy Campaign.
like-for-like consumption over the five year seeking out local and regional foods that period to 2006 07.
In our 1,250-vehicle car The Staff Lottery Fund donated enable our customers to support fleet we are incentivising drivers to choose 118,800 as a combination of direct cash producers in their own areas.
We are continuing to gifts to good causes and sponsoring of country we now sell over 2,000 local lines.
reduce the environmental impact of our fund-raising initiatives.
And the labels on our So good lamb, pork delivery fleet, reducing vehicle mileage, The two hot air balloons owned by the and Scotch beef now identify which farm fuel consumption and diesel emissions.
Staff Lottery Fund raised over 350,000 for the meat comes from.
We have achieved this through better national charities such as Whizz Kidz and backloading, improved routing, and the Some of the products we sell, such as RNIB and for local good causes such as introduction of more efficient vehicles.
alcohol, tobacco and lottery tickets, may schools.
The balloon crew includes During the year we reduced fuel not be sold to young people.
We are a Somerfield staff volunteers, and charities consumption by 2% and cut CO emissions 2 founder partner and active member of are given free flights that can be raffled to by 1313 tonnes.
CitizenCard, the government-approved and raise funds.
nationally recognised photo ID and proof Continuing improvement will come from Among many local initiatives, the of age scheme.
There are now more than the integration and upgrading of our Somerfield store in Kingswood raised over 600,000 CitizenCard holders, making it the distribution network.
As part of this 17,000 towards a local adventure UKs largest such scheme.
CitizenCard has programme we have set targets to playground in memory of a local boy killed recently launched iAC, an interactive age reduce the 60 million road miles travelled in a road accident.
Staff at the Support check scheme which enables internet each year, and invested 14 million in new Centre in Bristol raised 4,000 for an operators to check the age and identity of low-emission diesel engines and 4 million electric wheelchair for a local boy with users and safeguards young people on quiet roll cages to reduce noise in muscular dystrophy.
In the London against illicit internet access and misuse of urban areas.
Marathon, our South West Regional teenage chat rooms.
In the past year our Somerfield stores Director raised over 52,000 for have replaced conventional plastic bags Macmillan Cancer Relief and other staff with degradable ones the first raised over 6,000 for the National supermarket bags to be supported by the Osteoporosis Society.
They begin to degrade At corporate level our largest community after 18 months and completely vanish initiative is the educational programme, within three years leaving carbon which provides science-based educational 14 Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 For the Meningitis Trust we raised 1.4 million Across the country we now sell over 2,000 local lines We have recycling bins in over 300 stores dioxide, water and minerals to be absorbed into the soil naturally.
Shoppers in Britain are estimated to use up to 20 billion plastic bags a year, enough to carpet the entire planet every six months.
Most of these bags take 100 years to degrade and only 2% are recycled.
We are committed to recycling, and to encouraging our customers to recycle.
Over 300 of our stores have recycling bins for paper, glass, cans, plastic, books and textiles.
All stores recover clean cardboard and plastic for recycling: we recovered 52,790 tonnes of cardboard and 3,530 tonnes of plastic in 2002.
Although our environmental performance is steadily improving, we recognise that we still have much more to do.
The Business in the Environment BiE Index for 2002 found that our score had increased from 37% to 43%, but we had not yet caught up with other companies in our sector: our focus on the recovery programme meant that we had not been able to direct as much management attention to the environment as our peers did.
But the BiE report commented: It is particularly pleasing to see that the company can demonstrate some performance improvement in the areas of energy, solid waste and refrigerant emissions.
Somerfield plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 2003 15
