Corporate Social Responsibility statement Spectris is committed to creating business growth whilst ensuring that impact on the environment is minimised and that all activities are conducted safely by well-trained Review 2003 and qualified employees.
previous next The following review summarises the companys policies and Environment procedures.
The full Spectris corporate social responsibility Spectris is addressing concerns for the environment by statement is available on the companys website at designing products which provide customers with the ability www.
to minimise their impact on the environment by reducing raw material consumption, waste and energy use or minimising Spectris is the parent of a number of subsidiary companies which harmful emissions.
Contents operate around the world.
Overall responsibility for developing 3Financial highlights corporate policies on social, ethical and environmental matters The productivity benefits to a wide range of industrial processes 4Focusing on niche applications and for reviewing their effectiveness lies with the Spectris Board.
are both direct and indirect in saving natural resources.
Some 6Helping customers to meet global challenges It is then the responsibility of the individual operating units to current examples where the use of products has a direct 8 Building customer advantages communicate and apply that policy within their particular beneficial contribution are shown on the inside back cover of this 10 Chairmans statement business, taking account of local legislation and potential risks, report and on the companys website.
12 Chief Executives review to ensure compliance with the policy and to maintain, review and 16 Board of directors 18 Financial review refine procedures accordingly.
20 Directors report 23 Directors responsibilities During the year, group policies and procedures, including those Environmental 24 Directors remuneration report relating to social, environmental, health and safety, employment 30 Corporate social responsibility 34 A better environment and ethical matters, were reviewed, and the revised policies policy 35 Directory of companies communicated to all business units via a new Group Manual.
Each business unit is required to confirm annually, in writing, The environmental policy is designed to achieve the following its compliance with group policies.
objectives: The Board confirms there is an ongoing process for identifying, To invest in the research and development of new products evaluating and managing any significant risks, including those and applications to enable customers to meet or exceed their arising from social, ethical and environmental matters.
process forms part of the groups system of internal controls, described in the Directors Report on page 21, which are carried To comply with all relevant environmental laws and implement out within each operating business and reviewed regularly by the best practice in all activities.
Business Group Directors and the Audit Committee.
From 2003, the review of material environmental risk processes and To manage resources to minimise raw material usage, dispose procedures has been incorporated into the new internal control correctly of waste, reduce harmful emissions, and promote and risk management function.
Additionally, the executive energy conservation and recycling.
directors report to the Board on any changes in the business and external environment which present significant risk, whilst regular To require procedures for identifying and minimising any reports on legal exposure and insurance matters are received from significant environmental risks inherent in manufacturing, the Company Secretary.
distribution and installation processes to be documented, and to ensure that such procedures become part of the definition and Spectris has been a member of the FTSE4Good UK index validation of new products and processes.
of socially responsible companies since its establishment in July 2001.
To raise environmental awareness amongst employees to enable them to carry out their work with due consideration for The three key areas of corporate social responsibility at Spectris the environment.
comprise environment, health and safety, and employment and ethics.
To work with suppliers and business partners to provide confidence that their environmental impacts are managed to standards acceptable to Spectris.
To report on environmental policy on a regular basis to employees, shareholders, and other interested parties.
This applies to all Spectris employees.
Spectris products do not require capital-intensive manufacturing Waste minimisation processes and hence their manufacture generally has a low Environmental awareness is the responsibility of all employees overall environmental impact.
Nevertheless, Spectris is committed and internal initiatives are in place at many sites to reduce energy Review 2003 to adopting environmentally responsible policies in its internal usage and minimise wastage.
These include recycling of waste operations wherever its companies operate around the world.
paper, cardboard, plastic cups, aluminium cans and mobile previous next phones, reducing energy consumption through the use of timers Environmental management systems and sensors to control hot water, air conditioning and lighting, Operating companies representing over one-third of Spectris reducing water consumption, and re-use of packaging and filling business by turnover are already certified to ISO14001, the materials.
Spectris complies with the UK Producer Responsibility international environmental standard, with other companies Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations which set targets for working towards accreditation.
the recovery and recycling of packaging waste.
Contents 3Financial highlights Risk assessment 4Focusing on niche applications Assessment of risk to the business is carried out on a continuous Health and Safety 6Helping customers to meet global challenges basis to determine any potential effects on the environment The groups Health and Safety policy is designed to ensure that, so 8 Building customer advantages resulting both from product manufacture and operation of our far as is reasonably practicable, every step is taken to provide and 10 Chairmans statement products at the customers site.
The scale and severity of the maintain plant and equipment, all service installations, systems of 12 Chief Executives review possible impact is assessed, together with the probability of its work, a workplace and a working environment which are safe 16 Board of directors 18 Financial review occurrence.
Where a significant risk is identified, procedures for and without risk to health.
There is a similar responsibility insofar 20 Directors report storage, normal operating conditions and emergency situations as the use and transport of articles and substances is concerned.
23 Directors responsibilities are documented and regularly monitored for compliance with the 24 Directors remuneration report relevant regulations.
A nominated individual is responsible for All companies and where appropriate, each location issue and 30 Corporate social responsibility 34 A better environment safety compliance and all employees are informed and trained in bring to the notice of their employees a written statement of their 35 Directory of companies safety procedures, depending upon the extent of their policy with respect to health and safety at work.
Audits of health involvement with the product presenting the risk.
Documented and safety policies and procedures are undertaken on a periodic processes are in place to reduce the likelihood of an occurrence.
basis at all major locations by external assessors acting Material environmental risk processes and procedures are on behalf of the groups insurers.
reviewed by the group internal control and risk manager.
During the year no significant health and safety incidents Examples of potential risk in Spectris operations include, within were recorded.
the PANalytical business which supplies instrumentation for X-ray analysis, the limited use of beryllium in detector windows and X-ray tubes.
Some NDC Infrared Engineering products utilise low-level sealed radioactive sources.
In both cases, the legal Health & Safety requirements for the correct handling and labelling of products and hazardous areas are documented and regularly audited for policy compliance.
Procedures also exist for the disposal of contaminated waste and for recovering used products from The groups Health & Safety policy requires that: customers and disposing of them safely.
All relevant health and safety legislation is complied with.
Servomex supplies gas analysis instrumentation and its testing facility includes the storage of flammable and toxic gases.
All information, instruction, training and supervision necessary Operating procedures for the movement and use of cylinders to ensure the health and safety at work of all employees is containing such gases are in accordance with the appropriate provided.
legal requirements and are inspected annually by an independent authority.
Chemical and hazardous waste is disposed of in The necessary organisation and line of responsibility for health accordance with written procedures.
and safety is established and maintained.
During the year no significant environmental incidents were The necessary safety devices and protective clothing are recorded.
Investigative studies into contaminated land at Almelo available.
in the Netherlands, resulting from activities prior to ownership by PANalytical, have now been completed.
These demonstrate that The co-operation of all employees is encouraged by discussions the contamination does not present a risk to groundwater and and consultation with them and their representatives with a recommend that the contamination be permitted to degrade over view to promoting and developing measures to ensure health time through natural processes.
The company is awaiting and safety at work.
approval from the Dutch authorities for this course of action and the ongoing monitoring regime.
The effectiveness of such measures is checked on a regular basis.
Corporate Social Responsibility statement continued Employment and Ethics Employment Training and development Review 2003 Spectris businesses operate mainly in Europe and the US, but with Spectris recognises the value that its employees create for the a growing presence in the Asia Pacific region.
Inevitably, different business and its commitment to training and personal previous next social and employment conditions exist in different locations, but development, together with remuneration policies which are Spectris places high priority on compliance with legislative and designed to reward achievement, emphasises the importance of ethical requirements within all jurisdictions in which business is retaining staff throughout the group.
Local policies, based on conducted, particularly with respect to employment practices, overall group guidelines, are set by individual managements labour rights and equal opportunities.
The responsibility for according to the needs of their business and local conditions.
implementing the policy is delegated to individual business units, Contents with operational policies tailored to suit local needs.
Employee communication 3Financial highlights The company has a policy of encouraging its operating 4Focusing on niche applications companies to provide information to their employees on a regular 6Helping customers to meet global challenges basis.
This information includes matters relating to their 8 Building customer advantages Employment policy companys performance, its prospects in the markets it serves and 10 Chairmans statement the future outlook of its business.
In addition, the group 12 Chief Executives review Equal opportunities distributes a quarterly electronic newsletter, Perspectives, which 16 Board of directors 18 Financial review It is the groups policy that all operating companies conform keeps employees abreast of group progress and is also available 20 Directors report to all legislation relating to employment rights and equal to shareholders at www.
Financial participation in 23 Directors responsibilities opportunities, with particular reference to non-discrimination the group is encouraged through the Savings Related Share 24 Directors remuneration report and non-harassment on the basis of ethnic origin, religion, Option Scheme in the UK.
30 Corporate social responsibility 34 A better environment gender, age, disability or sexual orientation, and to data 35 Directory of companies protection regulations.
Community involvement Spectris operating companies worldwide support local charities Disabled persons are recruited, trained and promoted on the and participate in a range of community activities.
Charitable basis of aptitude and ability.
If employees become disabled, donations in 2003 totalled 137,000, of which 8,000 were in every effort is made to retain them and, when necessary, the UK 2002: 35,000, 4,000 in UK.
Examples of community re-train them for appropriate posts.
activities are described on our website.
In addition, the group has specific policies relating to child labour which prevent workers under the school-leaving age of the country of employment from being employed in any Spectris operations.
Other policies exist in relation to working time regulations and data protection.
Spectris products do not require complex manufacturing processes and hence the labour impact of production operations is minimal.
Operations based in Asia Pacific, predominantly in China, comprise modern facilities located in business parks and adopt employment conditions consistent with best local practice.
The group monitors compliance with the policy through various processes, including consolidated Equal Employment Opportunities Commission returns which are produced in the US.
The group recognises the value of consultation with employees.
Works Councils are established in certain jurisdictions.
Ethics Review 2003 All employees are expected to strive to live up to the following Spectris behavioural principles: previous next - honesty and integrity - respect for all fellow employees - ownership of responsibility - delivery of commitments Contents Employees are required to adhere to these principles even when 3Financial highlights confronted by personal, professional or social conflicts or financial 4Focusing on niche applications pressures and to observe the following code of ethics: 6Helping customers to meet global challenges 8 Building customer advantages 10 Chairmans statement 12 Chief Executives review Ethics policy 16 Board of directors 18 Financial review 20 Directors report Prohibition on the giving or receiving of any bribes, extra- 23 Directors responsibilities contractual gratuities, inducements, facilitation payments 24 Directors remuneration report or similar, including compliance with the US Foreign Corrupt 30 Corporate social responsibility 34 A better environment Practices Act, the US Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt 35 Directory of companies Organizations Act and the UK Anti-Terrorism, Crime and Security Act.
Prohibition on the giving to customers or business contacts, or the receipt by employees, of any gifts, whether in cash or kind, in excess of 100 150 in value, unless in the course of normal business entertainment and the subject of prior written approval by local management.
Prohibition of donations including sponsorship, subscriptions or provision of employee time or facilities to any political party or similar organisation.
Purchase of legal title or licence to all software in use.
Compliance with all export control regulations.
Spectris operates a confidential whistleblowing policy through which employees may report to the business management team or any Board member any concerns they may have over potentially unethical business practices or conduct, dangers to health and safety, or breach of company policies.
Any such disclosures are appropriately investigated.
