12 Spirent plc Annual Report 2003 Corporate Social Responsibility Statement We recognise that our social, environmental and ethical conduct has Recognising the dynamic environment in which our businesses operate an impact on our reputation as a corporate entity.
We take our corporate we aim to deliver training and development which is relevant to the way social responsibilities CSR seriously and are committed to advancing in which our employees work.
To reect this, parts of our business have our policies and systems across the Group to ensure we address and invested signicantly in e-learning.
monitor all aspects of CSR that are relevant to our business.
These include good ethical behaviour, concern for employee health and safety, Management development and succession planning are processes care for the environment and community involvement.
which are recognised as being critical to the future success of the business and are managed accordingly.
These processes are reinforced We recognise that it is important to maintain a productive and open through performance management and remuneration systems which dialogue with all parties who have an interest in our activities including are designed to support a high performance culture.
our shareholders, customers, suppliers and employees.
We encourage feedback from employees, conduct regular customer satisfaction surveys, Given the criticality of intellectual property and innovation to Spirents monitor supplier performance and have an established investor relations future success it is important that appropriate career paths are developed programme.
We welcome communication from all interested groups and for technical staff that can operate in parallel with more traditional maintain our website as a conduit for providing information and for management career paths.
Initiatives such as our Technical Ladder contacting us.
and Engineering Fellowship Programme help to facilitate this.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for Spirents social responsibilities Each business unit within the Group is committed to providing equality and is committed to developing and implementing appropriate policies of opportunity to all existing and prospective employees without while adhering to a fundamental commitment to create and sustain long unlawful or unfair discrimination.
Full support is given to the employment term value for shareholders.
As a Group driven largely by technological and advancement of disabled persons.
The Groups Ethics Policy makes innovation our main assets are the talents and skills of the people we it clear that employee discrimination or harassment of any kind will not employ.
Consequently, the Board does not believe that, to date, the be tolerated.
activities of the Group present any significant environmental risks.
We have established a CSR Committee to coordinate Group-wide corporate The Group places significant emphasis on customer care and service responsibility efforts which is chaired by the Chief Executive.
and recognises the importance of appropriate employee training that is required to achieve this.
Ethics Spirent expects that all of its business is conducted in compliance with Reecting the overall philosophy of decentralisation, local business high ethical standards of business practice.
We apply these standards to unit management is responsible for developing and implementing all dealings with employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
arrangements for employee information, consultation, communication and involvement which best meet their own particular needs.
Following a review during 2003, the Groups Ethics Policy was revised and a more comprehensive policy has been approved by the Board.
The revised Similarly, the importance of two-way communication is recognised policy is available on the Groups website at www.
Our particularly as it relates to the business and its performance.
A variety Ethics Policy has been developed to ensure that the Companys business of tools are utilised to achieve this including senior management is conducted in adherence with high ethical and legal principles and sets briengs, all-hands meetings, the regular distribution of an in-house standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees and operations magazine, viewpoints, and increasing use of new media, utilising both worldwide.
The Ethics Policy also contains provisions for whistleblowing internal intranets and external website tools such as webcasts.
whereby employees may report, in confidence, suspected wrongdoings.
Health and Safety Appropriate ethical behaviour continues to be reviewed as part of the The Chief Executive is the director appointed by the Board to have Groups internal control process on an ongoing basis.
responsibility for health and safety and environmental performance for the Group.
Employees The Group aims on a global basis to attract, retain and motivate the The Group Health and Safety Policy places responsibility for the highest calibre of employees within the context of a decentralised management of health and safety on the local business unit operating structure that facilitates individuality and initiative.
management, who are supported by the Group internal control team and local external advisers, where necessary.
All business units are The Group is committed to providing employees with a continuing therefore required to appoint a senior individual who is responsible for learning and development opportunity to full their potential and this ensuring the business unit conforms to local health and safety statutory process is managed to align development with the Groups strategic and regulations as well as Group policy.
All business units are required to business units goals and objectives.
Appropriate training and education produce and publish to employees a written health and safety policy.
programmes coupled with links to the education sector at secondary, undergraduate and post-graduate levels reinforce this commitment Spirents Operational Excellence Programme, which is further described to learning and development.
in the Directors Statement on Corporate Governance on pages 18 to 20, continues to further the corporate objective of continuous improvement in the area of health and safety.
13 Spirent plc Annual Report 2003 We compile an internal annual report on our health and safety A large proportion of our manufacturing business units design and performance on the basis of a questionnaire completed by all our manufacture their products to take account of the recycling and disposal business units.
For 2003 we improved our performance over the past of the product at the end of its life cycle.
two years and in particular: In 2003 our business units continued to report improvements in we saw an improvement in ill health long term sickness levels with environmental performance in meeting goals for reducing waste, greater three cases reported compared with four in 2002 and nine in 2001: recycling and reducing energy consumption.
There also exist programmes which aim to reduce the amount of waste to landll by increasing the we saw a reduction in accident frequency and severity: volume of recycling.
we had 456 incidents that required on-site First Aid, a 7 per cent Remediation work at a vacated site, where historic activity was deemed reduction compared with 2002 and 20 per cent down on 2001: to have led to minor land contamination, is continuing in cooperation with the local statutory body.
we had one accident that required hospitalisation compared with none in 2002 and three in 2001.
Group performance and risk exposure reviews are undertaken in parallel with those for health and safety as described above.
Independent external reviews of the Companys health and safety performance are conducted annually.
Regular designated health and Community safety awareness training programmes, particularly at our manufacturing Spirents policy is to be a responsible partner within the local sites, are also carried out.
communities in which we operate by supporting community initiatives and local charities.
We continue to support our local communities The Groups health and safety performance and significant risk exposures through cash donations, gifts in kind and employee skills, talent and time are reviewed regularly by the Operations Management Team, twice a year and actively encourage our employees to participate in programmes by the Audit Committee and annually by the Board.
which support local charitable projects.
In 2003 Spirent made charitable donations of 63,000 2002 90,000.
Environmental Spirent recognises the importance of good environmental practice and We understand that local communities are important to our business the impact that its operations may have on the environment.
The main and through our Charitable Donations Policy we encourage each aim of Spirents Environmental Policy is to comply with environmental business unit to develop programmes which reect the particular needs legislation in all jurisdictions in which we operate and to adopt of their communities.
Our businesses provide support through a number responsible environmental practices.
The full text of our Environmental of activities including fund raising and volunteering.
Policy is available on our website at www.
We support local education through several initiatives including offering Business units are required to comply with Group policy and local work experience, training and internships for students and providing statutory regulations and are encouraged to set their own environmental equipment to local schools.
In the US we have continued to support targets.
An annual environmental questionnaire is completed by each Junior Achievement where our employees volunteer to teach business business unit which demonstrates their environmental performance.
related subjects to local children and we have seen an increase in the number of staff who participate in this programme.
In the UK we All the Network Products groups manufacturing sites worldwide continue to support The Duke of Edinburghs Award scheme, sponsor the have achieved ISO 14001 accreditation.
In addition, various sales and Best Electronic Engineering Student category at the annual Science, distribution locations worldwide are also working towards achieving Engineering & Technology Student of the Year Awards and are actively this accreditation.
Whilst ISO 14001 accreditation is just beginning to involved in the Young Enterprise scheme.
be recognised in the US, we expect that our Communications group will introduce formal environmental management systems and seek ISO Given we are an international group, we aim to provide assistance to 14001 accreditation over the next few years.
In this operating group a local organisations in all the regions in which we operate.
In Singapore we large part of the manufacturing function is outsourced within the US.
installed a communications cabling system at the Singapore Council of Womens Organisations and in California we helped establish a computer In the Communications group the majority of sites have ISO 9001 training lab at a local juvenile detention centre to help youths nd jobs in accreditation, and in the case of the Service Assurance division also computer related elds.
Within our Systems group, PG Drives Technology is also accredited to ISO 9001.
Spirent encourages employees to undertake fund raising for local concerns.
Through activities such as food drives and sponsored events, All Group manufacturing business units closely monitor energy our businesses help organisations which provide food, clothing and other consumption and where possible have installed light sensors and assistance to disadvantaged children and families around the world.
temperature control devices to ensure efficient use of energy.
During 2003 the approach to ensuring efficient energy use has been extended to We continue to encourage all our employees to nd new ways to have sales ofce business units.
a positive impact on the communities in which we live and work.
