Operating review 2003 In our UK Bus division, we are working hard to improve skills and CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY raise standards of customer service through the roll-out of a programme of vocational qualifications in our bus companies.
Stagecoach Group is committed to taking our wider corporate More than 2,100 Stagecoach drivers now have an S NVQ, with a responsibilities seriously and building positive relationships with further 1,000 in the process of achieving this qualification.
This contribution to the wider community has been part of the companys ethos since it was formed more than Both our UK Bus and South West Trains businesses are working two decades ago.
We have a consistent track-record in together to develop the managers of the future through our supporting and working with customers, investors, employees, UK Graduate Recruitment Programme.
The two year suppliers and local communities.
As a public transport operator, management training programme combines practical experience we have a key role to play in delivering essential services to our with off the job training courses.
Within UK Bus, we also have a customers and helping to deliver social inclusion within our staff development programme for internal management training.
Stagecoach is working with government-funded enterprise agencies in the UK to get the long-term unemployed back into Our commitment to responsible business practice means we work through successful projects in Glasgow and Dumfries and continually strive to improve our impact on society and the Galloway in Scotland.
Our Engineering Apprenticeship Programme environment through our mainstream business practices.
This is promotes careers in local schools and we are now looking not just about our operations, products and services.
We seek to forward to our second intake following a successful first year.
combine building our business, through efficiency and competitiveness, with building the people who work for our We also want to help build a healthy workforce that feels proud business and building trust with the broader community.
At South West Trains, for example, the in-house occupational health organisation has held a number of Stagecoachs commitment to being a socially responsible health fairs and our employee well-being initiative offered business has been recognised by a number of external influenza injections to all staff.
We are a constituent of the FTSE4Good index, which aims to set a global standard for sociallyAccess for all responsible investment.
In the UK, we were among the first Stagecoach continues to work hard to meet the needs of all our companies and the only major public transport operator to customers.
We are very aware of the special needs of particular take part in Business in the Communitys first Corporate people that rely on our services and a number of our businesses Responsibility Index.
have received special commendations for their work.
Stagecoach was one of the first operators to start a programme Our people of significant investment in low-floor accessible vehicles and our Respect and value for our people lies at the core of Stagecoach progress towards making all Stagecoach bus services in the Group and its businesses around the globe.
The people who UK low-floor is well on track.
We recognise these vehicles, which deliver our frontline services from drivers to engineers and have dedicated wheelchair ramps and some of which have special support staff are the backbone of our operation and we want kneeling mechanisms, are extremely important to our elderly all our people to share in the success of the business.
customers, people with disabilities or families with young children.
We are an equal opportunities employer and consistently aim to The interiors of our new low-floor buses in the UK were specially work in partnership with trade unions to improve the pay and designed with input from individuals representing various conditions of our people.
The vehicles have helpful features such as special Our commitment to our people starts with the recruitment walkway surfacing, brightly coloured grab handles, clearly defined process and flows through in our approach to their induction to seating areas and space for wheelchairs.
Our new Desiro fleet at the company and on-going training and development.
South West Trains will also offer significant accessibility benefit.
15 Ive been driving for 30 years and make sure that the children get to school safely and return home safely.
Cleveland Brady School bus driver UK Bus Operating review 2003 We also liaise with local authorities and disability support groups Our security programme involves on-bus measures, infrastructure to get the benefit of the latest training advice.
A pilot scheme issues, staff training and support as well as working in the for assisting deaf people using public transport is underway in community.
The CCTV management unit in Manchester, for South Tyneside and is being rolled out throughout our bus example, continues the tactical deployment of resources to deter company in North East England.
At South West Trains, we have vandalism and crime in the city and high-quality video evidence appointed a Disability Services Manager to ensure we follow best has helped secure a number of convictions in the courts.
In practice in the design of station improvements and train London, three of our buses have been converted into mobile refurbishments.
We have also issued all our frontline staff with a police stations for use by the Metropolitan Police in problem booklet that gives thorough guidance on how best to meet the areas.
Extra police and dedicated traffic wardens in London are needs of disabled travellers.
In Hong Kong, the Citybus business also helping address the most crimeand congestion-hit bus last year completed a Braille bus guide.
Across our businesses, we work in close partnership with the Safety police and schools as part of citizenship programmes to tackle Safety and security is our top priority both for our passengers the root problems of anti-social behaviour and encourage and our people.
A proactive culture of safety runs through all our transport safety.
businesses and we firmly believe good safety is part of good commercial practice.
Safety remains a key management priority at our rail businesses.
Health and safety planning and monitoring as well as staff Buses, coaches and trains are the safest forms of transport far training are firmly embedded in the culture of the organisations.
We have a clear and simple policy no service We have reaffirmed our commitment to retain guards on all our runs unless we are 100% convinced it is safe.
We are committed passenger trains which some other operators have withdrawn to ensuring the highest standards of safety for our passengers because we believe railway safety should also extend to the and improving health and safety standards for our employees.
This area is monitored and reported on across all our companies and immediate action is taken to address issues in our business South West Trains has continued to invest in improving the processes.
safety of our rolling stock.
The fitting of the Train Protection Warning System to all our trains is nearly complete, well ahead Safety is part of a well-defined risk management process across of the statutory deadline.
Our South West Trains business also our business.
A main board executive director, Graham Eccles, has more Secure Station awards than any other train operating has executive responsibility for safety issues across the Group company.
Virgin Rail Group, our joint venture, is involved in and safety matters are considered at management meetings of similar initiatives and its Annual Safety Plan is recognised within each of our businesses.
the UK rail industry as an example of best practice.
The Group has established a Health, Safety and Environmental Our New Zealand bus and ferry operations have robust procedures Committee chaired by one of the non-executive directors Janet in place, involving formal employee participation, to ensure the Morgan, and also comprising Graham Eccles.
It has access to health and safety of our staff and customers.
The Accident internal safety executives and external consultants such as Compensation Corporation, which is the countrys statutory Arthur D Little, and reports regularly to the Board on safety provider of accident insurance for employers, has audited our matters.
procedures and safety record and placed our operations in the top In the UK, Stagecoach and the bus industry as a whole is working 1% of New Zealand companies.
Coach USA has a comprehensive with the Government to address issues around bus safety and safety programme in operation in all of its locations and continues security on a regular basis.
Crime on buses is low, but we are very to monitor its effectiveness on a regular basis.
aware that even the fear of crime affects the working environment for our people and can act as a deterrent in terms of people Stagecoach Group has a good safety record, but we are never choosing to travel by bus or any other form of public transport.
complacent and we constantly keep our safety arrangements 16 Everybody likes a clean environment it has a huge impact on customers perceptions of public transport.
Our cleaners take a real pride in their job and none of our buses leave the depot unless Im sure they will give a first-class, clean travelling environment.
Siu Chong Cleaning Inspector Citybus Operating review 2003 under review.
We are working with external consultants to build their personal skills and confidence.
They also get the review our current safety governance arrangements and we are chance to learn how some of the countrys top entrepreneurs committed to putting in place any improvements required.
have developed their business acumen and achieved success.
In New Zealand, we are helping children from all over the Community country who require specialist care through our three-year Stagecoach services play a vital role in connecting communities sponsorship of the Starship Childrens Hospital in Auckland.
around the globe in both urban and rural areas, ensuring social Stagecoachs funding will initially provide extra specialist inclusion through convenient and affordable public transport.
equipment for the hospitals intensive care unit.
However, we see our role as a socially responsible company as far Community arts projects are also flourishing, whether its more than a service provider and major employer.
As well as through free travel to visit galleries or significant sponsorship modernising public transport systems across the country, we share funding for organisations.
In Wellington, we are helping fund the our success with the local communities we serve.
During the year, refurbishment of the Embassy Theatre, a landmark community- 0.7m was donated to a wide range of local, national and owned art deco style theatre.
international charities, helping them to continue their vital work.
Our involvement with good causes goes beyond areas where we Stagecoach was at the heart of a major TV fund-raising drive last have our operations.
One of our buses, for example, is now summer to help some of the UKs lesser-known charities.
The stationed permanently in Romania where it has been fitted out company kick-started the annual GMTV Get Up and Give appeal as a mobile dental unit through our work with the charity with a 25,000 donation and provided an open-top bus to help CX999 Aid.
We have also helped support the provision of the fund-raising effort around the country in aid of charities medical care to people in Africa and supplied badly needed helping children, disabled and disadvantaged people.
We have continued to support a number of childrens and cancer Environment charities throughout the year, as well as matching the fundraising Stagecoach is committed to playing its part in building a efforts of our staff in national UK campaigns such as the BBC sustainable environment and improving the environmental Children in Need Appeal.
Education and young people the future of our world are at Transport has an inevitable impact on our environment and we the heart of much of the support we provide.
In our home base are continuing to work hard to develop policies that will of Perth, Scotland, for example, we have been working with the minimise that impact.
We believe that integrated public transport local authority and police to fund the supply of high-visibility systems will form the central core of future efforts to reduce waistcoats for local primary school children to improve their pollution levels, alleviate road congestion and improve the quality safety.
of life in our towns and cities.
Community support goes well beyond just money, with hundreds of our people, from managers to frontline staff, devoting many Not only do we work hard to ensure that our day-to-day hours of their own time every day to local projects.
Our transport operations interact with the environment in a businesses also provide a huge amount of in-kind support, responsible manner, environmental considerations are also providing vehicles to help community projects with transport.
included in all capital investment decisions taken by our business.
Some of our staff have also given charities the benefit of their In the UK, we have invested millions of pounds 120 million expertise during secondments, such as helping disability agencies over the last three years alone in new state-of-the art bus improve the use of their transport fleet.
fleets with improved energy consumption and reduced emissions.
Stagecoach is helping create the entrepreneurs of tomorrow All new Stagecoach vehicles meet tough Euro III emissions through its long-standing support for the UK educational charity standards and in the UK all our buses have changed to use low businessdynamics.
Youngsters take part in courses designed to sulphur fuel.
17 Operating review 2003 Continuously Regenerating Particulate Traps, which are a proven Despite the huge progress and investment we have made in the method of reducing particulate emissions by up to 90%, have area of environmental sustainability, we realise that this is only a been fitted to 50 of our vehicles in Manchester as part of a start and we have a long way to go.
Stagecoach Group has been partnership with Greater Manchester Passenger Transport working with external consultants to review our environmental Executive.
arrangements and work is continuing to raise awareness of these issues across our management team.
A series of key performance Stagecoach is also working with major banks, local authorities, indicators are being put in place to measure our performance hospitals and education providers to develop green travel plans year on year.
This will cover areas such as reducing emissions, that reduce the dependence on the car to get to work.
Our water and energy consumption, minimising waste and identifying partnership with pharmaceutical giant Pfizer delivers one of the opportunities for recycling.
most comprehensive travel plans in the UK and has helped cut car commuting among its staff at its European research HQ in We are currently updating our Environmental Policy, first issued Sandwich, Kent, by 9%.
In Cambridge, a partnership with the in 2000, and a fuller separate report will be published later in local authorities and Addenbrookes Hospital has seen an on-site 2003. bus station replace 100 car parking spaces, with Stagecoach offering discounted tickets to hospital staff.
South West Trains 1 billion order for new Desiro coaches will mean faster trains providing an incentive for people to cut the number of journeys they make by car.
The high-tech trains will also create less noise pollution than the existing slam door units.
Overseas, Stagecoach businesses are conducting trials of new vehicles designed to cut the impact of operations on the local environment.
In New Zealand, a prototype trolley bus featuring a stylish new body with electrical components and axles recycled from an older vehicle is on trial in Wellington and it is hoped this will be the first of 60 rebuilt trolley buses for the area.
Three ultralow emission hybrid-electric buses have also been purchased for trial operation in Auckland.
We are also planning to bring one of these new low emission dual power electric-diesel buses from New Zealand for extensive demonstration trials in the UK.
Across its global operations, Stagecoach continues to provide support and training to its employees to ensure compliance with legislation, as well as effective waste management, and improved energy consumption and environmental performance.
