Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 corporate social responsibility Introduction In the first Business in the Community At the end of the financial year, the Over the past year Tate & Lyle BitC Corporate Responsibility Index, record for the longest period was held has made progress in its Corporate Tate & Lyle was ranked in the third by the Houlton, Maine plant with Social Responsibility activities: quintile at 68%.
very strong ratings for Environmental Making environmental performance and Social Performances and rated We continue to encourage family a central pillar of good 100% scores for Business Conduct, participation, distributing safety manufacturing practice has yielded Corporate Values, Leadership and promotional items to employee strong results and we met our Policies, together with very high homes, holding safety slogan internal targets for improvement scores for Product Safety and contests, publishing calendars in calendar year 2002.
featuring the artwork of employees children and grandchildren, We continue to refine the This report sets out in detail our organising safety fairs and picnics, collection and reporting of data, policies and achievements in the and offering plant tours for families.
but more than that, we have put fields of Safety, Environment, in place more systems to ensure Employees, Commercial Partners The Board reviews Group safety that operations improve in the & Suppliers, and Communities.
performance annually and the light of that data.
Chief Executive is the accountable Safety Board member.
Our Code of Conduct a summary The Group aims to improve safety Target of the policies that we apply to by focusing on the human aspects: To compare safety performance uphold the Groups values has sharing and implementing best across the Tate & Lyle Group, we been communicated effectively practice: expanding employee safety use a Group Safety Index.
This is an to a wide range of stakeholders.
auditing at all levels: and promoting average derived from all the various active involvement of employees and types of injury, from the least severe Employee communication has their families in all the Groups safety to the most.
This average is weighted broadened, with workshops and initiatives.
so that the most severe injuries an improved global intranet influence the Index more than enhancing two-way dialogue Tate & Lyle believes that no business relatively minor ones: The lower the across the Group.
activity is of such urgency or number, the better our performance.
importance that it may be carried Our target is to reduce the Index to Community activity remains out in an unsafe manner.
Good safety zero for every Tate & Lyle operation.
strong, epitomising the central is good business and the Group is role we play in many locations committed to providing safe and and continuing our history of healthy conditions for its employees Group Safety Index social involvement.
The aim is continually to improve our safety record.
The major disappointment has been the increase in our Group Safety Index To deliver improvement we emphasise in 2002, after two years of excellent the behavioural aspects of good progress.
This is due to a rise in the safety performance using Network severity of some accidents and not Safety Committees of employees to an increase in the overall number reinforce this.
This is a Group-wide of incidents, which continues to network that makes effective use of decrease.
We are redoubling our resources, improves communications efforts to return the Safety Index and shares best practice.
auditing of safety and loss control programmes, including the active In September 2002, FTSE4Good, involvement of Company executives the UK-based corporate social underpins this process.
responsibility index, announced that Tate & Lyle met its entry criteria We also recognise and reward to be added to the UK benchmark outstanding safety performance with index.
FTSE4Goods criteria are awards that mark the passing of based on internationally accepted significant milestones.
Over the codes of conduct that have been course of the year, 19 plants ratified through an extensive global celebrated major safety achievements consultation exercise.
They focus and received recognition for passing on the positive efforts of companies milestones in periods without lost and are designed to be useful in time accidents.
developing socially responsible policies and practices.
com 21 99 10.40 00 5.92 01 3.75 02 4.07 Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 corporate social responsibility Results Tate & Lyle Compared to US Bureau of Environment Labour Safety Statistics 2002 Tate & Lyle operations are each Tate & Lyles operations are Recordable Injury Rate striving to reach their ultimate safety conducted in recognition of the Number of injuries per 200,000 employee goal of working throughout the year Groups responsibilities towards hours requiring more than first aid without any lost time injuries.
Safety the natural environment within which achievements were mixed in calendar we live and work, and comply with year 2002.
Of our reporting locations, relevant laws, regulations and 12 63% either repeated or improved consents.
Tate & Lyle continues to 11 on their 2001 safety performance, subscribe to the principles of the including 19 that reported no lost time 10 International Chamber of Commerces injuries for the entire year.
However, Business Charter for Sustainable 9 although we maintained a pattern of Development.
8 continuously improving recordable and lost time accident rates, serious 7 Each operating unit is required to All US Private Sector 6.3 injuries in three locations resulted in assess its particular environmental 6 a higher severity rate than reported in impacts and develop an improvement 5 2001.
This has the effect of increasing programme based on identified areas the Group Safety Index.
of priority, focus and opportunity.
4 The Board reviews environmental 3 When comparing Group data to performance annually and the 2 the previous years statistics: Chief Executive is the accountable Board member.
1 Recordable Injury Rate decreased 0 by 29%.
Recordable Injury is an Environment management system injury requiring treatment beyond Operating units must work towards first aid.
integrating environmental concerns into their normal operating, training Lost Time Accident Rate and management procedures.
Lost Time Each unit has an environmental Accident is a recordable injury management system.
In some cases, sufficiently severe to result in lost this also involves working towards workdays or restrict the employees external accreditation: for example, ability to perform his her job, most Amylum units have, or are counted from the first day of seeking, ISO 14001 accreditation.
Other parts of the Group operate Lost Time Accident Rate Rate of recordable injuries sufficiently serious to in-house systems.
result in lost workdays or restricted work activities Severity Rate increased by 21%.
Severity Rate is the number of Targets 5 workdays lost due to injuries Following a review of our per 200,000 employee hours.
environmental footprint, three areas have been identified where Tate & Lyle 4 Group Safety Index increased has a significant impact: energy use, by 8%.
water use and non-hazardous solid waste production.
All US Private Sector 3.0 Benchmark 3 Direct comparison between Europe These are parameters over which we and the US is difficult as national have direct control, as opposed to statistics are compiled in different indirect measures such as biodiversity.
However, we can compare the Improvement in these three areas has most recent safety statistics published a positive effect on the environment by the US Bureau of Labour Statistics and offers economic benefit to the 1 with the performance of key Tate & business.
In 2000, the Chief Executive Lyle units converted into comparable set a target of reducing Group energy data.
This shows that, although there consumption per unit of production by 0 are never grounds for complacency, 3% per year every year.
Additional Tate & Lyle units outperform their targets set last year were to reduce peers both in their respective sectors the water use and solid waste and the whole US private sector.
production indices year on year.
com All US Sugar Industry Redpath Tate & Lyle Tate & Lyle Sugars Alcntara Tate & Lyle All US Grain Milling Staley Tate & Lyle Amylum Tate & Lyle All US Sugar Industry Redpath Tate & Lyle Tate & Lyle Sugars Alcntara Tate & Lyle All US Grain Milling Staley Tate & Lyle Amylum Tate & Lyle 4.3 9.9 0.6 2.6 1.9 2.0 1.0 1.6 4.1 8.0 0.7 2.0 0.9 2.0 Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 Results Water Use Index We are committed to promoting equal Data is collected Group-wide opportunities within the Group and our on a quarterly basis, using a recruitment, training and promotion comprehensive system to gather the procedures reflect this and are based raw data that has been validated by on performance and the requirements our Corporate Audit department.
Absolute data is highly competitive information and open to These policies are reviewed by the misinterpretation, so published data Board and amended periodically is normalised to reflect the amount in light of changes in legislation.
of product that is manufactured.
The Chief Executive is the Board This normalised index is then member accountable for employee aggregated to give a single set of issues.
indices for the Group and is also Non-Hazardous Solid Waste Index adjusted to take account of Training acquisitions and disposals.
Tate & Lyle believes that focused This process offers the opportunity training is in the interests of both for one plant to be compared with employee and Company and an another, even when the product and important element of realising full size varies substantially.
We can also employee potential.
Employees make valid comparisons of successive are strongly encouraged to take years, even when output changes.
responsibility for their own development, Following analysis, results show with training provided to meet the that the targets were met.
needs of their current or next job and to improve personal performance.
Energy Index Reductions in the Water Use Index of In addition to job-specific, local 6% and in the Non-Hazardous Solid induction and safety training, Waste Index of 12.5% show the employees are able to raise their success of focusing our efforts where personal efficiency through modules positive results to the environment to improve time management, can be delivered.
Calendar year 2003 conduct in meetings and IT use.
targets are for the Energy Index to be To foster better communications, cut by a further 3% and for the Water training in languages, report Use and Non-Hazardous Solid Waste writing, presentation making and Indices to show further year-on-year interpersonal skills are all supported.
Across the Group, Line managers are encouraged to improvement programmes have been take more responsibility for personnel In the calendar year 2002, the Energy developed to help meet these targets management.
Leadership programmes Index was successfully cut by 4.5% as well as meet changing local offer a strong emphasis on how to compared to 2001, beating by 50% regulatory needs.
improve results through teambuilding, the 3% annual reduction target set performance appraisal exercises and by the Chief Executive.
The period Benchmarking environmental interview skills.
also saw a reduction of 4.5% in the performance absolute amount of energy used by Tate & Lyle participated in the In addition to these unit or local the Tate & Lyle Group.
Across the seventh Business in the Environment training initiatives, programmes on Group, every pound or kilo of Index of Corporate Environmental strategic decision-making, corporate Tate & Lyle ingredient manufactured Engagement.
In the Food Producers induction and advanced management today uses 16% less energy than & Processors sector, Tate & Lyle came skills are provided at Group level.
fourth out of a group of eight, with an average score of 78% increased from Employee communication 72% last year.
The Tate & Lyle score Considerable work has been for Environmental Management and undertaken to enhance two-way Performance exceeded both the communications within Tate & Lyle.
sector average and the average for This takes many forms, from the all participating companies.
implementation of an improved global intranet, TaLnet, to the holding of an Employees employee opinion survey covering The Company is committed to offering most UK and Portuguese employees.
equal opportunities for all, irrespective of Facilities to make unattributed gender, sexual orientation, age, marital comments to management are also status, disability, race, religion or other provided on many sites and through beliefs, and ethnic or national origin.
com 23 96 1.00 97 0.96 98 0.92 99 0.92 00 0.93 01 0.88 02 0.84 98 1.00 98 1.00 99 99 1.01 1.00 00 1.01 00 0.95 01 1.12 01 0.89 02 0.98 02 0.84 Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 corporate social responsibility A major Group-wide employee Ethical conduct The EU imports 1.7 million tonnes workshop-based programme All employees are expected to be of cane sugar annually from Least was implemented under the aware of and follow the Groups Developed and Developing Countries name Ingredients of Success.
policies on ethics and corporate and some two-thirds of this total The programme was designed to social responsibility.
The Tate & Lyle which amounts to just under 10% improve employees understanding Code of Conduct was published of total EU sugar consumption is of the Groups strategy for growth, to last year as a summary of the processed by Tate & Lyle.
focus efforts toward common goals, basic policies by which we work facilitate change and aid integration.
to uphold our corporate values.
The issue of supply chain ethics is Between August and December 2002 This Code is applicable within the important and the Group is committed we held 126 facilitated workshops, Group and has sections covering to spreading best practice and to in 12 languages, 18 countries and at business ethics, health & safety, improving standards amongst 37 locations.
In all, 2,500 employees environment, quality, legal compliance suppliers.
The Code of Conduct attended and nearly 450 ideas for and equal opportunities.
It has been has helped in this respect.
Our improving the way we work were extensively distributed and explained Americas and European purchasing logged on TaLnet by participants.
to employees via employee magazines organisations attach the Code to These actions have been discussed and leaflets in a number of languages.
Purchase Orders and have put with line managers and many have suppliers on notice to notify us been implemented.
Detailed analysis In addition, an extensive guide to immediately of any issues they may of the data logged on TaLnet is ensure employee compliance with have with it.
In the latest annual helping develop other employee Competition Anti-trust Law has been contracting round with suppliers, the communications.
This, the Code of Conduct has been attached Code of Conduct and all the Groups to agreements.
A new global employee magazine, other key policies are also available Tate & Lyle today, has been launched.
Tate & Lyle representatives have This will replace regional publications also held meetings with a number and for the first time will offer Commercial Partners and Suppliers of non-governmental organisations, employees news about Tate & Lyle The Tate & Lyle Code of Conduct is establishing dialogue on a variety of in ten languages.
applicable to our wider commercial social and developmental issues.
partners as well as employees and Employee representatives meet is also posted on our website.
Compliance annually with Group Management Tate & Lyle believes that the greater The Board reviews Corporate Social at the Tate & Lyle European Forum.
the level of management control a Responsibility annually.
The Chief Financial results are presented and company has over a set of operations, Executive is the Board member the business outlook discussed, the greater its responsibility to ensure accountable for ethical conduct.
which provides a platform for compliance with the Code, which Details of the Groups system of questions.
A summary of the meeting applies unconditionally to all operating internal control, including its risk is then distributed to European units and subsidiary companies that management and compliance employees.
Similar presentations and are wholly owned by Tate & Lyle PLC.
procedures, are given in the statement consultation take place in European The Group will also seek to apply on internal control on pages 31 and and national works councils on a these policies in those operations in 32.
As part of those procedures, regular cycle of meetings.
which the Group has a stake of 50% each Tate & Lyle business is asked or more.
Where Tate & Lyle has a to confirm twice a year that the Employee data minority stake, the policies are made Groups Code of Conduct is being Implementation of a single Global known to our partners who are communicated to suppliers and Human Resources data system is encouraged by the Group to adopt to report on any contravention.
well under way with some exciting them and implement them rigorously.
Persistent contravention can developments, providing HR-tools lead to termination of that supplier to line managers and employee Suppliers relationship.
All personnel and payroll Tate & Lyle has a long tradition of functions for US and UK-based working with the growers that deliver Communities employees are now maintained and our quality raw materials.
Each day, Tate & Lyle maintains strong and processed through the new system.
the Group processes corn grown diverse community involvement and A number of associated services, on approximately 4,500 acres we work with community partners which allow employees to take 1,800 hectares of farmland, and we with whom we enjoy shared responsibility for their personal use about 2-3% of the total European objectives.
This is not merely altruism: information and access their pay data, Union EU wheat production.
it yields benefits to the Company.
are now being offered through TaLnet.
First, it is in our interests to operate in This is a major milestone in the goal Tate & Lyle also acts as a bridge strong, safe and healthy communities, of implementing one HR system for all into the European market for cane helping improve the quality of life for employees, enabling us to collect and sugar, predominantly from African, employees as well as our neighbours.
analyse cross-Group data more easily.
com Tate & Lyle annual report 2003 Second, levels of commitment and Rating for Tate & Lyle Community USA Involvement Programme motivation are increased if employees Two public high schools and POOR EXCELLENT hold Tate & Lyle in high esteem.
four public middle schools in Decatur, Illinois, have been given Finally, there is increasing evidence support to purchase specialist Efficiency of response 3.8 that new recruits are seeking jobs scientific equipment, improving in businesses that have a strong the scope of laboratory Willingness to support 3.8 focus on community involvement.
experiments and enhancing Overall contribution 3.8 Community involvement policy is the learning environment.
reviewed annually by the Board and overseen by a Corporate Committee 0 4 Two academically talented appointed by the Chief Executive.
students from minority The programmes are managed locally.
backgrounds are supported each Some 44% of respondents reported year via a four-week residential Targets and results that Tate & Lyle assistance, whether educational programme with In the financial year to 31 March 2003, through funding, consultancy or pro Illinois State University, aiming total worldwide charitable donations bono support, enabled their to encourage them to pursue a made by Tate & Lyle totalled organisation to raise additional college degree.
Of that, 392,000 was funding from other third party sources.
In addition, our Tate & Lyle is sole sponsor of global pro bono contribution in goods Community activities the Staley Striders, a youth track and services made during the year is It is difficult to summarise Group and field team organised by the estimated to have been 87,000. activity because the range is Decatur Park District.
This team The target for these allocations huge.
All over the world there are travels throughout the USA to remains 50% for Education, 25% communities that have benefited compete, and several team for Environment, 15% for Health from our support in the past year.
members qualify each year for and 10% for Arts.
We are members Here are some examples involving a national competition.
of the Business in the Community young people which show the extent PerCent Club.
and diversity of our activity: Bulgaria Support for the Karin Dom An area where Tate & Lyle contributes UK Foundation helps maintain an to the community which is not easy 550 students visited the Thames inspirational centre for children to measure is through advocacy.
Refinery in Newham, East London, with special needs set up by For example, in Decatur Illinois, for half-day lessons: a further Ivan Stancioff, former Bulgarian our employees sit on committees for 3,100 children aged between nine Ambassador to the United the local university.
In East London, and 11 participated in a half-day Kingdom and the Republic organisations such as the East London safety awareness programme of Ireland.
Business Alliance and Newham involving a wide range of agencies Education Business Partnership such as the police, fire brigade, In Razgrad, over 60 aspiring are able to draw on commitment transport organisations and tennis players benefit from the from Tate & Lyle employees.
childrens tennis school we This commitment goes beyond offering support.
advice it involves advocating the 600 students benefited from organisations objectives at all levels, employees visiting their schools.
Italy in government or the community.
Some employees led a full-day In Saluzzo, support for a local programme to help students youth organisation helps ensure Measures understand how to get jobs, some young people have a safe A separate annual report was carried out mock interviews, and environment to participate in prepared for UK community bilingual employees conducted a sports and cultural activities.
This is posted on language skills seminar doubling the website but was also distributed registrations for language courses Belgium in printed form to 250 organisations at the school.
Co-sponsorship of an annual and individuals.
For the first time, athletic event in Aalst maintains every UK organisation benefiting from Dozens of students from three the local impetus for health Tate & Lyle donations was also asked schools participated in the Ideas and fitness.
to fill out a questionnaire to assess Factory project, run jointly with the effectiveness of our programme.
Tate Britain, which uses original Slovakia works of art to improve language In Peistany, we support a Family With a 30% response rate, the development and literacy skills.
Home that helps parents of questionnaire asked recipients to rate children with drug dependencies our community teams performance.
A UK Community Report is published cope, offering support, information We scored very highly.
separately and posted on the website.
