CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Health, Safety and Environment Committee activities The Health, Safety and Environment Committee plays a key role in our HSE activities.
The Committee comprises two non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive, and has met four times during the year.
Meetings always take place at one of the Groups facilities and form part of a two-day programme during which the Committee will usually visit two or three sites.
Amongst the Committees responsibilities is the determination on behalf of the Board of the framework or broad policy and objectives in the areas of HSE and to propose any amendments to THROUGHOUT THE GROUP WE HAVE ACTIVELY existing policies and objectives for approval GUIDED OUR OPERATING BUSINESSES TO STRIVE by the Board.
The Committee has formal TO ACHIEVE THE HIGHEST INTERNATIONALLY terms of reference which can be found RECOGNISED STANDARDS.
on the Companys website www.
Each quarter, the Committee receives an update of the HSE reports across the Group which In recognising our corporate social matters is driven by a belief and experience highlight current areas of HSE focus and responsibilities, Tomkins approach that our commercial success and HSE improvement and any event or breach is one of continuous improvement, performance are compatible objectives.
Any serious particularly in the areas of health, safety was because of the importance placed on breach is communicated immediately to and the environment HSE.
Notable HSE matters that the Health, Safety and the Chief Executive and the Committee.
amongst our activities during the year Environment Committee was formed by This ensures the Committee is able to has been the work of the Health, Safety the Board at the beginning of the year.
monitor fully, and assess the compliance and Environment Committee of the Board Policy, Objectives and Compliance record of, each business unit and ensure and a supporting team of specialist The intention of our HSE policy is to corrective action is taken.
Of the professionals throughout the Group.
They provide a safe and healthy workplace environmental deficiencies found by have been active in guiding operating for our employees and to protect the regulators or discovered during audits in businesses to strive to achieve the highest environment.
We are committed to the 2003, the substantial majority related to internationally recognised standards highest health, safety and environmental reporting deficiencies rather than unlawful including Occupational Health and Safety standards consistent with regulatory emissions.
On health and safety, the Assessment Series 18001 and ISO 14001 requirements and best management substantial majority of the Occupational in environmental management.
Our businesses are required to Safety and Health Administration OSHA Another important milestone achieved operate their facilities consistent with citations and informal inquiries were by Tomkins during the year was the this commitment.
We recognise that all resolved very quickly: in one case, a minor Companys admittance to the FTSE4Good employees have a part to play in that injury resulted in an OSHA citation.
UK Index, which is designed to measure commitment and they are encouraged To enable it to gain an understanding the performance of companies that meet and expected to do so.
at first hand of HSE activities of business globally recognised corporate responsibility Our policies and objectives are units and the issues facing them, site visits standards.
For inclusion, eligible companies translated by management into specic are undertaken by the Committee.
This must meet criteria requirements in three action plans for each operational site.
All process enables the Committee to maintain areas, namely working towards business groups are encouraged to set a strong and continuing overview of the environmental sustainability, developing realistic HSE targets and objectives within way the Groups HSE policies and objectives positive relationships with stakeholders their annual business plans in order to are being implemented.
The Committee and upholding and supporting universal pursue a strategy based on continuous reports regularly to the Board on its human rights.
The HSE activities, which assists the Board in making Our Code of Conduct and Ethics and activities of individual businesses in the informed decisions about the business Human Rights Policy form the basis on Group are monitored by a team of of the Group, particularly relating to any which uniform standards are applied specialist professionals who carry out proposed new investment in manufacturing across the Group in all countries where regular performance audits.
The audit facilities and the HSE implications thereof.
reports arising are provided to Health, safety and environment management who are responsible for Other HSE activities The priority and importance placed by the correcting any deficiencies that come Work has continued during the year to Board and management of Tomkins on HSE to light as a result of the audit.
integrate our HSE activities, which has been 20 TOMKINS PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 met with enthusiasm.
This has provided were not based on the ISO 14001 Outline At Dexter Axle, improvements have the opportunity, amongst other things, but achieve similar results and are not been achieved in basic manufacturing for a greater consistency in reports to intended for ISO certication : 11 facilities operations at two plants in Missouri and the Committee.
are expected to achieve ISO 14001 Georgia, for example, by replacing Regular conferences are held by HSE Compliant Status in 2004 these facilities brush painting with paint spraying, professionals from around the Group have implemented an ISO 14001 which has had a positive environmental which have provided a forum in which Environmental Management System but impact as well as a positive financial experiences can be shared and issues have not undergone a formal registration impact.
At the Missouri plant, a new discussed.
There is now tangible evidence audit.
The remaining facilities have lighting system has been installed which of benets emerging from such meetings committed to implementing environmental will use less energy and cost less to and the experience of Hart and Cooley management systems which are in various maintain, as well as improving the described below is just one such example.
The percentage of working conditions for employees.
It also provides opportunities for training facilities which have an environmental At Trico Products Texas facility, a project and bringing practitioners up to date with management system in place has doubled to minimise the amount of scrap plastic changes in HSE rules, regulations and laws.
to 42% during the year and further material was instigated.
The process It also encourages operating businesses to progress is expected during 2004. consisted of blending recycled plastic seek internationally accepted standards.
There were a number of notable regrind with the base virgin material This has accelerated the development, environmental achievements during the and the recycle programme resulted in setting and monitoring of HSE key year and by way of example, five are a 25% reduction in base material being performance indicators KPIs as summarised below: purchased for certain plastic parts.
At Standard-Thomson Corporation, the Financially, the project yielded a cost All of our business groups have established largest manufacturer of thermostats for improvement and environmentally the a range of KPIs within their current vehicles in the US, a team was formed facility was able to minimise the amount business plans to monitor and assess HSE with representatives from environmental of plastic material being wasted.
performance on an ongoing basis.
The facilities and manufacturing operations Committee monitors the results of the Stackpoles UK business, FormFlo, with the purpose of improving the KPIs on a regular basis to ensure that HSE won the Accelerate Supplier of the quality, material handling facilities, focus and continuous improvement in Year Award for 2003 for Sustainable safety and environmental requirements performance is being delivered by all Improvement.
Two of the criteria associated with the cleaning of business groups.
Business risk assurance used to judge the award were the thermostat components.
With the audits are conducted by our own reduction in scrap from 3.4% in 2001 implementation of lean manufacturing professionals together with the site to 1.2% in 2003 and the halving of initiatives, the opportunity arose to management teams to ensure that manufacturing lead times.
review the existing clean line process.
processes and controls are in place to The result was the installation of a new There are a number of continuous maintain compliance with Group policy state-of-the-art cleaning system which improvement projects which operating and the applicable local and national improved quality by the elimination businesses have been running which HSE legislation.
Examples of the KPIs of damage to parts: reduced chemical yield year-on-year gains in environmental used include: consumption by 75% and water and financial performance.
For example, incident accident and severity rates: consumption by 20,000 gallons per at Trico Products Texas facility, a source working day: eliminated steam from the reduction-waste minimisation plan raw material wastage and energy cleaning process resulting in a substantial has been in place since 1999.
This plan consumed per applicable production reduction in the use of the plants boilers: requires the reduction of hazardous unit: and, and, nally, reduced waste water waste streams by 25% from 1999 to compliance with Tomkins health, discharges and nitrous oxide and sulphur 2005.
The 25% reduction target has been safety and environment policy and dioxide emissions signicantly.
The achieved after just four years.
financial impact is that, in less than 18 training in waste water treatment months, the cost of the new process will techniques and optimising process Environmental Management Systems be met by the savings achieved.
monitoring has resulted in a significant There has been a major increase in the reduction in hazardous and nonnumber of the Groups manufacturing and At the Air System Components plant in hazardous waste streams and increasing distribution facilities worldwide achieving Lebanon, Indiana, a new closed loop annual cost savings.
Other projects at ISO 14001 certication or equivalent.
Out parts washer cleaning system has been the same plant include reductions in of 149 facilities, some 42 facilities were ISO installed which treats and lowers metal the amount of oil and grease and 14001 certied at the end of 2003 2002: concentrations in waste water prior to total zinc concentration being legally 18 and during 2004 a further 8 facilities discharge to the sewer in compliance discharged into the municipal treatment plan to achieve certication.
A further 20 with local and federal regulations.
This works from the Rubber Extrusion Process facilities have alternate environmental saves money on transportation and and the reduction of emissions into management systems in place these external treatment costs, and the savings the environment from the dip-coating facilities have implemented fully functional will have paid for the equipment in process in the Plating Department.
Environmental Management Systems that about three months.
TOMKINS PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 21 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT continued Health and Safety There are numerous examples throughout operating businesses are required Our businesses are encouraged to seek the Group where changes to processes to consider and report on social, the health and safety industry standard, can yield environmental, health and safety environmental and ethical matters Occupational Health and Safety Assessment and financial benets in one operation.
where there is any potential impact.
As an example, work done at Hart and 2.
Reports from the HSE Committee This standard has been created to allow Cooley illustrates the sort of activity The Chairman of the HSE Committee companies to develop systematic controls leading to gains in all three areas.
As makes regular reports to the Board on relating to their health and safety risks a direct result of the annual Tomkins the activities of the Committee and, in and to seek external accreditation of the Safety and Environmental Conference, management system.
particular, draws to the attention of an energy audit of the Holland, Michigan Trends on accidents within Tomkins the Board any major issues.
manufacturing facility of Hart and Cooley manufacturing plants and distribution disclosed that approximately one-sixth of 3. Business Risk Assurance facilities are measured using OSHA all electricity used was attributed to plant The Business Risk Assurance group standards, since the majority of the lighting at a substantial annual cost.
The has included in its overall business risk Groups operations are based in North audit also disclosed that 50% of both the assurance process specic requirements to America.
The number of reportable cost and usage could be reduced through examine and assess social, environmental accidents, the incident rate and the the installation of energy efficient units and ethical matters in its list of resulting lost days, and the severity rate with longer bulb life, lower wattage and responsibilities.
The results of the work are all tracked.
In 2003, the incident rate better performance.
These units can also was 4.82 2002: 6.06 and the severity of the Business Risk Assurance group are be disposed of as general refuse compared rate 26.80 2002: 35.09.
This declining reported quarterly to the Audit Committee to the metal halide xtures which have trend has continued from 2001 and is a which, in turn, reports to the Board.
mercury content and require a licensed key performance measure for each facility.
Our approach to managing risks to waste hauler for disposal.
Phase 2 of the There were a number of notable health short and long-term value arising from energy reduction programme is planned and safety achievements during the year, social, environmental and ethical matters which is expected to realise additional four of which are summarised below: is to include it as an integral part of the savings through the replacement of all Gates plants at Charleston, Missouri, general business risk assessment and ofce uorescent lighting.
Galesburg, Illinois and Red Bay, management processes.
Through these Alabama have been recognised for processes the Board is able to assess the Acquisitions top performance by the US Rubber significant risks to the Companys short We place a great deal of importance Manufacturers Association through and long-term value.
Such processes on HSE matters in our acquisition RMAs Safety Health Improvement are subject to continual review and process.
Where appropriate, external Program, by meeting RMA improvement improvement where appropriate.
environmental advisers are employed to criteria of a 10% reduction in incidence The Tomkins Annual Bonus Incentive review and assess any environmental risks rate over the prior year.
Other Gates Plan for management is focused on a to which we could become exposed if we plants at Ashe County, North Carolina, sharing of a proportion of Group profits proceeded with an acquisition.
In addition, Iola, Kansas and Siloam Springs, Arizona after deduction of the cost of capital.
An a review is made of an acquisition were also recognised for meeting RMA intrinsic feature of our ability to generate candidates environmental management excellence criteria.
sustained profitability is the need to systems, relationships with regulatory maintain high standards of HSE controls Lasco Fittings won the Plastic Pipe ofcials and general level of respect and in our operating businesses worldwide.
Fitting Associations Processor Safety care shown for the environment.
In the There is much evidence, some of which Recognition Award for both 2001 and due diligence process, health and safety is is set out in this report, that actions to 2002 and this achievement is reected also a key area for which a full review is improve standards of HSE are frequently in their accident incident rate where undertaken including, among other things, nancially beneficial to the Group.
they have now gone 1.3 million hours the level of compliance with all applicable without a lost time injury.
Furthermore, high standards of HSE are laws and regulations.
Where necessary, often paralleled by high standards of an indemnity is sought from the vendor At Dexter Axles Albion facility, robot product quality control and customer to cover any potential liabilities, but it systems have been introduced to reduce service.
For these reasons, the Board is possible that a potential acquisition and in many cases eliminate, material does not believe it is necessary to would be rejected if the HSE risks were handling by employees and, as a result, identify separately the performance considered to be too high.
We may require greatly reducing the potential risk of on HSE matters as a specic criterion a vendor to undertake health, safety or strain and repetitive stress injury.
environmental improvements before we The distribution centre at Lithonia, will conclude a transaction.
Code of Conduct and Ethics Georgia, one of Gates largest in the US, Our Code of Conduct and Ethics sets has worked an entire year without an Socially responsible investment out a series of policies and principles accident.
They have created safety The Board considers social, environmental of conduct to be followed by all our training programmes for all employees, and ethical matters in three respects: companies and applies to all directors, as well as an in-depth and specic 1.
Capital expenditure proposals ofcers and employees who are expected programme for the operation of fork lift trucks, narrow-aisle reach lifts and When submitting capital expenditure to conduct Company business with cherry pickers.
proposals for approval by the Board, integrity and in compliance with the 22 TOMKINS PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 laws of the countries in which we including a description of what action has charity.
Examples of the many organisations operate.
The Code covers a number of been taken to address those matters and to which help was provided during the year important areas including competing the timetable to completion.
The adoption include American Heart Association, fairly and complying with anti-trust and of international or comparable internal American Cancer Society and the Museum competition laws, employee health and standards, tailored to the unique operation of Nature and Science.
At the plant level, safety laws and environmental laws.
It by a growing number of operating donations were also made to March also reafrms our commitment to fair businesses, increases the Committees of Dimes an organisation that helps treatment of all employees, ethical and confidence in the veracity of the reporting prevent birth defects and infant mortality lawful behaviour and sets out some systems and procedures.
and support was given to Drug Awareness general principles, which are important Resistance Education DARE programmes Charitable giving and community affairs in dealing with suppliers and customers, which aim to keep children off drugs.
We have well-established guidelines that and with governments and government Total charitable donations during the determine the nature of organisations to agencies.
The Code emphasises the year are shown in the Directors report importance of employees protecting which we will give support.
We recognise on page 25. our intellectual property.
Any waivers that we have an obligation to our No donations were made to any to the Code require the approval of shareholders and the wider community in organisation in which any of the the Board and will be published on the which our businesses operate to provide independent non-executive Directors Companys website.
During the year balanced and targeted charitable serves in an executive capacity.
no waivers have been either sought assistance.
The charities given assistance or granted.
The full Code can be viewed cover a wide range of activities including Political donations on our website www.
co. uk or health and welfare, education, civic and It is our practice not to use shareholders a printed copy is available by application community projects, culture and the arts.
funds for the purpose of making to the Company Secretary at the We prefer to spread our charitable giving political donations either in the form Companys registered ofce.
over many smaller local charities that of cash donations or other in-kind usually do not have the organisation, benets and consequently we have Human rights structure or resources to compete with the not sought shareholder approval to Our Human Rights Policy has established marketing skills of the larger high-prole make such donations.
a number of principles that are applied charitable bodies.
Each year donations are across the Group.
These principles cover made to hundreds of charities.
We make anti-discrimination, employee rights further donations through advertising, in the areas of health and safety, wages sponsorship, products for prizes and and working hours, prohibition of volunteers or other in-kind support.
child labour and social responsibility In the UK, applications are normally covering environmental impact and made to Tomkins corporate ofce in community relations.
Requests for donations are made employees to maintain the highest from a variety of charities and we try to standards in conformity with the respond positively to as many requests as principles.
A copy of the full text of possible, provided they come from small the Human Rights Policy can be found local charities and are registered with the on our website www.
In the US most requests for support Verication are made locally and donations can be In the case of the Code of Conduct and made in a number of ways.
The Tomkins Ethics and Human Rights Policy, senior Foundation makes matching gifts, management throughout the Group are foundation gifts and contributions required to confirm annually that they to United Way, an external charitable and their businesses have complied with organisation that distributes funds to the principles set out in both the Code charities.
Tomkins US subsidiary companies and Policy and to report any breaches.
also make donations to United Way.
In For 2003, no breaches were reported by addition to their charitable giving activities, any of the operating businesses.
A process our businesses also run a whole range of of verication will be introduced in 2004 initiatives for the benefit of local under which adherence to the Code of communities.
These include allowing our Conduct and Ethics and the Human Rights employees time off to participate in Policy will form part of the business risk community activities and other charitable assurance process.
With the co-operation of certain In the case of HSE, the Health, Safety and Environment Committee of the Board of our US companies, some local charities receives detailed quarterly reports from a will designate a casual day for a cause, team of experienced professionals on the whereby our companies allow their current status of all matters reported to employees to dress casually for a good the Committee which require attention, cause, to enable funds to be raised for TOMKINS PLC REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 23
