TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Corporate social responsibility report For the year ended 31 December 2003 The board has considered the Guidelines on Social Responsibility published by the Association of British Insurers in October 2002 and is working towards full compliance with these guidelines.
The board takes account of the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters in its conduct of the companys business.
The group has in place a comprehensive system of internal control as described more fully on page 35.
This results in the submission to the board of regular detailed reports on specific areas of risk.
Using information thus provided, the board has identified and assessed significant risks and opportunities arising from social, environmental and ethical matters and areas of particular importance are identified below.
During 2003 the induction and training of directors was reviewed and social, environmental and ethical matters were considered.
ENVIRONMENT The group recognises its corporate responsibility to carry out its operations whilst minimising environmental impacts.
We have maintained accreditation of our Environmental Management System to the ISO 14001 standard during 2003.
A revised environmental policy was published in November 2003 to include a commitment to achieve and maintain chain of custody in relation to certified timber.
Our policy is to: Comply with applicable environmental legislation: Prevent pollution and minimise the extent of environmental damage: Continuously improve our environmental performance.
The complete policy and details of the companys progress against its commitments may be found in a full report on our website at www.
Environmental improvement plan We have continued with the implementation of our Environmental Improvement Plan during 2003 and report below progress on the main issues.
Where our targets and performance data are based on a measure of output per of relevant sales, the sales figure is adjusted for price inflation in order to present data adjusted only for the overall volume of business transacted.
The data includes all operations except for Jayhard and B&G these will be included as from the beginning of 2004.
City Plumbing and CCF data is included as from the beginning of 2003.
It should be noted that the data is prepared from a combination of specific measurements and some estimates we are continually refining the accuracy of the data, but believe the information presented below constitutes a fair representation of our environmental performance improvement.
20 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Carbon dioxide CO emissions CO2 emissions T m 2 Tonnes per million of Sales - inflation adjusted 60 Our CO emission data includes emissions arising from fuel use in 2 49 T m 50 6 % commercial vehicles and forklift trucks, consumption of fuel oil for heating, 10 % 20 % 40 and gas and electricity consumption.
The figures currently exclude that 30 generated from car drivers business miles, though we intend to include this 20 data in 2004.
In the past two years we have transferred the electricity 10 supply for our largest consumption sites including our head office 0 buildings and a majority of our branches to carbon neutral sources.
On this 2001 2002 2003 2004 Target basis we estimate that over 80 per cent of our total electricity demand is satisfied from these carbon free sources - this has been the main reason for our reduction in CO emissions shown in the 2 adjacent chart.
Our three-year target, to achieve a reduction of 10 per cent in CO emissions by the end of 2004, has already 2 been met.
T Volatile organic compound VOC emissions VOC emissions Tonnes 300 277 T We have achieved a major reduction in emissions of VOCs through a 250 programme of replacement of organic solvent-based treatment fluids with 200 aqueous based solutions We have reduced this in absolute terms to 150 57 % approximately 54 tonnes in 2003, a reduction of over 80 per cent when 100 67 % compared with the figure in 2001.
Only three of eighteen plants now remain 81 % 50 with organic solvent-based treatment.
We have already met our 2004 target 0 for a 67 per cent reduction.
2001 2002 2003 2004 Target Timber certification Timber and timber product certification Content of certified material as a % of total purchases 80% 75% As shown in the adjacent chart, approximately 45 per cent of the raw material content of our purchases of timber and timber based products were 60% 56% from certified sources at the end of 2002.
We made particularly good 45% 41% 40% progress in 2003 and this figure had decreased to 56 per cent at the end the year.
Of the 56 per cent, approximately 23 per cent is from FSC sources and 20% 29 per cent from PEFC sources.
The balance of 4 per cent represents small 0% volumes of materials certified to a variety of other national standards in use 2001 2002 2003 2006 Target in America, Canada and Malaysia.
We have completed a further review programme with all major suppliers and have a wide range of commitments from them to improve the percentage of timber supplied to us that is from certified sources.
We continue to challenge all suppliers who are not currently providing certified material to work towards certification and as a minimum we ask all suppliers to certify that timber supplied has been handled in accordance with all relevant legislation.
During 2003 we devised an audit process in order to further strengthen our commitment to ensure that all non-certified timber is from legal sources.
The audits are completed by independent forestry 21 Travis Perkins Plumbing and Heating chosen for Walsall Darlaston project.
Plumbing & Heating When Superior Plumbing Installations Ltd needed central heating equipment for 400 houses on the Walsall Housing Group Darlaston project, they chose Travis Perkins Plumbing and Heating for their quality components and efficient service.
22 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC The Walsall Darlaston project continues into the financial year 2004-5, with another 480 houses due to be fitted with central heating.
Once again, Travis Perkins Plumbing and Heating will be supplying the components via their Cradley Heath branch.
23 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC specialists.
By the end of 2003 audits had been completed on sources in Indonesia, Malaysia, Brazil and Latvia as a result we ceased trading with our Indonesian suppliers.
All of our sources in areas known to be of higher risk will be audited by the end of 2004.
As part of this process we will be seeking independent verification of legality for all sources that are not currently certified.
Given our positive progress on increasing volumes of certified materials, we have increased the end of 2006 target for the proportion of the raw material content of our purchases of timber and timber based products that are to be certified.
Our original target was set at 67 per cent - this has now been increased to 75 per cent.
T m Waste sent to landfill Waste sent to landfill Tonnes per million of yard sales - inflation adjusted 40 Our main emphasis is on the avoidance of waste, as well as the segregation 33T m of waste streams in order to enhance recycling opportunities and so reduce 30 9 % 15 % 26 % the cost of waste disposal.
Cardboard segregation is improving though in 20 some areas of the country recycling opportunities remain limited and the waste cardboard still goes to landfill.
We encourage our branch network to 10 sell damaged blocks, bricks and pavers as hardcore rather than disposing 0 of them as waste.
In total we estimate our waste sent to landfill in 2001 was 2001 2002 2003 2004 Target 33,400 tonnes.
We have reduced this in absolute terms to approximately 30,500 tonnes in 2003 despite the considerable growth of the group.
The substantial reduction achieved in waste per of yard sales in 2003 compared with 2002 was impacted positively by a mix effect caused by the CCF and City businesses having a lower waste output than the group overall.
Excluding this however, the tonnage per of yard sales was 14 per cent lower in 2003 than in 2001, and we remain on target to meet our 2004 objective for a 15 per cent reduction as originally set in 2001.
Fuel consumption and vehicle emissions Particulate emissions filters Percentage of commercial fleet fitted 30% More than 250 commercial vehicles are now fitted with particulate 25% emissions filters.
We have not added to this total during 2003 as a result 20% 17% of technical challenges with the filters.
Given this and the increase in the 16% size of the fleet during the year, the percentage fitted with filters has 10% 8% declined marginally in 2003.
The technical issues, have been resolved and we have placed an order for a further tranche of filters to be fitted in the 0% first half of 2004.
Subject to continuing grant support, we intend to install 2001 2002 2003 2004 Target further units in the second half of the year.
Our efforts to reduce overall fuel consumption are continuing and to this end we have commenced a pilot programme to monitor daily the fuel consumption performance of a number of our commercial vehicles.
In addition we encourage enhanced efficiency through a system of allowing orders to be delivered from the branch closest to the delivery address.
Despite our endeavours, to date we have not been successful in reducing our overall fuel consumption per of inflation adjusted delivered sales.
Consumption on this measure in 2003 was 2 per cent higher than that achieved in 2002.
In 2004 we shall continue to seek additional means to secure improved fuel efficiency.
24 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Complaints and notifiable events We investigate any complaint received and endeavour to rectify the causes promptly.
Whilst our target is to have no complaints, during the summer of 2003 there was a specific campaign on Indonesian timber that led to a substantial number of letters of enquiry.
Excluding this specific campaign, 18 complaints were received relating to environmental matters during 2003 2002: 16.
Of the complaints received in 2003, eight related to vehicle or other noise issues, four to traffic issues and three to light pollution.
The three remaining complaints were about isolated incidents of differing causes.
Generally the resolution required only local action such as replacement of fork lift bleepers with less obtrusive white noise warning devices, redirecting or switching off lights or adjusted delivery patterns to avoid traffic problems.
Our emergency procedures are designed to ensure that even relatively minor events are reported to the Environment Agency.
Our investment in new double bunded oil tanks and improved maintenance of timber treatment facilities has, we believe, had a positive impact in 2003 in that we had only one event which required us to contact the Agency, a substantial reduction on the seven occasions during 2002.
This one event related to a concern about the possible rupturing of an underground oil pipe, although further investigation revealed no significant spillage.
No further action is expected by the relevant authorities.
Our target remains to have zero notifiable events.
Prosecutions We are pleased to report that we had no prosecutions for environmental matters during 2003.
Further information We welcome comments on the above report and our policy statement.
Please contact our group planning director on environment@travisperkins.
HEALTH AND SAFETY Policy The company is committed to the achievement and maintenance of high standards in health and safety throughout our branch network and offices.
It is an agenda item at board and executive meetings where key performance indicators KPIs and lost time accidents LTAs are reviewed with action taken to minimise risks.
Health and safety reporting, monitoring and improvement are front of mind for all our managers and staff as we strive to make our place of work and systems of work safe for employees, customers, suppliers and sub-contractors.
Our fundamental goals are embodied in the group policy, which is issued to every employee in the group.
25 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Frequency rates 2002 v 2003 Measurement and reporting 12 month rolling average 20% In 2003 we maintained measurement of our health and safety performance 15% with a focus on accident frequency rates and severity rates.
Significant 10% improvements have been made.
Even when new acquisitions made in 2003 5% are included, frequency rates reduced from 14.16 in December 2002 to 0% Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 9.66 in December 2003.
Severity rates have also improved reducing from 2002 Frequency rate 2003 Frequency rate 0.10 in December 2002 to 0.07 in December 2003.
There were no fatalities during the year.
Severity rate 2002 v 2003 12 month rolling average 0.3 Continuous improvement 0.2 We ensure that health and safety is a priority for every employee in the company with ongoing training, communication, investment, 0.1 measurement and evaluation.
Improvements in health and safety 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec standards have manifested themselves in the significant reductions in 2002 Severity rate 2003 Severity rate accident frequency and severity rates in 2003.
During the year, the group entered into a Lead Authority Partnership Scheme LAPS with Number of lost time accidents 2002 v 2003 12 month rolling average 400 Northampton Borough Council who have agreed to act as a focal point for 300 liaison on health and safety issues between the company and the many 200 local authorities that enforce health and safety in the locations where our 100 branches and offices operate.
The Lead Authority will provide advice to 0 other local authorities about the companys corporate policies which in Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec No.
of accidents 2002 turn will promote consistency between all of our operational premises.
During the first half of 2004, in order to carry out the LAPS fully, the Lead Authority will carry out a Safety Management Review audit of the companys current health and safety practices.
A written report will be prepared, identifying the strengths and weakness of existing health and safety management systems, which will then be provided to other local authorities.
We are confident that this partnership will ensure higher standards and greater consistency in all health and safety matters throughout our branch network and offices.
SUPPLIERS We recognise our responsibilities for the quality of those building materials which we distribute.
Suppliers are required to provide products of a specified standard, by reference, where applicable, to nationally or internationally recognised criteria, and accompanied, where appropriate, by guidance for their use.
26 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC During 2003 the company instituted a system for checking the compliance of major UK and overseas suppliers with our own expectations in relation to employment practices and health and safety.
Around 230 suppliers have been contacted and while some queries are still outstanding, information received to date has not raised concerns.
This system is supplemented by regular visits to manufacturing premises.
EMPLOYEES Our employment policies have been designed to meet the needs of our business, whilst complying with both current and anticipated legislation and following best practice.
Applied consistently throughout the group they provide a fair framework within which our employees work: The group is firmly committed to ensuring that the manner in which it employs staff is fair and equitable.
Our equal opportunities policy is designed to ensure that no person or group of individuals will be treated less favourably because of their race, colour, ethnic origin, gender or sexual orientation, age or disability: We have in place an annual performance review process which enables: A better understanding of what is expected of staff: Recognition of achievement: The opportunity for development and career progression: Effective succession planning.
We regularly consult with our workforce.
Throughout our branch network staff meet with management on a formal basis to consult over matters such as health and safety and customer service.
We also distribute a number of company newsletters and encourage wide use of our intranet, both providing valuable information and inviting feedback.
Employees are regularly informed of the groups financial results and the market conditions in which it operates and are consulted regarding any changes in employment conditions.
To encourage the involvement of employees in the companys performance, the company operates a Save As You Earn option scheme.
In addition, the directors, managers and many other employees are members of discretionary bonus schemes: and Our commitment to training and development at all levels in the organisation gives our employees the opportunity to realise their full potential.
There is a commitment at board level to ensure that employees and management are effectively inducted into the company and given the necessary training to fulfil their roles and to develop their full capabilities.
Particular emphasis is placed on customer service, health and safety and youth training.
Our investment in management development at all levels has increased during the year and programmes are in place with the principal aims of ensuring consistent standards of management practice across the group and strong succession into senior appointments.
Management retention is critical to our ongoing success and it was pleasing to report a 7 per cent reduction in staff turnover during 2003.
27 No one matches Keyline for service or knowledge When Building Services Easton Ltd of Norwich were contracted by the owner of a plumbing company in Norwich to build a large extension to his house, they wanted the best materials and the most reliable local suppliers.
28 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC They chose Keyline Builders Merchants to supply the materials.
Michael Sparkes, director of Building Services Easton Ltd, says that they have been using Keyline for over 50 years.
No one matches Keyline for service or staff knowledge, says Michael Sparkes.
Above all, they carry a large, comprehensive stock, from timber to drainage materials - so we can get everything we want from one place.
29 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC The group recognises its obligations towards disabled persons and endeavours to deal fairly with such persons in matters relating to their employment.
Disabled applicants for employment are given full and fair consideration alongside all other applicants and due regard is given to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Where a person becomes disabled during the course of employment, the company endeavours to supply suitable training for that persons continued employment.
Disabled persons have equal opportunity with other employees to undergo training appropriate to the development of their careers.
Additionally, every effort is made to assist disabled employees to undergo training aimed specifically at mitigating the effect of disability on their employment.
BUSINESS CONDUCT We require our staff, customers and suppliers to abide by high ethical standards.
Procedures are in place designed to ensure the security of our premises and to prevent theft and fraud, and these are regularly monitored as part of the internal control process described on page 35.
We also have strict rules governing the receipt of gifts by employees from suppliers or customers.
The contracts of employment of all employees contain obligations of confidentiality in relation to the companys commercially sensitive information.
COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT With around 700 branches in a wide variety of locations throughout Great Britain, we recognise our role in, and responsibilities towards, the community.
Our branches are encouraged to support their local community through involvement in local affairs, such as by sponsoring organisations or donating materials to projects.
The group raised a total of around 265,000 for charities during the year.
At a national level, we support two particular charities, the NSPCC and MacMillan Cancer Relief.
At least once a year we hold a charity fund raising day in which all staff, together with customers and suppliers, take part in a variety of activities to support our chosen charities.
The company also made direct donations to these and other charities which, in the year, amounted to 105,310 2002: 95,932.
In addition, we operate a payroll-giving scheme through which staff donated 19,833 2002: 17,902 to charity during the year.
30 TRA VIS PERKINS PLC Sport sponsorship and charity support Travis Perkins has been the main sponsor of Northampton Saints rugby club for the last three years.
Travis Perkins also sponsor the European Senior Masters golf tournament at Wentworth, and the UK Snooker Championship at York.
Working with its staff, suppliers and customers, over the past three years, Travis Perkins has donated more than 0.5 million to the NSPCC and Macmillan Nurses.
