Corporate social responsibility review Chief Executives statement Environmental management 2003 has been a year of further consolidation for us regarding Our focus during 2003 has been to make progress in the identification of environmental issues and the management implementing the recommendations of the independent of those issues in a systematic, Groupwide manner.
environmental review we commissioned in 2002.
Central to our efforts to adopt a more systematic approach to managing our While progress has been slower than anticipated, it has been environmental affairs has been the establishment of an steady, and we are now in a position to move forward strongly Environmental Steering Group, to which we committed in last throughout 2004.
This is primarily due to the establishment of years Annual Report.
an Environmental Steering Group, with a remit to propose improvement objectives for adoption by the Executive The Environmental Steering Group comprises senior managers Committee and to oversee the implementation of environmental drawn from across Trinity Mirror and has been given a strong action plans.
A bi-monthly meeting cycle has been established remit, reporting to the Executive Committee, to take and the Steering Group will follow a work programme during responsibility for the direction of the environmental programme.
2004 which will address: The Group has established a bi-monthly schedule of meetings and in addition has held a workshop to discuss priority compliance with environmental legislation environmental issues and to build a detailed proposal for action.
the measurement and reporting of energy consumption During 2003 the work of the Steering Group has resulted in the waste management and recycling following progress: the reduction of atmospheric emissions from print sites transport issues Legislation: A system for providing site managers with purchasing information about environmental legislation and best practice staff awareness and training.
and for auditing compliance is nearing completion and will be trialled in the first half of 2004.
We continue to work towards achieving full GoodCorporation status.
A considerable amount of preparatory work has been Energy management: Five of Trinity Mirrors largest print sites undertaken.
We have also participated again in the Business in are now members of the Climate Change Levy discount the Community BitC Corporate Responsibility Index which scheme, which offers discounts against the Levy linked to ranks companies on their CSR performance and we look energy saving targets to be achieved over the next 10 years.
forward to maintaining or improving our ranking when the The Executive Committee has accepted the Steering Groups results of the survey are published in March 2004.
I was proposal that the Companys major new manufacturing sites particularly pleased that the Health and Safety Executive held Cardiff, Midlands and Teesside should also sign up and that up our disclosure of Health and Safety information in last years equivalent energy saving targets should be set for sites which Report and Accounts as an exemplar.
are too small to join the Governments scheme.
We continue to include social, ethical and environmental issues VOC reduction: The emission to atmosphere of solvent-related on the agenda for every Board meeting.
fumes Volatile Organic Compounds is widely acknowledged to be one of the printing industrys major environmental impacts.
Sly Bailey The Steering Group believes that substantial progress towards Chief Executive further reducing Trinity Mirrors emissions can be achieved 26 February 2004 during 2004, by moving towards water-based raw materials.
A timetable for achieving targeted VOC reductions at printing sites is being developed.
Waste management and recycling: The Group Services Department is working on a proposal for improving office waste recycling with a view to implementing improved arrangements across Trinity Mirror during 2004.
New site development: The Steering Group has also monitored the progress of the Re-press modernisation project to develop energy efficient printing and distribution facilities.
This project includes the redevelopment of three formerly derelict industrial sites covering respectively: 5.5 acres of old railway sidings in South Wales, 6.5 acres of an old rubber factory in the West Midlands and 5 acres of old iron and steel works on Teesside.
All of these sites have required remediation to remove contamination.
Work commenced in South Wales in December Trinity Mirror plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2003 | Page 40 41 2003 resource consumption 2001 and the site is now operational.
Work began in the West Midlands in December 2002 and will be complete in mid-2004.
kWh per annum CO2 equivalent tonnes Work began at the Teesside site in April 2003, the remediation work was complete by July 2003 and the site will be Electricity consumption by core sites 150,000,000 60,450 operational in mid-2004.
The completion of these projects will Gas consumption by core sites 42,628,000 7,733 have resulted in the re-instatement of 17 acres of brownfield contaminated land for beneficial use, where otherwise greenfield land would have been required.
Water consumption by core sites 234,803 cubic metres The Environmental Steering Group will continue to address these areas during 2004 and the programme of work for the Health and safety coming year also includes: During what has been a period of substantial change within the business the Board has maintained its focus on health and transport-related energy consumption and exhaust safety.
Through the Secretary and Group Legal Director the emissions Board has been kept informed of: purchasing of key raw materials, including newsprint staff awareness of environmental issues and the provision of trends in workplace accidents appropriate training.
reportable accidents and incidents health and safety audit results We have received no environmental prosecutions for the 2003 internal health and safety initiatives reporting period.
progress with large capital projects important developments in health and safety.
Waste arisings As we reported last year, many of the waste materials It is through the collective efforts of individual businesses that generated from our printing operations are classified as Special have established challenging targets and implemented health Waste because of their potentially hazardous properties.
During and safety plans that the Group has achieved a notable the past year we have extended and improved our companydecrease in the overall number of reportable accidents in 2003. wide scheme for collecting and treating special waste to recycle The Board is very pleased with this development and remains or recover useful materials.
Over 90% of the liquid special committed to achieving further improvements in health and waste produced by the Company and over 80% of the solid safety performance.
special wastes were either recycled or recovered in 2003.
During the year the company adopted the following policy Management of special wastes statement: Material collected Material recovered Trinity Mirror is the largest newspaper publisher in the UK, employing over eleven thousand people in a range of national Liquid wastes litres 1,237,675 1,164,931 94% and regional businesses.
Health and safety at work is very Solid wastes kgs 203,904 171,534 84% important to all of our staff and we fully understand and accept our responsibilities for taking proper care of them.
We are Energy and water consumption equally committed to ensuring the wellbeing of others, such as Our current drive to consolidate and modernise our visitors, contractors and members of the public, with whom we manufacturing facilities, including substantial investment in new may come into contact.
sites, presents difficulties in establishing a meaningful baseline for our buildings energy consumption.
During 2002 we made a It is company policy that all our operations are conducted in a commitment to review our procedure for measuring buildings safe, healthy and efficient manner, as far as reasonably energy consumption, and consequently, during 2003, we practicable.
Compliance with statutory requirements will be appointed specialist advisors Energy Matters UK to overhaul given high priority within every business, but where reasonably our arrangements for energy data collection and analysis.
This practicable best practice in health and safety management is work is ongoing and we anticipate that the base data arising our objective.
from this exercise will be invaluable in setting meaningful energy reduction targets for the coming year.
To fulfil this policy the Company will ensure that health and safety is effectively and systematically managed, in accordance with the following key principles: 1.
Policy The Group Health and Safety Manager will also monitor and review health and safety performance across the Group and Effective health and safety policies and procedures will be within individual businesses, providing additional advice and established to clearly define our aims and objectives and to support where it is required.
Further information about responsibilities and detailed 2.
Organisation arrangements for health and safety can be found in specific An appropriate management structure with clearly defined Group Health and Safety Policies and Procedures and within responsibilities will be provided to fulfil statutory requirements, business unit Health and Safety Policy documents.
These will effectively manage our operations and implement relevant be revised and updated periodically to take account of health and safety policies and procedures.
significant events, including changes in legislation and recommended practice.
Planning and implementation Further measures taken in 2003 Health and safety will be improved and maintained by the introduction of detailed health and safety plans.
Health and In addition to the measures that have already been described safety will also be incorporated into the planning of all significant the following health and safety initiatives were taken in 2003: projects.
the adoption of a policy on Hostile Environments to cover 4.
Measurement and review of performance work in high risk locations and a policy on the use of mobile phones in motor vehicles Health and safety inspections, audits and reviews will be carried detailed health and safety audits were carried out in each of out to highlight our strengths and weaknesses, maintain the printing plants resulting in reports that in some cases standards and facilitate future improvement where necessary.
make recommendations for further improvement a rolling programme of office health and safety audits was The Board collectively takes overall responsibility for health and carried out covering 70 different premises located all over the safety within the Group.
The Secretary and Group Legal UK.
The recommended actions from these audits are being Director has specific responsibility for ensuring that the Board progressively followed up focuses on health and safety issues and he is supported in this a review of health and safety training needs for managers regard by the Group Health and Safety Manager.
was carried out resulting in recommendations for further training in some parts of the Group.
Suitable training courses Managing Directors, Senior Executives and Line Managers are are being developed responsible for the effective management of health and safety arrangements were made to ensure compliance with within their business.
This includes taking steps to ensure amended regulations relating to the identification and compliance with the relevant statutory requirements and management of asbestos in buildings and for disabled implementing approved Trinity Mirror health and safety policies access.
This will result in detailed follow-up work in 2004 and procedures.
Every business will appoint a competent and in appropriate cases remedial work.
person to provide practical advice and assistance in managing health and safety.
They will also make arrangements for the Group health and safety statistics provision of occupational health services, where appropriate.
The following table briefly illustrates accident statistics for the Group in 2003.
It is pleasing to report that there has been Trinity Mirror staff based in offices under the control of individual a substantial reduction in the overall number of reportable businesses will be provided with occupational health and safety accidents, but the number of major injuries remains a cause services from within the relevant business.
Group Health and Safety Policies and Procedures will be established to improve and maintain standards within Trinity Mirror.
These will be prepared by the Group Health and Safety Manager who will consult business unit representatives before submitting new or revised procedures to the Secretary and Group Legal Director for approval, on behalf of the Board.
Approved health and safety documents will be issued to Managing Directors, Senior Executives and locally appointed competent persons and published for wider access on the Trinity Mirror intranet.
Trinity Mirror plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2003 | Page 42 43 Health and safety performance indicator 2003 2002 Health and safety enforcement activity Health and safety inspectors visited several businesses during Fatalities the course of 2003.
No enforcement action was taken.
RIDDOR major injuries 10 11 RIDDOR over 3 day injuries 52 75 In May 2003 the Health and Safety Executive HSE brought a RIDDOR occupational ill health prosecution against a newspaper distribution contractor and diseases conditions 1 2 Mirror Colour Print Watford Ltd following an accident that RIDDOR dangerous occurrences 1 2 occurred on their premises in January 2001.
The accident involved one of the contractors supervisors being struck by a Total number of accidents 870 931 forklift truck that was being driven by another of the contractors RIDDOR events frequency rate 0.28 0.39 employees.
The distribution contractor was found to be in All accidents frequency rate 3.85 4.1 breach of health and safety regulations and fined 11,500 plus Total days lost accidents and costs.
The case against Mirror Colour Print Watford Ltd was occupational ill health 1,378 2,137.5 dismissed, as they were able to prove that although they were 0.04% 0.07% in control of the premises where the accident occurred they had taken all reasonable steps to ensure safety.
RIDDOR Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 Frequency Rate number of accidents per 100,000 hours worked Figure in brackets represents the percentage of total days worked by all employees in the Group Breakdown of accidents by type of event All percentages rounded to the nearest half decimal point RIDDOR All RIDDOR All accidents accidents accidents accidents 2003 % 2003 % 2002 % 2002 % Slips and falls same level 33 20 36 21 Struck by moving vehicle 41 72 Lifting and handling of materials 23 16 21 15 Contact with machinery 10 4 85 Contact with sharp abrasive material 1.5 14 113 Stepping on or striking fixed object 718 515 Use of hand tools 24 24 Struck by flying or falling object 85 36 Falls from a height 51 61 Contact with hazardous substance 5 2 Contact with electricity 0.5 1 0.5 Object collapsing or overturning 1.5 0.5 2 0.5 Contact with hot material substance 2 2 Others 59 813 Total 100 100 100 100 The three most common types of reportable accidents within Future health and safety initiatives Trinity Mirror are consistently: Trinity Mirror remains committed to achieving further Slips, trips and falls same level improvements in health and safety performance.
During 2004 Lifting and handling of materials the company intends to: Contact with machinery.
require all businesses to prepare health and safety plans that focus on the prevention of reportable accidents, particularly This is not surprising and to some extent it is a reflection of the the three areas highlighted in the 2003 statistics potential hazards associated with our business.
Newspaper establish suitable registers to identify the location and printing and publishing involves a wide range of work activities condition of asbestos containing materials ACMs in Trinity that need to be carefully managed if accidents are to be Mirror premises.
These will be linked to adequate control avoided.
measures designed to prevent accidental damage and possible exposure to ACMs carry out surveys to identify those premises that may require Trinity Mirror plc will make direct cash donations to charities in alteration to facilitate safe disabled access and egress certain limited circumstances.
The Company will, at a Group continue with workplace health and safety inspections and level, support various charities connected with or associated audits to help maintain acceptable standards with the newspaper, printing or advertising industries.
provide managers with further training in health and safety, where appropriate A second category of direct cash support will be to charities improve communication on health and safety issues through operating in the communities immediately surrounding Trinity a dedicated section of the Company intranet Mirrors offices and print sites.
The charities that are likely to establish a more collective approach to health and safety receive support are smaller community-based charities where management through greater collaboration and a focus on a modest donation will make a big impact.
It is unlikely that a introducing further Groupwide policies and procedures major national charity that just happens to be based very close monitor developments in new health and safety regulations to one of our offices would receive a donation.
taking action to ensure compliance, as necessary.
There will be a further limited general pool of funds out of which Ethics donations will be made to legitimate and supportable causes that fall outside the above two criteria.
There will, however, need For many years the Company has had a policy on Standards of in each case to be a demonstrable business commercial reason Business Conduct which we regularly review.
The introduction why such support should be given.
to the current policy states: Each of our regional newspaper companies will have a small Trinity Mirror plc is the largest newspaper publisher in the UK budget out of which they will make direct cash donations to and a major UK plc.
The continuing development and wellcharities working in the community in which the newspaper is being of our business depends on all of us maintaining the based.
Scottish Daily Record and Sunday Mail Limited will highest standards of integrity and personal conduct in all similarly make a number of donations to appropriate charities matters which involve the Company.
The Company recognises its obligations to those with whom it The national titles of the Daily Mirror, Sunday Mirror and The has dealings, namely its employees, shareholders, readers and People are most unlikely to make direct cash donations.
They will advertisers, suppliers and the communities in which its do so only where they are asked to make a payment to charity in businesses operate.
Its reputation is one of the most vital lieu of a fee for an interview or some form of support.
Any resources of the Company, and depends for its protection upon corporate donations requested from the national titles are likely the honesty and integrity of each and every one of us.
This to be redirected to the Group, as the Companys headquarters document gives guidance on how the essential standards of share the same office location as that of the national titles.
integrity and conduct are to be maintained.
It is not intended as a statement of new beliefs or the creation of new rules of conduct.
All Group donations need the prior agreement of the Chief Rather, it is a reaffirmation of our continuing values and practices.
Executive and the Secretary and Group Legal Director.
Any local business donations require the prior agreement of the Finally, this document should be read in conjunction with any relevant Managing Director.
specific code issued to individual groups of employees e. g. Financial Dealings by Journalists or any provisions of individual In addition to cash donations, the Company is active in making contracts of employment.
donations in kind in the form of used computer equipment, furniture, books, etc.
Through its community involvement The policy itself is available on the Companys website and programmes, the Company makes available members of its gives guidance on conflicts of interest, the acceptance of gifts staff for volunteering and mentoring programmes.
and entertainment, confidential information, insider information, and political and civic activities.
Community engagement Charities Trinity Mirrors newspapers, particularly its regional and local titles, know that they are nothing if they are not of the community and The Companys policy with regard to charitable donations and for the community.
Part of their very raison dtre is to champion other such payments is as follows: local causes.
The breadth of our involvement can best be illustrated with examples of individual initiatives.
Trinity Mirror believes that it can best support charities through the pages of its newspapers.
This support will either be through Trinity Mirror Southern is a partner with a Home Office appeals to readers for donations or through editorial content, sponsored initiative in West London to address the problems describing the aims and activities of various charities.
In every facing areas where there has been an influx of new refugees and case the decision as to whether or not to support a charity members of other communities.
The West London Community appeal or whether to run editorial comment will be one for the Cohesion Pathfinder is one of a number of projects in the UK.
Trinity Mirror plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2003 | Page 44 45 The initiatives purpose goes beyond the concept of race The Birmingham Evening Mail launched the 1 million Why My equality and social inclusion.
A cohesive community, it says, Child Appeal in support of the WellChild centre devoted to the is one where there is a common sense of belonging for all research of childhood diseases.
communities and that the diversity of peoples different backgrounds and circumstances are positively valued.
Through Following research which showed that almost half of the its weekly papers in Ealing, Harrow, Wembley, Hounslow and holidaymakers in the Devon resort of Sidmouth came from the Uxbridge, Trinity Mirror Southern is supporting the project with Midlands, the Sunday Mercury launched the Sidmouth Lifeboat training in media skills for community groups, training and Appeal to persuade landlocked Brummies to raise 100,000 to newsroom work placements for teachers, publicity for pay for a new lifeboat.
Community Cohesion events and a student journalism bursary for youngsters from the target communities, which would see Risks and opportunities two young people undergo journalism training in Trinity Mirrors Trinity Mirror is not a multinational nor is it engaged in heavy editorial training centre in Newcastle.
It is not, therefore, exposed to some of the risks faced by those who operate in developing countries or at the sharp The Evening Chronicle Young Achievers Awards were inspired end of environmental exposure.
The greatest exposure for the by the growing sense that one of the biggest issues facing Group would, therefore, be a systems failure that led to a Tyneside and the surrounding areas is the extremely poor domestic failure of its environmental, health and safety or ethical record that they have in terms of the achievements of young policies.
It is unlikely that a failure in any of these three areas people.
The region has the worst staying-on record at school, would be catastrophic.
low achievement of education qualifications, and some of the lowest business start-up rates.
The awards are aimed at The Board believes that the Companys main exposure would identifying and celebrating the achievements of young people be one of reputational damage.
The procedure that the who have achieved success in a number of different areas.
The Company employs to control and manage these risks is aim is to champion and highlight success and in turn create through a regular review of its standards and systems and positive role models to serve as inspiration to others.
through training of relevant employees and managers.
The same newspapers Sunshine Fund, which raises funds for The Companys Standards of Business Conduct are embedded local disabled children within the North East, celebrates its 75th within the culture of the Group.
More recently the Companys anniversary in 2004. health and safety policies and systems have been put under review and have been consolidated and codified.
More attention In 2003 the Newcastle Chronicle and Journal Newspapers in is now being paid than in the past to environmental matters.
Education Newsroom was used by over 5,000 young people who were introduced to the skills required to write and produce The Company believes that opportunities in these areas are, newspapers.
We believe that there are advantages in being seen as the employer of choice for those entering our The Liverpool Daily Posts Fight for a Flight campaign was industry, that decision having been made on an assessment, largely responsible for the return of a London to Liverpool air amongst many other things, of our corporate social link after an absence of 10 years.
Those programmes will also be key in the retention of staff.
We also believe that there are obvious The Daily Post in Wales has run a campaign which is largely commercial advantages to being seen as a socially responsible responsible for the provision of additional funding from the company.
Assembly to provide better lighting at railway stations after a string of attacks on the public.
Comments to: Our Cheshire weeklies continue to run the Community Paul Vickers Champions Awards, now in their 14th year.
Secretary and Group Legal Director Trinity Mirror plc The Liverpool Echo launched its Kick Start campaign to help One Canada Square create 2,008 jobs by 2008 when Liverpool becomes the Canary Wharf European Capital of Culture.
Each year 25,000 in cash and London E14 5AP consultancy services is to be given to a winning company or individual entrepreneur.
The Evening Gazettes community involvement is run under the banner of Tees Pride.
A particular focus has been their Save our Steel campaign, aimed at persuading CORUS to retain its steel works.
Teesside is now into the fourth year of its Community Champions Awards.
