12550 Tullow R&A03 Front aw 5 27 04 12:53 PM Page 26 Corporate Responsibility INTRODUCTION In order to address all Corporate Responsibilities, clear and effective policies and consistently excellent performance are vital.
Tullow is committed to operating transparently and honestly in all of its undertakings.
The Company has recently approved a defined CSR policy, which is currently being implemented across all of our geographic locations.
As Tullow increases its operated activity, we remain committed to continually improving Environmental Health and Safety EHS performance at all levels of our global activities.
In 2003 Tullows EHS management systems were enhanced through improved behaviours and systems, which contributed towards minimising the risk of harmful effects on people and the environment.
Tullow works constructively to enhance its reputation as a responsible corporate citizen in all areas of business.
Our commitment to local communities and the environment remains a priority.
Over the past year, we have continued our support for childrens education projects at home and abroad.
We worked in co-operation with local communities in Pakistan and Bangladesh toward providing clean water and improved medical facilities for the local population and in Ireland in contributing towards an educational foundation.
ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Tullow continuously monitors operations to ensure that they do not result in any adverse impact on the environment.
The environmental aspects of Tullows UK operations were audited by Lloyds Register and certification to the ISO 14001 standard was achieved in May 2003.
Our assumption of the operatorship of the Bacton and Hewett Assets in 2003 was a key development for Tullow.
Major emphasis was placed on EHS management throughout the transition period.
Our attention to EHS issues was supported and recognised by the UK Health and Safety Executive.
Tullow Oil UK Limited has won a RoSPA Gold Award for 2004, recognising an excellent track record of health and safety performance.
Safety Tullows safety performance improved significantly during 2003 with the number of Lost Time Incidents LTIs half that for 2002.
A Lost Time Incident is registered when an individual cannot start their normal duties the day after an incident.
The Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate LTIFR continued to improve, down from 1.62 LTIs per million worker hours in 2002 to 1.09 in 2003.
26 Tullow Oil plc Corporate Responsibility 12550 Tullow R&A03 Front aw 5 27 04 12:53 PM Page 27 The 2003 LTIFR figure of 1.09 was achieved while carrying out seismic and drilling operations in particularly challenging and populated regions.
The figure compares very favourably against the UK Offshore Operators Association LTIFR benchmark standards, which document 1.79 as the average for 2002.
There is no room for complacency in our drive for zero accidents and incidents.
We are encouraged by our improved safety performance and will continue to promote excellence in safety practices throughout our business.
2003 LTI Performance 2003 2002 Lost Time Incidents 4 8 Lost Time Incident Frequency Rate 1.09 1.62 Health We are pleased to report that there were no significant health related incidents during the year.
Tullow attaches great importance to ensuring safe conditions for employees and contractors working in the field in developing countries.
Standards of food and water hygiene at our operated facilities are subject to regular assessment and are externally monitored.
Tullow continues to support a range of health initiatives.
The largest of these has been our contribution to a polio inoculation campaign in Pakistan.
27 12550 Tullow R&A03 Front aw 5 27 04 12:53 PM Page 28 Corporate Responsibility continued Environment No significant environmental incidents were reported within Tullows activities during 2003.
The key milestone in the year was the certification to the ISO14001 standard achieved by Tullows North Sea operations in May 2003.
Lloyds Register Quality Assurance LRQA carried out the independent assessment of all aspects of the UK business against the standard.
Maintenance of these high standards was subsequently confirmed at the first surveillance visit in December.
Atmospherics The EU Emissions Trading Scheme commences in January 2005.
Under this scheme, the UK Government is introducing a process to manage and reduce the overall greenhouse gas emissions for the UK.
Tullow has been active in ensuring that it is properly prepared for this new system.
Crisis and Emergency Management Since its inception, Tullow has been developing and continuously improving systems and procedures to pro-actively manage the EHS risks in our business.
In 2002 we established a central Crisis and Emergency Management Team C&EMT.
The Team covers all operations worldwide and is on 24-hour call in case of a serious incident.
Procedures were expanded to include the Bacton Hewett Assets during 2003.
Each local Tullow office has emergency response procedures linked into the central C&EMT.
We have invested in training and associated exercises for the C&EMT to ensure that they are expertly equipped to deal with any crisis.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Tullow has been operating internationally since 1986 and has always sought to engage with local stakeholders and our staff in a transparent and responsible manner.
There were no adverse community or stakeholder issues during 2003.
In recognition of the importance of CSR, we have formalised our practices into a defined CSR policy which has been approved by the Tullow Board and is in the process of being implemented in each of our operating areas.
This policy establishes the key principles that Tullow endeavours to apply throughout its operations and is available in full on our website.
A commitment to participate in local projects is central to our CSR policy.
We are involved in projects centred around children, health and education, which benefit local communities around our areas of operation.
Our commitment to CSR is reflected in the following projects.
28 Tullow Oil plc Corporate Responsibility 12550 Tullow R&A03 Front aw 5 27 04 12:53 PM Page 29 Education Project Ireland For the last three years we have contributed to an Education Foundation associated with a Community School in Tullow, Co. Carlow.
The Foundation provides past pupils with financial assistance towards third level education costs such as the purchase of educational materials and living expenses.
Water provision Pakistan Tullow has been involved in the provision and installation of water tanks in the area around our Sara Suri plant, as part of a Local Government water supply scheme.
The scheme enabled local people to overcome problems of safe and hygienic water storage.
Polio Inoculation Campaign Pakistan Since 1999, Tullow has contributed to local health campaigns by providing transport and personnel to facilitate polio inoculations across communities.
We also arranged for doctors to participate in these activities resulting in significant health improvements for the local people.
Constant vigilance and awareness of Corporate Responsibility issues is of serious importance in the oil and gas industry.
Tullow is committed to developing and maintaining systems and procedures that allow it to effectively manage its responsibilities and limit risk in the day-to-day running of the business.
