12 Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Social Responsibility Report For the last 40 years, Avis has been committed to the We try harder.
As the leading car rental company in Europe, Africa, the Middle East and Asia, this fundamental principle has ensured that we are at the forefront of our industry environmentally, socially and ethically.
Avis corporate beliefs and values incorporating our environmental, social and ethical policies are publicly available and any potential opportunities from and risks to Avis are regularly monitored.
The Group Personnel & Corporate Affairs Director has responsibility for corporate social responsibility, supported by the country managing directors.
With the largest private fleet of cars in Europe, and a Education is a key part of the programme.
We have significant number of operational locations, the environmental developed an environmental driving code for customers to impact of our business has been evaluated and a number reduce the amount of fuel used and, in turn, their contribution of actions taken to minimise it.
Furthermore, a number of to global warming.
Employees are also continuously being social programmes aim to improve the communities in which educated with a number of initiatives to reduce the amount Avis operates and our ethical policies are intrinsic to our of energy used in our operations.
In addition, Avis worked employee policies and supplier contracts.
with schools local to the Groups headquarters to enable pupils to understand the effects of CO emissions on the 2 Environmental policy environment and investigate how they could reduce With the support of Future Forests, the international climate emissions in their own homes.
change business, and the Edinburgh Centre for Carbon Management, Avis has identified the carbon emissions The rental fleet is changed approximately every six months, produced annually by its operations and what can be done ensuring that vehicles are at the optimum level of efficiency.
to reduce and offset these over time.
Over 40 checks between each rental ensure the vehicles are well maintained.
Since 1993, a typical Avis rental car Avis has implemented a market-leading three point plan has improved fuel consumption by 15% and emissions now to reduce carbon emissions: achieve some of the highest European standards.
This has becoming CarbonNeutral across all our European been achieved with lighter weight materials, aerodynamics, operations: improved engine technology and efficient transmissions.
setting a plan to reduce CO emissions from these In addition, Avis is building opportunities into fleet contracts 2 operations: with leading suppliers, specifically General Motors, to reduce enabling and encouraging customers to offset the CO further the environmental impact of vehicles in the rental fleet.
The growth in the European Commission car-sharing Avis uses an annual reporting process to assess energy programme as part of the integrated transport policy, led usage and waste from the corporate European operations.
to the launch of Urbigo in the UK at the end of 2002, with Avis works with Future Forests and the Edinburgh Centre for three further locations added during 2003.
It is a pay-by-theCarbon Management to measure and reduce CO emissions hour car-sharing scheme, whereby members use a pool of 2 where possible and to offset the remainder through Avis cars for an annual fee, plus time and mileage, thereby reforestation projects around Europe.
In 2002 2003 the Group reducing car ownership, congestion and pollution from exceeded its target for a 5% reduction in CO emissions from unnecessary car journeys as people combine their urban 2 Avis corporate European operations.
To offset these travel with public transport.
emissions, almost 150,000 saplings will be planted on behalf of Avis, its staff and customers, creating over 300 acres of Our external environmental accreditation includes an new woodland.
Since the beginning of our partnership with improved rating of A from the Safety and Environmental Risk Future Forests, Avis has planted a total of some 200,000 Management Rating Agency, compared to the transport saplings over a period of four years.
Avis plans to maintain industry average of CC, and we are a member of the a similar reduction in emissions over the coming years.
FTSE4Good index, which guides investors towards corporately responsible organisations.
Avis in Sweden has Avis has also encouraged customers to offset the CO achieved eco ISO 14001 standard and the Group 2 emissions from their rentals by giving renters booking via Environmental Committee is reviewing the operational the internet the opportunity to make their journey carbon activities of the rest of the business in line with this standard.
In 2003, 25,000 customers chose to offset their car rental emissions and we are currently reviewing options to extend this opportunity to customers booking off-line.
Avis Europe plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 13 Employment policies and practices The Group aims to ensure an organisation structure and working climate in which both the business and employees grow and develop.
Employee satisfaction and people development are two of the six areas of strategic focus for the Group.
The employment policies of the Group embody the principles of diversity and are tailored to meet the local needs of individual countries.
The Group operates non-discriminatory policies and practices in relation to recruitment, development, compensation and advancement opportunities with regard to gender, religion, Avis is a member of the World Travel and Tourism Council race, marital status, age, sexual orientation and disabilities.
WTTC, and Green Globe, the travel industrys environmental Avis requires the highest standards of honesty, integrity and consultancy.
The WTTC works with Governments to realise fairness in dealings from all employees.
the economic and environmental impacts of travel and tourism.
The Group operates an Avis European Employee Council with Social policy representatives from all corporate countries.
Representatives Avis supports a range of community, charitable, sporting and and management meet twice a year for an exchange of views arts activities around the world.
and dialogue on subjects of transnational interest.
A joint communique of each meetings discussions is distributed In Europe, Avis supports the Unicef British Airways Change to all employees.
for Good programme in a number of ways, including special envelopes in rental cars and stations to encourage staff and The Group believes its employment practices encourage customers to donate to Unicef, and staff fundraising events.
employee involvement, continuity and business performance.
Approximately 50% of the Groups employees have more A large range of country specific programmes are in place than five years service with Avis Europe and many senior to help local community issues, focusing on children in executives throughout Europe have been promoted from need, inner city housing projects and providing transport within the Group.
An employee retention and internal for a number of charities.
For example, in 2003 Italy provided succession index were established during 2001 to measure financial support for the childrens hospital in Rome, as performance on an ongoing basis.
well as for the childrens charity Telefono Azzurro.
France continued to support Les Restaurants du Coeur, which Share schemes provides food, clothes and housing assistance for those in The Group operates a number of share incentive schemes, need.
Avis South Africa supports a range of wildlife schemes details of which are set out in the Remuneration Report.
and is a major financial supporter of the World Wildlife Fund.
Employees from the Group headquarters are continuing a successful mentoring programme in association with the South East Berkshire Education Business Partnership.
Ethical policy Honesty, integrity and fairness are the foundation of business ethics for the Group.
Avis has an ethical policy relating to employment of staff and the operation of its business within the network of third parties with which it operates.
Local regulations on human rights and employment practices are adhered to, ensuring we not only meet the minimum standards but also aim to retain and attract loyal staff to the Group.
