Corporate Governance Statement Continued The roles of chairman and chief executive are separated.
information on all aspects of business performance, managing and The chairmans primary role is to ensure that the Board is effective minimising corporate risk and ensuring that the necessary in its task of setting and implementing the companys direction.
mechanisms are in place to achieve effective inter-divisional coThe chief executive is responsible for management of the business ordination, in areas such as purchasing, branding and career and developing the appropriate organisational structure for a development planning.
It also approves major items of capital global organisation.
The chief executive chairs the Group expenditure within limits authorised by the Board.
The Group Operations Executive Committee.
Operations Executive Committee meets each month.
Its membership comprises the chief executive, finance director, the During the year some of the chairmans other commitments finance director designate, company secretary and the five changed.
He was appointed to the boards of the BBC Children in divisional managing directors.
In the year to 26 December 2003 Need Appeal and Scottish and Southern Energy plc, subsequently the Group Operations Executive Committee met 12 times.
He also ceased his involvement with Railtrack now Network Rail.
The Board has reviewed the Shareholders chairmans current obligations and is satisfied that he has The company maintains regular dialogue with its shareholders.
sufficient time available to meet all his commitments.
The investor relations programme includes formal presentations of full year and interim results.
Feedback from these presentations is The non-executive directors are independent of management.
Attendees at the results presentation will None of the non-executive directors has any material business or include the chairman, the executive directors and the senior other relationship with the company.
Each member of the Board independent non-executive director.
The company also has considerable experience at senior level in other companies, encourages communication with private shareholders throughout which allows for well informed and broadly based debate.
The the year and welcomes their participation at shareholder Board structure ensures that no individual or group dominates the meetings.
In addition to the chairmans statement at the annual decision-making process.
Prof J P Percy has been designated the general meeting, a trading presentation to shareholders is given senior independent non-executive director to whom any concerns and details of the companys trading activities are on display at can be conveyed.
The Board members attend the The executive directors have contracts of service with one years annual general meeting and, in particular, the chairmen of the notice whilst non-executive directors are appointed for periods of Audit, Bonus and Remuneration and Nomination Committees are three years.
Board committees Notice of the annual general meeting is sent to shareholders at Where appropriate, matters are delegated to Board committees, least 20 working days before the meeting.
Details of the proxy all of which have written constitutions.
During the year, the Board votes for and against each resolution are announced after the reviewed the terms of reference of each of the principal Board result of the votes of the members present and, in future, will be committees.
The current terms of reference are available on the published on the website after the annual general meeting.
The company secretary acts as secretary to all Communications these committees.
The Board considers that the annual report and accounts and The principal Board committees are the Audit Committee, the interim statements present a balanced and understandable Nomination Committee and the Bonus and Remuneration assessment of the Groups performance and prospects.
In addition Committee details of which are explained on pages 28 to 35. to information which any company is under a legal or regulatory requirement to publish, the Group frequently publicises other Other committees: business developments through the national or specialised press General Administration Committee or in its own newspapers and bulletins which have wide The principal duties of the General Administration Committee are circulation.
to allot shares under the various share option schemes and other routine matters.
The Committee comprises executive members of The companys website at www.
co. uk provides additional the Board and meets as required.
company information, is regularly updated and includes the presentations to shareholders given at the announcements of the Executive direction and control final and interim results.
The website also contains an online The Group Operations Executive Committee is responsible for version of the notice of the annual general meeting, the annual ensuring that each of the Groups businesses is managed effectively report and accounts and the interim report.
and that the operational objectives of the Group, as approved by the Board, are achieved.
Its role includes the preparation of the Group budget for approval by the Board, management of business performance to achieve the Group budget, establishing and maintaining reporting systems providing clear and consistent 26 The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Internal control The Board has monitored the effectiveness of the Groups system Responsibility of internal control during the year.
In particular, the Board has Throughout 2003 and up until the date of this report, the Group reviewed the Group Risk and Control Framework in the light of has continued to operate procedures which were established to experience following its introduction and has made such enable the Group to implement in full the Turnbull Committees amendments as it thought appropriate.
Final Guidance on Internal Control issued in 1999.
In addition to the Risk and Control Framework, other procedures Risk management which are fundamental to the Groups system of internal control As part of these procedures, which are designed to serve as are as follows: ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Group companies, senior executives at Control environment each of the Group operating companies and business units There is a clearly dened organisational structure within which prepared Risk and Control Frameworks for their respective individual responsibilities are identied and can be monitored.
Those frameworks were then considered and approved Business units operate to well understood procedures and are by the chief executive, the finance director and the Group required to comply with them.
In addition, a Group Risk and Main control procedures Control Framework was prepared, taking account of the significant The Group has identied a number of key areas which are risks identied by the individual units together with other Groupsubject to regular reporting to the Board.
The Group Risk and Control Framework has been include procedures for seeking and obtaining approval for considered and adopted by the Board which is responsible for the major transactions.
It should however be noted that the Group-wide standards system of internal control can only manage, rather than eliminate, There is, for universal application throughout the Group, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide a Group standards manual which sets out Group policies reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material miswith which all Group companies are required to comply.
manual is communicated to all Group operating companies The managing director, or his equivalent in overseas companies, through the Group Intranet.
The managing directors are and the principal finance officer of each operating company assess responsible for ensuring that each company observes and the effectiveness of the internal control environment and implements the policies and procedures set out in the procedures in their units.
They are responsible for the operation of manual.
A peer review process monitors and evaluates Information systems the system of internal control.
The process covers the areas of most There is a comprehensive budgeting system in place with significant risk to the Group and the annual review programme is an annual budget approved by the Board.
Management developed from feedback from both the external audit risk information systems provide directors with relevant and timely assessment planning process and the internal risk assessment reports that identify significant deviations from approved plans priorities.
The results of these reviews are reported to the Audit and include regular re-forecasts for the year.
The Audit Committee considers and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised by the The Groups internal control procedures described in this section external auditors.
have not been extended to cover its interests in joint ventures and associates.
The Group has board representation on each of its Each year, the operating companies prepare a report identifying joint venture and associate companies where separate systems of the relative probability and severity of the risks identied, the internal control have been adopted.
process for managing and mitigating these risks and the means by which management might be assured that the processes are Going concern effective.
The reports are reviewed by the Group Operations With regard to the basis on which the accounts of the Group Executive Committee and the chief executive reports to the Board have been prepared, the directors state that, after making all due on any control issues arising from these processes.
enquiries, they have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the Additionally, any issues or incidents are considered at the foreseeable future.
Therefore, in preparing the accounts they respective operating companys board meetings on an ongoing continue to adopt the going concern basis.
These are reviewed by the relevant divisional managing director with significant or recurring matters being considered by the Group Operations Executive Committee and, where appropriate, by the Board.
The Weir Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003 27
