Corporate Social Responsibility Statement Adheres to voluntary codes of conduct of gambling, promote a responsible approach to Introduction endorsed by the ABB for example, in gambling, and address the needs of those During the last decade, the UK has experienced relation to the number, type and operating adversely affected by a gambling dependency.
progressive fide-regulation of the law as it characteristics of FOBTs and AWPs in LBOs, applies to betting and gaming.
At the same GamCare as an organisation has generated a and disclosure of information on suspicious time, and in part as a direct consequence of substantial amount of information issued in betting patterns via the ABB to the relevant such fide-regulation, there has been a booklets and leaflets which is directed at sporting regulator : corresponding increase in the acceptability of various age groups.
It has also established gambling as a mainstream adult leisure activity.
Publishes and operates a policy of fair support networks and counselling The process of modernising the law is expected dealing with customers and customers opportunities, and continues to develop to continue following the enactment of the complaints: guidance as well as operate training courses.
draft Gambling Bill currently progressing Accepts Independent Betting Arbitration The Group is currently in the process of through the pre-legislative scrutiny process.
Service rulings: and implementing throughout its operations the As a leader in its industry, William Hill has ABB approved Code of Social Responsibility, Adheres to equal opportunities and health strived directly and via its industry association, that will lead to the award by GamCare of a and safety legislation.
the Association of British Bookmakers ABB, to Certificate of Social Responsibility to William influence the shape of future legislation.
It is envisaged that the implementation As regards dealing with customers based objective it has and continues to balance the process will be completed during 2004 and outside of the UK via its online Sportsbook, the sometimes divergent interests of followed up by an audit by GamCare to ensure Group takes the view that it is licensed and shareholders, employees, customers and society that the Group fully satisfies the assessment operating lawfully in the UK and it is the at large.
The Board believes that it has been criteria.
responsibility of the customer to ensure successful in carrying out this task and remains compliance with local laws in their particular aware of the need to promote responsible fidejurisdiction.
Suitable health warnings are set Supporting sports-related regulation in the sector.
out on the website to bring this point to the charities and other bodies attention of customers.
The Group continues to support sports-related Legal and regulatory charities and during the period has given In certain countries the absence of clear laws or environment donations to such charities as the Retraining of existence of restrictive local laws in relation to Under the current law, a bookmaker in the Racehorses Organisation, Injured Jockeys Fund, online betting have resulted in the Group case of the Group a company operating a English Blind Golf and the Greatwood Caring deciding or agreeing not to accept bets from betting business is required to pass a fit and for Retired Racehorses.
citizens based in such jurisdictions.
Where proper test in order to obtain a permit and appropriate, such as in Europe, the Group In addition the Group made a voluntary must hold a separate licence for each LBO.
continues to work towards the removal of donation of 2.3m to the British Greyhound Permits and licences are subject to regular restrictions on cross border betting through Racing Fund, which is spent for the benefit of renewal in a magistrates court on a three year legitimate channels such as national courts and the industry including the retired greyhound cycle.
As a reputable operator, William Hill the European Commission.
makes every effort to comply with the terms of each permit and licence, that include GamCare compliance with UK laws, so as to avoid there The Group is supportive of the requirement to being any grounds for non-renewal.
The Group address the social impact of increased betting has an excellent track record of securing the and gaming in the UK.
Consequently, it has paid necessary renewal of permits and licences.
and is committed to continue to pay substantial To ensure compliance with UK laws, regulations donations to the Gambling Industry Charitable and industry best practice, the Group: Trust that contributes to the funding of GamCare, a registered charity, which has Invests in staff training regarding the law as become the leading authority on the provision it relates to betting: of information, advice and practical help in Adopts marketing practices consistent with addressing the social impact of gambling.
the regulations published by the GamCare strives to develop strategies that will Independent Television Commission relating improve the understanding of the social impact to the promotion of betting and gaming: 24 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2003
