WB RA f ckd 2003 22-29 27 2 04 5:36 pm Page 22 Environmental performance Objectives and targets The following table, which is an excerpt from our Environmental Report, provides details of the objectives and targets that we have developed over the past year.
The full report is available on our website: www.
uk Objectives 2003 2007 Target 2003 2004 A Awareness & communication Increase communication a Develop a documented environmental strategy.
of the environmental b Communicate that strategy internally.
strategy and c Include details of the environmental objectives and targets on the intranet site and the in-house staff magazine.
d Provide environmental training on both in-house objectives and targets, as well as best practice tools for 50% of designers and planners.
e Continue to deliver the Working to Protect the Environment training course to ensure 100% of Construction Directors and Site Managers have attended.
f Establish a list of stakeholder groups.
g Identify key organisations from the stakeholder list and develop a strategy and key messages for two-way communication.
h Implement that strategy of two-way communication with at least 10% of identified stakeholders.
B Management of impacts All businesses to a Develop an appropriate Group environmental management system by the end of 2004. implement an b Each business to implement key elements of that environmental management system by the end of 2004.
C Land use Improve efficiency in the a Increase the percentage of development from brownfield land when compared to the 2002 baseline.
b Meet or exceed government guidance on housing densities.
D Natural environment Actively manage the a Develop and implement a landscape policy.
landscape and ecological b Develop and implement a biodiversity policy.
impacts of Wilson c Develop and implement operational procedures to minimise pollution.
E Supply chain Improve our a Investigate the benefits from using green specification guides.
understanding and b Develop a strategy for managing supply chain environmental impacts by 2004. control of our supply c Work with our top 30 suppliers to implement key elements of the strategy by 2004. chain impact.
d Work with 5 suppliers to investigate reducing the mileage travelled by their products.
F Design Improve the positive a Review existing design guidance and practices throughout the Group.
design impacts associated b Develop a design guidance note incorporating current best practice.
with Wilson Bowdens c Communicate the guidance and commence its implementation.
d Undertake and achieve an EcoHomes good very good rating for appropriate affordable housing projects.
G Waste Seek to minimise waste a Develop and communicate internally a consistent methodology for capturing waste data.
generated by activities b Undertake sample audits of sites and where practical implement the recommendations.
at Wilson Bowden offices c Issue guidance on waste management at sites.
d Provide 80% of on-site staff with waste management training.
e Reduce waste disposed to landfill by 15% based on 2002 baseline figures.
f Undertake sample audits of offices and where practical implement the recommendations.
g Gather information on the recycling activities of all permanent offices.
H Energy Develop and implement a Engage with power generation companies with renewable energy portfolios and produce a feasibility report to an Energy Reduction evaluate the possibility of procuring electricity from renewable sources.
Programme across b Develop an energy awareness programme and deliver to a minimum of 50% of staff.
c Reduce energy consumption by 5% from 2002 baseline figures for all permanent office locations.
d Establish a process for capturing construction site energy consumption data.
I Water Develop and implement a Develop a water reduction awareness programme and deliver to a minimum of 50% of staff.
a Water Reduction b Reduce water consumption by 5% from 2002 baseline figures for all permanent office locations.
Programme across c Establish a process for capturing project related water consumption.
J Transport Reduce the negative a Develop and implement a pilot Green Transport Plan.
impacts associated b Investigate ways of establishing the carbon dioxide emissions from the company fleet.
Supply chain management Reducing packaging and the recycling of that which is used.
Reducing CO2 emissions by reviewing delivery practices to site.
Recycling of waste products by manufacturers.
The use of raw materials from renewable resources.
Reduction of energy usage within the manufacturing process.
Land and planning As part of the land buying process we have a sophisticated system of evaluating sites.
This work is carried out at the operational companies regional offices and incorporates an environmental appraisal of each site.
The final sign-off procedure takes place at our Head Office where a comprehensive portfolio of information is presented to the senior management team.
In addition, once work has started on site a postaudit is undertaken to test the validity of the original evaluation.
For the third year running we have undertaken a sustainability audit of our available building land.
This information is then used in the proactive management of the Groups landholdings.
It has been complemented by upgrading, and providing training on, our computerised land and planning monitor database, which provides comprehensive details on each site under our control.
WB RA f ckd 2003 22-29 27 2 04 5:36 pm Page 23 Case Study Castle Donington Leicestershire An initial environmental assessment of this former power station site revealed a number of established badger colonies in residence.
However, the entire site is large enough to accommodate existing wildlife and future development.
As a result, over a two year period, the badgers were monitored by a specialist consultant who then devised a relocation strategy.
In consultation with English Nature disused setts were closed and a new one constructed.
The first badger colony has now taken up residence and the process will be repeated on a second colony.
Waste minimisation Last years benchmarking exercise recorded the following in relation to site related waste: Retained on site remediated 6,613m3 Retained on site inert 417,293m3 Off-site disposal inert 370,133m3 Off-site disposal active 62,990m3 As previously noted, we are increasingly utilising off-site prefabricated items in the construction process in order to help reduce on-site wastage and energy usage.
Indeed during 2002, around 53% of all material, by value, used in the construction process was manufactured off-site.
Design and build Of particular note is the Companys In order to facilitate quicker build continued collaboration with the University programmes and enhance our ability to of Nottinghams School of the Built work to closer tolerances, the Company is Environment.
The Eco House, located on actively embracing Modern Methods of the University campus, is now entering its Construction as advanced in the third year as a test bed for new technology Governments Communities Plan.
This under real life conditions.
During 2002 this ranges from the use of timber frame pioneering work was acknowledged when it technology through to the use of prewas awarded Best House of the Future at fabricated building components.
To this end the prestigious Brittania National our purpose built joinery facility, Housebuilder Design Awards.
Our commissioned in 2001, is now playing an relationship with the University has been important role in the provision of bespoke further strengthened with senior components.
This not only reduces on-site academics now advising on other material wastage, but also reduces CO2 leading edge concept projects currently emissions in the construction and under development by the Group.
Environmental protection As part of the environmental performance benchmarking exercise undertaken during 2002 we have measured gas, electricity and water consumption at our permanent offices.
In compiling these statistics we have used meter readings, wherever possible, but where these are not available data from the relevant invoices has been used.
The results of the consumption figures aggregated for the Group were: Gas 2,402,789 Kwh Electricity 2,510,734 Kwh Water 8,650,000 litres Other factors recorded during 2002 related to the natural environment and built heritage.
The aggregated results for these indicators across the Group were as follows: Trees planted 74,228 Trees preserved 4,422 Shrubs planted 295,192 Hedgerows preserved 8,936 linear metres Open space created - formal 55.07 acres Open space created - informal 33.34 acres Buildings converted 23 Buildings converted - floor area 230,813 sq ft Training and communication Every new employee to the Company attends either a Group or Divisional Induction Day, during which they are made aware of the Companys structure and how they fit into it.
As part of these sessions new staff are told about the Companys Environmental Policy and its commitment to managing the business in an environmentally responsible manner.
During last year the Company successfully introduced a course entitled Working to Protect the Environment.
All Construction Directors and Site Managers in David Wilson Homes have now attended this one day session and the course will now be rolled out to Wilson Bowden City Homes and Wilson Bowden Developments.
In addition, consideration is being given to extending it to the Groups Development Surveyors and Project Managers.
23 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Environmental performance
