WB RA f ckd 2003 36 37 26 2 04 12:11 pm Page 36 Environmental review environmental significance for the Group and although reviewed annually, will remain in place until 2007.
This will allow the environmental strategy to become fully embedded within the organisation.
In addition, specific targets have been set for the period to 2004 when they will be reassessed and where appropriate, upgraded for a further two years.
To facilitate this process specific performance indicators have been set to allow consistent measurement and monitoring across the Group of the identified environmental risk factors.
Environmental protection The Group continues to work with planners, politicians, investors and many other stakeholders, to ensure our developments are sustainable and respect the environment.
Our development sites are subjected to an environmental assessment prior to any construction taking place.
This allows solutions to any environmental issues to be incorporated into the masterplanning process.
Indeed, we take great care to ensure each scheme preserves as The photograph shows Annina As a result of the Groups extensive activities it much of the existing environment, whether it McDonnell examining a newt has developed considerable expertise in all aspects relates to fauna and flora, existing buildings with collection point at our Amber of the development process from sourcing land heritage value, important open spaces, or other Park distribution site, just off through to obtaining planning consent on both features of value to the local community.
Junction 28 of the M1 brownfield and greenfield sites, as well as building Motorway.
Our environmental innovative and sustainable schemes.
Throughout The Groups risk management procedures have assessment of the site revealed a nearby colony of Great its operations, the Group recognises the importance also been extended to encompass planning and Crested Newts and so fencing of environmental responsibility to its stakeholders environmental issues.
As part of the process and was erected to ensure they did and continues to integrate environmental to raise environmental awareness on sites, not stray onto the development considerations into decision making at every level we are currently producing an information card during construction and any of the organisation.
that will be issued to all personnel and visitors already there could be to our developments.
collected for relocation under a DEFRA licence.
The completed Environmental management development will include a The Groups Environmental Committee structure Land and planning newt breeding pond and was reviewed during 2003 to ensure it could We recognise that sourcing the most appropriate existing landscaping will be meet future demands.
Whilst the structure was sites to provide new homes, work places, shopping enhanced to improve the considered appropriate, the membership, both at and leisure facilities for the future is becoming an overall newt habitat.
Group and constituent operational sub-committee increasingly sensitive task.
Indeed, as development level, was strengthened.
continues to concentrate on urban sites there is an increased potential to impact on a greater number The main policy decisions continue to be determined of people.
Accordingly we strive to preserve and by the Group Committee which has also taken enhance, both the social and natural environment on board responsibility for the Groups Corporate for those affected communities.
Below that there remain sub-committees representing David Wilson We are also acutely aware that land is a finite Homes, Wilson Bowden Developments and Wilson resource and that it is vitally important to reclaim Bowden City Homes.
These are tasked with and redevelop redundant sites and bring them co-ordinating initiatives at operational level and back into effective use for society at large.
Sitting alongside these the years the Group has become skilled in the sub-committees is an Innovations Committee, techniques of cleaning and remediating pre-used which is responsible for reviewing and trialling land ranging from simple site clearance to major The Groups risk new materials, products and building techniques.
reclamation projects involving: redundant hospitals: management procedures former teaching colleges: disused airfields: steel have also been extended Environmental performance works and power stations.
to encompass The Group is committed to the continued PLANNING AND improvement of its environmental performance and For the third year running we have undertaken a the minimisation of the impact of its operations.
sustainability audit of available building land.
The ENVIRONMENTAL issues Accordingly, objectives and targets were set during resulting information is then used in the pro-active 2003.
The former address the broad areas of management of the Groups landholdings.
WB RA f ckd 2003 36 37 26 2 04 12:11 pm Page 37 Design and build Training and communication The Group has responded to the Governments Environmental awareness and social responsibility requirement for the more efficient use of land by are seen as an increasingly important element expanding its house type portfolio.
This facilitates of our training programmes.
Employees attend an development at higher densities whilst still induction where they are made aware of the providing desirable living environments.
It also Groups structure and how they fit into it.
During maximises design efficiencies enabling production the sessions staff are told about the Groups of bespoke layouts for specific sites by allowing environmental policy and its commitment to Throughout its operations, blocks of units to be assembled together in managing the business in an environmentally the Group recognises appropriate combinations.
the importance of In order to facilitate quicker build programmes, At the site level, construction directors and site ENVIRONMENTAL reduce onsite material wastage and enhance our managers attend a one-day course entitled Working RESPONSIBILITY ability to work to closer tolerances, the Group to Protect the Environment.
Furthermore, the is actively embracing modern methods of Group uses Tool Box Talks on environmental to its stakeholders and construction.
This ranges from the adoption awareness, waste minimisation and health and continues to integrate of timber frame technology through to the use of safety issues.
Furthermore, considerations into we continually seek ways to improve the operating For more general consumption our Environmental decision making at every efficiency of each development by trialling new Bulletin page in the Groups Wilson People level of the organisation materials and products, as well as undertaking magazine has now been extended.
In addition pro-active research into new technologies.
To this David Wilson Homes regional offices also produce end we work in co-operation with the industry, their own newsletters which contain environmental its trade organisations and academics.
Supply chain management On the external front we continue to build up We continue to work in partnership with our our network of contacts with other organisations, suppliers to identify new initiatives.
To date these at national, regional and local level.
These range have focused on: reducing packaging: reducing from statutory bodies and trade organisations, emissions by reviewing delivery practices: and CO through to academics, charities and our competitors.
2 the recycling of waste products by manufacturers.
Corporate social responsibility Furthermore, the environmental credentials of our The Group has now launched a corporate social suppliers are now embedded in our purchasing responsibility CSR programme focused on philosophy so that it ranks alongside quality, price three key stakeholders.
These are our customers, and other criteria, when placing orders.
In future, the people who build and sell our product and the our National Commodity Agreements will require communities within which the developments take suppliers and sub-contractors to have in place an place.
During 2004 it will draw together a range environmental policy.
We also remain committed of initiatives that are planned around these to procuring materials from manufacturers and stakeholders.
Many of these initiatives have emerged suppliers who in turn, as far as possible, source from the Groups usual attention to improving their raw materials from renewable resources.
performance, but have been given extra focus from the contribution they also make to its social Waste minimisation responsibilities.
In this way, the CSR programme During 2003 the Groups waste management and is starting to widen managers appreciation of the recycling strategy was updated with a best practice value that working in certain ways can bring.
manual issued to our operating companies.
The What we learn and achieve from this will be used to focus remains one of encouraging waste segregation improve performance with the three stakeholders in order to facilitate recycling and reprocessing.
We and form a basis for subsequent expansion of the also encourage our suppliers to accept responsibility programme.
for removing surplus material from site.
The Company continues to recycle old PCs, lap tops, VDU screens, printers and mobile phones.
Wherever possible double sided photocopying is employed throughout the organisation and systems are gradually being put in place to minimise the distribution of hard copy documentation.
Furthermore, the Group has implemented an E-Commerce Gateway which allows for paperless trading with our main suppliers, contractors and consultants.
37 Wilson Bowden plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Environmental review
