Our community We are an international business working in and with our local communities.
House for Humanity One of 12 new Habitat for Humanity homes in Raleigh, North Carolina, to which Stock Building Supply has donated products and services.
The programme builds houses for less fortunate families who earn their houses by participating in the building process.
Ferguson breaks ground on Habitat for Humanity house To commemorate its 50th anniversary, Ferguson broke ground to begin construction on a house in Williamsburg, Virginia.
The Pressey family, who will purchase the home upon completion, attended the ceremony and the children signed their names in wet concrete to mark the occasion.
Chesapeake Bay, Newport News Ferguson has donated broken and damaged sanitary ware to a local project to encourage the return of oysters to Chesapeake Bay.
The donated sanitary ware is broken up and used to create a reef in the Bay for the oysters.
Construction Industry Trust for Youth Agnes Nteziryayo was one of 20 London teenagers who got a chance to work on a building project, thanks to the First Start for Young People Training Scheme.
The scheme is operated by Caxton Islington Training Unit part of the Kier Group.
The Wolseley donation to CITY trust will be used to help similar projects.
Project 118 Youth Ranch Wolseley Canada has contributed time, money and materials and has helped raise funds for the building and running costs of a Youth Ranch located just outside Calgary.
33 Corporate social responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Corporate social responsibility report Although the environmental impact of our distribution activities is The majority of timber that our recently acquired business, Pinault comparatively low, we do recognise that sound Corporate Social Bois et Matriaux PBM, imports into France is softwood which Responsibility policies and practices are fundamental to business is sourced from suppliers who hold certifications, or who are seeking success.
We demonstrate this belief in many ways, ranging from certifications, from the Forest Stewardship Council or from the how we run our businesses to the support that we provide to the Pan European Forest Council, which, like the American and Canadian communities in which we operate.
forestry associations promote sustainable forestry management.
PBM also imports a small quantity of hardwood and ensures that Health, safety and environment its suppliers have not been censured by the United Nations, as part A key driver of the Groups success has been the high degree of of resolution number 2001 1343.
PBM works with its suppliers to autonomy which has been afforded to local managements, allowing ensure the application of appropriate environmental and conservation them to serve local markets in the most appropriate manner.
Within standards, especially where certification has not yet been awarded, this decentralised structure, the board has set down a number of such as in Russia.
Forest Stewardship Council certification is also health, safety and environment principles with which all businesses being sought for PBMs own Cerland range of garden products.
Waste management The principles relating to environment cover: the integration of Brossette in France has installed containers at each of its branches environmental management into business operations: a commitment for the collection of plastic paper, wood and metal for recycling.
to the adoption and achievement of best practice wherever this Brossette is about to begin piloting a scheme that will allow its is practicable: a commitment to prevent pollution: compliance with customers to benefit from third party environmental services, local environmental legislation: the adoption where practicable of particularly in the field of waste removal and recycling which local formal environmental management systems: a commitment would complement its existing recycling programme.
AG in to strive for continual improvement: and a commitment to ensure Austria continues to operate its waste management strategy proper communication with employees on environmental matters.
that has been in place since 1994 and which streams waste for collection and reprocessing by specialist contractors.
The health and safety principles require local management to have in place suitable procedures to ensure compliance with applicable Environment laws and regulations and, wherever possible, to employ best practice.
The US Virginia Marine Resources Commission is seeking to stimulate the oyster population by using porcelain pieces as a substitute for These principles are applied within the Groups business in many ways.
oyster shell on a sanctuary reef in Chesapeake Bay.
It is hoped that The following examples are representative: the oyster population will increase tenfold by 2010.
Ferguson is contributing damaged and broken toilets which would otherwise Lumber have been thrown away and has solicited the help of its employees The vast majority of suppliers to our US building materials based in the Head Office in Newport News and elsewhere.
distribution business, Stock Building Supply, hold certifications from recognised forestry sustainability agencies such as the Wolseley Centers in the UK has formed an environmental steering American Forest Products Association and the Canadian Standards group comprising senior managers and local board directors.
The American Forest Products Associations Sustainable The Group identifies ways in which environmental issues can Forest Initiative programme requires participants to meet an exacting be captured and improvements made.
The Group has reviewed standard of environmental principles, objectives and performance Wolseley Centers Environmental Policy and a revised policy has measures.
This standard integrates the perpetual growing and been issued by Centers Chief Executive.
This policy set out the harvesting of trees with the protection of wildlife, plants, soil and Companys position to customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
water quality, together with a wide range of conservation goals.
Commitment was made to continuous improvement in environmental While there remains a negligible amount of product sourced from performance, the prevention of pollution and to improving efficiency non-certified sources, Stock Building Supply constantly reviews in the use of resources including energy, water, packaging and other suppliers policies and encourages sustainable forestry management.
An extensive internal communication exercise is now Suppliers are required to verify and certify their stated environmental underway, aimed at explaining the objectives and the way in which practices and there is constant dialogue along the supply chain.
Stock Building Supply educates and trains its employees on environmental matters and promotes the development of innovative Timber purchasing was identified as an important environmental alternative building materials such as the incorporation of composite area.
Purchasing has been restricted to a nucleus of approved brick moulding into exterior portions of its Portrait Series windows suppliers who can demonstrate that their products have been which will ensure that jambs do not rot but are pliable and can obtained from sustainable sources with managed reforestation be painted.
Following consultation with customers and suppliers, policies.
It has also been decided to reinforce current practices the companys Portrait Series windows now consist entirely of through Timber Center and Builder Center, both of which sell timber component parts, vinyl or wood from sustainable sources, offering in the UK.
Timber Center has begun to seek Forest Stewardship both more value to the customer and conservative use of resources.
Council FSC accreditation for its branches, with the first branches being expected to complete the accreditation process by the end of 2003.
Appropriate Builder Center branches will then seek their own FSC accreditation.
34 Corporate social responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Corporate social responsibility report continued Transport is another key area for Wolseley Centers.
Tight controls Brossette has a national fleet maintenance programme in place, are enforced to ensure that the minimum number of vehicles operate which seeks to secure optimal use of its delivery vehicles while out of each site and emphasis is placed upon route planning to minimising the impact on the environment.
Brossette seeks to minimise delivery journeys.
Trials with shared transport across clusters take advantage of technological improvements when renewing its of branches have taken place and early indications suggest transport fleet to both reduce emissions and to optimise fuel consumption.
wastage and route duplication have been reduced.
Our recently acquired business in France, PBM, has embarked upon a fleet renewal programme to increase fuel efficiency, improve Significant investment has been made in distribution warehousing.
safety and reduce both emissions and transport costs.
Fleet efficiency Multiple stock replenishment deliveries to branches from suppliers is underpinned by a national fleet management programme which have been reduced as loads are consolidated in Centers own ensures uniform operating standards.
PBM ensures that its drivers distribution warehouses for onward delivery.
Consolidating loads training is maintained and seeks ways of encouraging good driving.
reduces the number of supplier vehicles on the road while minimising the local impact around branches.
Centers transport group Health and safety seeks to operate best practice policies which include: continuous Stock Building Supply has a safety committee with responsibility monitoring of new design and technological improvements to vehicles for developing, introducing and monitoring the effectiveness so that informed decisions can be taken when future vehicle purchases of the companys overall safety programme and objectives.
are made: continuous attention to servicing programmes which The committee comprises employees with different perspectives include regular emissions checks to ensure vehicle efficiency: and from varied disciplines.
Each branch manager is responsible and a reduced emissions and tyre pressure management system and accountable for health and safety at his or her branch, for optimal fleet use.
Equipment has been installed at distribution including compliance with regulations, safety awareness and accident warehouses to bale and recycle cardboard and hard plastic.
All new employees are given induction training relating to safe working practices and hazards present in the workplace.
Ferguson in the USA has been using a transportation management Training is also provided when an employee is requested to handle system for its 1,200 diesel powered delivery vehicles.
The system new processes, procedures or equipment.
Monthly mandatory optimises the delivery of goods from distribution centres to branches safety meetings are held at each branch during which, as a minimum, as well as directly to customers, thereby reducing handling and topics designated by the safety committee must be discussed.
Safety transport costs together with vehicle emissions.
The new system is issues within each branch are dealt with by a safety coordinator or now being implemented at a branch level and significant savings are local safety committee consisting of a cross section of employees.
Ferguson has a policy of sourcing vehicles from a supplier with a leading reputation in environmentally friendly Wolseley Centers has a health and safety committee, supported by diesel technology.
The engines for all replacement vehicles are the health and safety department.
This comprises senior managers certified to meet the US Governments 2007 standard for particulate and local board directors.
The committee reviews the UK Groups emissions.
Ferguson is also seeking to take full advantage of new performance in health and safety matters, promotes good practice digital valve technology to improve air quality and fuel economy and ensures appropriate consultation on any intended changes to throughout its entire distribution network.
the health and safety management systems.
All branch and area managers are trained in this area and all employees are trained As part of Stock Building Supplys transport management programme, to complete their daily tasks in a safe manner.
many suppliers back-load their delivery vehicles to avoid wasteful return journeys.
This initiative is part of a programme that also Brossette has a central health and safety committee which oversees includes investment in a national fleet management and servicing the work carried out by the health and safety committees in individual system aimed at achieving optimal fleet efficiency and curbing branches.
Representatives of the company and employees sit on excessive emissions.
An extensive programme of education has each local committee, together with an occupational health doctor.
ensured that an appropriate level of capital expenditure is invested All new employees and managers receive appropriate induction and in new environmentally friendly vehicles.
These vehicles incorporate training which includes matters related to health and safety.
PBM emission and fuel economy technologies which already comply launched a company-wide education programme during the year to with forthcoming US Government standards.
In common with increase awareness of the importance of health and safety matters other Wolseley companies, Stock Building Supplys maintenance throughout the business.
The programme reinforces the fact that programme seeks to improve both safety and fuel efficiency by each person throughout the company has both a responsibility and increasing reliability through the direct purchase of spare parts a part to play in maintaining and improving health and safety standards.
and also by rigorous tyre management.
Acquisitions Stock Building Supplys distribution centres were designed to facilitate A great deal of importance is placed on environmental and health product delivery by rail.
More than 50% of deliveries to the distribution and safety matters during the due diligence process for acquisitions.
centres are made in this way, with over 10,000 wagon loads equivalent External environmental consultants review and assess environmental to some 40,000 lorry loads received during the last year alone.
risks to which the Group could potentially become exposed.
Delivery by rail is encouraged and is expected to continue to grow.
Brossette in France is implementing a reorganisation programme to reduce the number of warehouses and to regroup branches in order to improve productivity and customer service while at the same time reducing the number of delivery journeys and transport costs.
35 Corporate social responsibility report Wolseley plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Depending upon the type of proposed acquisition, this assessment emotional support.
Stock Building Supply has committed to provide could include reviews of environmental management systems, building materials for the construction of the Lodge and to procuring compliance with laws and regulations and the respect and care supplies of materials from third parties at nil or reduced cost.
Health and safety compliance and processes are also considered as part of the process.
Appropriate Ferguson participates in Relay for Life, the American Cancer Societys dialogue with, and indemnities from, the proposed vendors are signature fundraising activity that involves marathon-walking sought where appropriate.
sessions which raise money to help eradicate cancer.
Fergusons associates throughout the USA hold many additional fundraising Code of ethics events.
This year, the team from Fergusons headquarters raised A Group-wide Code of Ethics was drawn up during the year.
$19,000 and five teams of 15 people represented the company This sets out a number of fundamental principles which all at the Relay itself.
Work is already underway for the 2004 Relay.
companies and employees are expected to follow.
In keeping with our decentralised approach, businesses were required Wolseley Centers operates a local community donation scheme to adopt their own codes which respected local cultures and in the UK.
Plumb Center, Timber Center, Builder Center and Hire businesses but which also set standards that are no less exacting Center donate money to a wide range of good causes for sports, than those detailed in the Group-wide Code.
To a large extent, education and health schemes in local communities.
Some 58 such these individual codes simply underpinned and endorsed existing donations were made in the year to 31 July 2003, supporting practices.
The Group-wide Code covers many areas including diverse organisations including the National Deaf Childrens Society.
fair competition, compliance with laws, including anti-trust laws, As part of National Construction Week, when the UKs construction maintenance of the Groups reputation for integrity including industry visits schools throughout the country to talk to children a prohibition on bribery and general principles for dealing with about the industry and career opportunities, Wolseley Centers suppliers and authorities.
The Group-wide Code can be viewed donated 10,000 to the Construction Industry Trust for Youth on the Companys website at www.
CITY seeks to give young people from disadvantaged copy is available from the Company Secretary.
communities a second chance to gain an education and to qualify for a place on industry training schemes.
Community relations Notwithstanding the international nature of the business, the Group PBM, our new French business, works with a company dedicated continues to operate with a high degree of autonomy, working in to the employment of disabled people throughout Western France.
and with our local communities.
We recognise our responsibility to They are mainly involved in the assembly of products sold by PBM invest in the communities in which our businesses operate and to under its garden products Cerland brand.
act as a good corporate citizen.
Wolseley has also recently become a member of Business in the Community in the UK.
We are looking Wolseley Canada is working with Project 118 Youth Ranch, forward to working with that organisation to help develop our a Canadian based not-for-profit organisation that seeks to rebuild approach and practice.
the spiritual, physical, social and psychological lives of young women who may be at risk.
Wolseley Canada has contributed time, The Groups businesses are involved in a wide range of initiatives money and materials and has helped raise funds for the building for the benefit of local communities, of which the following are and running costs of a Youth Ranch located just outside of Calgary.
representative: The Youth Ranch is intended to be a long-term residential retreat that will enable young women and their families to rebuild their lives As part of its 50th Anniversary celebrations, Ferguson will be in a rural setting.
Wolseley Canada has raised over C$100,000 for providing materials and labour for the construction of a Habitat for the Youth Ranch and has organised fundraising events amongst Humanity house in Williamsburg, Virginia.
Stock Building Supply customers and its suppliers.
This is but one example of the companys is currently supplying materials and project planning as well as commitment to giving back to the communities it serves where securing reduced or no-cost products from other material suppliers currently over 60 community projects are supported across Canada.
for two such homes in Hudson and Baldwin, Wisconsin.
Some of the prefabrication work for the house in Hudson was carried out Donations by prisoners at the St Croix Correctional Facility with the help In addition to these initiatives, the Group supports charities relevant of volunteers from Habitat for Humanity.
Habitat for Humanity to the countries and to the locations in which businesses operate.
is a non-profit organisation which seeks to eliminate substandard These are wide-ranging and cover health, welfare, education, civic housing and homelessness from the world.
Future homeowners and community projects as well as culture and the arts.
Each year, are required to invest their own labour into building their house which several hundred donations are made.
In the USA, many of our is then sold to them at no profit with affordable, no interest loans.
employees make regular contributions to the United Way, an organisation which distributes funds to charities.
In the UK, The American Cancer Society has embarked upon a unique project a Give as You Earn Scheme has been introduced with the to build a Hope Lodge in Durham, North Carolina.
This will provide assistance of the Charities Aid Foundation which distributes accommodation exclusively for children undergoing treatment at the funds to UK charities.
Further details of the donations made Duke University Medical Center for cancer, genetic defects and blood during the year are set out on page 42. disorders.
The paediatric Hope Lodge will also provide unlimited accommodation for the childrens families, relieving some of the financial burden so that they can concentrate on providing critical
