Corporate Social Responsibility How we do Business As we said in last years Report and Accounts, the Group recognises that its activities, both in the UK and abroad, have an impact on both people and their environment.
We believe that a commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR should be reflected primarily in how one does business day-to-day, as well as by standalone, charitable and green initiatives.
In our Marketplace: We recognise that as a retailer of products sourced from around the world, including developing nations like China, India and Bangladesh, we have a responsibility to apply and monitor ethical trading principles in our supply chain.
In our Workplace: We recognise that none of our plans for success can be achieved without the hard work and commitment of our colleagues throughout the Group.
They are entitled to equality of opportunity, dignity and respect as they go about their work.
In our Environment: We recognise that the operations of our businesses will affect the environment.
We have a responsibility to deal properly with the Groups energy consumption, waste and recycling obligations.
In our Community: We recognise that as a major presence on the UK high street we are part of the community which provides our customers.
We have the opportunity to bring a positive impact to those communities and to facilitate local educational and charitable initiatives.
This year, working with the help of  LLP, Global Sustainable Business Solutions, the Company has: undertaken a Group-wide review of its current performance in CSR: established a CSR Committee with representation from all of our business areas to monitor the Groups CSR performance and to provide a forum to develop a programme of sustainable improvement: developed a suite of overriding Group principles to inform and support the operating companies own policies: participated in the first Business in the Community corporate responsibility index and the seventh Business in the Environment index of corporate environmental engagement: and published a web-based CSR report.
For a full report on the Groups activities in CSR please refer to the Companys website www.
com and click on Corporate Social Responsibility.
Alternatively for a hard copy of the report please contact the Company Secretary.
Yours sincerely Trevor Bish-Jones Chief Executive 25 March 2003 13 Woolworths Group plc
