How we behave Corporate social responsibility WPP recognises the importance of high standards of social, ethical and environmental behaviour.
Being a Corporate social responsible corporate citizen is not only the right thing to do, it also adds to the success of the Company.
Social 1 responsibility responsibility is an important factor in the management of brands and corporate reputation, a core area of WPPs business.
Our values and policies help us to recruit and retain the most talented people and a strong and positive attitude to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR attracts investment from the growing number of socially responsible investors.
Last year, WPP published its first CSR Review a copy of which is available on the Companys website which sets out our thinking in more detail and which highlights many examples of pro bono and partnership work performed throughout the Group.
This year we carried out our second global CSR survey.
Information was gathered from our 1,400 ofces worldwide.
In reporting WPPs record on CSR, we have taken into account the activities and contributions of each of the operating companies as well as those of the parent company.
The second CSR Review will be published in the second half of 2004.
How we manage CSR During 2003 we established a CSR committee to strengthen management of these issues.
The CSR committee is chaired by Howard Paster, a director of the Company, who is responsible for the implementation of the CSR policy.
The CSR committee is made up of senior executives, reecting WPPs major business categories, from Advertising, Media investment management, Information insight & consultancy, Public relations & public affairs, Branding & identity, Healthcare and Specialist communications.
The CSR committee advises on policy, monitors emerging issues and co-ordinates communication between Group companies.
In addition, all of the Groups operating companies have nominated a senior CSR representative responsible for compiling and reporting data to the parent company and co-ordinating CSR activity.
Two Board committees divide responsibility for identifying and managing certain important CSR risks: the Audit committee, chaired by John Jackson which considers social, ethical and environmental issues: and the Compensation committee, chaired by Bud Morten, which oversees employment issues including equal opportunities and harassment issues.
The Companys internal audit function is extending the scope of its reviews of Group companies to give greater focus to social, ethical and environmental risks.
Our activity in the Groups three main CSR areas is summarised overleaf, and more details on progress in these areas will be included in the CSR Review to be published in the second half of 2004.
1 Figures contained in this CSR section have not been audited.
