WPP in society Sir Martin Sorrell is an active participant in Key issues programs at the following international business CSR covers a wide range of subjects.
We have reviewed schools: London Business School: Judge Institute of these in the context of our businesses and believe that Management, Cambridge: IESE, Spain: Indian Business the most significant areas for the Group are: social School: Harvard Business School and Boston University.
investment, including donations and pro bono work The leaders of our operating companies regularly professional work at no, or minimal, cost : marketing support not-for-profit organisations spanning a wide ethics: and employee development.
WPP has only a small variety of causes.
environmental impact but has prioritised three issues We will provide examples of these in our updated energy consumption, paper use and recycling we CSR Review to be published later this year.
have begun working on these with our 10 largest In addition, the Company is a member of the ofces worldwide.
Media Group in the UK which is working with KPMG to establish the key CSR issues for media companies.
Social investment WPP companies make a substantial social investment Marketing ethics through pro bono work to charitable organisations.
Our businesses confront complex CSR issues unique We estimate the value of our 2003 pro bono work to to the communications services sector.
Standards and be 12.3 million based on the fees the benefiting regulations governing advertising and marketing material organisations would normally have paid for these differ widely between countries as do public values.
The Group also facilitated the donation of Our Code of Business Conduct states that we will not 0.55 million of third-party media to charitable causes.
knowingly create work that is offensive to the general The value of this work to charities is incalculable since public or minorities.
We are committed to complying they rely on our support to create advertising and other with all regulations and self-regulatory codes communications essential to their fundraising, appropriate to each local market.
recruitment of members and awareness campaigns.
Many WPP people are involved in developing In addition we donated 2.63 million in cash to industry codes and best practice standards in sensitive charities and community organisations.
Many of our areas such as advertising to children and marketing of companies encourage employees to give their time and food and pharmaceutical products.
skills to community organisations during normal working hours.
WPP as an employer Equal opportunities WPP the parent company A productive workplace requires equality of opportunity The Company focuses its support on education and freedom from discrimination.
The Compensation and the arts.
committee and the Group endorse and support the Some initiatives supported include: principles of equal employment opportunity.
It is the India: Indian Business School.
policy of the Group in its businesses throughout the South Africa: sponsoring young copywriters and world to provide equal employment opportunities to designers to attend the Red & Yellow School.
all appropriately qualied individuals irrespective of UK: Charles Edward Brooke Girls School, which race, creed, colour, age, religion, sex, disability, sexual specialises in media arts, sponsoring work placements orientation, marital status, military service, national and other pro bono assignments.
The Group has implemented and UK: Royal College of Art annual illustration maintained a formal non-discrimination policy since 1992. competition.
The purpose of the Groups policy is to ensure UK: provision of two bursary awards for D&AD, the that all employment decisions are made, subject to its professional association for design and advertising.
legal obligations, on a non-discriminatory basis, whether The Company is a corporate patron of the at the time of employment, in promotion, training, National Portrait Gallery in London.
remuneration, termination of employment or whenever any WPP pro bono work value 12.3m Charity and community cash donations value 2.6m Health 3,913,238 Local community 659,357 Local community 2,894,783 Health 657,152 Education 1,575,931 Education 540,870 Other 1,502,578 Other 444,018 Arts 1,197,478 Arts 299,250 Environment 1,142,688 Environment 19,484 Drugs Alcohol 74,782 Drugs Alcohol 9,915 84 WPP Annual Report 2003 How we behave Corporate social responsibility terms and conditions of employment are being considered.
Professional development The Groups Code of Business Conduct referred Managing talent is at the heart of the Groups strategy.
to on page 80 contains policies in relation to human We have tremendous faith in the capacity of talented resource issues, such as harassment and discrimination.
people to surprise even themselves in what they are The Group has an independently operated helpline, capable of accomplishing, when nurtured and challenged Right to Speak, to allow staff to report their concerns to reach new heights.
Their professional development condentially, and anonymously if desired, on both helps generate strong job satisfaction, client satisfaction employee and financial issues.
We continue our long-standing commitment to This year we took further steps in expanding our gender diversity in the workplace.
We have a strong executive development programs and sharpening our track record of women taking senior leadership talent performance reviews.
Building on a strong array positions within the Group.
of programs already in place, the Company is planning Women are well represented across the Group, the expansion of its executive development curriculum.
accounting for some 36% of executive directors, 54% of New programs fostering creative leadership, client account directors and 56% of all employees.
In addition, leadership and agency rm leadership were identied.
during 2004 women will represent 23% of the The Company also laid the groundwork for more membership of the main board of the Company.
systematic reviews of our people.
Operating company CEOs led rigorous and development-focused reviews Employee ownership of their executive talent, with the key objectives of The Groups Worldwide Ownership Plan, introduced in cultivating the exceptional capabilities of our leaders 1997, has given approximately 45,000 of our people a whilst assuring responsible succession planning.
direct stake in WPPs financial success.
Details of this Coaching, mentoring, and deliberate job moves are Plan and other executive stock option plans can be essential by-products of the talent reviews planned found on page 91. for the year ahead.
People working in the Group currently own, We believe that investment in our people is or have interests in, approximately 90 million shares mutually beneficial.
In 2003 our people received training representing 7% of the issued share capital of the and assistance with professional development with an Company.
Employee communications Employee external appointments The Group places great importance in keeping people The Company recognises that its directors and senior in our operating companies informed about the Groups executives may be invited to become non-executive progress, activities and matters affecting them and our directors of other companies and that such exposure businesses.
With 1,400 ofces in 106 countries, keeping may be beneficial to the Group.
Consequently, executives everybody informed is a challenge.
Knowledge of the are allowed to accept non-executive appointments with Group and our strategy is valuable to all our people and non-competing companies subject to obtaining the we go to some lengths to enable easy access to this approval of the Group chief executive in the case of information by providing: senior executives and the approval of the Nomination Periodic reports from Sir Martin Sorrell to all people committee in the case of executive directors.
Any fees participating in shortand long-term incentive plans: receivable out of such appointments are retained by Distribution of the Annual Report, the Navigator, the individuals concerned.
The Catalog, the Atticus Journal, WPPs global newspaper, The WIRE, and weekly FactFiles to all companies worldwide: A monthly online news bulletin e. wire: Regular communications on major Group initiatives such as the Worldwide Partnership Program, BRANDZ, the Atticus Awards, the WPP Marketing Fellowship Program and professional development workshops: Ongoing development of our public website, our Groupwide intranet and our professional Knowledge Communities: Retail, Digital Communications, Media and Financial Services: and Formal and informal meetings at the operating company level.
WPP Annual Report 2003 85 How were rewarded 86 WPP Annual Report 2003
