24 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 Stakeholder report Employees were challenged to ensure that a volunteering event was held somewhere in Xansa on each day of October.
All Xansa offices and most client based teams took part.
Volunteers donated their own time to organise and run around 200 fund-raising and practical events, often joining forces with clients employees and suppliers to increase the impact.
Volunteers decorated hostels and classrooms, renovated gardens and school playgrounds and provided IT and professional skills training to voluntary organisations own Employees employees and clients.
In addition, supported with matching The last year was a particularly demanding one for all funds and grants from the Xansa Employee Trust, Optimise employees worldwide with significant organisational changes October raised almost 62,000 for about 60 homeless and affecting most people.
One result is that we have now educational organisations around the world.
strengthened the focus on our employees career development Fund-raising and volunteering activities continued after and training through the creation of the International Resource October.
In total, Xansa employees raised just over 90,000 for function and its team of career managers and skill set leaders.
This was boosted to 138,000 with During the streamlining programme, we were externally matching funds from the Xansa Employee Trust.
Nearly half assessed again for our commitment to training and developing of the donations were directed to homeless and educational our employees and we were re-accredited as an Investor in organisations.
In India, Optimise October provided a launch People for a third time in succession.
platform for Xansas volunteering programme.
As well as We continue to monitor closely the morale of our employees extending the Literacy@Home programme to its Chennai office and will be introducing this year a twice yearly on-line poll to Xansa volunteers have helped set up and run computer labs enable us to gauge morale and employee commitment to Xansa in two orphanages in Chennai and in a government school in around the world in a timely fashion.
Xansa India has supported their activities with donations of computers, IT equipment and furniture.
Clients In the coming year, Xansa will formally review its community A key differentiator for Xansa is our effective business programme, assessing progress since the last review in 2001 relationships with our clients.
This importance is reflected in and identifying future objectives and targets.
Xansas positioning through strong relationships, commercial innovation and our integrated Indian delivery capability, Environment we drive real and long-term cost reductions, performance Xansa recognises its responsibilities to help protect and sustain improvements and new ways of working, tailored to each client.
the environment and its resources.
As part of our focus on clients, this year Xansa conducted As far as is practicable, Xansas purchasing choices research looking at the criteria which affects client decision favour products showing clear environmental advantages and making when choosing an IT services partner.
Clients told us we seek to use suppliers having similar policies and practices.
that their decision-making criteria are based around solutions In accordance with this commitment, the design and that provide return on investment, innovation or inspiration construction of our new campus developments in India have and certainty of outcome in the results we commit to delivering.
incorporated measures for water harvesting and recycling, During all of the changes, our clients have demonstrated energy efficiency, controls over air quality and emissions as that the values that underpin our business are those that well as environmental landscaping.
This means that two thirds of our business comes have been sourced from sustainable sources wherever practical.
from clients where we have a relationship that is over five During 2003 we have committed to improving our years and that our top 30 clients represent over 250 years environmental performance by undertaking an independent of joint working.
appraisal of our impact and by introducing more formal targets and measurements, particularly within the UK.
Community The emphasis of Xansas community investment programme continues to be on harnessing the skills and energies of employees in support of homelessness and education.
Optimise October, Xansas first worldwide employee challenge, saw the successful international extension of the employee volunteering programme.
It united employees behind a common cause and allowed them to demonstrate Xansas, and their own, commitment to our communities across the world.
25 Xansa Report and Accounts 2003 The emphasis of Xansas community investment programme continues to be on harnessing the skills and energies of employees in support of homelessness and education.
