BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 25 Corporate social responsibility Grace Johnstone, UK Young Woman Engineer of the Year.
Following the successful recruitment of 112 apprentices, the largest group of apprentices seen in recent years, by our naval ships business, we were awarded the Ron Taylor Award for Quality in Training Delivery which was sponsored by Scottish Enterprise.
Managing our corporate responsibilities for the Education opportunities in science and engineering.
benefit of all our stakeholders remains core to We recognise that our responsibilities extend BAE Systems participates in FIRST with the ongoing operation of BAE Systems.
externally as well as internally.
The aims of our teams of high school students from districts education strategy underpin the common goal near BAE Systems offices across the nation, In 2003, we continued our programme of in education to raise standards and offer as well as providing primary sponsorship for socially responsible engagement and young people the best opportunities to the FIRST programme in the northeast US: communication across all areas of our succeed.
These aims are: in the UK our Schools Network programme corporate social responsibility CSR agenda: has over 1,500 schools across the country to provide an informed view of the modern marketplace, workplace, community and registered with it.
This gives schools access engineering process in BAE Systems so that environment.
A full report on our CSR activities to engineering and science projects in which young people can make an informed career during 2003 will be available from May 2004 they can take part.
We also play an active choice: on the companys website at role in the UK governments Specialist to involve BAE Systems employees in www.
planned, structured development opportunities: During 2003, we became the Our chief executive, Mike Turner, is part of the first defence company to be to develop a sense of pride in BAE Systems UK National Modern Apprenticeship Task included in the Dow Jones in our employees and the communities in Force, which is a key strand of the Sustainability Index DJSI.
The which we reside: and governments strategy to build the skills base DJSI is the most widely in this country.
As an employer of over 1,000 to further our partnership with governments.
recognised index of sustainable industries and apprentices in the UK alone, BAE Systems is our inclusion reflects the progress we have fully committed to the creation of opportunities Our education strategy involves our employees made in communicating the level of corporate and delivery of training.
We were delighted that and sites both at local and national level governance and responsible practices to which one of our apprentices in Lancashire, Grace across the world: we adhere.
Johnstone, was recently recognised as the UKs Young Woman Engineer of the Year.
in Australia, BAE Systems was the major We also participated in the first Corporate sponsor of South Australias Engineering Responsibility Index launched by Business in This year has seen a number of changes to Week which encourages and inspires young the Community in the UK in 2003.
More than the training and development programme for people to get involved in the field of 160 of the FTSE 250 companies participated apprentices in our naval ships business.
Our engineering: and we were ranked in the 2nd quintile, which human resources team worked together with in North America, BAE Systems supports we consider to be a fair reflection of the local colleges to set up a programme to FIRST: For Inspiration and Recognition of progress we have made and the improvements support our apprentices.
The goal of FIRST is we still need to make.
continually to interest and excite new generations of students about science and BAE Systems recognises the importance of technology.
FIRST efforts are team efforts, transparency in all its activities and involving students, teachers, communities, encourages employees to feedback or raise corporations and the government to build concerns.
Our ethics hotline is now fully self-confidence, knowledge and life skills established in both the UK and US.
The nature while motivating young people to pursue of the calls received primarily related to human resources and grievance procedures.
We are intending to introduce the hotline to Australia and our other operations in 2004.
26 BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 Paul Dugan, winner of the Chairmans Gold Community Award, at the Riyadh Multinational school.
The Chairmans Community Award was presented to Paul Dugan who identified a need BAE Systems in the Community within the Saudi capitals English-speaking Charity Challenge is a programme which covers all employee-driven charitable activity across schools namely that there was no provision BAE Systems.
for children with special needs.
He developed a self-financing business plan, obtained Operating for more than ten years, Charity Challenge has grown to cover five countries and authority from the Saudi government and then more than 100 sites across both BAE Systems and our joint ventures including Airbus, founded the Riyadh Multinational school, which AMS, MBDA and Xchanging HR Services.
provides learning assistance for special needs students.
The school now has 400 students, The 2003 Charity Challenge campaign raised 5.7million and reported 3,500 volunteer and this is expected to double by 2006.
This days for charities worldwide.
has made a real difference to those young people who rely on special education to help The partnership charities selected by employees for the 2004 Charity Challenge campaign them overcome their difficulties.
are the American Cancer Society North America, National Childrens Homes UK, Help the Hospices Germany and the Cancer Council Australia.
In addition to these specific Health and safety charities, employees are encouraged to engage in charitable and community programmes The safety of our products is of paramount wherever they are in the world.
This includes the Sharek Al Khair programme in Saudi importance to those who use them: equally Arabia which encourages our employees to donate their time and energy for the benefit of important is the creation of a safe working those less fortunate than themselves.
Our statistics show that through increased awareness training and focus on specific issues, our Recognition performance in this area continues to improve, Our Chairmans Award scheme recognises to the benefit of all.
In recognition of our people whose ideas, actions and behaviours ongoing commitment to safety improvements, make BAE Systems a better, more competitive our main explosives filling site at Glascoed in company and help us to live up to our values.
Wales was awarded the ROSPA Gold Award for Over 3,000 nominations were received into the Health and Safety for the fourth consecutive scheme this year.
From those, 46 silver awards year.
were allocated across the three categories of Innovation, Implementation and Community As part of the UK governments commitment to Awards.
The best of these nominations were revitalising health and safety, we have agreed a considered for gold awards by a panel of partnership programme for 2004 with the UK judges chaired by Ian King, group managing Health & Safety Executive to look at some director of our CS&S business, and involving specific areas of workplace safety.
Sir Keith ONions, Chief Scientific Officer of the MoD, and David Hughes, Director General of the Innovations Group of the UK Department of Trade and Industry.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual report 2003 27 BAE Systems is sponsoring a three year twinning arrangement for two special needs schools based in Blackpool and Singapore.
The annual exchange programme will offer both organisations opportunities to exchange new and innovative training methods and share training experiences.
Our information and electronic warfare systems Major accidents rate per 100,000 employees division received the American College of 100 Occupational and Environmental Medicines UK HSE Health and Safety Executive ACOEM 2003 Corporate Health Achievement average 2002 3 195.5 per 100,000 80 Award.
The award recognises achievements 2001 60 focusing on employee health, safety and 2002 environmental management, particularly 40 2003 innovative health and safety programmes.
ACOEM cited the BAE Systems units efforts in 20 two areas: its comprehensive programme to 0 UK US BAE reduce cumulative trauma disorder injuries: Systems and the chemical and materials safety total programme.
With respect to the absolute number of major injuries, there was a decrease from 31 to 24 in the UK, but an increase from 6 to 9 in North America.
Environment As the geographical spread of our business increases, it is ever more important that we are cognisant of the surrounding environment Reportable accidents rate per 100,000 employees and the potential impact our operations may 1,200 UK HSE Health and Safety Executive have.
We continued to pursue our aim to have average 2002 3 1,130 per 100,000 1,000 all of our major manufacturing sites accredited to the international environmental 800 2001 management standard, ISO 14001, and only 600 2002 Barrow in the UK has yet to achieve this.
2003 400 Recognising our contribution to global issues 200 such as emissions of greenhouse gases in 0 UK US BAE particular carbon dioxide associated with Systems energy usage we have continued to focus on total this through 2003.
An overall reduction of Total injury defined against the UK reportable criteria 20%, compared with 2002, in carbon dioxide shows an improvement for the third year running.
equivalents across our world-wide operations While figures for all our operations remain lower than the was achieved.
UK HSE average for manufacturing, the number of reported accidents has increased in the UK during 2003 though the major accident rate in the UK has reduced.
