40: Environmental and Social Policy Policy Statement The company is committed to applying environmental best practice wherever practical in the design, construction and management of buildings and their surroundings for the benefit of tenants, employees, the local community, shareholders and the environment.
When striving to create the best standards of the built environment the company seeks to promote a safe and healthy working environment for its employees, tenants and visitors.
Performance The year from July 2000 to June 2001 was the first year in which specific environmental targets were set.
Since then the group has endeavoured to set targets at more challenging levels to meet the ever changing and demanding standards expected by the business community.
Performance against these targets and on the broad range of initiatives undertaken by the group relating both to the environment and to social responsibility were reported in the groups award winning first Environmental & Social Report which was published in 2002.
The groups second report clearly reflected the commitment set the previous year by reporting that 79% of the targets set for 2001-2002 had been met.
Further targets were set for 2002-2003 against which performance will shortly be audited by external consultants.
Environmental Responsibility Whilst the board retains overall responsibility for the monitoring and implementation of the groups environmental policy, it is assisted by the Environmental Planning Group EPG, which consists of senior executives.
During 2002 a more defined internal reporting system was introduced rolling out responsibility and accountability further into the group.
This has resulted in each of the key operating companies Canary Wharf Limited, Canary Wharf Contractors Limited and Canary Wharf Management Limited appointing an environmental representative as a member of the EPG.
In addition, each company has also appointed an environmental system manager who has responsibility for the implementation of the environmental management system throughout their particular company.
The EPG is responsible for the establishment of the annual targets and objectives, ensuring resources are available for environmental initiatives and reviewing progress towards these objectives.
Canary Wharf Group plc 2003 Report & Financial Statements :41 Environmental Management System 2001 through to 2003 has seen the incorporation of the groups developing environmental management system into the existing audit programme.
A scheme of environmental awareness training commenced to ensure all employees had the required knowledge to improve the groups environmental performance.
This training covers an introduction to the international EMS standard ISO 14001, awareness of the environmental policy and implementation of the management system.
As at 30 June 2003 approximately 40% of relevant employees have received training with further training sessions planned for later in 2003.
In conjunction with the environmental objectives and targets, a number of detailed procedures have been issued to manage the environmental impact of the groups activities.
These relate to areas such as design, procurement, supply chain management, construction management, waste management and selection of materials.
The environmental system managers have responsibility for ensuring the adherence and implementation of these procedures throughout their particular company.
Details of the groups performance against the targets and objectives set to date including those set for 2002-2003 are available from the environmental and social report section of the companys website www.
Environmental Policies and Objectives for 2003 2004 Building Design & Construction: The group aims to minimise environmental impact by reviewing all aspects of building right the way through from using recycled materials in the construction process to designing energy efficient and long life buildings.
A range of measures have been employed to minimise the impact of the construction activity focusing on waste management, water pollution, noise, dust and the use of non-renewable resources.
Objectives To continue to develop new buildings in line with Building Research Establishing Environmental Assessment Method BREEAM requirements.
Reduce mains water usage in new buildings and decrease non-renewable energy consumption by the use of best practice.
To reduce construction site waste by reusing and recycling.
Minimise the risk from spillages on construction sites.
Implement an environmental supply chain management programme.
Canary Wharf Group plc 2003 Report & Financial Statements 42: Environmental and Social Policy Estate Management: Due to the increase in retail and office tenants, general consumption of energy and resource use on the Canary Wharf estate has increased.
It is the groups policy to endeavour to obtain a better understanding of the groups and tenants resource needs with an aim to reducing consumption wherever possible.
The extension of the groups recycling programme and initiatives to contractors and tenants resulted in 34% of the Canary Wharf estates waste being recycled during 2002-2003 18.4% 2001-2002.
The group aims to continue to evaluate performance and work with suppliers and tenants to achieve further waste management improvements.
Objectives Measure and reduce energy consumption in all group offices.
Encourage all tenants and suppliers to adopt best practice with regard to waste management.
Environmental Stewardship: The Canary Wharf estate has been designed to maximise the benefits of the public transport network and minimise the effects of private vehicles.
A derelict industrial dock has been converted into a thriving commercial complex with surprising biodiversity and landscapes including the greatest concentration of green roofs in the United Kingdom.
Objectives To implement an ongoing programme to promote and monitor use of public transport.
To ensure all open spaces on the Canary Wharf estate are accessible to the local community.
External Benchmarking External recognition of the companys performance relative to its peers is provided by the inclusion of the company in the FTSE 4 Good Index and its participation in the Business and Environmental BiE annual index.
In the 2003 BiE Index, covering performance in 2002, the companys performance rose from 73% to 87%.
The company remains committed to maintaining this momentum in the future.
The group was named Property Company of the Year for 2001 and 2002 by Property News and has been awarded Best Environmental & Social First Time Reporter by the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants and Best First Time Environmental Report by the European Sustainability Reporting Awards for the 2000-2001 Environmental and Social Report.
The Future The company recognises that the implementation of a successful environmental policy is an on-going process.
While the company has achieved considerable success the ongoing focus remains on raising awareness throughout the Canary Wharf estate and improving the quality of the development as well as managing those environmental, social and ethical issues impacting on the groups business activities.
Canary Wharf Group plc 2003 Report & Financial Statements :43 Social Responsibility The business environment is constantly evolving and in recent years there has been an increasing emphasis on social responsibility.
The company is committed to working with all stakeholders who have an interest in its business including employees, tenants, suppliers, customers, investors, shareholders and appropriate authorities, local communities and other organisations to identify key social issues and seek innovative solutions and initiatives.
Community Involvement From the inception of the Canary Wharf estate, the groups staff have been involved in projects which have embraced education, employment, business development, arts & events and sport.
Both financial and human resource support has been provided to a wide range of voluntary groups.
Since 1987 the groups community involvement has been extensive and diverse, including: Skillsmatch - a jobs brokerage operation which has placed more than 2,500 local people into local jobs: The creation of a Local Business Liaison Office which has helped place over 350 million of business with local companies: The establishment in 1990 of an educational trust fund of 2.5 million which has been used to provide grants to local students.
In 2002 2003 the trust assisted over 330 local students studying courses ranging from access courses to post graduate schemes: Sponsorship of a football league, twelve football teams, a football academy, gymnastics and hurdling squads all based in the local community: and Supported Richard House, Londons first childrens hospice, since May 2001.
Arts and Events The group has established an all year round arts and events programme benefiting tenants and the wider community and is committed to bringing art into the workplace.
Employment and Labour Conditions The group is committed to providing a work environment where all employees are treated with respect and dignity.
One of the groups key aims is to help and encourage employees to develop their work skills and abilities.
The group keeps employees informed of events relevant to their employment.
In addition the company publishes quarterly Canary Wharf News which provides information about developments on the Canary Wharf estate and is circulated to employees and tenants.
Canary Wharf Group plc 2003 Report & Financial Statements 44: Environmental and Social Policy Equal Opportunities The group is committed to equality of opportunity and it is the policy of the group to make all employment decisions based on the applicants ability, experience and qualification without regard to age, sex, race, colour, sexual orientation, ethnic origin, disability or marital status.
Due consideration is given to the recruitment, promotion, training and working conditions of all employees including those with disabilities.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled, the group uses its best endeavours to ensure continuity of employment.
Incentive Programmes The group operates various incentive programmes that are conditional upon the satisfaction of performance criteria.
The board regards these programmes as important elements in the retention and motivation of employees and for involving employees in the longer term performance of the group.
Further details of these plans are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 35.
Training and Development All employees are appraised on an annual basis to assess individual performance, progress and career prospects within the company.
The importance of training and development is key to business success and is recognised at all levels.
The group provides training programmes both internally and externally to support the development of the business, to improve business efficiency and safety.
Health and Safety Policy It is the groups intention and policy that the working conditions of its employees should incorporate the best standards of health, safety and welfare which can be reasonably achieved and that all group premises are maintained as safe environments.
Accordingly adequate resources are made available for these purposes and procedures exist to enable all staff to be informed and consulted on health and safety matters and to make known their views.
The group is committed to taking all reasonably practicable measures to ensure that persons not in its employment but who may be affected by its undertakings are not exposed to health and safety risks.
All legislation relating to health and safety is observed.
Management System While the board is ultimately responsible for the groups policy and procedures, a chain of responsibility exists in relation to the management of health and safety, starting with each and every employee who is required to fulfil their legal duty to take reasonable care of their own health and safety.
Line managers, supported by the Fire & Life Safety Manager or one of the various safety advisers, are obliged to ensure that supervision is exercised, training given and information disseminated.
The Fire & Life Safety department provides overall advice, guidance, instruction and information on all health and safety matters including the maintenance of the groups health and safety manual and the establishment of detailed procedures and systems which are subject to on-going review and auditing.
In relation to the groups construction activities, for the year ended 30 June 2003 the operations safety record including contractor employees showed a rate of 0.18 accidents per 100,000 person-hours, compared to the industry average of 1.2 accidents per 100,000 person-hours.
Canary Wharf Management Limited statistics are produced in the same format and show a rate of 0.46 accidents per 100,000 person-hours.
Canary Wharf Group plc 2003 Report & Financial Statements
