SECTION 3 PEOPLE AND RESULTS Board of Directors 34 Corporate Social Responsibility36 Directors Report on 37 Corporate Governance Directors Report on Remuneration 42 Directors Responsibilities 50 Directors Report 51 Independent Auditors Report 53 Group Profit and Loss Account 54 Group and Company Balance Sheets 55 Group Cash Flow Statement 56 Reconciliation of Movement 57 in Group Shareholders Funds Group Statement of Total Recognised 57 Gains and Losses Accounting Policies 58 Notes on Financial Statements 60 Principal Subsidiary and 82 Associated Undertakings Five Year Summary83 Summary Financial Information 84 Shareholder Information 85 ROBERTO QUARTA 54 ROY MCGLONE 50 ANDREW WOOD 52 BRUCE VAN ALLEN 48 ROSS MCMILLAN 53 Non-executive Director, Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director President and CEO, BBA Chief Executive, BBA Chairman Aviation Services Fiberweb He was appointed Group He was appointed to the He was appointed Chief Executive with effect Board as Group Finance He was appointed to the He was appointed to the Chairman in March 2001. from March 2001.
He is a principal in Clayton, joined the Board in A chartered management joined Signature in 1993 He joined BBA in June Dubilier & Rice, a private October 1995 as Group accountant, he was and held various posts 2001 as Chief Executive of equity firm.
A formerly Group Finance since that date, including the Materials Technology until March 2001 he was chartered accountant, he Director of Racal most recently as CEO of Division.
Previously he Group Chief Executive of qualified with Price Electronics plc.
BBA Aviation North held posts at INEOS BBA Group plc.
He is the Waterhouse and America.
Acrylics Inc. and Imperial chairman of Italtel SpA, subsequently held Chemical Industries.
Non-executive Director of positions with Meggitt plc Equant NV and a Trustee and BICC plc.
In of the College of the September 2002 he was Holy Cross.
appointed as a Nonexecutive Director and chairman of the Audit Committee of Aggreko plc.
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE ROY MCGLONE ANDREW WOOD BRUCE VAN ALLEN Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director President and CEO, BBA Aviation Services 34 BOARD OF DIRECTORS BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 BBA pp21-35 22 3 04 3:59 pm Page 35 BOB PHILLIPS 65 JOHN ROQUES 65 DAVID ROUGH 53 RICHARD STILLWELL 54 IRV YOSKOWITZ 58 Non-executive Director Non-executive Director, Non-executive Director, Non-executive Director, Non-executive Director Chairman, Audit Senior Independent Chairman, Remuneration He was appointed to the He was appointed to the Committee Director Committee Board in May 2000.
He is a was a Board Director of He was appointed to the He was appointed to the He was appointed to the senior partner at Global Unilever plc and Chairman Board in January 1999.
A Technology Partners, LLC, of Unilevers North is Chairman of Portman is also a Non-executive practising barrister, he Washington D. C. a senior American Committee, Building Society, a NonDirector of Emap plc, Land is also a Non-executive counsel at the law firm of from which positions he executive Director of Securities plc, Mithras Director of Penna Crowell & Moring, retired in May 2000.
Premier Farnell plc and Trust, Xstrata Group plc Consulting plc.
Until Washington D. C. a NonHHG plc.
He was formerly and Brown, Shipley & Co. August 2000, he was executive Director of a partner at Deloitte & Ltd. For ten years, until Executive Vice-President SIRVA, Inc. and Equant, NV.
Touche, retiring in 1999 December 2001, he was Industrial Specialties at He was previously as Senior Partner.
Group Director, Imperial Chemical Executive Vice-President Investments at Legal & Industries plc, where he and General Counsel of General plc.
had held various posts United Technologies since 1974.
Corporation, where he had held various posts since 1979.
ROSS MCMILLAN PETER WHITEHEAD SARAH SHAW GREGORY MURRER DAVID STANTON Chief Executive Chief Executive Group Secretary General Counsel Americas Corporate Development Director BBA Fiberweb BBA Aviation Systems 35 Corporate Social Responsibility After publishing its second Annual Corporate Social The principles underlying Corporate Social Responsibility Responsibility Report in July 2003 the text of which can be or CSR have become part of the fabric of BBA Groups found at the BBA Group website, the Group selected a current management practices.
Recognising that CSR encompasses the Board member, Richard Stillwell, as its designee for CSR Groups relationship with all stakeholders, including customers, oversight across the Group.
In that capacity Mr Stillwell works employees, investors, governments and their agencies, as well closely with our CSR Steering Committee and the Group Board as our neighbours and the environment, we have embraced as an advocate for the sound integration of CSR principles into specific policies and practices designed to ensure that these the business practices of all Group companies.
relationships positively impact both our stakeholders and our As in prior years the Group participated in the annual businesses.
To that end we insist that our management team Business in the Community BitC CSR Survey, having abides by Group policies governing business ethics, submitted its survey responses in November 2003.
Those competition, legal compliance, fair and equitable employment responses reflect many of the improvement initiatives practices, human rights and health and safety management.
commenced in late 2002 and 2003 with the dual objectives of Moreover we require our management to certify compliance serving the principles of CSR while bettering the Groups bi-annually and measure their performance against the performance against key BitC indices.
We do not intend to rest on our past accomplishments.
During 2003, BBA Group continued its efforts to enhance We recognise that CSR is a continuous process of improvement CSR performance among all its businesses.
In May 2003, the and verification of stated Group and individual company Group formed its inaugural CSR Steering Committee with the objectives.
In that regard we anticipate the enactment of two responsibility of identifying and pursuing CSR-related important BBA Group Guidance Notes on the subjects of improvement actions.
The Committee championed several Product Process Stewardship and Transportation in early 2004, important CSR initiatives during 2003 including CSR as a to further drive our CSR agenda forward.
component of all strategic business plans, advocacy and training of Group employees, environmental improvement target-setting, and improved communications with our stakeholders concerning CSR matters.
As a consequence of the efforts of this Committee, all our businesses have identified long-term strategic goals for energy and material conservation as well as dedicated efforts to assist and improve their respective communities.
Among those efforts is the continuing participation of various BBA operations in Habitat For Humanity building projects and Signature Flight Supports longstanding participation in Give Kids The World, through which terminally ill children are able to enjoy the many attractions that Central Florida has to offer.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 36 Introduction treasury policy, business ethics guidelines, health, safety and This report explains how the Company applies the principles environmental policy and Group legal policy.
Matters outside of corporate governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined the scope of this Schedule are decided by management in Code.
The directors can confirm compliance throughout the accordance with a schedule of delegated authorities approved year with the Provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined by the Board and Audit Committee.
Code save that bonuses and benefits in kind of certain executive The Board is headed by Roberto Quarta, who has been directors are historically pensionable.
This is explained further Chairman since March 2001.
The Group Chief Executive is Roy in the Directors Report on Remuneration on page 42.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between The Board has evaluated the principles of the revised the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive and during the Combined Code issued in July 2003 which will apply to the year the Board formalised this into a written statement of the Company in respect of the year ending 31 December 2004.
The Chairman, a non-executive Board aims to report substantial compliance throughout 2004 director, is primarily responsible for leading the Board and in its next annual report to shareholders.
He is responsible for setting the Board agenda and ensuring the directors receive information The Board in an accurate, clear and timely manner.
He is responsible During 2003 the Board comprised four executive and six for promoting effective decision-making, ensuring the non-executive directors who contribute a wide range of skills performance of the Board, its committees and individual and experience.
A short biography of each individual who was directors are evaluated on an annual basis and that appropriate a director during 2003 is set out on pages 3435.
There were no Board training and development occurs.
The Group Chief changes to the Board during 2003.
Irv Yoskowitz will retire from Executive is responsible for the development and the Board at the beginning of March 2004, after nine years of implementation of Board strategy and policy, the running of valued service.
Roberto Quarta, Richard Stillwell and Andrew the Groups business, ensuring that the business activities are Wood retire by rotation and intend to seek reappointment at the effectively communicated and promoted within and outside the forthcoming AGM.
As required by the revised Combined Code, business and for building positive relationships with the the Board can confirm that Richard Stillwell should be Company's stakeholders.
re-elected by shareholders as a non-executive director because The Boards Senior Independent Director is David Rough.
he has performed effectively and demonstrated commitment He is available to shareholders if they have concerns that throughout his period of appointment.
The Board believes that normal channels of contact with the Chairman or Group he will continue to do so.
Chief Executive would not resolve.
As required by the revised The full Board met on six occasions during 2003 and these Combined Code, during the year the non-executive directors meetings, together with a strategy session, were attended by met the Senior Independent Director without the Chairman all the directors, save that John Roques was unable to attend present and this will be formalised during 2004 as part of the on one occasion.
The Board visited a Materials Technology site Boards self-evaluation process.
during the year and received business presentations from During the first half of 2003, the Board carried out a senior management.
The Board has full and timely access to performance evaluation.
The evaluation was conducted internally all relevant information regarding the Group and its activities on a confidential basis and was led by the Senior Independent and carries the ultimate responsibility for the conduct of the Director in conjunction with the Chairman.
The role of the Board is primarily to set evaluation included a review of the conduct of, and processes for, the Companys strategic aims, ensure financial and human Board and Committee meetings, information received, corporate resources are in place, review management performance governance issues and overall performance as well as an and set the Companys values and standards, ensuring its assessment of the contribution of individual directors.
obligations to shareholders are met.
It also takes an interest The Senior Independent Director reported the Board and in succession planning within the Group as a whole.
Committee evaluation outcomes to the Board, whilst directors During the year, the Board reviewed and updated the were individually briefed regarding their own performance.
written Schedule of Matters reserved for its decision.
Matters Developments following the evaluation include a greater reserved for Board approval include significant revenue and emphasis on Board papers circulated in advance, thus allowing capital expenditure, including acquisitions and disposals.
for more debate during meetings.
The Board intends to carry The Board is also responsible for the establishment of Board out this evaluation annually, in line with the revised Combined Committees, deciding on their composition and terms of Code requirements.
reference and the approval of Group policies such as the DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 37 Appointments of non-executive directors are made by the BBAs major shareholders.
This is achieved through regular Board for an initial term of three years.
This term is subject to meetings during the year between the Group Chief Executive, the usual regulatory provisions and continued satisfactory the Group Finance Director and major shareholders, which are performance of duties following the Board's annual then reported to the Board as a whole.
The Board also receives performance evaluation.
In addition, it is the Companys formal written reports from its brokers regarding the views of practice that all directors are subject to re-election at least its principal shareholders following its preliminary and interim every three years.
results announcements and at other times as appropriate.
Re-appointment for a further term is not automatic but During the year major shareholders were invited to meet with may be made by mutual agreement.
The Board has renewed the Chairman and Senior Independent Director to discuss the appointment of Roberto Quarta as Chairman for a second concerns they might have regarding the Company's corporate term of three years with effect from 1 March 2004 and also the governance practices.
No such concerns were identified.
appointment of David Rough and Richard Stillwell, each for a All non-executive directors have been offered the third term of three years, with effect from the same date.
In opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
each case the re-appointment was fully and carefully reviewed The Board considers that its non-executive directors, including in the light of the Boards performance evaluation and its Senior Independent Director, David Rough, have a good level additional discussions with each member of the Board took of understanding of the issues and concerns of major place.
As required by the revised Combined Code, the Chairman shareholders, as required by the revised Combined Code.
holds a meeting each year at which only the non-executive Executive directors must obtain the prior consent of the directors are present.
There are in addition several other Board before accepting a non-executive directorship in any opportunities during the year at which more informal discussions other company.
Executive directors may retain the fees from may take place.
Details of fees paid to non-executive directors any such directorship.
As stated on page 34, Roy McGlone is a are set out in the Remuneration Report and letters of non-executive director of Aggreko plc and during 2003 he was appointment are available for inspection on request.
The Board has reviewed and assessed the independence The Chairman, Roberto Quarta, has reported no changes of its non-executive directors.
It believes that all its to his significant commitments during the year.
non-executive directors are independent in character and All directors have access to the advice and services of the judgement.
As specified in the revised Combined Code, such Group Secretary and the Board has established a procedure assessment is not required for a serving Chairman.
However, whereby directors wishing to do so in furtherance of their the Board considers that its Chairman, Roberto Quarta, should duties may take independent professional advice at the be considered independent although he was formerly Group Companys expense.
Chief Executive of the Company until 2001.
The Board considers Board Committees that there are substantial benefits to having a Chairman who The Board operates an Audit Committee, a Remuneration is familiar with the business and that the Chairman has Committee and a Nomination Committee.
throughout his period of office demonstrated his independence.
The Board has an established written framework for Audit Committee the induction of new directors which includes meetings with During 2003, the Audit Committee comprised the five relevant Company executives and advisers.
A personal induction independent non-executive directors listed below.
The programme is prepared for each new director depending on Chairman has relevant and recent financial experience and the experience and needs of the individual.
As required by the a professional accountancy qualification as required by the revised Combined Code, it is intended that major shareholders Smith Guidance appended to the revised Combined Code.
In are offered the opportunity of meeting new directors.
addition the other members all have experience of corporate Every director is encouraged to participate in appropriate financial matters: professional development particularly if the appointment is John Roques, Chairman the first occasion on which he or she is to sit on the board of Bob Phillips Richard Stillwell a listed company.
This may include social, environmental and David Rough Irv Yoskowitz ethical matters if so required.
The Company will provide the To retire from Board 1 March 2004 necessary resources for developing and updating the directors knowledge and skills.
The Board as a whole is routinely kept up During 2003, the Audit Committee met on four occasions, to date on corporate governance developments and the views of generally coinciding with key dates in the financial reporting 38 DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 and audit cycle.
There was full attendance by all the Committee During the ensuing year, the Committee is also scheduled to members.
The external auditors, Deloitte, and Head of Group review arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise Internal Audit, regularly attend these meetings.
The Chairman, concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group reporting or other matters.
Financial Controller also generally join at least part of Audit In addition, the Committee reviews the work of the Risk Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee Chairman Committee as described under Internal Control on page 40 may call a meeting at the request of any director or the and assesses compliance with the directors responsibility Companys external auditors.
The Audit Committees written terms of reference, which Remuneration Committee are available on request, deal clearly with its authority and During 2003, the Remuneration Committee comprised the duties.
The Committee may consider any matter which might following five independent non-executive directors: have a financial impact on the Group.
However, its primary role is: first, reviewing the scope and results of the external audit Richard Stillwell, Chairman and the internal audit work programme: and second, reviewing Bob Phillips David Rough the annual and interim reports before they are presented to the John Roques Irv Yoskowitz Board.
It discharges its responsibilities through the review of To retire from Board 1 March 2004 written reports circulated in advance of meetings and by During 2003, the Remuneration Committee met on three discussing these reports and any other matters with the relevant occasions and meetings were attended by Committee auditors and management.
A confidential session without members, except that John Roques was unable to attend one management present is held at least once a year with each of meeting.
The Chairman and the executive directors may attend the external auditors and the Head of Group Internal Audit.
The Committees written terms The Committee is responsible for making of reference are available on request and deal clearly with recommendations to the Board regarding the remuneration and its authority and duties.
The Committee has two principal appointment of its external auditors.
It is the policy of the Audit functions: first, making recommendations to the Board on Committee to review such appointment at least every five years.
the framework and broad policy on executive directors During the coming year, the Committee intends to develop its remuneration: and second, determining on behalf of the Board current audit review process into a formal audit service the specific remuneration package for each of the executive assessment, which will address the resources, effectiveness, directors, including pension rights and any compensation independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Committee has also adopted a policy on the The Remuneration Committee is also responsible for provision of non-audit services by its external auditors.
developing and monitoring a compensation framework for This policy prohibits its external auditors from carrying out senior executives in conjunction with the Group Chief Executive.
certain additional services for the Group including bookkeeping, The detailed implementation of this framework, except as internal audit, valuations, actuarial services and financial regards the executive directors, is the responsibility of the systems design and implementation.
Services which Deloitte Group Chief Executive.
may be permitted to carry out include assurance services such The fees of the non-executive directors, including the as reporting accountant work and tax services.
The Committee Chairman, are determined by the Board as a whole on the is satisfied that the majority of the tax services supplied by recommendation of the Group Chief Executive.
No director Deloitte are compliance-related and represent a small is involved in deciding his own remuneration or fees.
proportion of Group tax fees.
The Groups policy is not to use Further details of the work of the Remuneration the same supplier for due diligence and audit work.
However, Committee, including advisers to the Committee, appear in where the Group considers it appropriate or conflicts arise, the Directors Report on Remuneration on pages 42 to 50. suppliers other than the preferred supplier may be asked to tender.
Only in exceptional and unusual circumstances will this Nomination Committee include Deloitte.
The Committee Chairman is required to preThe Nomination Committee comprises three non-executive approve certain permitted services which may exceed set directors and two executive directors as follows: financial limits.
The Committee is satisfied that the provision Roberto Quarta, Chairman by Deloitte of non-audit services currently provided does not Roy McGlone David Rough impair their independence or objectivity.
Andrew Wood Richard Stillwell 39 The Nomination Committee meets as required.
It has written This process has been in place for the year ended 31 December terms of reference, which are available on request, under 2003 and up to 25 February 2004 and the directors can which it makes recommendations to the Board on the therefore confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness in appointment of the Companys executive and non-executive accordance with the internal control requirements of the directors.
It is responsible for identifying and nominating Combined Code, provision D. 2.1, throughout that period.
candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
The directors have had regard to the Disclosure Before making an appointment, the Committee evaluates the Guidelines on Socially Responsible Investment issued by the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and ABI in October 2001.
During 2003, the Group made further in the light of this evaluation prepares a description of the role, progress towards full implementation of these guidelines.
required capabilities and time commitment required for a Further details are set out below and in Corporate Social particular appointment.
Appointments are fully discussed Responsibility on page 36. before a formal proposal is made to the Board.
The selection The Groups internal system of control is reviewed criteria are agreed by the Committee Chairman in conjunction annually by the directors and accords with the Turnbull with his colleagues.
Use is made of independent recruitment Guidance published in September 1999.
The system is designed consultants and the final appointment rests with the full Board.
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide reasonable and not absolute Investor Relations assurance against material misstatement or loss.
A programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, fund The key features of the Groups internal control managers and analysts takes place each year.
The directors system are listed below.
seek to encourage a continuing dialogue.
The Company maintains contact as required with its principal shareholders 1.
The Risk Committee, chaired by the Group Finance about directors remuneration in the same way as for other Director and comprising senior executives, meets at least matters.
The Companys AGM is used as an opportunity to twice a year to review and analyse how business risks are communicate with private investors.
It is intended that notice being managed.
These reviews assess the following of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least categories of risk: twenty working days before the meeting.
Roberto Quarta, as business Chairman of the Board and Nomination Committee, John financial Roques as Chairman of the Audit Committee, and Richard compliance Stillwell as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will operational and other including health, safety and answer questions, as appropriate, at the AGM.
Independent Director, David Rough will also be available.
Central to this process is a detailed written selfShareholders are given the opportunity of voting separately assessment of risks by company and division, which is on each proposal.
The Company counts all proxy votes cast in reviewed by the internal audit department.
Functional respect of the AGM and makes available the voting figures for risk assessments are also carried out by the responsible and against and abstentions on each resolution.
If significant control issues arise between Internal Control meetings, these can be brought to the attention of senior Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control executives at regularly scheduled meetings of the and for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the directors.
The outcome of the Management is accountable to the directors for monitoring work of the Risk Committee is reported to the Audit this system and for providing assurance to the directors that Committee, which in turn reviews the effectiveness of the it has done so.
The system of internal control is essentially an Groups system of internal control on behalf of the Board.
ongoing process embedded in the Groups businesses for The Audit Committee receives a report at least twice a year identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced from the Group Finance Director detailing the work by the Group, including social, environmental and ethical risks.
undertaken by the Risk Committee.
Based on these reviews, The Group considers that it has adequate information to identify the Board recommends action to be taken by the Group at and assess significant risks and opportunities affecting its long both divisional and company level to mitigate identified risks and short-term value.
and seize opportunities that may add value to the Group.
40 DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 2.
An organisation structure is in place at both head office 11.
A Group policies manual sets out policies and procedures and divisional level which clearly defines responsibilities regarding the following: business ethics, business gifts for operational, accounting, taxation, treasury, legal, and gratuities, equal opportunities, competition law, legal company secretarial and insurance functions.
policy, external communications and share dealing.
An internal audit function undertakes a programme of bi-annual review of compliance with such policies by reviews throughout the Group of controls, risks and Group companies is carried out and the results business processes.
The Audit Committee receives a communicated to the Risk Committee and the Board.
report from internal audit at least four times a year which Senior executives are also required to confirm annual includes opinions on the adequacy and effectiveness of compliance with certain policies.
These Group policies controls by site, a summary of key issues, work are complemented by divisional and company-led schedules and details of any action required.
Internal initiatives, including community policies.
audit specialists from Deloitte reviewed the internal audit 12.
A Group Health, Safety and Environmental Manual details function for its effectiveness during the first half of 2003. policies, standards and procedures which are applicable 4.
A Group Finance Manual details financial controls and throughout the Group.
Further details are set out on page reporting procedures applicable to all reporting units.
36 under Corporate Social Responsibility and on our 5.
An annual budgeting exercise is carried out to set targets website.
Annual self-assessments are carried out at for each of the Groups reporting units.
company level against Group standards.
Detailed management accounts are submitted monthly to is prepared and circulated to the Executive Management management which measure actual performance against Committee on environmental and safety matters within budget, together with forecasts of sales, profits and all Group companies from the internal Group HSE operating cash for the next three months and to the end function and external specialists.
In addition to a formal of the year.
A monthly report is provided to the Board annual review, the Board receives regular reports on highlighting key issues and summarising the detailed HSE matters.
Senior managers performance and related financial information provided by the operating units.
financial incentives are tied in part to their success 7.
Capital expenditure is controlled by means of budgets, against selected annual HSE improvement objectives.
authorisation levels requiring the approval of major Going Concern projects by the Group directors and by post-investment In compliance with corporate governance requirements, the appraisals.
directors consider that after a critical review of the Groups 8.
Defined procedures are laid down for investments, 2004 budget and medium-term plans the Company and the currency hedging and granting of guarantees.
Group have adequate resources to continue in operational 9.
A detailed matrix defines the levels of authority for the existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial Groups senior executives and their direct reports in statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
relation to acquisitions, capital expenditure, commercial and employee contracts and treasury matters.
This Report of the Auditors matrix is authorised by the Audit Committee on behalf The auditors report concerning the Companys compliance of the Board and is reviewed on an annual basis.
with the Combined Code appears on page 53.
Compliance with the authority matrix is reviewed as part of the internal audit process.
All significant acquisitions and disposals of companies or businesses are approved by the Board.
41 Throughout 2003 the Company complied with the provisions of Advisers to the Remuneration Committee the Combined Code the Code annexed to the Listing Rules Inbucon Limited, an independent remuneration consulting firm, of the UK Listing Authority, except in respect of the historical is regularly consulted by the Remuneration Committee and pensionability of bonuses and benefits in kind, which is referred executive management in respect of executive remuneration and to below.
This report covers the remuneration policy for share schemes.
Other than the calculation of total shareholder directors and includes specific disclosures relating to directors return for the long-term incentive plan, which is provided by a emoluments, their shares and other interests.
This remuneration sister company Inbucon Administration Limited, Inbucon Limited report is being put to shareholders at the forthcoming annual provides no other services to the Company.
During 2003, general meeting for an advisory vote.
Although the Board executive management also consulted Mellon, a human resource considers itself ultimately responsible for both the framework consulting firm, in respect of its executive share schemes.
In and the cost of executive remuneration, it has delegated prime carrying out its responsibilities, the Remuneration Committee responsibility for executive remuneration to the Remuneration also independently consults with Sean OHare, Head of Executive Committee.
The Remuneration Committee is a Committee of the The Committee also consults with the Chairman who Board consisting exclusively of independent non-executive is not a member of the Remuneration Committee and the directors details of which are set out on page 39.
It is responsible Group Chief Executive about its proposals in relation to the for determining executive directors remuneration and reviewing remuneration of the executive directors and is assisted in its proposals in respect of other senior executives.
The Committee work by the Group Secretary.
also determines targets for performance related share schemes Salary operated by the Company and oversees any major changes in Salaries reflect the executive directors experience, responsibility employee benefit structures throughout the Group.
Further and performance and are reviewed annually with reference to details of the work of the Remuneration Committee are set out external market data for similar roles.
Committee is to provide salaries that are positioned between the A. REMUNERATION POLICY median and upper quartile when compared to the salary data.
The Groups remuneration policy is to ensure that executive While salary is reviewed by reference to market conditions, the directors remuneration properly reflects their duties and performance of the Company and the performance of the responsibilities and is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate individual, the Committee would not regard this element of high calibre senior management collectively capable of remuneration as directly performance related.
The Committee delivering the goals of the Company.
Particular attention is given also has regard to employment conditions throughout the Group.
to the need to remain competitive in the different geographic Bonus areas in which the Company operates.
Furthermore, the Annual cash bonuses for executive directors and senior Committee aims to ensure that incentive schemes are in line management are based on the financial performance of the with best practice and promote the interests of shareholders.
A formula, recommended by The main components of executive directors and discussed with external consultants, is approved by the remuneration are basic salary, an annual performance related Remuneration Committee.
Financial targets and personal bonus scheme, benefits, longer term incentives in the form of objectives are set annually.
Currently, approximately 75 per cent share options, restricted share awards and deferred annual of the maximum bonus is based on financial objectives.
More bonus and pension provision.
The Committee believes that the details of the bonus arrangements are set out below.
executive directors remuneration packages contain a suitable balance of directly performance related remuneration which Long-Term Incentives links both the short-term financial performance of the Group The Remuneration Committee believes that a significant and the long-term shareholder return with the executives total element of executive directors remuneration should be linked remuneration.
The Companys schemes have been Executive directors remuneration is reviewed at least developed to reflect market practice and provide long-term annually whilst the Committee reviews its remuneration policy management focus and motivation.
The Committee has also on an ongoing basis.
recognised the need for flexibility in this area to allow them to respond to changing market practices and different geographic norms.
The Committee believes that the two performance measures chosen for its incentive schemes adjusted earnings DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 42 2507 BBA pp36-50 proof 5 22 3 04 3:37 pm Page 43 per share growth and comparative total shareholder return B.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION each represents a reasonable long-term indication of the Service Contracts and Salary financial success of the Company.
They are also measures that The executive directors each have a 12 month notice period are acceptable to the majority of the investors in the Company.
It is under their contracts of employment.
the current intention of the Committee that its schemes retain R V McGlone contract dated 21 February 1996 these measures.
A R Wood contract dated 13 February 2001 Benefits B Van Allen contract dated 1 June 2000 Other benefits include company car or car allowance, private R H McMillan contract dated 1 June 2001 medical insurance, supplemental life insurance and long-term The Remuneration Committee has considered what disability insurance.
The Committee does not regard this compensation commitments, including pension contributions, element of remuneration as directly performance related.
the executive directors contracts would entail in the event of Pension Provision early termination other than for non-performance.
In certain Pensions are considered to be an important element of circumstances, the executive directors may receive remuneration for the executive directors.
Details of the pension compensation upon early termination of a contract which could provision for the executive directors vary and reflects differing amount to up to one years remuneration based on basic salary, UK and US practice.
Further details are set out on page 49. bonus, benefits in kind and pension rights during the notice From 31 March 2002, the Companys UK defined benefit plans period.
The Remuneration Committee continues to endorse were closed to new entrants.
From 1 April 2002 all new the principle of mitigation of damages on early termination of employees are given the option of joining a defined contribution a service contract.
In view of continuing corporate governance plan with company contributions.
concerns regarding contracts in excess of 12 months, the executive directors have agreed voluntarily to give up their Performance Charts entitlement to an additional 12 months notice in the event of a The charts below show the Companys total shareholder return Group change of control.
over the last five financial years compared with the equivalent Mr McGlone and Mr Van Allen are required to give information for the FTSE Transport sector which the Committee 12 months notice and the other executive directors 6 considers to be a suitable broad-based equity market index.
months notice of termination of their service agreements.
Graph 1 shows the annual change in total shareholder return for Table 1 page 46 sets out details of the executive the Company and the index, while Graph 2 shows the cumulative directors salary and non-executive directors fees.
change in total shareholder return from January 1999.
Bonus Bonus payments made in respect of 2003 for Mr McGlone and ANNUALISED TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: BBA GROUP vs TRANSPORT SECTOR Mr Wood were calculated on the basis of the Groups adjusted 50 40 earnings per share, return on capital invested and the 30 achievement of measurable personal objectives.
Mr Van Allens 20 and Mr McMillans bonuses reflect their operational responsibility 10 99 JAN 00 01 02 03 04 0 for the Aviation Services and Materials Technology businesses -10 respectively.
Their bonus arrangements for 2003 were based -20 on the achievement of budgeted operating profit, return on net -30 -40 operating assets, operating cashflow for the relevant division, BBA FTSE 350 TRANSPORT together with Group adjusted earnings per share and the achievement of measurable personal objectives.
For all CUMULATIVE TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN: BBA GROUP vs TRANSPORT SECTOR 40 executive directors, appropriate performance targets and 30 personal objectives were approved by the Committee at the start 20 of the financial year for which the bonus was payable.
The bonus 10 99 JAN 00 01 02 03 04 0 was expressed as a percentage of salary and the potential -10 payout ranged from zero to a maximum of 65 per cent of salary.
-20 In a year where budgeted financial targets are met this would -30 -40 typically result in a payment of 27.5 per cent of basic salary.
-50 Approximately 75 per cent of the bonus is based on financial BBA FTSE 350 TRANSPORT 43 TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN % TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN % objectives, the remainder on measurable personal objectives.
For the 2000 and 2001 awards, the Companys TSR is measured The Committee retains discretion to reflect exceptional against a comparator group of selected companies within the circumstances by varying bonuses.
The performance measures FTSE 350 with a market capitalisation of between approximately were chosen by the Committee because each measure was a 600 million and 10 billion, excluding certain sectors such as factor over which the individual had a direct impact and each of banking, software and telecommunications.
In addition, adjusted the measures are collectively good indicators of corporate earnings per share must exceed the rate of inflation by 3 per performance that should link to long-term shareholder reward.
Bonus payments for 2004 are intended to be calculated on The vesting of Restricted Shares is nil below the median, a similar basis to 2003, except that for Mr McGlone and Mr Wood, 15 per cent at the median, 100 per cent at the upper quartile and Group free cash flow will be substituted for return on capital 118 per cent at the top 20th percentile.
Vesting of Matched invested as one of the financial elements.
Shares is nil below the median, 15 per cent at the median and Table 1 page 46 includes details of annual bonus 100 per cent at the upper quartile.
payments made in respect of 2003.
Awards made in 2000 resulted in a nil vesting in May 2003 as the Companys TSR ranking was below the median at the end Benefits of the performance period.
As a result no restricted or matched The executive directors are provided with benefits in kind which shares were released to the relevant directors.
include a company car or car allowance, private medical The comparator groups in respect of the 2000 award at 31 insurance, supplemental life insurance and long-term disability December 2002 and 2001 awards at 31 December 2003 are set insurance.
Share Scheme Incentives Share Option Schemes The Company operates a long-term incentive plan and share All executive options recently awarded by the Company have option schemes, details of which are set out below.
The been made under the BBA Group 1994 Executive Share Option Companys 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme is due to expire Scheme, which expires in April 2004.
All options are subject to in April 2004 and the Remuneration Committee took this performance conditions.
opportunity to carry out a review of all its long-term incentives.
Between 1997 and 2000, the executive directors did not The Committee has concluded that now is an appropriate time to receive options under the Companys executive share option seek shareholder approval to the establishment of a new share schemes.
During 2001 shareholders approved amendments to plan which is intended to replace both the expiring option the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme and the facility was scheme and the existing long-term incentive plan.
Details of the taken to grant a combination of options and awards under the proposed new plan are set out in the circular to shareholders Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Executive directors have accompanying this document.
since been granted options under that scheme.
Long-Term Incentive Plan Under the 1994 Executive Share Option Scheme, in any Following shareholder approval, the Company introduced the financial year a participant may be granted options with an BBA Group Long-Term Incentive Plan in 1997 for the most senior exercise price not exceeding two times annual earnings.
Such executives in the Company.
The maximum award is 170% of options are only exercisable if the growth in the Companys remuneration.
Under the plan, contingent awards of shares have earnings per share, as adjusted, for any period of three been made Restricted Shares with further awards of shares consecutive years is at least 9 per cent and is greater than the Matched Shares being made pro rata to shares acquired by growth in inflation.
participants using their annual bonus Investment Shares.
The Super options granted under the 1994 executive share interest in shares awarded will only vest if the Companys option plan are only exercisable if the growth in the Companys targeted total shareholder return TSR share price growth plus earnings per share, as adjusted, for any period of five reinvested dividends measured over a period of three years is consecutive years is greater than the growth in earnings per achieved.
Above that minimum, the interest will vest in whole or share, as adjusted, achieved during the same five year period by in part depending on the level of achievement of the at least three-quarters of those companies which constitute the performance conditions.
The Committee has chosen TSR and FTSE 100 index at the end of the five year period.
No earnings per share as the performance conditions under this super options have been granted since 1997 and the 2001 plan as it believes they are two of the most commonly accepted amendments to the 1994 scheme removed the facility to grant measurements of long-term shareholder return.
DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 44 Comparator Group 2000 The performance conditions in respect of the options granted in Aggregate Industries Dixons Group Next 1999 were not satisfied and the options did not become Aggreko Eidos Novar exercisable in 2002 or on retesting in accordance with the Airtours Electrocomponents Nxt Amersham Enodis Pace Micro Technology scheme rules in 2003.
The performance conditions attached to Arjo Wiggins Appleton Eurotunnel Units Pennisular & Oriental Diversified the 2000 grant of options were not satisfied in 2003.
As stated Associated British Ports Exel Powergen Atkins WS First Group Premier Farnell above, no executive directors were granted options in 1999 and Avis Europe FKI Racal Electronics 2000.
Performance condition retesting will not be permitted BAA GKN Railtrack Group BBA Group Great Portland Estates Rank Group under the proposed new share incentive plan referred to on BHP Billiton Great Universal Stores Rentokil Initial page 44 details of which are set out in the circular to shareholders Blue Circle Industries Hammerson Rexam BOC Group Hays Rolls-Royce accompanying this document.
Bodycote International Hilton Group Scottish & Southern Energy The Committee selected earnings per share as the Boots IMI Scottish Power BPB Imperial Chemical Industries Securicor measure for the share option scheme as it is accepted as being a British Airways International Power Serco Group good indicator of long-term corporate performance.
TSR is not British Energy JJB Sports Signet Group British Land Johnson Matthey Slough Estates used as a performance condition for the share option scheme, as Brown N Group Kingfisher Smith & Nephew it is with the Long-Term Incentive Plan, as the Committee is of BTG Land Securities Smith WH Bunzl Laporte Smiths Group the view that options have an inherent share price performance Burmah Castrol Liberty International Spirent measure, being the condition that before any reward is given the Canary Wharf Group Lonmin Stagecoach Holdings Capita Group Marks & Spencer Thistle Hotels share price must increase.
Centrica Matalan Thomson Travel Group Executive directors may be eligible to participate in the Chelsfield MEPC TI Group Cobham Meyer International Tomkins BBA Group 1994 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme which is Cookson Group Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Traffic Master open to all eligible UK employees.
Options are granted under fide la Rue Morgan Crucible Viridian Group fide Vere Group National Express Williams three or five year SAYE contracts at a 20 per cent discount to the Debenhams National Grid Wolseley stock market price at the offer date.
The maximum overall Comparator Group 2001 employee contribution is 250 per month.
Aggregate Industries Electrocomponents Next Table 1 below sets out details of the emoluments and fees Aggreko Exel Novar of executive directors and non-executive directors.
Amersham First Choice Holidays Pace Micro Technology Associated British Ports First Group Pennisular & Oriental Diversified Table 2 sets out share option holdings.
Table 3 details LongAtkins WS FKI Pilkington Term Incentive Plan awards.
Table 4 lists directors interests Avis Europe GKN Premier Farnell BAA GUS Rank Group in shares.
BBA Group Hammerson Regus BHP Billiton Hanson Rentokil Initial BOC Group Hays Rexam Boots Group Hilton Group RMC Group BPB IMI Rolls-Royce Group British Airways Imperial Chemical Industries Scottish & Southern Energy British Energy International Power Scottish Power British Land Invensys Securicor Brown N Group JJB Sports Serco Group BTG Johnson Matthey Signet Group Bunzl Kingfisher Slough Estates Canary Wharf Group Land Securities Smith & Nephew Capita Group Liberty International Smith WH Carphone Warehouse Group Lonmin Smiths Group Centrica Marks & Spencer Group SSL International Chelsfield Matalan Stagecoach Group Cobham Millenium & Copthorne Hotels Tomkins Cookson Group Morgan Crucible Travis Perkins fide la Rue MyTravel Group Viridian Group Dixons Group National Express Wolseley Easyjet National Grid Transco 45 Table 1 Emoluments and fees audited Basic salary allowances Other Benefits Annual Total Total and fees emoluments in kind bonus 2003 2002 000 000 000 000 000 000 R Quarta 146 1 147 154 R V McGlone 449 107 4 138 698 639 A R Wood 290 1 89 380 421 B Van Allen 294 113 14 65 486 487 R H McMillan 273 16 61 350 491 R M Phillips 28 28 28 D Rough 28 28 28 D J S Roques 33 33 28 R N Stillwell 33 33 28 I B Yoskowitz 28 28 28 Total 1,602 220 36 353 2,211 2,332 During the year Mr McGlone elected to receive a proportion of his entitlement under the FURBS arrangements as salary 71,000.
It also includes a one-off payment of 36,000 received as compensation following a change in the structure of the FURBS see table 5.
Special award agreed in November 2000 whilst Mr Van Allen was CEO of BBA Aviation North America under which a bonus of 113,000 was payable provided he remained in employment as at 1 October 2003.
BBA Group plc Ordinary 25p Shares: Mid-market price on 31 December 2003 was 249.5p.
Mid-market price for 2003 was in the range 140p to 275p.
Mr McGlone's options under the savings related share option scheme lapsed on 1 June 2003.
No options were exercised during the year.
There were no changes in the directors options to acquire ordinary shares between 31 December 2003 and 25 February 2004.
Options granted under the 1994 executive share option plan are only exercisable if the growth in the Companys earnings per share, as adjusted, for any period of three consecutive years is at least 9 per cent and is greater than the growth in inflation.
Super options granted under the 1994 executive share option plan are only exercisable if the growth in the Companys earnings per share, as adjusted, for any period of five consecutive years is greater than the growth in earnings per share, as adjusted, achieved during the same five year period by at least three quarters of those companies which constitute the FTSE 100 index at the end of the five year period.
No super options have been granted since 1997 and the recent amendments to the 1994 scheme removed the facility to grant such options.
The performance conditions in respect of the 2000 award of Restricted and Matched shares were not satisfied and no vesting occurred at the end of the three-year performance period.
The awards made to participants lapsed.
Investment shares acquired by participants at the time the 2000 Restricted and Matched awards were made were transferred out of the trust to participants during the year.
No awards were made during the year under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
No awards have been made to R H McMillan under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
The Company has accounted for awards in accordance with the provisions of UITF Abstract 17 employee share schemes.
An employee share scheme has been established which holds shares awarded under the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
As at 31 December 2003, there were 2,648,619 shares at a market value of 6.6 million held of which 462,700 have been awarded to directors as Restricted shares and Matched shares.
Dividends and voting rights have been waived by participants except in respect of dividends on Investment shares.
DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 48 Table 4 Pension Directors interests in share Ordinary 25p shares UK capital includes interests 1 Jan 2003 31 Dec 2003 held by a directors spouse Beneficial Beneficial In the UK, the Company operates defined benefit plans in which R Quarta 36,347 38,020 the executive directors participate.
For Mr McGlone, who joined R V McGlone 118,621 118,621 the plan prior to April 2000, pensionable earnings are basic A R Wood 10,411 10,539 salary plus an average of three years annual bonus together B Van Allen 20,574 20,574 with the taxable value of benefits in kind.
As a result of a review R McMillan of the plan during 2000, as from April 2000 the bonus element of R M Phillips 3,000 3,000 pensionable earnings for existing directors such as Mr McGlone D J S Roques 13,000 13,000 was capped at 45 per cent of salary and pensionable earnings for D Rough 21,248 22,226 Mr Wood and other new participants comprise basic salary only.
R N Stillwell 5,000 5,000 It is the Committees policy that the bonus of any new director I B Yoskowitz 25,709 25,709 joining the Company's UK pension plans from April 2000 will not Includes Investment Shares held under the BBA Group Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Under the Defined Benefit Scheme Rules, the normal retirement age is 62.
In the case of death before retirement, a contingent widow's pension equal to two thirds of the member's prospective pension is payable.
Other dependants' Table 5 audited Defined Contribution Schemes pensions may also be paid.
The Scheme Rules guarantee Company Contributions 2002 2003 pension increases in retirement by RPI up to 5 per cent.
Further 000 000 discretionary increases are possible if RPI is above 5 per cent.
UK Directors FURBS Mr McGlone and Mr Wood are restricted in the level of R V McGlone 152 138 benefits they can earn under the Groups pension plan by the state A R Wood 59 64 defined earnings cap 99,000 for the tax year 2003 2004.
The Company therefore provides a funded unapproved retirement US Directors 401K benefits scheme FURBS at its discretion for these directors.
B Van Allen 5 5 The Company's FURBS are closely related to the contribution the R H McMillan 5 5 Company makes to the approved defined benefits scheme less Includes a one-off contribution of 21,000 being compensation for costs that arose following a change in the structure of the FURBS.
expenses and any special funding.
The rate of contribution for both Mr McGlone and Mr Wood was 36% per annum of pensionable earnings in excess of the earnings cap, although Mr McGlone has elected to receive a proportion of his entitlement as salary see Table 1.
Table 6 audited Defined Benefit Schemes Transfer value of real Increase Accrued Transfer Real increase in in transfer Accrued Transfer Directors age Directors pension at value at increase Increase in pension less values less pension at value at at 31 Dec Contribution 31 Dec 31 Dec in accrued accrued directors directors 31 Dec 31 Dec 2003 during year 2002 2002 pension pension contributions contributions 2003 2003 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 UK Directors R V McGlone 50 5 23 187 3 4 22 46 27 238 A R Wood 52 5 6 58 3 4 27 34 10 97 US Directors B Van Allen 48 7 132 132 78 82 71 75 214 214 R H McMillan 53 9 71 71 59 61 50 52 132 132 R Quarta 54 174 1,793 127 174 1,920 The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year.
Accrued pension amounts shown for Mr McMillan and Mr Van Allen are lump sums.
49 US Non-Executive Directors Mr McMillan and Mr Van Allen are participants in the Groups The non-executive directors receive fees for their services in Senior Executive Pension Plan for North America 'SEPP'.
connection with Board and Board Committee meetings in line Under the Plan, at age 62, they are entitled to receive a lump with the current market practice of comparable organisations.
The Plan also provides for a reduced The level of fees is determined by the Board as a whole on the benefit in the event of early retirement.
That benefit is based recommendation of the Group Chief Executive using independent upon a five-year averaging of compensation, including bonus, market surveys.
The chairman of the Audit Committee and the less amounts received under certain other employer pension Remuneration Committee receive an additional annual fee of plans which include 401k plans.
To 31 December 2003 no 5,000 in respect of their chairmanship.
Details of the nonCompany contributions were made in respect of the SEPP but executive directors fees for 2003 are set out in Table 1 page 46. reserved for by the Company and updated annually based on The non-executive directors do not participate in the Companys benefit projections calculated by the Company's actuaries.
As at share option schemes, long-term incentive plan or pension 31 December 2003, the provision for Mr McMillan was 46,000 arrangements except for Mr Quarta.
Mr Quarta has retained for and for Mr Van Allen was 50,000.
As from 1 January 2004 the a limited period certain of his rights to exercise share options SEPP will be funded by the Company.
and LTIPs granted whilst he was an executive director.
The LTIPs In the case of death before retirement, the accrued benefit did not vest during 2003 and have now lapsed.
The share options reverts to the participants widow, and is paid in a lump sum.
At the are exercisable until 31 December 2004.
In addition, as set out Company's discretion, a reduced early retirement benefit is elsewhere on this page, Mr Quarta retains an entitlement to a available once the participant's age plus credited service exceeds pension which accrued whilst he was an executive director.
Increases in pension are not guaranteed under the Plan.
Non-executive directors have letters of appointment for Mr McMillan and Mr Van Allen also participate in the specific periods which are available for inspection on request.
Details of the contributions made to the 401k 25 February 2004, the unexpired terms were as follows: plan are in Table 5 on page 49.
R Quarta 36 months D Rough 36 months Mr Quarta, whilst an executive director, participated in R M Phillips 14 months R N Stillwell 36 months a United States executive retirement plan.
He retains benefits D J S Roques 10 months which accrued whilst he was an executive director.
The main I B Yoskowitz retires from the Board with effect from 1 March features of this plan included a normal retirement age of 60, no 2004.
No compensation would be payable for the early individual contributions and an annual benefit upon retirement termination of the appointment of any non-executive director.
equivalent to 50 per cent of the average of his highest three This report was approved by the Board of Directors on years' compensation, inclusive of bonus and taxable benefits 25 February 2004 and signed on its behalf by: in kind less amounts received under certain other employer pension plans.
Richard Stillwell Chairman, Remuneration Committee 25 February 2004.
DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and financial statements for each financial year which give a true prudent: and and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group state whether applicable accounting standards have been as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and Group for that period.
explained in the financial statements.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the resources to continue in operational existence for the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
They are also responsible for the system of preparing the financial statements the directors are required to: internal control and for safeguarding the assets of the Company select suitable accounting policies and then apply them and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the consistently: prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 50 The directors submit their report together with the audited Change in share capital financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 Changes in share capital are shown in note 19 to the financial December 2003. statements.
The Company was given authority to purchase up to 14.99 Principal activities and business review per cent of its existing ordinary share capital at the 2003 Annual BBA Group plc is an international group of Aviation and General Meeting and Class Meeting of the 6.75 per cent Materials Technology businesses.
A review of the development convertible preference shareholders.
The authority will expire at of the business of the Group during the year is set out on pages 4 the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in April 2004 to 13 which is included as part of this report.
Accordingly, a special resolution will be Group results and dividends proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The The results for the year are shown in the Group profit and loss Company will also be seeking authority to purchase 6.75 per account on page 54. cent cumulative redeemable convertible preference shares.
The directors recommend the payment of a final ordinary Further details of these resolutions are included with the Notice share dividend for 2003 of 7.6p net per share on 21 May 2004 of Annual General Meeting enclosed with this Report.
to shareholders on the register at the close of business on During the year the Company purchased and cancelled 16 April 2004, which together with the interim dividend paid on 21,504,000 ordinary shares.
7 November 2003 makes a total of 10.8p net per ordinary share Substantial shareholdings for the year 2002: 10.5p.
The Company has been notified under section 198 of the The amounts of the ordinary share dividend payments Companies Act 1985 as amended of the following interests, for 2003, the 6.75 per cent cumulative redeemable convertible which represented 3 per cent or more of the existing issued preference share dividends and the 5 per cent cumulative ordinary share capital of the Company as at 25 February 2004: preference share dividends are shown in note 5 to the financial Number % statements.
Standard Life Group 30,422,490 6.74 Acquisitions and disposals M & G Investment Management 29,650,948 6.57 1.
Acquisitions Limited on behalf of Prudential 1.1 On 23 April 2003, the Group purchased Premier Aviva plc 29,599,971 6.56 Turbines from Sabreliner of the United States for a cash consideration of $35.8 million 22.5 million.
Legal & General Group plc 21,400,015 4.74 1.2 On 18 July 2003, the Group purchased Midcoast Aviation, AEGON UK plc 17,915,556 3.97 the FBO at St Louis Airport, from Sabreliner of the United States for a cash consideration of $9.7 million 6.0 million.
Research and development 1.3 On 13 August 2003, the Group purchased Tecnofibra SpA, The Group continues to devote considerable effort and resources an industrial nonwovens producer in Como, Italy, for a to research and development of new processes and products.
Costs are charged against income as incurred.
Disposals Market value of land and buildings 2.1 On 21 March 2003, the Group disposed of its engineering The directors are of the opinion that the market values of the business at Luton Airport to Gulfstream Aerospace Groups properties are not substantially different from the values Limited for a cash consideration of 0.8million.
included in the Groups financial statements.
2.2 On 2 June 2003, the Group disposed of 90% of its holding in Cordustex Pty Ltd South Africa to Folkmar Geyer for Board of directors an amount of Rand 13.7 million 1.0 million.
The directors of the Company at the date of this report appear on pages 34 and 35.
All of the directors held office throughout the The consideration relating to the various acquisitions and financial year under review.
disposals stated above reflects exchange rates at the date of announcement of the relevant transaction.
DIRECTORS REPORT 51 Directors' elections at the annual general meeting Mr Quarta, Mr Stillwell and Mr Wood retire in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and being eligible, they offer themselves for re-election.
Directors interests in shares Directors interests in shares and share options are contained in the Directors Report on Remuneration on pages 42 to 50.
Suppliers payment policy The Company and Groups policy is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by the terms of the payment.
People and the environment Set out on page 36 is the Directors Report on Corporate Social Responsibility which is included as part of this report.
Resolutions at the annual general meeting The Company's Annual General Meeting will be held on 29 April 2004.
Accompanying this report is the Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which sets out the resolutions to be considered and approved at the meeting.
These are explained in a letter from the Chairman which accompanies the Notice.
Charitable and political donations Group donations to charities worldwide were 147,000 2002: 181,000 with UK charities receiving 20,000 2002: 19,000.
No donations were made to any political party in either year.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board on 25 February 2004 S M F Shaw Group Secretary DIRECTORS REPORT BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 52 Independent auditors report to the members of BBA Group plc on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an We have audited the financial statements of BBA Group plc for opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate the year ended 31 December 2003 which comprise the profit and governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
loss account, the Group and Company balance sheets, the cash We read the directors report and the other information flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains and contained in the annual report for the above year as described in losses, the reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds, the contents section including the unaudited part of the the statement of accounting policies and the related notes 1 to directors remuneration report and consider the implications for 25.
These financial statements have been prepared under the our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
information in the part of the directors remuneration report that Basis of audit opinion is described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom This report is made solely to the Company's members, auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial state to the Companys members those matters we are required statements and the part of the directors remuneration to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
report described as having been audited.
It also includes an To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors applied and adequately disclosed.
As described in the statement of directors responsibilities, We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the the Companys directors are responsible for the preparation of information and explanations which we considered necessary in the financial statements in accordance with applicable United order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are also assurance that the financial statements and the part of the responsible for the preparation of the other information directors remuneration report described as having been audited contained in the annual report including the directors are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we also statements and the part of the directors remuneration report evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of described as having been audited in accordance with relevant information in the financial statements and the part of the United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and directors remuneration report described as having been auditing standards.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial Opinion statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial In our opinion the financial statements give a true and fair statements and the part of the directors remuneration report view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at described as having been audited have been properly prepared 31 December 2003 and of the profit of the Group for the year in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to then ended and the financial statements and part of the you if, in our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with directors remuneration report described as having been audited the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies accounting records, if we have not received all the information Act 1985. and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and Deloitte & Touche LLP transactions with the Company and other members of the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Group is not disclosed.
London We review whether the corporate governance statement 25 February 2004 reflects the Company's compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's statements INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 53 Before goodwill Goodwill amortisation amortisation & exceptional & exceptional 2003 2002 items items Total Total For the year ended 31 December 2003 Notes mmm m Turnover Continuing operations 1,291.6 1,291.6 1,331.3 Acquisitions 33.0 33.0 1,324.6 1,324.6 1,331.3 Discontinued operations 6.0 6.0 50.1 Turnover 1 1,330.6 1,330.6 1,381.4 Cost of sales 2 1,047.0 1,047.0 1,059.2 Gross profit 2 283.6 283.6 322.2 Net operating expenses 2 152.7 60.8 213.5 215.4 Operating profit Continuing operations 128.1 60.8 67.3 110.5 Acquisitions 4.9 4.9 133.0 60.8 72.2 110.5 Discontinued operations 2.1 2.1 3.7 Group operating profit 130.9 60.8 70.1 106.8 Share of operating profit of associates 13.8 13.8 10.1 Total operating profit including associates 144.7 60.8 83.9 116.9 Loss on sale of businesses 2 12.0 12.0 33.9 Profit on ordinary activities before interest and taxation 144.7 72.8 71.9 83.0 Net interest 3 16.7 16.7 21.6 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 128.0 72.8 55.2 61.4 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 4 34.8 8.4 26.4 21.5 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 93.2 64.4 28.8 39.9 Dividends on non-equity shares 5 3.8 3.8 3.8 Profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary shareholders 89.4 64.4 25.0 36.1 Dividends on equity shares 5 48.7 48.7 48.5 Retained loss for the financial year transferred to reserves 19 40.7 64.4 23.7 12.4 Earnings per ordinary share Basic: Total businesses: Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 6 19.7p 20.4p Unadjusted 6 5.5p 7.9p Diluted: Total businesses: Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 6 19.6p 20.4p Unadjusted 6 5.5p 7.9p Dividends Dividends per ordinary share paid 3.2p 3.1p proposed 7.6p 7.4p 5 10.8p 10.5p The statement of the movements on reserves is set out in note 19 to the financial statements.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this profit and loss account.
GROUP PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 54 GROUP COMPANY 2002 2002 2003 Restated 2003 Restated At 31 December 2003 Notes m m m m Fixed assets Intangible assets goodwill 9 316.1 359.8 Tangible assets 10 Land and buildings 281.6 304.1 0.4 0.5 Plant and machinery 488.7 517.0 4.2 4.6 Investments 11 26.6 18.4 1,548.9 1,574.8 1,113.0 1,199.3 1,553.5 1,579.9 Current assets Stocks 12 195.3 201.0 Debtors due after one year 13 19.6 16.7 0.9 Debtors due within one year 13 255.6 269.5 1,481.8 1,317.6 Cash at bank and in hand 15 154.7 93.7 24.3 4.4 625.2 580.9 1,507.0 1,322.0 Current liabilities Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Borrowings and finance leases 14 39.3 62.2 0.1 4.1 Others 14 324.8 341.5 1,783.5 1,578.0 Net current assets liabilities 261.1 177.2 276.6 260.1 Total assets less current liabilities 1,374.1 1,376.5 1,276.9 1,319.8 Long-term liabilities Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year Borrowings and finance leases 15 574.9 527.2 509.2 442.6 Others 16 2.7 2.7 Provisions for liabilities and charges 18 115.9 100.8 2.6 0.8 Total net assets 680.6 745.8 770.3 878.0 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 19 169.1 171.9 169.1 171.9 Share premium account 19 285.0 287.3 285.0 287.3 Revaluation reserve 19 3.9 3.9 3.5 3.5 Other 19 5.5 0.1 237.6 232.2 Profit and loss account 19 217.1 282.6 75.1 183.1 Shareholders funds Shareholders funds 680.6 745.8 770.3 878.0 Equity 624.3 689.5 714.0 821.7 Non-equity 19 56.3 56.3 56.3 56.3 680.6 745.8 770.3 878.0 These financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 25 February 2004 and signed on its behalf by R Quarta Chairman A R Wood Group Finance Director In accordance with the exemptions permitted by s230 of the Companies Act 1985, the profit and loss account of the Company has not been presented.
The retained loss for the financial year in the accounts of the Company, after dividends from subsidiary undertakings, amounted to 79.5m 2002: 0.9m.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these balance sheets.
GROUP AND COMPANY BALANCE SHEETS 55 2003 2002 For the year ended 31 December 2003 Notes mm m m Operations Net cash inflow from operating activities 20 Continuing operations 173.5 187.7 Acquisitions 6.6 180.1 187.7 Discontinued operations 4.9 2.4 185.0 190.1 Dividends from joint ventures and associates Dividends from associates 2.7 Returns on investments and servicing of finance Interest received 27.5 18.4 Interest paid 42.0 42.6 Preference dividends paid 3.8 3.8 Interest element of finance leases 2.2 3.3 Net cash outflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance 20.5 31.3 Taxation UK corporation tax paid 0.4 Overseas tax paid 10.2 9.3 Total tax paid 10.2 8.9 Capital expenditure Purchase of tangible fixed assets 75.0 85.9 Sale of tangible fixed assets 5.2 14.6 Net cash outflow from capital expenditure 69.8 71.3 Acquisitions and disposals Purchase of subsidiary undertakings and businesses 21 51.3 59.4 Net cash acquired 21 0.8 Investment in minority interest in subsidiary undertaking 0.9 Investment in associated undertakings 2.3 Sale of businesses 22 1.5 14.0 Cash received paid from disposals in prior years 8.2 3.6 Net cash outflow from acquisitions and disposals 43.1 49.9 Equity dividends Equity dividends paid 32.5 34.5 Net cash inflow outflow before management of liquid resources and financing 11.6 5.8 Management of liquid resources and financing Net proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 0.2 0.2 Own shares purchased for cancellation 44.6 Increase decrease in borrowings and finance leases 20 95.8 26.2 Increase decrease in short-term deposits 20 23.3 3.8 Net cash inflow outflow from management of liquid resources and financing 28.1 22.2 Movement in cash Increase decrease in cash 39.7 28.0 Reconciliation of net cash flow to changes in net debt Increase decrease in cash in year 20 39.7 28.0 Increase decrease in borrowings and finance leases 20 95.8 26.2 Increase decrease in short-term deposits 20 23.3 3.8 New finance leases 20 1.6 3.9 Exchange adjustments 20 70.6 61.8 Movement in net debt in year 36.2 52.3 Net debt at beginning of year 495.7 548.0 Net debt at end of year 15 459.5 495.7 The accompanying notes are an integral part of this cash flow statement.
GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 56 RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENT IN GROUP SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS GROUP 2002 2003 Restated For the year ended 31 December 2003 m m Profit for the financial year 28.8 39.9 Dividends 52.5 52.3 23.7 12.4 Exchange differences on translation net 13.3 28.7 Goodwill transferred to the profit and loss account in respect of businesses sold in year 14.1 Own shares purchased for cancellation 44.6 Shares issued 16.4 12.2 Net decrease in shareholders funds for the year 65.2 14.8 Shareholders funds at beginning of year as previously reported 754.8 769.6 Prior period adjustment on adoption of UITF Abstract 38 9.0 9.0 Shareholders funds at beginning of year as restated 745.8 760.6 Shareholders funds at end of year 680.6 745.8 GROUP STATEMENT OF TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES GROUP 2003 2002 For the year ended 31 December 2003 m m Profit for the financial year 28.8 39.9 Exchange difference on retranslation of net assets of subsidiary undertakings 75.0 87.3 Exchange difference on foreign currency borrowings 61.7 58.6 Total recognised gains and losses for the year since the last annual report 15.5 11.2 There are no material differences between the results as disclosed in the profit and loss account and the results on an unmodified historical cost basis.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of this statement of total recognised gains and losses.
57 Accounting Policies Investments The principal Group accounting policies are set out below and In the Companys financial statements, investments in have been applied consistently throughout the current and subsidiary and associated undertakings are stated at cost less preceding year except that the directors have adopted the provision for impairment.
In the Groups financial statements, provisions of UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts investments in associated undertakings are stated at cost plus in the year.
The adoption of this abstract has resulted in a the Groups share of post-acquisition reserves less provision for restatement to certain prior year figures, the details of which are impairment.
Other fixed asset investments are stated at cost given in note 11: Fixed Asset Investments.
The impact of less provision for impairment.
adoption is to decrease opening net assets by 9.0 million.
Treasury The adoption of this abstract had no effect on cash flows.
Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of Basis of Accounting exchange at the date of the transaction unless matched by a The financial statements have been prepared using the historical forward contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in cost convention adjusted for the revaluation of certain fixed foreign currencies at the balance sheet date are reported at the assets and in accordance with applicable United Kingdom rates of exchange prevailing at that date or, if appropriate, at the accounting standards.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rates subsequent to the date of the transaction is Basis of Consolidation included as an exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss The Group profit and loss account, balance sheet and cash flow account.
statement incorporate the financial statements of all subsidiary The results and cash flows of overseas operations are undertakings for the year ended 31 December under the translated at the average rates of exchange during the period acquisition method of accounting.
and their balance sheets at the rates ruling at the balance sheet The results of subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold date.
Exchange differences arising on translation of the opening are consolidated for the periods from or to the date on which net assets and results of overseas operations and on foreign control passed.
Goodwill on acquisitions, being the excess of the currency borrowings or other currency instruments, to the fair value of the consideration for new interests over the fair extent that they hedge the Groups investment in such value of net assets acquired, is capitalised and written off on operations, are dealt with through reserves.
a straight line basis over its useful economic life, with a For an interest rate swap to be treated as a hedge, the maximum life of 20 years.
Provision is made for any impairment.
instrument must be related to actual assets or liabilities or Goodwill arising on acquisitions in the year ended 31 December a probable commitment and must change the nature of the 1997 and earlier periods was written off to reserves in interest rate by converting a fixed rate to a variable rate or accordance with the accounting standards then in force.
Interest differentials under these swaps are permitted by current accounting standards, the goodwill recognised by adjusting net interest payable over the periods previously written off to reserves has not been reinstated in the of the contracts.
On disposal of a previously acquired business, the attributable amount of goodwill previously written off to reserves Turnover is included in determining the profit or loss on disposal.
Turnover comprises the invoiced value of sales for goods Associated undertakings are those investments other than supplied and services provided by the Group excluding subsidiary undertakings where the Group exercises a significant intercompany transactions, sales by associated undertakings influence, typically through representation on the Board of and sales taxes.
The consolidated financial statements include the In our pilot training business, turnover is recognised Groups share of the post-acquisition reserves of all such evenly over the duration of each course.
Research and Development Research and development expenditure is charged against income in the year in which it is incurred.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 58 Pensions and other Post-Retirement Benefits Finance costs which are directly attributable to the construction The costs of pension plans and other post-retirement benefits of major tangible fixed assets are capitalised as part of those are charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the assets.
The commencement of capitalisation begins when both costs over employees working lives within the Group.
The finance costs and expenditures for the asset are being incurred, contribution levels are determined by valuations undertaken and activities that are necessary to get the asset ready for use by independent qualified actuaries.
In certain overseas are in progress.
Capitalisation ceases when substantially all the subsidiary undertakings, to comply with local legislation and activities that are necessary to get the asset ready for use are to obtain taxation advantages, provision is made for the total complete.
actuarial liability less the current surrender value of the Leases supporting investment.
Where assets are financed by lease agreements that give rights Scrip Dividends similar to ownership finance leases, the assets are treated as Ordinary dividends in lieu of which shareholders elect to receive if they had been purchased and the leasing commitments are ordinary shares are credited to reserves and the nominal value shown as obligations to the lessors.
The capitalisation values of such ordinary shares is capitalised out of the share premium of the assets are written off on a straight line basis over the account.
Ordinary dividends are appropriated through the profit shorter of the periods of the leases or the useful lives of the and loss account.
The option to receive dividends in the form of assets concerned.
The capital elements of future lease ordinary shares was replaced by a Dividend Reinvestment obligations are recorded as liabilities, while the interest Programme in the second half of 2003, which is accounted for elements are charged to the profit and loss account over the through the profit and loss account and cash flow statement.
period of the leases to produce a constant rate of charge on the balance of capital payments outstanding.
Tangible Fixed Assets For all other leases operating leases the rental Plant and machinery, with the exception of tooling and motor payments are charged to the profit and loss account on a vehicles, was professionally valued at 31 December 1988 on an straight line basis over the lives of the leases.
Additions after that date are stated in the balance sheet at cost.
Land and buildings are stated at cost or Stocks valuation performed in 1988.
Other tangible fixed assets are Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
stated in the balance sheet at cost.
Depreciation is provided on Cost comprises the cost of raw materials and an appropriate the cost or valuation of tangible fixed assets less estimated proportion of labour and overheads in the case of work in residual value and is calculated on a straight line basis over progress and finished goods.
Provision is made for slow moving the following estimated useful lives of the assets: or obsolete stock as appropriate.
Taxation Land not depreciated The charge for taxation is based on the profit for the year and Buildings 40 years maximum takes into account taxation deferred due to timing differences Tooling, vehicles, computer and between the treatment of certain items for taxation and office equipment 3 5 years accounting purposes.
Deferred tax is provided in full on all Plant and machinery including liabilities.
In accordance with FRS 19, deferred tax assets are essential commissioning costs 8 18 years recognised to the extent it is regarded that it is more likely The revaluation reserve consists of the surpluses on the than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and revaluation of land and buildings to their market value for liabilities have not been discounted.
existing use and on the revaluation of plant and machinery to net Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising current replacement cost.
from the sale or revaluation of fixed assets unless, at the balance sheet date, a binding commitment to sell the asset has been entered into and it is unlikely that any gain will qualify for rollover relief.
The Group interest expense is managed centrally and is not attributable to individual markets or geographical areas.
Included within the 48.1m goodwill amortisation and write-downs is a charge of 25.9m relating to our pilot training business which continues to suffer from the downturn in the market after the events of 11 September 2001.
NOTES ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 60 2003 2002 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total 2 PROFIT AND LOSS m m m m m m Turnover 1,324.6 6.0 1,330.6 1,331.3 50.1 1,381.4 Cost of sales 1,039.9 7.1 1,047.0 1,015.8 43.4 1,059.2 Gross profit 284.7 1.1 283.6 315.5 6.7 322.2 Distribution costs 58.9 0.2 59.1 61.6 2.3 63.9 Administrative expenses: goodwill amortisation 48.1 48.1 22.7 22.7 exceptional restructuring costs 12.7 12.7 15.2 0.2 15.4 other administrative expenses 95.0 1.2 96.2 112.3 8.1 120.4 Total administrative expenses 155.8 1.2 157.0 150.2 8.3 158.5 Other operating income net 2.2 0.4 2.6 6.8 0.2 7.0 Net operating expenses including exceptional costs 212.5 1.0 213.5 205.0 10.4 215.4 Group operating profit 72.2 2.1 70.1 110.5 3.7 106.8 Share of operating profit of associates 13.8 13.8 10.1 10.1 Total operating profit including associates 86.0 2.1 83.9 120.6 3.7 116.9 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional restructuring costs 146.8 2.1 144.7 158.5 3.5 155.0 Discontinued activities include the results of Cordustex, Tyler Aviation, Engineering Luton and Southampton and Trinity landing gear businesses sold or discontinued in 2003.
The loss on sale or termination of these businesses, together with the loss on sale of tangible fixed assets was 12.0m.
2003 2002 m m Profit on ordinary activities before taxation is arrived at after charging: Audit fees 1.5 1.5 Research and development 9.4 10.2 Operating leases: Hire of plant and machinery 11.1 12.7 Lease rentals of land and buildings 22.4 18.6 Depreciation of tangible fixed assets: Owned 63.4 71.9 Leased 12.4 4.6 Fees paid to Deloitte for non-audit services comprise nil 2002: nil for advisory work in respect of acquisitions and disposals during the year and 0.6m 2002: 0.3m in respect of other services principally comprising general tax compliance and other advisory and assurance services.
2003 2002 3 NET INTEREST m m Interest payable and similar charges: On bank loans and overdrafts 40.7 39.8 On finance leases 2.2 3.3 On all other borrowings 0.6 0.1 43.5 43.2 Interest receivable 25.6 21.0 Interest capitalised 1.2 0.6 16.7 21.6 Interest has been capitalised using capitalisation rates in the range 1.7% to 4.3% per annum.
61 2003 2002 4 TAXATION m m United Kingdom Corporation tax 2.3 0.4 Double tax relief 1.8 Deferred taxation 1.4 1.9 0.9 1.5 Overseas Current tax charge 7.1 10.3 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4.6 Deferred taxation 15.5 14.4 22.6 20.1 Associates and joint ventures Current tax charge 4.7 2.9 4.7 2.9 Total taxation charge 26.4 21.5 Included in the total taxation charge is taxation attributable to the following items: Restructuring costs 4.1 7.5 Loss on sale of businesses 1.6 3.6 Goodwill amortisation 2.7 3.5 Capitalised interest 0.3 0.1 8.1 14.5 Corporation tax at 30% 2002: 30% has been charged on the United Kingdom profits, and taxation on overseas profits has been charged at the rates appropriate to each country.
Factors affecting the current tax charge: 2003 2002 m m Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 55.2 61.4 Tax at standard rate of corporation tax in UK of 30% 2002: 30% 16.6 18.4 Permanent differences 2.1 4.4 Capital allowances in excess of depreciation 8.0 8.9 Adjustments in respect of prior years 4.6 Other, including tax rate differences and other timing differences 1.6 0.3 Current tax charge for the year 12.3 9.0 GROUP COMPANY 2003 2002 2003 2002 Deferred Taxation m m m m Recognised in provisions for liabilities and charges: Arising from accelerated capital allowances 68.3 63.2 2.3 0.1 Other timing differences 1.1 10.1 0.3 0.7 Total deferred taxation note 18 67.2 53.1 2.6 0.8 Deferred taxation is calculated using a United Kingdom corporation tax rate of 30% 2002: 30% and the rates appropriate to each overseas company.
There are net deferred tax assets of 15.3m 2002: 10.8m which have not been recognised on the basis that their future economic benefit is uncertain.
NOTES ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 62 Company Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 pence pence 5 DIVIDENDS m m per share per share Equity shares Ordinary shares Interim paid on 7 November 2003 14.4 14.3 3.2 3.1 Proposed final payable on 21 May 2004 34.3 34.2 7.6 7.4 48.7 48.5 10.8 10.5 Non-equity shares 5% Cumulative preference shares paid 6.75% Cumulative redeemable convertible preference shares paid 3.8 3.8 52.5 52.3 2003 2002 6 EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE m m Earnings Basic: Basic earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 25.0 36.1 Goodwill amortisation and exceptional items net of tax 64.4 57.4 Basic earnings before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 89.4 93.5 Diluted: Basic earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 25.0 36.1 Preference dividends Diluted earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 25.0 36.1 Goodwill amortisation and exceptional items net of tax 64.4 57.4 Diluted earnings before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 89.4 93.5 Number of shares Weighted average number of 25p ordinary shares: For basic earnings per share 453.1 457.9 Conversion of preference shares Exercise of share options 2.7 For diluted earnings per share 455.8 457.9 Earnings per share Basic: Basic earnings before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 19.7p 20.4p On unadjusted basic earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 5.5p 7.9p Diluted: Diluted earnings before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 19.6p 20.4p On unadjusted diluted earnings attributable to ordinary shareholders 5.5p 7.9p Adjusted earnings per share is shown calculated on earnings before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items because the directors consider that this gives a better indication of underlying performance.
In calculating the diluted earnings per share for 2003 the effects of the convertible shares and Long-Term Incentive Plan have been omitted, as they are currently anti-dilutive.
63 Group 2003 2002 7 EMPLOYEES number number Average monthly number including Executive Directors By market: Materials Technology 3,116 3,098 Aviation 9,556 9,824 12,672 12,922 By region: United Kingdom 1,799 1,942 Mainland Europe 1,164 1,019 North America 9,368 9,590 Rest of World 341 371 12,672 12,922 m m Employment costs Wages and salaries 299.6 321.7 Social security costs 36.8 35.5 Pension costs 11.6 11.2 348.0 368.4 8 DIRECTORS Emoluments and interests Details of Directors emoluments and interests are provided within the Directors Report on Remuneration on pages 42 to 50.
Group 2003 2002 9 INTANGIBLE ASSETS GOODWILL m m Cost Beginning of year 422.2 434.4 Exchange adjustments 33.1 34.0 Acquisitions 35.5 27.1 Investment in minority interest in subsidiary undertaking 0.4 Provided on closure of businesses 3.0 Disposals 1.1 4.6 Acquisitions in prior years 0.1 1.1 End of year 420.6 422.2 Accumulated amortisation Beginning of year 62.4 44.1 Exchange adjustments 5.3 4.4 Provided during the year 48.1 22.7 Provided on closure of businesses 0.6 Disposals 0.1 End of year 104.5 62.4 Net book value end of year 316.1 359.8 Included within the 48.1m goodwill amortisation and write-downs is a charge of 25.9m relating to our pilot training business which continues to suffer from the downturn in the market after the events of 11 September 2001.
NOTES ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 64 GROUP COMPANY Land and Plant and Land and Plant and buildings machinery buildings machinery 10 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS m m m m Cost or valuation Beginning of year 394.6 758.2 0.5 5.4 Exchange adjustments 27.8 31.5 Acquisition of businesses 11.2 Disposal of businesses 0.3 2.6 Additions 13.2 55.4 Disposals 0.5 13.6 Asset write downs 0.3 5.2 End of year 378.9 771.9 0.5 5.4 At cost 377.9 765.0 0.5 5.4 At valuation 1988 1.0 6.9 378.9 771.9 0.5 5.4 Accumulated depreciation Beginning of year 90.5 241.2 0.8 Exchange adjustments 8.6 10.5 Disposal of businesses 0.1 1.8 Provided during the year 16.0 59.8 0.1 0.4 Disposals 0.5 5.5 End of year 97.3 283.2 0.1 1.2 Net book value end of year Owned assets 90.9 458.7 0.1 4.2 Leased assets 190.7 30.0 0.3 281.6 488.7 0.4 4.2 Interest capitalised in the year, net of tax relief, included in the cost of tangible fixed assets amounts to 1.2m 2002: 0.6m for the Group and nil 2002: nil for the Company.
GROUP COMPANY 2003 2002 2003 2002 m m m m Land and buildings Freehold 90.9 97.4 0.1 0.1 Long leasehold 3.7 7.7 Short leasehold 187.0 199.0 0.3 0.4 281.6 304.1 0.4 0.5 Value of land included above not subject to depreciation 15.9 16.2 Capital commitments Capital expenditure contracted for but not provided for: Other 3.2 11.9 3.2 11.9 65 GROUP COMPANY 2002 2002 2003 Restated 2003 Restated 11 FIXED ASSET INVESTMENTS m m m m Subsidiary undertakings Cost of shares Beginning of year 1,486.8 1,481.2 Additions 5.6 Disposals End of year 1,486.8 1,486.8 Provisions Beginning of year 28.4 0.5 Provided during year 25.9 27.9 End of year 54.3 28.4 Net book value end of year 1,432.5 1,458.4 Loans to subsidiary undertakings Beginning of year 116.4 112.2 Additions 4.2 End of year 116.4 116.4 Associated undertakings Cost of shares and accumulated reserves Beginning of year 18.4 17.1 Exchange adjustments 1.6 2.3 Additions 2.3 0.3 Disposals 0.4 Retained profit 4.3 3.7 Net book value end of year 26.6 18.4 Total Fixed asset investments 26.6 18.4 1,548.9 1,574.8 The names and interests in major subsidiary and associated undertakings are shown on page 82.
Details of acquisitions of subsidiary undertakings are given in note 21.
None of the investments in associated undertakings are listed on a recognised exchange.
The net book value of associated undertakings at 31 December 2003 comprises cost of 13.9m 2002: 10.0m and accumulated reserves of 12.7m 2002: 8.4m.
Retained profit from associated undertakings of 4.3m represents the Groups share of operating profit of 13.8m less taxation and interest of 6.8m and dividends of 2.7m.
The prior year figures have been restated in accordance with the provisions of UITF Abstract 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
The investment in own shares of 9.0m 2002: 9.0m has been reclassified as a reduction in shareholders' equity detailed in note 19.
The directors have chosen to adopt the provisions of this abstract early in line with its recommendation.
GROUP COMPANY 2003 2002 2003 2002 12 STOCKS m m m m Raw materials 84.5 93.5 Work in progress 32.4 28.5 Finished goods 78.4 79.0 195.3 201.0 There is no material difference between the balance sheet value of stocks and their replacement cost.
NOTES ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 66 GROUP COMPANY 2003 2002 2003 2002 13 DEBTORS m m m m Trade debtors 184.8 178.2 Amounts owed by subsidiary undertakings 1,447.1 1,283.6 Taxation recoverable 0.6 3.7 0.4 Other debtors, prepayments and accrued income 70.2 87.6 34.7 33.6 Debtors due within one year 255.6 269.5 1,481.8 1,317.6 Amounts owed by joint ventures and associates 3.3 3.3 Other debtors due after one year 16.3 13.4 0.9 Debtors due after one year 19.6 16.7 0.9 275.2 286.2 1,482.7 1,317.6 GROUP COMPANY 2003 2002 2003 2002 14 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE WITHIN ONE YEAR m m m m Borrowings note 15 Loans other than from banks 1.0 1.9 Bank loans and overdrafts 29.5 49.2 0.1 4.1 Obligations under finance leases 8.8 11.1 39.3 62.2 0.1 4.1 Others Trade creditors 117.3 106.9 Amounts owed to subsidiary undertakings 1,725.2 1,517.2 Taxation United Kingdom 8.4 8.6 8.4 8.6 overseas 45.1 46.5 Other taxation and social security 7.8 5.8 0.1 0.2 Other creditors 48.6 57.8 8.2 9.6 Accruals and deferred income 63.0 81.4 7.0 7.9 Ordinary dividends 34.3 34.2 34.3 34.2 Preference dividends 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 324.8 341.5 1,783.5 1,578.0 67 GROUP COMPANY 2003 2002 2003 2002 15 BORROWINGS m m m m Borrowings summary: Long-term loans Repayable after five years 0.9 0.1 Medium-term loans Repayable between two and five years 48.2 460.3 36.9 442.6 Repayable between one and two years 479.4 6.7 472.3 Finance leases Repayable after five years 36.3 45.5 Repayable between one and five years 10.1 14.6 574.9 527.2 509.2 442.6 Short-term Overdrafts, borrowings and finance leases repayable within one year 39.3 62.2 0.1 4.1 Total borrowings and finance leases 614.2 589.4 509.3 446.7 Cash at bank and in hand 154.7 93.7 24.3 4.4 Net borrowings and finance leases 459.5 495.7 485.0 442.3 Of the borrowings repayable after five years the following are: Wholly repayable after five years 0.1 Instalments falling due after five years 0.9 Borrowings analysis: Secured Currencies other than sterling Mortgage loans repayable over periods varying from one to two years and at an interest rate of 6.0% 0.8 1.1 Finance leases 55.2 71.2 56.0 72.3 Unsecured Bank loans and overdrafts Sterling 64.7 26.0 50.0 0.5 US dollar 381.5 412.6 362.6 378.5 Euro 89.0 58.5 73.9 47.8 Canadian dollar 21.8 19.9 21.6 19.9 Other currencies 1.2 0.1 1.2 Total borrowings and finance leases 614.2 589.4 509.3 446.7 Cash at bank and in hand 154.7 93.7 24.3 4.4 Net borrowings and finance leases 459.5 495.7 485.0 442.3 The interest rates on unsecured loans range from 1.6% to 4.75% per annum and repayments are due at varying dates up to 2008.
NOTES ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 68 GROUP COMPANY 2003 2002 2003 2002 15 BORROWINGS continued m m m m Leasing commitments Finance leases Rentals net of interest due: Within one year 8.8 11.1 One to five years 10.1 14.6 After five years 36.3 45.5 Obligations under finance leases 55.2 71.2 Operating leases Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases expiring: Plant and machinery Within one year 2.5 2.4 One to five years 3.4 2.1 0.1 After five years 1.5 1.8 7.4 6.3 0.1 Included in Group commitments after five years is nil 2002: nil which is guaranteed by the Company.
Land and buildings Within one year 3.3 4.1 0.2 One to five years 4.2 8.0 1.2 0.2 After five years 16.2 10.3 0.6 23.7 22.4 2.0 0.2 Included in Group commitments after five years is 11.0m 2002: 5.8m which is guaranteed by the Company.
Facilities Unutilised facilities were available to the Group as follows: Medium and long-term 301.3 379.1 Overdraft, short-term and trade bill discounting 28.3 31.5 Total unutilised facilities 329.6 410.6 The loan facilities are contractually committed by banks and other institutions: the overdraft facilities are provided by several banks and are repayable on demand.
Contingent liabilities Guarantees of subsidiary undertakings overdrafts or loans and other guarantees 3.4 3.5 81.4 96.0 Foreign currency contracts At 31 December 2003, the Group had 361.5m 2002: 252.7m of forward contracts to buy sell foreign currency.
GROUP COMPANY 2003 2002 2003 2002 16 CREDITORS: AMOUNTS FALLING DUE AFTER MORE THAN ONE YEAR m m m m Borrowings note 15 Loans other than from banks 1.6 0.1 Bank loans 526.9 467.0 509.2 442.6 Obligations under finance leases 46.4 60.1 574.9 527.2 509.2 442.6 Others Other creditors 2.7 2.7 577.6 529.9 509.2 442.6 69 17 DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Page 17 of the Group Finance Directors Review provides an explanation of the role that financial instruments have had during the year in creating or changing the risks the Group faces in its activities.
The explanation summarises the objectives and policies for holding or issuing financial instruments and similar contracts, and the strategies for achieving those objectives that have been followed during the year.
The numerical disclosures in this note deal with financial assets and liabilities as defined in Financial Reporting Standard 13 Derivatives and Other Financial Instruments: Disclosures FRS 13.
For this purpose non-equity shares issued by the Company are dealt with in the disclosures in the same way as the Groups financial liabilities but separately disclosed.
Certain financial assets such as investments in subsidiary and associated companies are also excluded from the scope of these disclosures.
As permitted by FRS 13, short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from the disclosures, other than the currency disclosures.
Interest rate profile After taking into account interest rate swaps and currency swaps entered into by the Group, the interest rate profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December 2003 was as follows: Floating Interest Fixed rate rate free Total m m m m Sterling 64.9 64.9 US Dollar 384.3 357.7 742.0 Euro 75.2 116.8 192.0 Other 45.3 45.3 Financial liabilities excluding non-equity capital 459.5 584.7 1,044.2 Non-equity capital: Cumulative preference shares 0.2 0.2 Cumulative redeemable convertible preference shares 56.1 56.1 Total financial liabilities 515.8 584.7 1,100.5 Of which: Total borrowings 614.2 Notional value of derivative financial instruments 430.0 Non-equity capital 56.3 Total financial liabilities 1,100.5 The profile at 31 December 2002 for comparison purposes was as follows: Floating Interest Fixed rate rate free Total m m m m Sterling 8.9 17.5 26.4 US Dollar 366.3 417.7 784.0 Euro 72.2 87.6 159.8 Other 42.6 42.6 Financial liabilities excluding non-equity capital 438.5 556.8 17.5 1,012.8 Non-equity capital: Cumulative preference shares 0.2 0.2 Cumulative redeemable convertible preference shares 56.1 56.1 Total financial liabilities 494.8 556.8 17.5 1,069.1 Of which: Total borrowings 589.4 Notional value of derivative financial instruments 423.4 Non-equity capital 56.3 Total financial liabilities 1,069.1 NOTES ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 70 17 DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued Further analysis of the interest rate profile at 31 December is as follows: 2003 2002 Fixed rate Fixed rate weighted weighted average average Weighted period for Weighted period for average which rate average which rate interest rate is fixed interest rate is fixed %Years % Years US Dollar 4.2 2.4 5.5 3.3 Euro 4.0 2.2 4.1 3.3 Total borrowings 4.1 2.4 5.3 3.3 Non-equity capital: Cumulative preference shares 5.0 5.0 Cumulative redeemable convertible preference shares 6.8 6.8 6.8 6.8 The interest rate on floating rate financial liabilities is linked to sterling LIBOR in the case of sterling liabilities and the relevant currency LIBOR for currency denominated liabilities.
Further details of interest rates on long-term borrowings are given in note 15.
Floating Total Fixed rate rate 2003 2002 m m m m The Group held the following financial assets: Sterling 73.3 408.2 481.5 444.8 US Dollar 58.9 58.9 50.3 Euro 33.7 33.7 15.5 Other 10.6 10.6 6.5 Vendor notes and other debtors due outside one year 19.6 19.6 16.7 Total financial assets 73.3 531.0 604.3 533.8 Of which: Cash at bank and short-term deposits 154.7 93.7 Notional value of derivative financial instruments 430.0 423.4 Vendor notes and other debtors due outside one year 19.6 16.7 Total financial assets 604.3 533.8 The fixed rate on the Sterling assets is in relation to interest rate swaps with a weighted average interest rate of 4.1% 2002: 4.5% which are due to mature during the second half of 2005.
Cash at bank and short-term deposits earn interest determined with reference to the relevant money market deposit rates.
Vendor notes relate to disposals made in previous years and earn interest determined with reference to the relevant LIBOR.
Currency exposures The extent to which the Groups operating entities hold monetary assets and liabilities in currencies other than in their local currency has been reviewed.
Taking into account the impact of forward currency contracts and other derivative instruments, the Group had no material profit and loss exposure to foreign exchange gains and losses on monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies as at 31 December 2003.
Gains and losses on hedges The Group enters into forward currency contracts to eliminate the currency exposures that arise on sales denominated in foreign currencies immediately those sales are transacted.
It also uses interest rate swaps and currency swaps to manage its interest rate profile and translation exposures.
Gains and losses on hedges are not recognised until the exposure that is being hedged is itself recognised.
71 17 DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued The table below sets out unrecognised gains and losses in respect of hedges at the beginning and end of the year: m Net losses on hedges at 1 January 2003 19.4 Net losses arising in previous years included in 2003 results 5.7 Net losses arising in previous years and not included in 2003 results 13.7 Net losses arising in 2003 and not included in 2003 results 0.7 Net losses on hedges at 31 December 2003 13.0 Of which: Net losses expected to be recognised in 2004 8.1 Net losses expected to be recognised in 2005 or after 4.9 13.0 Maturity of financial liabilities The maturity profile of the Groups financial liabilities at 31 December was as follows: 2003 2002 m m In one year or less 39.3 62.2 In more than one year but not more than two years 482.6 13.8 In more than two years but not more than five years 55.1 467.8 In more than five years 37.2 45.6 614.2 589.4 Borrowing facilities The Group had undrawn committed facilities at 31 December, in respect of which all conditions precedent have been met, as follows: 2003 2002 m m Expiring in one year or less 2.5 4.4 Expiring in more than one year but not more than two years 38.8 Expiring in more than two years 262.6 379.1 303.9 383.5 Fair values Set out below is a comparison by category of book values and fair values of the Group's financial assets and liabilities at 31 December: 2003 2002 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value m m m m Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations: Short-term financial liabilities and current proportion of long-term borrowings 39.3 39.3 62.2 62.4 Long-term borrowings 574.9 575.6 527.2 528.0 Non-equity capital 56.3 80.1 56.3 67.1 Cash deposits 154.7 154.7 93.7 93.7 Vendor notes and other debtors due outside one year 19.6 19.6 16.7 16.7 Derivative financial instruments held to manage the interest rate and currency profile: Interest rate swaps 19.5 28.3 Currency swaps 53.4 53.4 25.3 25.3 Forward foreign currency contracts 6.5 8.9 Commodity swap 0.5 0.9 NOTES ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 72 17 DERIVATIVES AND OTHER FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS continued The fair value of the non-equity capital, interest rate swaps, forward foreign currency contracts and commodity swap have been determined by reference to prices available from the markets on which the instruments involved are traded.
All the other fair values shown above have been calculated by discounting cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The interest rates on currency swaps are based upon short-term floating rates and therefore the difference between the book value and fair value is immaterial.
18 PROVISIONS FOR LIABILITIES AND CHARGES Exchange Beginning rate Acquisitions Charged Transferred Utilised End of year adjustments disposals in year from creditors in year of year m m m m m m m Group Overseas pension funds 3.3 0.2 0.7 3.8 0.1 7.9 Restructuring provisions 0.7 1.9 0.3 2.3 Discontinued operations 31.1 0.5 0.6 4.8 26.4 Post-retirement benefits 12.6 1.2 1.0 0.3 12.1 Deferred taxation 53.1 2.0 2.0 14.1 67.2 100.8 3.5 2.0 18.3 3.8 5.5 115.9 The pension and post-retirement benefit provisions arise from unfunded pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations to former employees and are expected to be payable over the remaining average service lives of employees.
Details of pensions and other post-retirement benefits are set out in note 23.
The provision for restructuring consists of 1.3m relating to the restructuring of the Aviation division in the USA and 1.0m relating to the integration of facilities in Materials Technology in the USA.
The provision for discontinued operations has reduced during the year due to the Group substantially completing the process of closing the US Aircraft Sales business, which principally related to asset write downs.
The provision of 26.4m is partially offset by expected recoveries from third parties of 13.3m 2002: 13.3m which are included within debtors due after one year in note 13.
It is expected that the majority of this expenditure will not be incurred within the next five years.
COMPANY COMPANY Allotted, called up and fully paid Authorised 2003 2002 2003 2002 19 CAPITAL AND RESERVES millions millions millions millions Share capital Number of shares Ordinary 25p shares 451.1 462.5 600.0 600.0 5% Cumulative preference 1 shares 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 6.75% Cumulative redeemable convertible preference 1 shares 56.1 56.1 95.0 95.0 Nominal value of shares m m m m Equity shares Ordinary 25p shares 112.8 115.6 150.0 150.0 Non-equity shares 5% Cumulative preference 1 shares 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 6.75% Cumulative redeemable convertible preference 1 shares 56.1 56.1 95.0 95.0 56.3 56.3 95.2 95.2 169.1 171.9 245.2 245.2 73 19 CAPITAL AND RESERVES continued Issue of share capital On 19 May 2003, the Company issued 9,986,802 ordinary 25p shares in lieu of cash for the 2002 final ordinary share dividend.
On 5 June 2003, the Company issued 8,851 ordinary 25p shares following the exercise of conversion rights on 31 May 2003 by holders of 16,200 6.75% cumulative redeemable convertible preference 1 shares.
During the year a total of 114,983 ordinary 25p shares were issued under the BBA Group share option schemes.
The consideration for shares issued in respect of scrip dividends was 16.1m and in respect of share options was 0.2m.
During the year, the Company purchased, and subsequently cancelled, 21,504,000 ordinary 25p shares for a consideration including expenses of 44,589,827.
GROUP COMPANY 2003 2003 m m Reserves attributable to equity interests Share premium account Beginning of year 287.3 287.3 Premium on shares issued 0.2 0.2 Scrip dividend 2.5 2.5 End of year 285.0 285.0 Revaluation reserve Beginning and end of year 3.9 3.5 Other Restated Merger reserve Beginning and end of year 99.3 Capital reserve Beginning of year 9.1 141.9 Repurchase of own shares 5.4 5.4 End of year 14.5 147.3 ESOP Trust Beginning and end of year 9.0 9.0 Total other 5.5 237.6 Profit and loss account Beginning of year 282.6 183.1 Exchange adjustments 13.3 Scrip dividend 16.1 16.1 Purchase of own shares 44.6 44.6 Retained profit loss for the financial year 23.7 79.5 End of year 217.1 75.1 The cumulative amount of goodwill written off against the Groups reserves in respect of acquisitions made prior to 31 December 1997, net of goodwill relating to disposals, as at 31 December 2003 is 262.1m 2002: 262.1m.
During 2003, the Company received 0.2m on the issue of shares in respect of the exercise of share options awarded under the various share option plans.
Employees paid 0.2m to the Group for the issue of these shares.
The ESOP Trust represent shares of the Company held under an Employee Share Trust and comprise 2,648,619 ordinary 25p shares 2002: 2,674,544 shares.
These shares were classified as investments in the 2002 Annual Report.
3.1 The BBA Group Incentive Share Option Plan US Acquisition price Outstanding pence per share at 31 Dec 2003 Dates exercisable Ordinary options 343.00 17,833 2000 to 2007 428.00 14,257 2001 to 2008 425.00 14,536 2002 to 2009 46,626 No incentive share options were granted or exercised during the year under review.
4 The BBA Group 1994 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme: 4.1 Options were exercised during the year in respect of 13,683 ordinary 25p shares for a consideration of 28,597.47.
4.2 The following options were outstanding at 31 December 2003: Acquisition price Outstanding pence per share at 31 Dec 2003 Dates exercisable 362 20,864 2003 to 2004 375 40,896 2004 to 2005 209 534,523 2004 209 668,865 2006 213 374,039 2006 to 2007 213 270,356 2008 to 2009 1,909,543 Rights of non-equity interests 5% Cumulative preference 1 shares: i. entitle holders, in priority to holders of all other classes of shares, to a fixed cumulative preferential dividend at a rate of 5.0% per annum per share payable half yearly in equal amounts on 1 February and 1 August.
on a return of capital on a winding up, or otherwise, will carry the right to repayment of capital together with a premium of 12.5p per share and a sum equal to any arrears or deficiency of dividend: this right is in priority to the rights of the convertible preference and ordinary shareholders: iii.
carry the right to attend and vote at a general meeting of the Company only if, at the date of the notice convening the meeting, payment of the dividend to which they are entitled is six months or more in arrears, or if a resolution is to be considered at the meeting for winding-up the Company or reducing its share capital or sanctioning the sale of the undertakings of the Company or varying or abrogating any of the special rights attaching to them.
NOTES ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 76 19 CAPITAL AND RESERVES continued 6.75% Cumulative redeemable convertible preference 1 shares: i. entitle holders subject to the prior rights of the 5% cumulative preference 1 shares to a fixed cumulative preference dividend at a rate of 6.75% per annum per share, payable half yearly in equal amounts on 31 May and 30 November: ii.
carry the right to be converted into ordinary shares at the option of the holder on 31 May in any of the years 2004 to 2005 inclusive at the rate of 54.64 ordinary shares for every 100 nominal of convertible preference shares: iii.
will be redeemed by the Company on 31 May 2006 at par if not previously converted or redeemed and any arrears of dividend will be paid: iv.
on a return of capital on a winding up, or otherwise, will carry the right to repayment of capital and payment of accrued dividends in priority to ordinary shares but after the 5% cumulative preference 1 shares: v. carry the right to attend and vote at a general meeting of the Company only if, at the date of the notice convening the meeting, payment of the dividend to which they are entitled is six months or more in arrears, or if a resolution is to be considered at the meeting for winding-up the Company, or for modifying or abrogating any special rights attaching to them.
GROUP 2003 2002 20 RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING PROFIT TO OPERATING CASH FLOWS m m Operations Operating profit after goodwill amortisation and exceptional restructuring costs 70.1 106.8 Depreciation 75.8 76.5 Goodwill amortisation 48.1 22.7 Profit on sale of tangible fixed assets 0.1 0.8 Increase decrease in stocks 0.7 1.9 Increase in debtors 8.4 15.9 Decrease increase in creditors 3.5 1.0 Increase decrease in restructuring provisions 1.6 1.8 Increase decrease in overseas pension funds and post-retirement benefit provisions 1.3 0.5 Non-cash element of exceptional restructuring costs 0.8 0.2 Net cash inflow from operating activities 185.0 190.1 Net cash inflow from discontinued activities included above 4.9 2.4 Net cash outflow from exceptional restructuring costs included above 10.0 15.2 Beginning Acquisitions Other non Exchange End of year Cash flow & disposals cash changes adjustments of year m m m m m m Analysis of net debt Cash 74.2 38.9 0.8 2.1 111.8 Term deposits 19.5 23.3 0.1 42.9 Debts due within one year 51.1 0.5 6.9 13.2 30.5 Debts due after one year 467.1 111.2 6.9 56.7 528.5 Finance leases 71.2 14.9 1.0 0.6 2.7 55.2 495.7 33.6 0.2 0.6 70.6 459.5 During the year the Group entered into finance lease arrangements in respect of assets with a total capital value at the inception of the leases of 0.6m.
Cash at bank and in hand as disclosed on the Group Balance Sheet is the sum of cash and term deposits included within the analysis of net debt above.
77 21 ACQUISITION OF SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS The Group made a number of acquisitions during the year which are detailed in the Directors' Report on page 51.
The directors have performed an exercise to establish the fair value of the assets and liabilities of these acquisitions.
The goodwill arising on these acquisitions was 35.5m.
Adjustments to align Fair Book accounting value to Value Revaluations policies BBA Group m m m m Tangible fixed assets 12.1 0.9 11.2 Stocks 7.8 1.4 6.4 Debtors 11.1 0.3 10.8 Creditors 10.3 1.1 1.0 12.4 Net borrowings 0.2 0.2 Net assets liabilities 20.5 3.7 1.0 15.8 Goodwill 35.5 Cash consideration 51.3 The acquisitions noted above contributed 6.6m to the Groups net operating cash flows, paid 0.3m in respect of net returns on investment and servicing of finance, paid nil in respect of taxation, paid 0.7m in respect of capital expenditure and utilised nil for investing activities.
Total 22 DISPOSALS OF SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS AND BUSINESSES m Assets disposed of Tangible fixed assets 1.0 Stocks 0.6 Debtors 0.6 Creditors 0.4 Goodwill 1.0 Net assets sold 2.8 Loss on disposal Discontinued operations 1.3 Consideration net of costs paid 1.5 Satisfied by Disposal costs 0.3 Cash consideration 1.8 1.5 Cash flow Net cash inflow from disposal of subsidiary undertakings and businesses Cash consideration net of costs paid 1.5 1.5 NOTES ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 78 22 DISPOSALS OF SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS AND BUSINESSES continued Amounts included in the cash flow in respect of companies and businesses sold during the year These companies contributed nil to the Groups net operating cash flows, nil in respect of investments and servicing of finance, nil in respect of taxation and spent nil on capital expenditure.
The turnover of companies and businesses sold during the year was 2.1m 2002: 5.9m.
These companies made a contribution to operating profit of nil 2002: 0.1m.
23 PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-RETIREMENT BENEFITS The Group operates a number of plans worldwide.
The main plans, which cover the majority of employees, are of the funded defined benefit type.
The normal pension cost for the Group, including early retirement costs, was 11.6m 2002: 11.2m of which 7.5m 2002: 6.8m was in respect of foreign schemes.
This includes 5.9m 2002: 6.2m relating to defined contribution schemes.
The pension costs are assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries, where practicable, using a variety of methods and assumptions and otherwise, in respect of certain foreign schemes, in accordance with local regulations.
The Groups main UK pension commitments are contained within a defined benefit scheme with assets held in a separate trustee administered fund.
Contributions to the scheme are made and the pension cost is assessed using the projected unit method.
The latest actuarial valuation of the scheme was as at 31 March 2001.
The principal assumptions used in the valuation of the liabilities were an average investment return of 6.7% per annum before retirement and 5.2% after retirement, pay inflation of 3.8% after promotional increases per annum and pension increases of 2.4% per annum.
The market value of the assets of the scheme at the date of the actuarial valuation was 377.5m.
The actuarial value of the scheme assets represented 108% of the liabilities for benefits that had accrued to members, after allowing for expected future increases in earnings, but excluding the costs of early retirement which are dealt with on a pay as you go basis.
The excess of assets over liabilities will be spread over the average remaining service lives of employees.
The Group's foreign pension schemes mainly relate to a number of funded defined benefit pension arrangements in North America.
Pension costs have been calculated by independent qualified actuaries, using assumptions appropriate to the arrangements in place.
The principal assumptions used for the main schemes in North America were that the discount rates used to determine the pension liabilities were 6.25% per annum, and that future salary increases will be 3.75% per annum.
The total market value of the assets of the North American defined benefit pension schemes as at 31 December 2003 was 50.1m 2002: 48.9m.
The aggregate value of the schemes' assets represented 63% of the liabilities for benefits that had accrued to members 2002: 66%.
Included in the Balance Sheet note 18 is a provision of 7.9m 2002: 3.3m in relation to overseas pension schemes.
The Group also operates a plan in North America which principally covers healthcare and life assurance benefits for its retirees.
The costs of these other post-retirement benefits are assessed by independent qualified actuaries and accounted for on an accruals basis.
The main assumptions used to determine these costs were a discount rate of 6.25% per annum, and an allowance for the inflation in healthcare costs of 2.75% per annum.
In accordance with FRS 17, and subject to materiality, the latest actuarial valuations of the Group's defined benefit pension schemes and healthcare plan have been reviewed and updated as at 31 December 2003.
The following weighted average financial assumptions have been adopted: United Kingdom North America Rest of World p. a.
Any liabilities are likely to be mitigated by legal defences, insurance, reserves and third party indemnities.
Additionally, the Group has previously owned businesses that manufactured asbestos containing products.
No BBA company has manufactured or sold any asbestos containing products or materials for many years.
A small number of former BBA companies have been named as defendants to asbestos related claims.
When these companies were sold, BBA retained certain obligations to indemnify the purchasers against such claims.
Notwithstanding such indemnity arrangements, the costs incurred by BBA in dealing with claims made against these former BBA companies have been immaterial to BBA.
During the period 1989 to 31 December 2003, BBA's costs of defending and disposing of all asbestos related claims, net of insurance coverage, were approximately 2m.
BBA maintains a portfolio of insurance coverage in respect of such claims, including legal defence costs and liability cover.
State operated compensation programmes have also provided coverage.
On the basis of its past claims experience, BBA does not anticipate any material increase in the cost to it of resolving such claims.
The directors do not currently anticipate that the outcome of the proceedings and claims set out above either individually, or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
25 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS During the year a subsidiary provided services to a company controlled by a person who is a close family member of Roberto Quarta, a director of BBA Group plc.
These were provided in the ordinary course of business and on an arms length basis and amounted to 5,318 2002: 153,280.
81 The following is a list of the principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of the Group, each of which is wholly owned unless otherwise stated.
A complete list of subsidiary and associated undertakings is filed with the Companys Annual Return.
Country of incorporation Country of incorporation MATERIALS TECHNOLOGY and principal operation AVIATION and principal operation Bidim Ltda Brazil APPH Limited United Kingdom BBA Nonwovens Canada Limited Canada APPH Aviation Services Limited United Kingdom BBA China Airlaid Company Limited China ASIG Limited United Kingdom Fiberweb France SAS France H S Aviation Limited United Kingdom BBA Nonwovens Berlin GmbH Germany Lynton Group Limited United Kingdom Corovin GmbH Germany Oxford Aviation Services Limited United Kingdom Linotec Development GmbH Germany Aircraft Service International, Incorporated USA BBA Nonwovens Asia Pacific Limited Hong Kong Barrett Turbine Engine Company USA Fiberweb Neuberger SpA Italy BBA Aviation Shared Services, Incorporated USA Korma SpA Italy BBASSI Commercial Corporation USA BBA Fiberweb Tecnofibra Srl Italy DAI Precision Avionics Incorporated USA BBA Nonwovens Mexico S. A. fide C. V. Mexico Dallas Airmotive Incorporated USA BBA Nonwovens Sweden AB Sweden Lynton Aviation Incorporated USA Terram Limited United Kingdom Signature Flight Support Corporation USA BBA Nonwovens Simpsonville Incorporated USA Signature Flight Support Paris SAS France BBA Nonwovens Washougal Incorporated USA Reemay Incorporated USA Becorit GmbH Germany ASSOCIATES % owned CNC International Co. Limited 50 Thailand Finotech Verbundstoffe GmbH 40 Germany Saudi German Nonwoven Products Co. Limited 15 Saudi Arabia shares held by BBA Group plc PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARY AND ASSOCIATED UNDERTAKINGS BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 82 2002 2003 Restated 2001 2000 1999 m m m m m Profit and loss account Turnover 1,330.6 1,381.4 1,367.3 1,563.8 1,422.7 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 144.7 155.0 151.5 200.7 203.9 Goodwill amortisation and write-downs 48.1 22.7 19.0 13.1 8.6 Exceptional restructuring costs 12.7 15.4 46.4 7.8 5.3 Interest net 16.7 21.6 30.0 30.2 20.4 Profit before non-operating exceptionals and taxation 67.2 95.3 56.1 149.6 169.6 Non-operating exceptional items 12.0 33.9 21.5 137.3 11.4 Profit before taxation 55.2 61.4 34.6 286.9 158.2 Taxation 26.4 21.5 19.6 59.2 45.7 Profit after taxation 28.8 39.9 15.0 227.7 112.5 Minority interests 0.1 0.2 0.3 Profit for the financial year 28.8 39.9 14.9 227.5 112.2 Preference dividends 3.8 3.8 3.8 4.1 5.0 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 25.0 36.1 11.1 223.4 107.2 Ordinary dividends 48.7 48.5 46.2 45.0 42.3 Transferred to reserves 23.7 12.4 35.1 178.4 64.9 Earnings per share Basic: Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 19.7p 20.4p 18.1p 28.1p 28.9p Unadjusted 5.5p 7.9p 2.5p 50.7p 24.9p Diluted: Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 19.6p 20.4p 18.0p 26.7p 27.3p Unadjusted 5.5p 7.9p 2.5p 47.5p 23.6p Dividends Dividends per ordinary share 10.8p 10.5p 10.1p 10.1p 9.65p Balance sheet Employment of capital Fixed assets 1,113.0 1,199.3 1,256.1 1,049.6 917.5 Net current assets 261.1 177.2 112.1 332.9 220.0 Total assets less current liabilities 1,374.1 1,376.5 1,368.2 1,382.5 1,137.5 Creditors due after more than one year 577.6 529.9 495.0 527.0 509.7 Provisions for liabilities and charges 115.9 100.8 103.0 69.3 37.6 680.6 745.8 770.2 786.2 590.2 Capital employed Called up share capital 169.1 171.9 170.8 168.5 178.5 Reserves 511.5 573.9 598.8 615.4 409.1 Shareholders funds 680.6 745.8 769.6 783.9 587.6 Minority interests 0.6 2.3 2.6 680.6 745.8 770.2 786.2 590.2 Capital expenditure 75.0 85.9 98.3 177.6 149.2 Number of employees, end of year 12,311 12,837 13,246 11,026 13,893 FIVE YEAR SUMMARY 83 2002 2003 Restated m m Profit and loss account Turnover 1,929.4 2,196.4 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 209.8 246.4 Goodwill amortisation and write-downs 69.7 36.1 Exceptional restructuring costs 18.4 24.5 Interest net 24.2 34.3 Profit before non-operating exceptionals and taxation 97.5 151.5 Non-operating exceptional items 17.4 53.9 Profit before taxation 80.1 97.6 Taxation 38.3 34.2 Profit after taxation 41.8 63.4 Preference dividends 5.5 6.0 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders 36.3 57.4 Ordinary dividends 70.6 77.1 Transferred to reserves 34.3 19.7 Earnings per share Basic: Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 28.6c 32.4c Unadjusted 8.0c 12.6c Diluted: Before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 28.4c 32.4c Unadjusted 8.0c 12.6c Dividends Dividends per ordinary share 15.7c 16.7c Balance sheet Employment of capital Fixed assets 1,591.6 1,846.9 Net current assets 373.4 272.9 Total assets less current liabilities 1,965.0 2,119.8 Creditors due after more than one year 826.0 816.1 Provisions for liabilities and charges 165.7 155.2 973.3 1,148.5 Capital employed Called up share capital 241.8 264.7 Reserves 731.5 883.8 Shareholders funds 973.3 1,148.5 Capital expenditure 108.8 136.6 Number of employees, end of year 12,311 12,837 The unaudited summary financial information above has been presented in Euros for illustrative purposes only using an average exchange rate for the profit and loss account and cashflow information of 1.45 to the pound 2002: 1.59 and the rate in effect at year end for the balance sheet of 1.43 2002: 1.54.
This translation should not be construed as a representation that the pound sterling amounts actually represent, or could be converted at the rates indicated.
SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION BBA GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2003 84 Number of % of Number of % of ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS shareholders total shares share capital Size of holding Ordinary shareholdings at 31 December 2003 1 1,000 2,292 41.69 936,197 0.21 1,001 5,000 2,019 36.72 4,531,470 1.00 5,001 10,000 374 6.80 2,664,634 0.59 10,001 50,000 373 6.79 8,865,099 1.97 50,001 100,000 108 1.96 7,710,729 1.71 100,001 upwards 332 6.04 426,386,200 94.52 5,498 100.00 451,094,329 100.00 Holders Individuals 3,807 69.25 10,528,311 2.33 Insurance companies 4 0.07 3,783,718 0.84 Pension funds 44 0.80 3,618,196 0.80 Nominee and other companies 1,584 28.81 432,626,980 95.91 Others 59 1.07 537,124 0.12 5,498 100.00 451,094,329 100.00 KEY DATES Date payable Date announced Financial calendar Announcement of Group results Dividend and interest payments Half year result September Ordinary shares: Annual results February final 2003 21 May Report and accounts Posted March interim 2004 5 November Conversion of 6.75% cumulative redeemable 6.75% cumulative redeemable convertible preference shares convertible preference shares 31 May and 30 November Conversion period 4 May to 31 May in the 5% cumulative preference shares 1 February and 1 August years 2004 to 2005 inclusive Conversion date 31 May OTHER Share price information Dividend Reinvestment Plan The price of the Companys shares is available from the The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan, giving ordinary Financial Times Cityline Service: shareholders the option to buy shares in lieu of a cash dividend.
BBA Group ordinary shares telephone: 090 6843 1778 Please contact the Companys registrars for further details.
BBA Group 6.75% cumulative redeemable convertible preference shares telephone: 090 6843 5114 Low cost share dealing service Calls within the UK are charged at 50p per minute.
An execution only postal share dealing service is available Registered office: through the Companys stockbroker for the purchase and sale of 20 Balderton Street, London W1K 6TL BBA Group plc shares.
Information is available from Cazenove & Telephone: 020 7514 3999 Fax: 020 7408 2318 Co. Limited, 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA.
Company number: 53688 Individual Savings Accounts Company registrar: The Company offers a Maxi Individual Savings Account ISA Capita Registrars, Northern House, Woodsome Park, through Barclays Stockbrokers Limited for BBA shares and other Fenay Bridge, Huddersfield HD8 0LA qualifying shares and cash.
In the tax year ending 5 April 2004, the Telephone: 0870 162 3131 annual subscription allowance is 7,000 of which a maximum of e-mail shareholder.
In the tax year beginning 6 April 2004, http: www.
com the annual subscription allowance will be 7,000 of which Please contact the registrars directly if you wish to advise a maximum of 3,000 can be held in cash.
a change of name, address, dividend mandate or wish to To register and receive an information pack, please call participate in the Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
Calls are charged at local rates: you can only use this You can access general shareholder information and personal number if you are calling from the UK.
For clients security, calls shareholding details from our registrars website.
may be recorded and randomly monitored.
You will require your unique holder code, which can be found on Barclays Stockbrokers Limited is authorised and regulated your share certificate or dividend tax voucher.
by the Financial Services Authority and is a member of the London Stock Exchange and OFEX.
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 85 BBA GROUP PLC REGISTERED OFFICE 20 BALDERTON STREET LONDON W1K 6TL TEL 44 0 20 7514 3999 FAX 44 0 20 7408 2318 COMPANY NUMBER 53688 WWW.
COM DESIGNED AND PRODUCED BY SAS PHOTOGRAPHY BY LEE FUNNELL PRINTED BY ST IVES WESTERHAM PRESS
