Corporate Social Responsibility Generating local interest Three year objectives A Shields Gazette article featuring football legend Pele, Grainger 1 To identify CSR issues and develop a strategic Trust and pupils from Brinkburn response to stakeholder information requests.
2 To formalise Human Resources systems to provide support and appropriate CSR training for all staff.
3 To structure our approach to charitable giving and community support.
4 To ensure compliance with all applicable social and environmental legislation as a minimum.
Highlights Corporate Social Responsibility Policy Human Resources providing employee support Grainger Trust plc is a property trading and development business.
We have an enlightened attitude towards our employees and a We manage residential and commercial space as well as proactive employee reward scheme that encourages participation undertaking commercial and residential developments.
We and provides staff with a clear path to reward and recognition for understand that our activities can have an impact on the success.
Training schemes are being introduced for all staff to surrounding environment through the consumption of resources support their continuing professional development.
This has led to and generation of waste and pollution.
We also have an impact on excellent retention rates.
Staff are also asked to invest in the future society, local communities and our employees.
Grainger Trust plc of the company through SIPS and Save as You Earn Schemes.
seeks to address these impacts by: These schemes ensure that staff are involved and rewarded for the success of Grainger Trust.
Employees are encouraged to put identifying areas where we have an impact on the environment forward ideas and initiatives to support local community activities and society, either positive or negative, and ensuring that these and charitable enterprises.
We have a policy of matching any money impacts are managed effectively: raised by staff for local charities and allowing staff to promote these integrating environmental and social issues into business activities in the workplace.
strategies and developing objectives and targets to continually improve our environmental and social performance: BALTIC exhibition sponsoring the Arts ensuring that we treat our tenants in a fair and responsible By our stated objective of reinvestment in the community through manner: the arts, we have recently part-sponsored Antony Gormleys Domain encouraging and supporting our employees in developing Field at the BALTIC Centre for Contemporary Art in Newcastle their careers within Grainger Trust and continuing to share upon Tyne.
our success with them: complying with relevant environmental and social legislation From February to May 2003, BALTIC's largest art space became and standards of relevance to the industry sectors in which the site of the creation of a new and ambitious work by the we operate: internationally recognised artist.
preventing pollution where feasible and minimising the use of resources and the generation of waste where practical: As part of the exhibition, volunteers aged from two to eighty-five working with all stakeholders who have an interest in our years old from Gateshead and Newcastle were moulded in plaster business to improve our CSR performance: by teams of specially trained staff.
These moulds were then used reporting on our CSR strategy and objectives with the aim to construct the individual 'Domain' sculptures by a process of of being transparent and providing relevant factual information welding steel elements together inside each mould.
An individual to our stakeholders.
Domain is constructed of stainless steel bars of various lengths, with the finished installation including a collection of more than These social and environmental goals will be implemented 250 sculptures.
through the formation and achievement of objectives and targets in the Grainger Trust Corporate Social Responsibility Strategy.
We also have artists in residence at two of our housing This policy is fully endorsed and supported by: developments in the region.
Widdrington regenerating a community In the late 1990s we took the decision to increase the investment of our Land Development Division in the North East.
A significant addition to this investment and our North East landholding in 2001 Rupert Dickinson was the purchase of 600 acres at Widdrington and Hadston.
This Chief executive made us the first major private investor in the area for many years.
Grainger Trust plc At Widdrington, we were encouraged by the local community forum 20 Grainger Trust plc Corporate Social Responsibility Eco-homes A sustainable house development built on regenerated land incorporating recycled materials.
Antony Gormley and Creating a community Grainger Trust Doctors surgery and playground The Domain Field exhibition site at Widdrington part of a at the BALTIC Centre in Newcastle local community investment upon Tyne, which was partly project in association with East sponsored by Grainger Trust.
to become involved in several projects promoted by the East External Commentary Northumberland Regeneration Initiative.
Liaison with the local community and public sector led to the delivery of a new Primary Casella Stanger are pleased to be invited to comment on Grainger Health Care Centre and refurbished shopping centre.
Following Trusts publication of their first Corporate Social Responsibility CSR community concerns about its future on the edge of the proposed Policy.
We undertook CSR Gap Analysis in August 2003 to identify housing development we also bought the semi-natural ancient the environmental, social and community issues associated with woodland known as Grange Wood.
The new development at Grainger Trusts activities, to assess current performance and to Widdrington will revitalise local services and be consistent with the develop a CSR strategy.
Regional Planning Guidance objective of regenerating the coalfield area.
Following our success at Widdrington, we were chosen by The CSR Gap Analysis was carried out through analysis of existing Castle Morpeth Borough Council to re-develop the Park View business systems, document review and a series of interviews with Estate, Hadston.
key Grainger employees against best practice.
Best practice guidance used for reference included the Global Reporting Initiative, Eco-homes sustainable developments Environmental Management System Standard ISO 14001 and the As part of the Northumberland Regeneration Project we agreed to Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index.
purchase an area of land designated for 20 Scandinavian timberclad homes which are built to include a number of sustainable design In our opinion, some of the CSR activities undertaken by Grainger features.
We are the co-ordinator of this self-build project.
Members Trust are considered to be extremely innovative and forward of the local community have priority and can opt to complete the thinking.
Grainger Trust has an enlightened attitude towards human projects themselves under our supervision or pay a fee to the house resources and an extremely proactive employee reward scheme.
production company to have them erected.
As a result of this Staff are also encouraged to put forward ideas and initiatives to experience in sustainable building and design, we have developed support local community activities and charitable enterprises are a Method Statement for recycling building materials.
We are also actively supported by Grainger Trust.
considering building in a requirement to use water-recycling systems in managed housing estates.
Grainger Trust has a high level of interest and enthusiasm in implementing CSR issues, particularly those related to community Sponsored visit Pele issues.
There is however a need to formalise existing systems and We sponsored a recent visit to the North East by Pele, the develop systems where these are currently lacking to cover the full internationally renowned Brazilian footballer.
The main reason for CSR agenda and to report on progress.
It is anticipated that the Peles trip was to launch a photographic exhibition at Northumbria CSR Policy and Strategy will achieve this.
University featuring images of him created by some of the worlds most celebrated artists and photographers.
We look forward to working with Grainger Trust as it develops its CSR reporting in future years.
Pupils from Brinkburn Comprehensive in South Shields also met the footballer.
A Brazil football shirt was donated to the school and signed by Pele, who offered words of encouragement to pupils involved in the school football teams.
Emma Griffiths Ken Smith Principal Consultant Director, Environmental Management Casella Stanger Sustainability & Risk Casella Stanger 21 Grainger Trust plc Corporate Social Responsibility
