Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Environmental and Corporate Responsibility Report Respecting the Environment The Bellway Group has a strong commitment to its customers, shareholders, and employees and, in a wider context, the community and environment.
The housebuilding process affects the environment in many different ways.
As a consequence it is vitally important that we manage the various aspects of our business so that we balance our commercial requirements with the need to minimise any negative effects upon the communities within which we work.
The Group actively monitors the economic, social and environmental issues that may affect the business and is developing strategies to minimise risk.
Bellway also seeks to be at the forefront of brownfield development by continuing to operate predominantly on land which has had a previous use throughout all our areas of operation.
Last year over 75% of our production was on brownfield land, well in excess of the Government stated target of 60% by 2008.
Energy, Water and Waste Conservation Bellway complies with all current building regulations and, where practical and within commercial constraints, exceeds them.
All of our homes have an insulated exterior surface giving an average U-value that exceeds the required target.
We also contribute to energy conservation by introducing, on many of our developments, low E-glazing and high efficiency condensing boilers.
In addition, high quality AA and AB rated white goods are a feature in many of our homes together with the provision of low energy lighting, thereby improving energy efficiency and resulting in higher SAP Top: Sales Adviser, Joanne Poplin, at the opening of this year's BBC Gardener's World Live ratings.
Our homes increasingly feature dual flush toilets, spray taps and showers.
addition, water meters are now fitted as standard in all our homes.
Features such as Bottom: Bellway has been working with the Environment Agency and CONE a these contribute significantly to the conservation of water.
An increasing feature of our regional environmental organisation to pilot a scheme in the North East of newer developments is the incorporation of sustainable urban drainage systems which England that provides waterbutts to aid contribute to biodiversity by returning water to the local water table therefore enabling water conservation.
Pictured: Sales Advisor, Isabel Thubron.
us to provide a more diverse habitat for wildlife.
This approach has also reduced the need for pipe runs and therefore decreased the number of deliveries to site, as well as minimising ground disturbance for both installation and subsequent management.
Our recycling campaign is well under way through our partnership with British Gypsum U-value provides a method of to recycle plasterboard, this is in addition to the palleting of salvaged and cleaned bricks measuring thermal conductivity through for further usage along with the use of segregation skips for waste collection throughout the exterior surface of the building.
the Group including those for the recycling of plastic products.
Bellway is remediating E-glazing uses low emissivity glass as a extensive areas of contaminated and degredated land and, wherever possible, demolition method of reducing heat loss through the exterior surface of the building.
materials such as crushed concrete are retained and recycled on site.
SAP rating Standard Assessment Procedure rating is a method of The materials used in our roofs, walls and windows receive an A rating in the BRE Green measuring the efficient use of energy in the home.
This evaluates a materials environmental performance including fossil fuel depletion, waste disposal, mineral extraction and toxicity.
19 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Reducing our impact on the environment.
Environmental Awareness All Bellways major projects are led by one of our team of planners, Not only does this demonstrate a sophisticated level of recycling, each of whom have extensive local government experience.
As a but also ensures that the local gene pool of oak trees is undamaged result, we test all large sites with either Environmental Impact by the introduction of stock from elsewhere.
Assessments or Sustainability Audits in order to understand the individual opportunities and special needs of each development.
Walnut Grove, Gloucester We work with local authorities and community groups during the A select development of family homes in Gloucester has benefited development process and by doing this we are able to discuss and from an innovative scheme to reduce car usage.
At Walnut Grove resolve issues at an early stage.
we have been providing residents with new bicycles.
The scheme has proved to be hugely popular with the residents and has helped CASE STUDIES: to create an enhanced environment where people are encouraged to make less use of the car on short journeys.
RAF Cardington, Bedford Bellway has undertaken a major social engagement with the local Allardway, Coventry community to prepare a masterplan for the redevelopment of the A former electronics factory in Coventry is currently being former airbase, once home to the R101 and R102 airships.
redeveloped to provide a mixed-use scheme with 141 Bellway homes.
An area of the former brownfield site was an unmanaged The base has been vacant for many years and, as a result, copse with no public access available.
As part of the self-seeded oak trees from local stock have started to grow within redevelopment of the site Bellway, along with our commercial the unkempt areas.
Bellway has now engaged an arboriculturalist partner, have formed a joint venture arrangement with the to prune these wild trees and to commence root management in Warwickshire Wildlife Trust which will see the copse managed as a order to make them available for lifting and replanting during the nature reserve and opened to the public.
20 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Environmental and Corporate Responsibilities Report continued In supporting The Wildlife Trusts, Bellway chose leading ornithologist Bill Oddie to launch its campain at this years BBC Gardeners World Live Exhibition.
South American Rainforest Another recent initiative involves the charity Rainforest Concern.
The issues assessed are grouped into seven categories: energy, For every acre of greenfield land that Bellway develops in Britain, water, pollution, materials, transport, ecology and land use and we sponsor Rainforest Concern to purchase and manage an acre of health and well being.
virgin rainforest in Equador in perpetuity.
By taking a more holistic approach to environmental best practice The aim is to secure an area of forest within the Awacachi Corridor at the commencement of a development we are able to save costs in north west Equador to protect this bioregion and to ensure that at the same time as meeting our environmental obligations.
land is not lost to oil palm plantations but continues to support wildlife in the future.
Our sponsorship includes encouraging native Health and Safety people to become involved with the new reserve, and to In managing the business one of our key priorities lies in the well demonstrate the advantages of working with the forest rather than being of our employees.
The building industry can be a hazardous selling to the logging companies who are active in the area.
environment in which to work and it is therefore crucial that we maintain the highest awareness towards health and safety.
Eco Homes In developing sustainable environments we are increasingly Health and safety management is an integral part of the business: incorporating measures at the design stage to improve the we regularly review our practices and procedures, the aim being environmental performance of our homes.
A good example of this for constant improvement towards an incident free culture.
approach is at our development in Mansfield where we are developing a new community comprising 313 new homes and Most accidents on building sites are the result of falls from height apartments which have been awarded the Building Research or are transport related.
In recognition, this year we have Establishments Eco Homes accreditation.
deliberately targeted these two areas with the result that we have The Eco Homes rating balances environmental performance with the need for a high quality of life and a healthy environment.
21 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 The Heravi family outside their new Bellway home at Walnut Grove, Gloiucester with one of the new bicycles provided to residents at the development.
Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Environmental and Corporate Responsibilities Report continued East Lane, Wembley, London.
Health and Safety continued reduced the number of falls from height to only seven during the It takes three years to complete the apprenticeship after which year.
Similarly, last year there was only one accident involving further study can lead to a degree qualification and Chartered transport.
This low figure was largely due to the introduction of Institute of Building recognition.
vehicles fitted with all round vision on our sites.
We seek to further improve our performance in both these areas.
Evaluation In order to evaluate the impact of our operations we have We are pleased to report that this year there have been no established an Environmental Steering Group and for the first time environmental fines or prosecutions, and no abatement notices.
introduced a data collection matrix where information on energy, Enforcement Notices under the Planning Act 1990 are down from water use and waste generated during the development process ten last year to seven: and Breach of Condition Notices are down will be collated and analysed.
The results will be reported in due from four to three.
We intend to build upon this progress.
course and will form a basis to develop targets and objectives which will deliver both environmental benefits and shareholder Training value in the future.
We are committed to training and encouraging employees to train for NVQ level qualifications.
In line with this policy our apprentice The Future training scheme provides invaluable work-based learning, enabling This report charts the progress we are making in addressing our apprentices to develop their skills and gain experience in the environmental obligations.
Although we have made significant working environment.
progress this year we realise that there is still room for improvement.
As we move forward it is our intention to harness Currently Bellway employs more than 100 apprentices across the the many different initiatives we are taking into a more robust and Group.
Working in partnership with the Construction Industry coherent management system thereby ensuring that all our Training Board CITB in addition to site-based learning these stakeholders will benefit as we progress.
apprentices also attend local colleges on a day-release basis.
23 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Western Red Cedar cladding from a sustainable source used at Adastral Village South, London.
