Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Environmental Policy Statement Recycling bricks at Parkside Gardens, St. Marys, Southampton.
The housebuilding process affects the environment by the use of land and consumption of resources throughout the development process.
It is our objective to ensure that, at the conclusion of a scheme, an attractive and sustainable new environment has been created that will continue over time.
Recognising that we have responsibilities to both limit damage to In addition to our key commitments the Group has identified a and enhance the environment, this statement sets out our policies number of specific objectives which we will endeavour to achieve.
for managing the environmental aspects across our business.
These are: Key commitments are to: Consideration of environmental aspects in the selection and Minimise any deleterious impacts on the environment and procurement of land for development, including implications where possible to seek environmental enhancements, for biodiversity and sustainable development concentrating on areas where there is most room for Meet and where possible exceed government targets for the improvement redevelopment of brownfield land Aim to meet and, where practicable, exceed the requirements Influencing the design of sites, housing and fittings to minimise of all relevant environmental legislation and regulations impacts on both the natural and built environment Improve our environmental performance Providing environmental benefits and minimising nuisance Set specific environmental objectives and targets and arising from construction activities and preventing pollution on periodically review progress against these development sites Ensure that Bellway's environmental aims and their importance Consideration of environmental issues within our corporate are communicated throughout the Group, including functions and everyday business decision-making processes appropriate subcontractors and suppliers, and that a copy of The above is, of course, subject to economic considerations.
the policy is sent to each Bellway site Consider the role that Bellway can play in helping to contribute to the principles of sustainable development within the UK 17 Bellway p. l. c. Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Saxon Place, Sandbach, Cheshire.
