Sustainability The creation of new communities through the development of Operating efficiently land is the core of The Berkeley Groups business.
Over the We are working continually to ensure that the construction last decade our focus has been the regeneration of redundant process is as efficient as possible.
land across the United Kingdom, bringing life and vitality to towns and cities and creating communities in which our Working with our Stakeholders customers can live, work and play.
This focus has placed We do not impose ideas, we help plans evolve by engaging sustainable development at the heart of the Groups business with those involved in the different aspects of our work.
strategy and led us to review the sustainability of all our activities.
From there we developed a sustainability strategy, Creating New Opportunities a process which culminated in the publication of our first We believe that we are at the forefront of change sustainable Sustainability Report last year.
communities must be sensitive to the past and learn from it but they must also be able to cope with the challenges of Berkeley remains committed to its sustainability strategy, which the future.
we believe adds value to our business while delivering benets to all our stakeholders, not least of all the communities in Overall, the Company has progressed well against the targets which we work.
Our second Sustainability Report is published we set.
Important milestones for the Group include: alongside this Annual Report and Accounts.
Participation in the Business in the Environment Index The key objectives of the sustainability strategy remain: of Corporate Environmental Engagement.
Identifying and Minimising Risks Listing in the FTSE4Good Index.
We seek to manage risks to the environment, to our employees and to the communities in which we work.
We will continue to work hard in the coming year to ensure that sustainability principles continue to evolve throughout our business.
16 1 London Wetland Centre, Barnes 2&3Training and development at The Berkeley Group 4 5 5 4 Royal Arsenal, Woolwich 5 Gunwharf Quays, Portsmouth 3 5 1 5 2 17 17
