22 3i Report and accounts 2003 Philosophy and approach 3i is an A management committee, the international business operating in Corporate Social Responsibility 14 countries with fewer than 900 Committee the CSR employees worldwide.
3i aims to Committee, comprising conduct its business in a socially Tony Brierley, Company Secretary responsible manner.
It is and Chairman of the Committee, committed to being a responsible Patrick Dunne, Group member of the communities in Communications Director, which it operates and recognises Charles Richardson, Managing the mutual benefits of engaging Director, Small and Medium and building relationships with Investments, and Liz Hewitt, those communities.
3i believes 3i plc Director and currently on that respect for human rights is secondment to the Department of central to good corporate Trade and Industry, considers and citizenship.
In everything 3i does reviews environmental, ethical and it aims to be commercial and fair, social issues relevant to 3is to maintain its integrity and business and associated risks.
professionalism and to respect the It also monitors the operation, needs of shareholders, staff, and reviews breaches, of 3is Corporate Social suppliers, the local community and corporate responsibility policies the businesses in which it invests.
Responsibility report 3i endeavours to comply with the Tony Brierley has specific laws, regulations and rules responsibility for 3is environmental applicable to its business and to policies, leading the development conduct its business in of new policies and targets and accordance with established best reporting to the Board.
practice in each of the countries in The CSR Committee, on behalf of which it operates.
Environmental, the Board, identifies and assesses ethical and social responsibility the significant risks and issues and standards are also opportunities for 3i arising from taken into consideration in all social, ethical and environmental aspects of the business.
A risk matrix methodology 3i aims to be a responsible is used to identify new risks, employer and has adopted monitor developing trends and corporate values and standards best practice and consider designed to help guide its changes in 3is business and employees in their conduct and culture.
This risk matrix is reviewed business relationships.
These and updated at each meeting of values and standards are an the Committee and significant integral part of 3is culture.
risks are reported to 3is Risk Committee, whose work is set out Responsibilities and in more detail on page 28 of the accountabilities The Board as a Directors report.
whole is responsible for ethical standards.
The executive Directors The CSR Committee reports are responsible for ensuring regularly to the Board.
During the compliance with 3is corporate year, the Board considered a values and standards.
presentation on significant social, ethical and environmental issues for the Group.
Training for Directors on corporate Royal Academy of Music Pyrenees trek Since 1991, 3i has been pleased to In July 2002, 3is Barcelona office support the Royal Academy of Music, organised a sponsored trek which sponsoring student scholarships and the involved climbing two peaks of around Sinfonia Orchestra.
Unlike other leading 3,400 metres in the Maladeta Nature Park international music schools, the Academy in the Pyrenees mountains in northern relies on voluntary funding for all student Spain.
Four of 3is staff in Barcelona scholarships.
We were proud to be together with four local advisers raised lead sponsor of a concert given by 3,600 to help re-equip the SOS Sir Elton John in December 2002, Childrens Village, a childrens home in the at which over 750,000 was raised.
Spanish town of Sant Feliu fide Codines.
23 3i Report and accounts 2003 Corporate Social Responsibility report responsibility issues is provided 3i recognises that the most Social responsibility The purpose of 3is health and through this system of regular significant risks to its short and as an employer safety policy is to enable all reporting and by presentations on long term value from Employment 3is staff are members of 3is staff to go about relevant corporate responsibility environmental, ethical and social fundamental to the success of its their everyday business at 3is issues.
matters arise from its investment business.
Accordingly, one of 3is offices in the expectation that they business.
For example, if a core values is to respect its staff can do so safely and without risk A programme of presentations and company in which 3i has an and their needs.
3i imposes rigorous discussions across the business investment acted irresponsibly on standards on its staff and suband regular articles in 3is staff Employees are organised in small corporate responsibility issues, contractors and endeavours to magazine are being used to raise teams and an environment of this might affect the monetary ensure that the health, safety and awareness of corporate co-operation is encouraged to value of that investment and, as a welfare of its employees, visitors, responsibility issues, to stimulate ensure the highest standards of shareholder in that investment, customers, sub-contractors staff debate and provide employee integrity and professionalism.
As and the general public are not training.
an investor, 3i has the opportunity In accordance with 3is core compromised.
All employees have a responsibility to influence the behaviour of the values, individual consultation with 3i aims to have no reportable to be aware of, and abide by, companies in which it has an employees on matters affecting accidents or incidents.
During the 3is environmental, ethical and investment and encourages the them, and fair and open year to 31 March 2003, no social policies and procedures.
development and adoption of communication, are a high priority.
reportable accidents or incidents Employees are encouraged to good corporate governance.
This Periodically, internal occurred under UK Health and make suggestions to improve is achieved through the training of communication surveys of Safety regulations and no processes and procedures, non-executive Directors who are employees are conducted for 3i reportable accidents or incidents particularly those which lessen the appointed to sit on investee by independent researchers.
occurred under similar regulations impact of 3i on the environment.
company boards and the raising The September 2002 survey, outside the UK.
of awareness within investee conducted on 3is behalf by MORI, Social responsibility as an companies of social, disclosed that 66% of the 251 Social responsibility to investor environmental and ethical issues.
randomly selected employees the communities in which Investment policy 3i has a However, as an investor in interviewed were satisfied with 3is 3i operates portfolio of investments in over unquoted businesses, 3i does not internal communications and 70% Charitable and community 2,000 businesses in Europe, Asia have day-to-day operational felt informed about 3i.
85% spoke support 3is charitable policy Pacific and the United States.
As control over these businesses.
highly of 3i and indicated they aims to support: an investor, corporate governance would advocate 3i as an employer.
is a priority and account is taken 3i has clear procedures to reduce Causes based in the The advocacy of 3i result of environmental, ethical and the risks of 3i investing in communities in which 3i compares favourably with MORIs social issues when making businesses which operate in an has offices.
best practice norm of 67%, being investment decisions.
3i believes it environmentally, ethically or the average of the best ten scores Staff who participate in is important to invest in companies socially unacceptable manner.
3i matches whose managers act responsibly Where, after an investment has internal communication continues donations made by UK staff on environmental, ethical and been made, 3i becomes aware to be a priority.
under the Give as You Earn social matters.
that an investee company is not scheme GAYE and the operating in an acceptable way, 3is employment policies are 3i aims to invest in companies proceeds of staff fundraising 3i will seek to use its influence to described in more detail in the which: efforts.
In the period from May encourage improvement.
Where Directors report on page 27.
2001 to April 2002, 3i was respect human rights: that is not possible, 3i will seek to Health and safety 3i recognises ranked top payroll giving divest itself of the investment.
comply with current that the promotion of health and employer by staff participation environmental, ethical and safety at work is an essential and 19th payroll giving employer social legislation: function of staff and management by donation source: The Giving at all levels.
In the year to 31 have proposals to address to achieve high standards, March 2003, approximately 42% defined future legislation: appropriate policies and of 3is charitable donations were seek to comply with their procedures have been put in matching GAYE donations.
These policies and Charities relevant to its best practice.
procedures are the responsibility corporate activity.
of Rod Perry, a Director of 3i Group plc.
businessdynamics 3i was pleased to continue its long standing support for businessdynamics, which aims to bring business to life for students, primarily by delivering programmes, in schools and colleges.
These inform and inspire young people, aged 14-19 years, about the opportunities and challenges of business.
During 2002, these business awareness programmes reached 33,000 students source: Annual Review.
24 3i Report and accounts 2003 Corporate Social Responsibility report Charitable donations made in the 3i has again been selected as a and functions.
In addition, 3is year to 31 March 2003 amounted constituent of the DJSI during the internal audit function carries out to 209,972, supporting over 100 year and was placed in the top periodic reviews of risks and different charities with donations half of its industry group on a related controls in this area.
The ranging from 21 to 25,000. global basis.
3is overall Committee may also supplement 3i supports businessdynamics, sustainability performance was internal review processes with a charity which aims to help young described as very good source: external reviews where necessary.
SAM Research Inc.. 3i aims to The Committee is not aware of 3i also has a long running continue to be included within this any material breaches of the association with the Royal index and to maintain its position Companys policies and Academy of Music, sponsoring in the next DJSI assessment.
procedures for managing risks the Sinfonia Orchestra.
During from corporate responsibility 3i participated in the first annual the year, 3i also supported issues.
BitC Corporate Responsibility The DePaul Trust, a charity Index, one of only 53 FTSE 100 The disclosures in this Corporate which provides help for homeless companies and the only Social Responsibility report are the and disadvantaged people in a investment company to participate subject of an internal verification number of British cities in which in the Index.
This process requires 3i has offices.
profile was B, a company moving every statement made in this The environment As a financial beyond a basic commitment.
services business employing fewer The results of the BitC Index have than 900 employees worldwide, been considered by the CSR 3is direct environmental impact is Committee and a number of relatively low.
The Group measures actions are being taken with the its own energy and resource usage objective of improving 3is where practicable and sets targets performance in this Index to achieve improvement.
principal benchmarks against During the year, 3i commissioned which the Group measures its an external management performance are for: consultancy, ERM, to conduct a CO emissions: and review of corporate responsibility 2 at 3i.
As a result of that review, a recycling of paper and other number of recommendations materials.
relating to procedures, The Group also assesses the communication and training are environmental standards of its being implemented.
suppliers, through its procurement Each of 3is business unit and policy.
department heads is required to Performance and measurement confirm on an annual basis that To assist it in benchmarking 3is their operating procedures, corporate responsibility including investment procedures, performance, the CSR Committee are consistent with 3is standards has had informal discussions with and controls and that these other companies and specialists in procedures are operating in this area.
monitored the implementation of 3is performance management corporate responsibility investment appraisal process reviews the procedures, implemented performance of individual appropriate risk management members of staff against agreed procedures and set strategic objectives and the knowledge, objectives for corporate skills and behaviours expected by responsibility.
This process includes 360 The CSR Committee measures 3is degree feedback for all performance against two indices: employees.
The Dow Jones Sustainability 3is offices are the subject of World Index DJSI, a global health and safety audits to ensure index which tracks the financial high standards are adopted on a performance of leading consistent basis worldwide.
companies in terms of corporate Audit and verification The CSR sustainability: and Committee has an ongoing role of Business in the Community monitoring the operation of 3is Corporate Responsibility Index corporate responsibility policies BitC Index, an index which and procedures.
The identification aims to benchmark and management of corporate environmental, ethical and social responsibility risks is integral performance and encourage to the ongoing operational sustainable development.
