BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Corporate Responsibility BUSINESS PRINCIPLES At BG Group we believe that it is good business practice to operate responsibly.
Committed to integrity Our principal contributions to society are providing energy and infrastructure to and high ethical standards support development, creating and sustaining jobs, and paying taxes, duties in our business dealings.
and revenues to governments and local authorities.
Operating responsibly is As we continue to build our businesses good business practice.
around the world, we recognise our responsibilities to the communities in which we work, to our employees and to the environment.
Our aim is the creation of shareholder value through businesses which contribute to sustainable economic activity in our countries of operation.
Our Statement of Business Principles is the foundation of our approach to Corporate Responsibility CR.
These Principles have been in place since 1998 and are reviewed annually by the Board taking into account external HIGHLIGHTS 2003 developments in business ethics and changing stakeholder expectations Corporate Responsibility strategy affirmed regarding CR and accountabilities.
The in December 2003 Statement of Business Principles is the 24 code of ethics adopted by BG Group for 12 ethics workshops for regional, country and all employees.
corporate teams Our Statement of Business Principles Evolving a BG society where employees can perform states that the Group complies with all to their full potential applicable legal requirements in the countries where we do business.
We are International Management Development Programme subject to the statutory regimes of the Safety performance remained constant at 0.7 LTIF governments in the countries in which we operate.
For example, in the UK the 12 of 14 BG Group major operations have external primary legislation is the Petroleum certification of environmental management systems Act 1998.
3 million voluntary contributions to social projects Communication The Business Principles are underpinned by eight Group Policies that interpret and expand each Principle, see figure on page 25.
They are published on the BG Group website.
In addition, they are widely distributed throughout the Company and are available in languages used in the BG countries of operation.
We communicate the Business Principles via the BG employee magazine, LINKS, which regularly carries CR articles and updates.
We have also developed a series of workshops designed to encourage employees to discuss and challenge BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 BUSINESS PRINCIPLES IN CONTEXT STATEMENT OF BUSINESS PRINCIPLES Business BG Group corporate values and ethical Principles principles What BG Group stands for Personal Conduct, GROUP POLICIES Human Resources, Governance, Underpin the BG Group Human Rights, Communications, Statement of Business Principles HSE, Security, Corporate Conduct INTERNAL CONTROLS Risk-based controls that  make up the BG Group Internal Control Framework CR issues which they encounter around EMPLOYEES provide a working environment which the world.
The aim is to ensure that our We aim to have skilled and healthy makes work enjoyable and supports Business Principles live in our business.
people, working in safe environments.
This workshop is a module on our The skills, capability and creativity of our We have been working closely with an International Management people are at the heart of the BG Group alliance of external organisations to gain Development and Business Awareness proposition.
access to market intelligence and to Programmes.
By the end of 2003, we had We are committed to nurturing this develop best practice resourcing.
culture a BG society by encouraging alliance is unique to BG Group and is The Chairmans Awards are an important these key behaviours: collaborative a leading concept in the field of means of identifying and communicating working: creativity: individual discipline: resourcing.
best practice across the Group.
Our growth is assisted by a significant 25 Chairmans Awards recognised Health, Our aim is that everyone should feel international mobilisation of employees Safety and Environment HSE accountable for achieving high levels of to our operations around the world.
performance and innovation and, for performance and behavioural standards.
For example, 6.8% of the workforce the first time, community initiatives We believe that this is best achieved currently work away from their home and peoples performance.
through a global framework of HR country.
Building on the success of our Our Business Principles and CR approach policies and programmes which are company-wide leadership programme are also a part of our dealings with partners tailored to the business environment in 2002 and supporting a culture and suppliers and we seek to ensure that of our locations.
of knowledge and skills transfer, our stakeholders fully understand our BG Group is investing in a customised People management commitment to our Principles.
International Management Development To sustain and build on our successes to Programme.
This will develop local We have described our approach and date, our people agenda commits us to: managers of the future in our growing performance to analysts specialising attract and retain the right people, assets.
Such programmes enable in socially responsible investment SRI who have the passion and capabilities BG Group to harness the potential in bi-lateral meetings and to wider to grow our business and themselves: of our worldwide talent pool and audiences.
In June 2003, the Chief develop a diverse and international Executive presented BG Groups CR encourage the demonstration of management body.
approach to an audience of some 20 leadership by everyone in our SRI analysts.
Our inclusion in a number organisation: HEALTH, SAFETY, SECURITY AND of external indices including the Dow ENVIRONMENT continuously improve the Jones Sustainability Index and We aim to raise our HSSE performance effectiveness of our organisational FTSE4Good is public recognition of our to international best practice in all structures, processes and systems: social and environmental performance.
countries in which we operate.
This develop the quality of relationships approach is based on the principle of Our Business Principles and CR approach and dialogue: continuous improvement, driven by are firmly positioned as part of effective strong management commitment and business delivery.
They are incorporated align team and individual employee involvement.
We use a number into our decision making processes and performance with our strategic and of tools including our Health, Safety, subject to robust monitoring and operational deliverables: and Security and Environment Management assurance processes.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 System, Directives and the 14-Point Profile, and will continue this in other assets.
the framework to develop asset specific Security and business-wide performance BG Group seeks to protect its staff improvement plans.
As part of our and assets from harm.
We assess the continuous improvement process, the security risks in our varied operating 14-Point tool was fully revised during 2003. environments and have introduced Occupational Health security programmes and contingency Health was a major focus in 2003.
We plans to mitigate these risks.
produced a Health Assurance framework During 2003, the increased threat from which enables assets to establish health terrorism in the Asia Pacific region, the policies for local operations consistent Middle East and Europe: the tensions in with the BG approach.
Our core assets the Gulf and North Africa resulting from completed Health Risk Assessments to the war in Iraq: and continuing identify their health risk profile and economic instability and civil unrest in target occupational health risks.
South America provided a challenging Wellness and health campaigns continue security climate.
Risk assessments and to be rolled out across BG assets and are effective mitigation measures enabled EMPLOYEES BY LOCATION Average numbers during 2003 taken up with enthusiasm.
One notable our businesses to function safely while example is the establishment of a fitness minimising losses of revenue.
centre in the BG Egypt office together BG Group enhanced both its capability with a concerted wellness campaign.
to monitor continuing threats from 1 045 With an increased awareness of health international terrorism and conflict issues, there is now evidence of around the world and its procedures improvement in the reporting of to manage any resulting emergency 3 551 occupational-related illnesses.
We have regular interactions will need sustained effort before we can with government and law enforcement be certain that reported illness truly agencies and with others in the oil and 26 reflects the occupational illness position gas sector.
We have taken proactive throughout the Group.
measures to reduce security risks to our Based inside UK assets and believe we are well positioned Sickness absence continued to remain Based outside UK to react effectively to international events low, with the average for BG Group as that may impact upon our businesses.
a whole being well below comparable EMPLOYEES BY NATIONALITY UK standards.
Environment Average numbers during 2003 Our core business, the production, supply Safety and distribution of gas, has a potential Our goal for safety management is that net beneficial impact on the environment no harm is suffered by employees or because gas is a relatively clean fuel, contractors, or by those affected by our 1 316 capable of high energy conversion business.
Should any incidents occur, efficiencies that can be used to replace we investigate and implement solutions less environmentally friendly energy to prevent recurrence and share lessons sources.
However, our activities also 3 280 learnt across BG Group and our have the capacity to produce negative contractor base.
We operate BG Group maintained its safety a company-wide environmental performance in 2003: our lost time injuries management system to minimise employees and contractors per million negative effects.
UK nationals Non-UK nationals man hours frequency LTIF remained Recognising the advantages of at 0.7, the same as for 2002.
Safety independent assurance, we have performance commonly reaches a plateau made a commitment that all major after companies have benefited from controlled activities will achieve external improvements in management systems.
certification of their environmental We anticipate that the Behavioural management systems.
During 2003, Based Safety BBS process will lead certification to ISO 14001 was achieved to improvements beyond this plateau.
by India E&P, the UK North South West We launched BBS in eight assets in 2003 asset and MetroGAS in Argentina.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Despite the fact that the Kyoto protocol and employing local people wherever has yet to come into force, climate we can, our community involvement change is a major environmental programme develops and runs projects issue for BG Group.
Policies are being in most of our countries of operation.
developed around the world to control These projects take a variety of forms emissions of greenhouse gases.
The but have a central theme of skills transfer.
most immediate of these is the EU This approach, focusing on the Emissions Trading Scheme, due to development of capabilities, helps us come into force in 2005.
In the short to align our business objectives with medium term, business opportunities stakeholder expectations.
We believe may be realised as new developments that this alignment creates the potential allow gas to displace higher carbon for lowering operating costs, developing fuels with a net reduction in greenhouse more supportive communities, gas emissions.
attracting and retaining talented Direct emissions from BG-operated employees and accessing new business facilities during 2003 were 5.4 million opportunities.
tonnes C0 equivalent, a 2.8% decrease 2 Community involvement GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS on 2002.
Our equity share of emissions FROM BG-OPERATED FACILITIES We provide structured funding to million tonnes CO equivalent 2 from all assets in which we hold equity communities local to our operations for 8.0 was 9.0 million tonnes C0 equivalent.
2 projects that address community needs Conservation of biodiversity and access and provide skills.
6.1 to sensitive areas present a challenge 6.0 5.6 5.4 Group funding supports flagship to extractive companies.
We are projects for two to three years.
For working with partners to minimise the example, the Pratham primary 4.0 impacts in sensitive environments such education programme in Mumbai, as Bolivia.
In addition, we are working India, brings children from proactively with other companies to 2.0 disenfranchised areas outside the 27 understand better the nature of the school system into school and issues that can arise in this area and learning towards the objective of 0 to promote state of the art tools to supporting universal education.
Country funding enables assets to Local environmental impacts related to support short-term projects such as air and water quality, resource usage repairing schools in La Paz, Bolivia CONTRIBUTIONS 2002-2003 and waste management are managed TO SOCIAL PROJECTS 000s after hailstorm damage.
within the continuous improvement Categories according to the London Benchmarking Group model philosophy inherent in ISO 14001.
Our voluntary contributions to social www.
net Projects and operations are guided by projects in 2003 totalled 3 million using 1 500 our aim of going beyond compliance, the London Benchmarking Group model.
1 250 seeking to meet internationally accepted Adding our contractual contributions, good practice.
this figure rises to 6.1 million.
1 000 We run various employee involvement COMMUNITY 750 programmes.
Our matched funding The social and economic impacts of oil scheme, Careshare, allows employees to and gas exploration and development 500 increase the money they raise for charity activities can be substantial.
To help us up to a maximum of 250 per year: in 250 understand the impact of our operations 2003 we contributed a further 13 000 and make positive contributions, we to the 30 000 raised by 62 employees 0 use a Social Impact Assessment Charitable Community Commercial Management for 25 charities.
We also operate a gifts investment initiatives costs methodology.
payroll-giving scheme, used by a number 2002 We aim to contribute to the of UK employees.
2003 development of sustainable economic activity and seek to support social and economic development in communities alongside our own operations.
In addition to supporting local businesses
