Corporate Social Responsibility Report accessible for customers with additional Introduction pay in accordance with any contractual needs.
Over the past year we have The following report contains extracts and other legal obligations.
invested over 1.3m in providing taken from our 2003 Corporate Social accessible services for customers Responsibility CSR Report which is Trade creditors of the Company for the who have additional needs.
published on the Groups CSR website year ended 31 December 2003 were 29 www.
days 2002: 28 days, based on the ratio Business ethics of Company trade creditors at the end of Our Statement of Business Principles In 2002 we set out our commitment the year to the amounts invoiced during includes a number of items that to CSR activities.
During 2003 we the year by trade creditors.
encapsulate the Groups business have continued to develop and ethics, and have been endorsed by promote our CSR activities and have Responsible lending the Board and communicated to our made significant progress in gaining Alliance & Leicester is a responsible employees.
All of our core policies are industry recognition, including winning lender.
We are committed to helping regularly reviewed by the directors, Mortgage Finance Gazettes Community our customers understand the products and our Group Audit & Risk Committee Services Award National, recognising they are buying, and to assessing has responsibility for reviewing and our work in the voluntary sector, and whether they can afford to repay any approving them.
Our Statement of the Institute of Financial Services award money that they borrow from us.
Our Business Principles can be found in the for Most impressive Community brand values of being simple and policies section on the Groups CSR webService Programme.
straightforward to deal with and friendly site www.
and approachable, align us with our We have continued to structure our regulators objective of improving the Privacy CSR report along the guidelines set out clarity of financial information and its The Group complies with the Data by the Financial Organisations Reporting understanding by customers.
Protection Act and has stringent policies Guidelines FORGE working group, and on the protection of customer privacy, we have also followed the Business in the Our mortgage and personal lending conforming to standards set by the Community BITC recommendations on sales and application processes comply voluntary banking codes and legislation.
indicators, in terms of the data disclosed with all industry codes of practice.
applications are credit scored, a wellOur research has shown that customers proven method of determining an rank privacy as one of their major Our Marketplace individuals likelihood to default on a issues when dealing with their bank.
Access to products and services loan.
Credit scoring takes into account Reecting this, we regularly monitor Our distribution network includes 300 the customers details as submitted in how our customers rate the privacy branches, telephone and postal banking, the application form, as well as an they receive when dealing with and the internet.
Our personal current independent view of the customers Alliance & Leicester, and their responses account customers and our corporate payment behaviour from credit feed directly into our formal monitoring customers are also able to use the 17,000 reference agencies.
In addition, all of our customer service performance.
Post Ofces across the UK to deposit and applications must pass an affordability withdraw cash.
test, which takes into account a number Terms of trade of specic elements of a persons Our products are primarily aimed at We know that some of our customers outgoings, including the servicing UK-based customers, and all of our have additional needs.
For customers costs of the customers outstanding operations are based in the British Isles.
who are deaf, hard of hearing or have loans and mortgages.
In this context, Terms of Trade issues speech impairments, a fully qualied are not significant for the Group.
sign language interpreter is available Mortgage payments can be subject to on request.
Customers can also use volatility caused by changes in interest Creditor payment policy a Typetalk operator, a national rates, and by the impact of short term The Group is a signatory of the DTIs telephone relay system allowing discounts coming to an end.
Reecting Better Payment Practice Code.
them to communicate with us via this, we further protect our mortgage Information regarding this code and its our standard telephone system.
customers, by assessing what the purpose can be obtained from the Better monthly mortgage loan repayment Payment Practice Groups website at For customers with visual impairments would be at higher than prevailing www.
we make our documents easier to interest rates.
As part of the affordability read by printing brochures, letters process, we check all mortgage It is Group policy to: and statements in larger print, or applicants income via payslips.
providing them in an audio or agree the terms of payment at the Braille format.
We have a high quality loan book which, start of business with that supplier: as a result of our responsible approach Our new and refurbished branches are and rigorous underwriting processes, ensure suppliers are aware of the all being designed, wherever possible, has a lower level of arrears than the payment terms: to make them more convenient and industry average.
24 Alliance & Leicester Services Union PCS for collective Our Workplace Disciplinary policy bargaining purposes.
We enjoy good Responsibility for all employee related Alliance & Leicester has a formal relations with these recognised unions matters, including health and safety, disciplinary policy.
The aim of the policy and endeavour to involve their rests with the Groups Human Resources is to be corrective rather than punitive, representatives at all levels.
Director, who reports to the Group and it is in line with the ACAS Code of Chief Executive.
Practice on discipline at work.
It sets Our Community reasonable standards of performance Our Director of Corporate Investors in People and behaviour, and aims to ensure Communications, who reports In 2000 we committed to achieving the consistency and fairness of treatment directly to the Group Chief Executive, Investors in People IiP standard.
IiP is of all employees when these standards is responsible for community affairs.
a nationally recognised, independently are not met.
assessed standard, encouraging We aim to build close ties with the organisations to train and develop all Health and safety communities in which we operate across their people.
Using IiP as a benchmark As a responsible employer we are the UK, particularly those from which has helped us to focus the training and committed to ensuring that none we draw a large number of employees, development of all employees around of our people are exposed to an customers and shareholders.
This year we the delivery of our strategy.
unacceptable risk to their health have continued to support and involve or safety.
Although financial sector employees in community related projects Since 2000 we have successfully employment is generally regarded that contribute toward staff development achieved accreditation in many areas as low risk, every occupation involves needs and provide measurable benefit of the business, and in December 2003 its own hazards with the potential to the community.
Our volunteering were pleased to achieve accreditation for injury, damage or loss.
programme positively encourages links at Group level.
The most recent report with partner organisations, and from IiP says, In summary, Alliance & It is our policy to provide a safe and facilitates a co-ordinated response Leicester is an impressive organisation healthy working environment for our by employees and outside partners.
with a genuine and continuing staff, our customers and our contractors.
commitment to developing its people.
We believe a safe and healthy working Alliance & Leicester is an active environment is a positive business member of Business in the Communitys Learning and development investment, and we will seek to achieve Cares initiative, which aims to increase Alliance & Leicester places a high priority health and safety excellence through the quality and quantity of employee on the training and development of our statutory compliance.
During 2003 we spent main centres of operation, in Leicester over 6m to support improved staff Diversity and equal opportunities and Bootle, Merseyside are each a performance.
This equates to an average We are committed to equality particular focus of activity.
We also spend per employee of 690.
On of opportunity and recognise the have volunteering activities organised average, staff will complete 6 days of importance of this in building a strong by staff in our Manchester, Ashford and development per year, 4 days workshop and competitive business.
We will not Leeds centres.
Group employees are based, the remainder on the job.
condone discrimination on the grounds participating in both Leicestershire Cares of sex, race or national origin, colour, and Liverpool Cares initiatives, with a During 2002 or 2003, almost all of our religious belief, disability mental or particular emphasis on education.
To employees attended a Valuing Individual physical, marital status, age or sexual this end we have recruited over 150 People workshop.
We believe that all staff volunteers from our Leicester, Liverpool, was aimed at enhancing customer service should be treated with the same respect Leeds and Manchester operations to and meeting the Groups strategic goals.
and dignity, and will continually strive participate in the Right To Read scheme, to provide employees with a working which aims to improve literacy standards Public interest disclosures environment which is free from by using volunteers to listen to primary Individual employees may be the first discrimination.
Our Equal Opportunities school children read.
to realise that there may be something policy commits us to removing barriers seriously wrong within a business.
which would prevent the employment Donations and community investment We are committed to ensuring that of disabled people, and to implementing any suspicion of malpractice is reported, all reasonable measures to ensure We have signicantly increased our and therefore encourage all employees disabled staff can effectively carry investment in our local communities.
to raise any genuine concerns about out their jobs.
During 2003, Alliance & Leicester made potential malpractice at the earliest donations for charitable purposes practicable stage.
The Group treats Freedom of association amounting to 662,000, an 18% all such concerns seriously.
All staff collective bargaining increase compared to 2002.
This initially report any concerns, in The Group recognises the included 150,000 donated by the confidence, to the Groups Head Communications Workers Union CWU, Group to the NSPCC as a result of of Group Compliance and Money Alliance & Leicester Group Union of Staff our account-opening promotion run Laundering Reporting officer.
ALGUS, and the Public and Commercial in December 2002 and January 2003.
Annual Report & Accounts 2003 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued In addition to these donations, our invests in environmentally friendly and corporate community investment sustainable products and services where programme has given support to a large it is practical to do so.
number of organisations nationally and locally.
During 2003 we invested over Alliance & Leicesters main environmental 330,000 in local community events and impacts are through the buildings we programmes, including the TAG rugby operate, and the resources used by our programme with Leicester Tigers, and staff in their day-to-day work.
The sponsorship of the Liverpool City Council Groups environmental activity is rework display and Diwali celebrations therefore focused on the key areas of in Leicester.
In addition to this we also energy and water, transport, waste and sponsor Leicester City Football Club, pollution, and the working environment.
the Premiership football club local to Our indirect impact on the environment our head ofce.
is primarily through the Groups lending activities.
Over three-quarters of the As mentioned earlier in this report, Groups loans and advances are to over the past year we have invested customers for the financing of their over 1.3m in providing accessible principal residential UK home.
The services for customers who have Group has a relatively small commercial additional needs.
The commercial lending risk assessment process includes, Our staff play a key role in our where appropriate, a review of the relationships with our local communities, environmental risk associated with and this has been acknowledged with each transaction.
the setting up of annual Volunteer of the Year and Charity of the Year We are committed to controlling our awards within the Group.
Management environmental impact from the use of secondments, organising fund raising energy.
We achieved re-accreditation events, the development of our status for a further 3 years from the community programmes, and the Institute of Energy and the National use of ofce space, amounted to an Energy Foundation at the end of 2002. estimated cost of 120,000 in 2003.
The Energy efficiency Accreditation Scheme is the UKs only independent We also support staff wishing to give award, recognising achievements donations to charities through payroll in reducing energy use by leading giving, as well as running a matched organisations in industry, commerce donation scheme, which matches funds and the public sector.
raised for charities by our staff.
During the first half of 2004 we are Our Environment committed to developing, documenting and implementing an Environmental Environmental risk is part of our overall Management System EMS.
This project risk framework, which is managed by is a key objective for the Groups Energy the Group Audit & Risk Committee.
The EMS will focus Groups environmental policy, which is on the Groups energy gas, electricity, applied consistently across the whole water, waste and business travel usage.
Group, is the responsibility of the In developing the system the Groups Managing Director, Wholesale Banking, environmental objectives and targets will an executive director and member of be thoroughly reviewed and updated.
the Board, who is also responsible for the Groups Supply Chain Management department.
The policy is implemented by our Group Energy Manager, who is a senior manager within the Groups Supply Chain Management department.
We recognise that the Group has a responsibility to act in a way that respects the environment.
Environmental best practice, wherever reasonably practicable, is incorporated into our decision making processes.
The Group 26 Alliance & Leicester Statutory Accounts Contents 28 Directors Remuneration Report 35 Statement of Corporate Governance 38 Directors Responsibilities 39 Auditors Report 40 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 41 Consolidated Balance Sheet 42 Company Balance Sheet 43 Reconciliation of Movements in Shareholders Funds 44 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 45 Notes to the Accounts 73 Supplementary Information 75 Consolidated Profit and Loss Account 5 Year Summary 76 Consolidated Balance Sheet 5 Year Summary 77 Shareholder Information Annual Report & Accounts 2003 27
