CUSTOMER SECTOR GROUP REVIEW Carbon Steel Materials 4 8 3 2 6 1 5 7 Bob Kirkby, President US$ million 1 Samancor Manganese South Africa 5 Illawarra Coal Australia 2 Queensland Coal Australia 6 WA Iron Ore Australia Turnover 3 714 3 Boodarie Iron Australia 7 TEMCO Australia EBIT, excluding exceptional items 1 045 4 GEMCO Australia 8 Samarco Brazil Capital and investment expenditure 479 Net operating assets 2 567 Results As part of the Area C development, we have entered into an Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT excluding exceptional agreement with POSCO to develop the C Deposit section of items were US$1045 million, compared with US$1084 million in the project.
2002, a decrease of US$39 million or 3.6 per cent.
Detailed engineering for the Products and Capacity Expansion The results were enhanced by record production and sales of PACE project was virtually complete by the end of the year and Western Australian iron ore and increased demand for Samarco the project remains on budget and on track to commission ahead pellets and manganese products.
Lower costs at Illawarra Coal of schedule in the first quarter of calendar 2004. and an improved operating performance at Boodarie Iron also Engineering studies have also commenced on a number of had a favourable impact on the result.
incremental expansion projects at the Western Australian This was offset by the impact of stronger A$ US$ exchange rates operations.
on operating costs and inflationary pressures on costs in At the end of the financial year, surface construction activities at Australia and South Africa.
the Dendrobium metallurgical coal mine were nearing completion.
The project is on budget and longwall commencement is expected Markets and operations ahead of schedule in early calendar 2005.
Global steel production reached record levels during the year, driven by China.
Accordingly, demand for iron ore remained In our Queensland coal operations, feasibility work commenced extremely strong, particularly in Asian markets.
Attributable on the Broadmeadow Underground project, which is a low-cost, Western Australian iron ore production was 65.9 million tonnes, low-risk addition to the Goonyella Riverside open-cut operations.
The strong demand for iron ore HSEC products also resulted in record sales at Samarco.
While our classified injury frequency rate decreased by 34 per cent Manganese prices and volumes were robust during the year, during 2003, we are committed to a further improvement in our also buoyed by strong demand from China.
Manganese ore health and safety performance in 2004, with a goal of Zero Harm.
production increased by 567 000 tonnes, while alloy production On the environment and community front, a number of initiatives rose by 119 000 tonnes.
were successfully implemented in areas such as environmental Metallurgical coal demand remained steady for most of the management with sites achieving ISO 14001 certification, period.
Queensland coal production was positively impacted by Aboriginal employment, occupational health hygiene and the strong customer demand in the second half of the year.
Illawarra establishment of several community partnerships.
Coal production was 4.6 per cent lower, reflecting the closure of Outlook the Tower colliery.
Sales however, increased by 7.2 per cent due Our focus in 2004 will be on completing studies and investment to strong customer demand.
required to maintain our market position in an environment of Buoyant market conditions also had a positive impact on burgeoning Chinese demand.
Boodarie Iron during the year.
New production and shipping Key activities include accelerating the development of the records were consistently set as the plants ramp-up continued.
Area C and PACE projects and progressing the Dendrobium and Development activities Broadmeadow Underground projects.
In addition we will focus Major growth projects in Western Australia were accelerated due on the successful delivery of incremental expansions at a number to strong customer demand for iron ore.
The Area C project of operations.
remains within budget and is on schedule to commission early in The emphasis on cost reduction and efficiency will continue as the fourth quarter of calendar 2003. we strive to deliver increased shareholder value in the face of appreciating Australian and South African currencies.
16 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Steel made from iron ore supplied by our Carbon Steel Materials CSG is a major component in many modern office towers, including landmark buildings and structures around the world.
Steel is also used in motor vehicles, washing machines, refrigerators, ovens and other whitegoods, as well as cans, cutlery, tools and jewellery.
Our coking coal is another key constituent in steelmaking, while manganese is also an important ingredient in steel, glass, ceramics and dry cell batteries.
Carbon Steel Materials Left to Right John Spencer, Contract Mine Deputy and Peter Whittall, Mine Manager, Dendrobium Colliery, Illawarra Coal, Australia Warwick Anderson, Undermanager, West Cliff Colliery, Illawarra Coal, Australia Kirsty Culver, Geologist, Mt Whaleback, Newman, Australia BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 17
