30 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Corporate social responsibility report associations and now finance over 90,000 We are committed to conducting our business rented homes throughout the UK.
We provide customers with literature in alternative formats, such as braille, audio and large print and, in conjunction with Royal This year, as well as providing this summary in be a member of the FTSE4Good Index of National Institute for the Deaf RNID, we the main Annual Report & Accounts, Bradford socially responsible companies.
provide sign language and manual interpreting & Bingley Group is publishing its first separate services.
We also offer Typetalk services Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Report Ian Darby, Group Commercial Director is the through our partnership with RNID.
to explore in more depth our CSR programme.
Executive Director responsible for overseeing our CSR activities.
Doing the right thing in the workplace This report is available from our website, Bradford & Bingley is committed to ensuring the www.
co. uk or by request to Doing the right thing in the marketplace workplace is a safe, diverse and fair environment csr@bbg.
co. uk Alternatively, please write to Our philosophy for doing business is simple to work in.
We strive for equality across all the CSR Department, Bradford & Bingley plc, finding what is best for the customer, is best aspects of working life and, as we recognise the 134b New Street, Birmingham B2 4NP to for us.
importance of sharing best practice and success, request a printed copy.
we are members of Opportunity Now and Bradford & Bingley provides independent Race for Opportunity.
Both these organisations Bradford & Bingleys approach to CSR involves financial advice on more high streets than seek to promote gender and race equality conducting our business in a socially anyone else, with over 950 independent within the workplace.
responsible manner in respect of the financial advisers in our branches across the environment, our staff, our customers, our UK.
Our advisers have access to a choice of We recognise and accept our duty to protect shareholders and local communities.
products from a wide range of providers, so the health and safety of all staff, contractors customers can be offered independent advice and temporary workers, as well as any This summary of our CSR programme follows on products which are suited to their needs.
members of the public who might be affected the FORGE Group framework for CSR by our operations.
management and reporting for the Financial Whilst the Group has many years experience Services sector.
The FORGE Group is a in the field of independent advice, the Robert Dickie, Group Operations Director, is consortium of financial institutions and acquisition of Holden Meehan Ltd in 2003, the Board Director responsible for championing involves the British Bankers Association and now Charcol Holden Meehan, brought the good health and safety practices throughout the the Association of British Insurers.
The Group a high level of expertise in the field of Group.
Health and Safety is managed through a guidelines are supported by the Department Socially Responsible Investment.
Details of the of Trade & Industry.
The framework is divided new approach to human risk have been into the four major themes identified as being Now in its ninth edition, Charcol Holden communicated to all executives and training those most relevant to financial services Meehans Guide to Socially Responsible has been provided to their nominated line organisations Marketplace, Workplace, Investment was first published in 1989.
The co-ordinators, who assist them in meeting Community and Environment.
latest edition can be ordered online at their health and safety responsibilities.
co. uk In terms of the value of To facilitate our programme we are a national investments in the ethical market, Charcol Bradford & Bingley has continued to member of Business in the Community, and Holden Meehan is the leading IFA.
recognise the advantages of employing a the London Benchmarking Group.
Our Housing Finance teams have continued to In 2003 we participated in the first lend to Housing Associations, enabling the Corporate Responsibility Index run by regeneration of housing stock across the UK.
We continue to We have provided loans to over 130 housing 31 Bradford & Bingley plc Annual Report & Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003 Women occupy 36% of management roles Preventing and alleviating the causes of Doing the right thing in the environment and 19% of senior management roles within homelessness Bradford & Bingleys progress in relation to its the Group and Bradford & Bingley has two 2003 saw a strengthening of the relationship environmental responsibilities was reflected in female Directors on the Board.
Ethnic between Bradford & Bingley and Shelter, the the Business in the Environment Index results.
minorities make up 13% of our workforce, UK campaigning charity for homeless and In 2003 Bradford & Bingley was ranked 120th and we continue to hold community badly housed people.
Shelter is a national in the FTSE 350, an improvement from 169th awareness training programmes for organisation with local solutions working to in 2002.
In addition, Bradford & Bingley was management within the Group.
They provide free, professional ranked 69th on the same index amongst FTSE and independent advice to over 100,000 100 companies.
Our employment practices continue to reflect people each year, an ethos which Bradford & the human rights standards enshrined in the Bingley heartily endorses.
Charcol Holden Meehan is a Carbon Neutral United Nations Universal Declaration of organisation.
This means that all their carbon Human Rights and the International Labour Bradford & Bingley is now the largest emissions in the UK are offset by sponsoring a Organisation Conventions, and cover such corporate supporter of Shelter, through the Biomass Gassification Plant in South India.
items as minimum working age, working sponsorship of Shelterline, the 24 hour Rather than using diesel, the plant generates hours, health & safety and discrimination.
electricity using waste from locally grown produce and also pumps water to help grow Staff benefit from the Groups success through Employee Involvement produce.
The reduced greenhouse gas share schemes.
In 2003, Bradford & Bingley A major strand of our community programme emissions from this plant more than offset offered another opportunity to join the is to involve our staff in the communities in Charcol Holden Meehans carbon emissions in Sharesave scheme and 3,500 52% staff have which we live and work.
Charcol Holden Meehan is the first IFA chosen to participate, enabling staff to save to in the world to go Carbon Neutral.
buy shares in the Company.
We support staff fundraising by matching the first 200 of funds raised per employee, and In order to improve our Group wide Feedback from staff is encouraged and in 2003, 124 staff received matching of environmental performance, Bradford & valued.
We carry out an annual survey of all 24,770, an increase of 20% on 2002.
Bingley has employed consultants to staff.
In 2003 we have also increased the undertake an environmental review in 2004. profile of our online staff feedback Bradford & Bingley also matches staff donations programme which guarantees a reply to staff through our payroll giving programme, Give As For more details on any part of our CSR within two working days.
In 2003 we teamed up with programme, please consult our separate Ease2Give to offer an online solution which has Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
Doing the right thing in the community increased take up of the Give As You Earn Bradford & Bingleys community programme programme to 8.5% of the workforce, giving an invested over 1 million for the fourth additional 85,323 to charities through the consecutive year, and for the second year company matching scheme.
running we were ranked in the top half of the FTSE 100 by the Guardian Giving List Our flagship employee involvement 2003: 47th, 2002: 45th.
In 2003, we reviewed programme for 2003 was teaming up with the areas of community investment we Shelter to enter a team of 70 runners in the support, and we have taken the decision to London Marathon.
Shelter was the official focus our support on two areas: preventing charity of the London Marathon, and Bradford and alleviating the causes of homelessness and & Bingley was the official charity sponsor.
employee involvement in the community.
Our runners, led by Group Chief Executive Christopher Rodrigues, raised over 150,000 for Shelter.
