Safety, health and the environment Overall safety performance BOC is committed to excellence in safety, health and environmental management.
Each employee is expected to 1 comply with all external regulations and the Groups global Code of Conduct.
BOCs commitment is best illustrated 2002 2003 by the breadth of measures taken to equip employees with the appropriate safeguards, tools and training.
Lost workday case rate 0.37 0.45 Total recordable case rate 1.18 0.76 This year, BOC launched and implemented its Code of Conduct.
The code sets out the values and standards Passenger car avoidable which guide the way BOC businesses around the world conduct themselves.
The legal, ethical and corporate accident rate 1.72 1.99 responsibility dimensions of safety, health, environment and quality SHEQ management are key features of the Truck avoidable accident rate 2.13 2.75 codes programme of communication, training, adherence, checks and audits.
The code also ensures that SHEQ issues are managed consistently across all countries and businesses.
Lost workday case rate A dedicated SHEQ department ensures that the Group has a deliverable policy, is proactive in its risk assessment and professional in its remediation.
0.6 BOC has well-established programmes governing SHEQ performance.
These standards, procedures and tools are firmly embedded by the Groups global integrated management systems and standards IMSS database.
IMSS disseminates the Groups SHEQ policies through the BOC intranet, outlining the minimum standards and 0.4 actions needed to align with or conform to ISO 9000 quality assurance, ISO 14001 environment and ISO 18001 health and safety management systems as well as the international safety rating systems ISRS.
0.2 The management of safety and environmental performance is measured in the same way as are other key business indicators.
BOC has improved efficiency with more recycling, better energy conservation and less raw 1 materials waste from the Groups production and distribution processes.
0 99 00 01 02 03 Safety Total recordable case rate BOC manufactures and distributes some products that are potentially hazardous, being stored at very low temperature or under pressure, with some exhibiting toxic or flammable properties.
BOC is committed to practising 1.6 and communicating safe operations around the world as part of its product stewardship process.
It is as important for the Group to transmit safe working methodologies to customers and suppliers as it is to have clear, entrenched and 1.2 measurable performance standards practised by all BOC plants, depots and distributors.
Each business unit has a safety function, reporting to the business units executive and to the Group SHEQ 0.8 function through a peer group network.
This ensures that global best practice and the functional requirements of the business are always at the forefront of management thinking.
0.4 Controlling process-related risks is of the utmost importance.
Any incidents that do occur are thoroughly 1 0 99 00 01 02 03 investigated and the lessons learned are applied throughout the organisation to minimise the likelihood of recurrence.
All 2003 safety statistics include recent Safety lessons are shared throughout the gases industry and BOC continues to participate fully in the development mergers, acquisitions and all joint ventures.
and application of industry-wide codes.
Previous years have not been restated.
In 2001, BOC instigated a five-year plan to halve the Groups accident rate.
Five-year strategies were developed across all business units to enable safety objectives to be achieved.
The main items underpinning the strategy are implementing, communicating, measuring and reporting best practice as well as standardising worldwide competency levels, training and increasing focus on safety behaviours.
The competence and training of BOC employees is continually improving as the Groups IMSS package is rolled out globally.
BOCs senior executives have committed to achieve agreed safety training competencies.
This process is being cascaded throughout the organisation.
As part of its five-year strategy, BOC has started to implement a process focusing on safety behaviours to improve and sustain performance across the organisation.
This process combines visible leadership, a binding safety policy, an integrated organisation for managing safety across the Group, a system of behavioural safety assessments and the use of positive leading indicators such as training and the clearance of corrective action to ensure the achievement of safety goals.
This year, the Group safety function changed the basis of its incident reporting.
Incident reports have been extended to include recent mergers and acquisitions and all joint ventures.
The graph figures detailing BOCs safety performance for 2003 are on this basis but it is not possible to rebase the preceding years.
It is with great sadness that the Group reported four employee fatalities this year.
This is a matter of intense regret.
None of the fatalities was process related.
One employee died in Thailand after a roadside incident.
One died in Chile when he fell from a warehouse roof.
One died in South Africa when his tanker hit some debris on the road.
One died in the UK in a road traffic accident.
A great deal of effort has been made to improve safety performance with increased scrutiny and implementation of rigorous procedures, including new Group and business unit safety processes.
As in every year, BOC takes steps to prevent and address the underlying causes of serious incidents as well as to ensure employee security in the workplace.
The Group uses four principal indicators to provide a consistent measure of its workplace and vehicle safety performance.
These are: Lost workday case rate LWCR per 200,000 hours.
This includes all accidents resulting in the loss of one complete day of work, according to best international practice.
Many companies only report cases resulting in three or more lost workdays as deemed reportable under RIDDOR regulations.
Total recordable case rate TRCR per 200,000 hours.
This includes all LWCRs and medical treatment cases.
Passenger car avoidable accident rate PCAAR per million miles.
Truck avoidable accident rate TAAR per million miles.
25 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Safety, health and the environment continued Occupational health and hygiene Passenger car avoidable accidents per million miles BOC requires its businesses around the world to manage employee health activities in accordance with local laws and regulations and according to BOCs own codes of practice.
The Groups occupational health and hygiene OHH 3 function continues to provide a global service, striving to eradicate the organisations work-related health hazards.
It also ensures that those who travel internationally on Group business are properly protected against disease and that the medical requirements of visas and work permits are met.
2 Access to global guidance on OHH, together with manuals, training videos and safety data sheets, is available through local and global SHEQ functions and on a dedicated intranet site.
1 The OHH function carries out reviews in all business units and regions to provide information and guidance on the main health issues that exist in BOC operations globally and how best these potential hazards may be minimised 1 0 99 00 01 02 03 or eliminated.
This is achieved by providing best practice standards and guidance to local SHEQ personnel who then implement policies as necessary.
Adverse employee health effects are monitored through occupational health checks around the world.
Some checks are managed internally and others are out-sourced to professional occupational Truck avoidable accidents health providers.
Voluntary well-person and routine yearly medical examinations are conducted to monitor the per million miles health of employees.
The main potential health issues that exist in BOC operations differ across business units.
In the gases businesses, 4 the main potential health issues are:exposure to noise from gas compression activities and from cylinder handling: potential exposure to some gases filled into cylinders:potential exposure to chemicals used in metal cleaning:vehicle 3 maintenance and painting operations:and ergonomic and manual handling risks, particularly associated with cylinders.
2 OHH programmes have been developed to deal with these issues and are applied across the Group through local initiatives and the SHEQ integrated management system.
BOC programmes include:an education programme 1 to raise awareness of the effects of noise:a manual handling training video:a legionella control programme for water systems such as cooling towers on sites:a programme for the assessment of display screen equipment to minimise 1 0 99 00 01 02 03 ergonomic health risks:a chemical assessment and management programme and specific work to reduce the use of 1.
All 2003 safety statistics include recent chemical solvents.
mergers, acquisitions and all joint ventures.
The environment Although classified in the chemicals sector, BOC does not have the same direct or significant environmental issues to Ozone depleting potential deal with as traditional chemicals manufacturers.
The nature of BOCs activities and the type of chemicals handled are solvents and refrigerants quite different.
However, in line with other industries, BOC is committed to the conscientious stewardship of its Tonnes released products and services.
30 Management of environmental issues that are relevant to the Groups businesses are overseen by the SHEQ department operating at a global and local business unit level.
Group environmental strategies continue to help to improve business performance in sites across the world.
Many BOC business units have programmes to achieve 20 ISO 14001 environmental certification.
In 2003, KPMG a professional services firm reviewed BOCs integrated management system and standards 10 IMSS to assess whether IMSS environmental documentation conforms to the requirements of ISO 14001 for environmental management systems.
KPMG concluded that IMSS documentation complies in all material respects with the standard.
As a result, KPMG provided BOC with an assurance statement which can be seen on 0 99 00 01 02 03 www.
com Assurance by an independent auditor is an important indicator, showing that BOC takes environmental management seriously and has robust sustainability systems.
If a BOC business can demonstrate that it has implemented the requirements of IMSS it can also show that it adheres to ISO 14001 without having to undergo ISO certification for all sites.
The SHEQ department continues to pursue a programme to integrate environmental goals into the organisations management performance contracts and develop global best operating practices.
BOCs global environment working group this year developed an improved annual environmental survey.
This new web-based platform will be used to develop action plans and report performance on-line.
Web-based management systems will contribute to significant efficiency enhancements in the future.
For example, introduction of a new control system that enables a nitrogen liquefaction unit to be started remotely at BOCs Midland site in the US will lead to energy savings of some US$1 million per annum.
BOC has operated a comprehensive environmental survey programme of its sites for more than ten years.
The annual survey highlights issues relevant to the business and assesses how well they are being managed.
Objectives for improved performance remain an integral part of business performance contracts.
The transport of product by road has a potentially significant environmental impact.
BOC operates its vehicle fleet to the highest environmental standards.
Gist, the Groups distribution and supply chain business, won the environment award at the 2003 Motor Transport Awards in London.
Environmentally focused initiatives ranged from development of innovative vehicle design and use, such as noise minimisation equipment and new exhaust treatments, pallet recycling, waste reduction and various site-specific initiatives.
For example, Gist and Marks & Spencer are co-operating to recycle 3.5 million food distribution trays.
The use of energy in BOC operations is an area of constant focus.
Over the last three years, Process Gas Solutions operations have focused on plant and distribution efficiency improvements, resulting in more than one thousand projects that will deliver significant annual savings.
BOCs commitment to environmental stewardship and partnership is shown in its approach to new plants, facilities and services.
For example, BOC and Hudson Technologies signed a global alliance to promote technology that cleans and reclaims refrigerants.
The technology will improve plant efficiency leading to greater energy savings for customers and environmental benefits from reduced carbon dioxide emissions.
Selecting the right supplier for BOC is fundamental to conducting business effectively and ethically.
TM Throughout its businesses, BOC has adopted the SESPA process for supplier evaluation, selection and performance appraisal, together with a new ethical purchasing policy implemented by the supply management function.
26 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 TM Non-compliances Environmental, safety and social considerations are key SESPA and supply management standards.
BOC also violation of laws, complaints and spillages uses a best practice guide to define supplier safety, health and environmental requirements.
This looks for positive No.
sites reporting incidents environmental attributes such as ongoing environmental performance, awards, legal action and proactivity.
BOC aims to comply fully with all material environmental laws and regulations.
BOC received one 125 administrative fine in the US of US$1,500 in 2003.
This related to the late submission of paperwork to a local 100 regulatory authority.
No prosecutions for breach of any environmental regulation were incurred and BOC was compliant with external standards, but not all businesses complied fully with all internal codes or practices.
75 Where this is the case, it has responded with measures to abate and prevent future occurances as part of the 50 Groups programme of continuous improvement.
25 The US Environmental Protection Agency has named The BOC Group Inc as a potentially responsible party for clean-up costs at a number of hazardous waste sites.
Although liability for the remediation of such sites may be legally 0 99 00 01 02 03 imposed without regard to the quantity of waste contributed, based upon the information available management believes that it is unlikely that any costs incurred will have a significant impact on the financial position of the Group.
BOC continues to contribute technology and processes to meet the environmental needs of customers who Hazardous waste variability in national legal classification are striving to improve their own environmental performance.
The increase in the demands set by environmental Tonnes x 1,000 legislation also presents BOC with a number of potential business opportunities.
BOCs eco-efficiency technologies include the Vitox oxygen injection system, which improves water quality and can, for instance, help fish farmers 15 improve production rates.
BOC has also patented systems to recover carbon dioxide from other companies productive processes and put it to constructive use.
For example, reclaimed carbon dioxide is infused in drip-irrigation 10 water or used to enrich atmospheres to enhance crop growth.
The glass and metals industries use BOCs oxy-fuel burners to increase the efficiency of combustion, using less fuel and reducing polluting emissions.
5 BOC installed some of its new BOC low emission swirl LES oxy-fuel burner systems at a Johnson Matthey precious metals refinery in the UK this year.
The oxy-fuel burners improve emission performance and operational efficiency.
0 99 00 01 02 03 BOC and Maxon Corporation jointly developed a new combustion technology, known as the oxy-therm low emission flat flame LEFF burner, that helps glass manufacturers to reduce energy costs and increase yield.
General waste disposal 2003 BOC put itself at the forefront of the UK double glazing industrys drive to combat global warming with a scheme to reduce heat loss through windows and cut carbon dioxide emissions.
BOC also launched safety Total 46,181 tonnes workshops for UK refrigerant gas users.
The Group continues to develop technology that is more energy efficient, which helps to support customers and 1 Incinerated 12 2 Landfilled partners meet their carbon dioxide emission reduction commitments under the Kyoto protocol on climate change.
3 Recycled BOCs Hartford air separation plant in Illinois received the Compressed Gas Associations 2003 award for 4 Other 4 environmental excellence.
This was the result of the plants efforts to reduce power consumption by 320 kilowatts waste disposal contractor, disposal per hour while avoiding the use of ozone depleting substances.
3 route unspecified The Group continues to work actively with its stakeholders customers, suppliers, employees, local communities and governments to ensure environmental issues are approached responsibly and supported actively.
BOC sponsored the third BOC environment award at the UKs Institute of Chemical Engineersannual award ceremony in July.
The award was given to Dow Corning for an environmental management system that saved the company 8 million in the last two years.
BOC was also awarded a special Green Ribbon award in recognition of Types of general waste its outstanding contribution to sustaining, protecting and enhancing the environment in New Zealand.
Total 46,181 tonnes Underlining the Groups adherence to sound, internationally attested environmental practices, BOC is a signatory to the UNs Global Compact in support of human rights, labour and environmental principles.
1 Garbage 1 The continuing importance of global compliance, corporate social responsibility and sustainability amongst the 2 Metals 3 Paper and card Groups wider stakeholders means that BOC has continued to review and adapt its business practices appropriately 4 Other recyclates by strengthening policies, training and implementation programmes and processes.
This has been further enhanced lime, glass, by including environmental concerns in the Groups Code of Conduct.
In the Americas, BOC supports the chemical plastic, wood, 3 scrap cylinders industrys Responsible Care programme.
BOCs Colombian business reached its third year of active support for 2 cleaner production with 22 other companies in the north Aburra valley.
BOC continues to participate 4 in the Business in the Environment survey for the UK.
This year the Group improved its overall survey score achieving 88 per cent against 76 per cent in 2002, taking BOC into the top 25 per cent of FTSE companies participating in its survey.
BOC Edwards also became a signatory to Global Care, a semiconductor industry initiative designed to establish a framework where members can strengthen their commitments to the environment, health and safety.
The BOC Foundation for the Environment The UK-based BOC Foundation for the Environment, which was established with an initial injection of 1 million in 1990, has so far supported nearly 120 projects.
This year the company contributed 180,000 to Foundation projects.
Since the Foundations inception BOC has donated 3.7 million.
The Foundation concentrates its funds on projects that improve air and water quality.
Air is important to BOC because it is the source of BOCs raw materials:oxygen, nitrogen and argon.
Water is both an essential part of many of BOCs production processes and a growing market opportunity.
The Foundation wants to make a practical contribution.
It encourages those with good scientific ideas who need financial help to turn academic or early results into workable environmental solutions.
It expects the projects it supports to make a measurable difference within a few years and to benefit the community as a whole, not just the recipient of the grant.
The Foundation has worked in partnership with government departments, local authorities, environmental charities and commercial organisations.
27 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003
