Employees At 30 September 2003 the Group had 44,507 employees 2002:46,280 employees, 2001:43,171 employees.
Employees of the company and its subsidiaries were located as follows: Europe 12,353 Americas 7,451 Africa 17,138 Asia Pacific 7,565 The employee base was very stable and unplanned turnover was low during the year.
BOC was successful at retaining the organisations core skills and capabilities and, as a result, continues to be able to meet its business, customer service and health and safety targets.
BOCs capability review and succession planning processes highlight that it has solid capability in most areas and adequate succession depth to meet both its technical and leadership requirements.
Plans to strengthen this capability further are progressing well.
Employee satisfaction and commitment Levels of employee satisfaction and commitment are generally high.
Progress continues to be made in achieving a culture of accountability, collaboration, transparency and stretch, known as ACTS in BOC.
The ACTS principles provide a framework that enables employees to evaluate and critique how they deal with each other as well as how they work with customers, suppliers and the community.
Business units continue to work on improvement areas identified as a result of the 2002 Employee Survey.
Progress will be measured through a follow-up survey.
Employment policies and Code of Conduct The BOC Group takes its responsibilities as a global organisation seriously.
It is committed to fostering a workplace that is safe and environmentally sound.
It will always act in line with all applicable laws, regulations and industry standards.
It expects people to respect confidential information and company time and assets.
It believes in open and honest communication, fair treatment and equal opportunities.
It opposes public corruption, anti-competitive behaviour and insider trading, and it supports the fundamental principles of good governance and human rights.
The company is a signatory of the UN Global Compact and subscribes to its nine principles of human rights.
These principles represent minimum standards for BOC and in many of the areas covered, existing standards exceed those set out in the Global Compact.
During the year, BOC launched a global Code of Conduct, a framework of legal and ethical standards for all BOC people to work and live by.
This is an important programme that draws together and builds on many existing standards and processes in BOC.
The code is supported by a number of processes.
BOC has introduced a confidential helpline to deal with questions in every country where it operates.
It has translated the standards into key languages.
It is also making sure everyone has access to appropriate training and guidance.
In addition to the Code of Conduct, BOC provides guidance and leading-edge human resources policies to support BOC people in their day-to-day activities and long-term career planning.
These are aligned to a set of corporate values and principles.
The heart of this approach is the recognition that the energy and application of individuals and teams throughout the organisation will determine competitive advantage in todays complex global market.
BOCs employment policies are designed to underpin the Groups operating requirements and growth strategies.
The human resources units implementing these policies are close to the business units in each geography and, as far as practicable, Group policies are adapted to meet local requirements.
Communication and involvement BOC places a high priority on two-way communications with its people.
The primary communication channels are within the business units, where local managers work with their people and two-way communication is most achievable.
The Group also uses a number of formal and informal communication channels to share information and to shape behaviour.
In addition to traditional media such as videos, magazines, newsletters and briefing packs, BOC has continued to invest in e-mail and web-based communications technologies to ensure that consistent and coherent messages are conveyed speedily to its people around the world.
The Group actively searches for ways to involve employees in shaping the future.
It is common to find teams of people meeting to review or jointly create processes, systems or strategies.
A variety of employee structures exist for these purposes, including peer groups, special interest groups, teams of excellence and quality teams.
Multi-disciplinary and cross-geographic groups of employees regularly meet, either face-to-face, or by using tele-, videoand web-based meeting technologies which have been installed for these purposes.
Resourcing, training and development Resourcing, training and development programmes are designed to ensure that the Group has a pool of well-qualified, gifted individuals able to meet day-to-day operational needs and plans for the future.
BOC conducts a robust annual process to assess the strengths and weaknesses of its units.
It is committed to providing its people with opportunities to develop and grow, but also to bring new blood into the organisation through targeted external recruitment.
A global, web-based recruiting platform is being rolled out globally to supplement other recruitment channels.
BOC continued to place great emphasis on personal and career development over the past year.
Employees are encouraged to be proactive about their future careers and development opportunities.
The aim is for all employees to have regular discussions with their managers regarding their aspirations, prospects and development needs.
These result in the formulation of an individual development plan, which is an agreed course of action to meet employeesneeds as well as the needs of the organisation.
23 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Employees continued BOC offers many opportunities for career and personal development.
Employee development takes the form of on-the-job coaching and training, development projects, secondments, e-learning, as well as more traditional classroom-based training.
In addition to the development that takes place to achieve current job effectiveness of all employees, high potential employees are identified and developed with future roles in mind.
Lead is an ambitious executive development programme for high potential senior managers, facilitated by world class external providers as well as senior BOC executives.
It is customised for BOC and is comprehensive in its scope.
The programme offers a tailored curriculum and is designed to equip the participants with the broad range of skills and experiences they will need to be successful leaders within the Group.
To date, over 100 senior leaders have had the opportunity to participate in Lead programmes.
During the past year, a new leadership development programme, iLead, has been designed and developed for high potential middle managers.
It is the intention to run iLead programmes in each BOC region, each year.
Lead and iLead augment many other management development initiatives, which are provided to supervisors and managers around the world.
BOC believes that how its employees work is as important as what they produce, which is why it has concentrated on the behaviours associated with accountability, collaboration, transparency and stretch the ACTS cultural principles.
Accountability comes through people knowing what they are accountable for and being empowered to deliver.
Collaboration is about drawing on the rich diversity of styles, talents and skills across the Group to maximise achievements.
BOC values transparency because of the belief that visible problems can be solved and that informed people make better decisions.
Finally, stretch advocates continually pushing the boundaries of performance.
BOC has created a set of leadership competency models, which are aligned to ACTS.
All recruitment, development, recognition and enhancement processes are being aligned to this comprehensive and unified BOC view of leadership and management.
Reward and recognition An organisation that aspires to excellence must recognise and reward the achievement of excellence.
The Group continues to refine the key value drivers of its business units and to ensure it can reward and recognise outstanding individual and team performance in the fulfilment of business goals.
Programmes to achieve this are cascaded throughout the organisation to heighten focus on effective performance at all levels.
The Group continues to move towards a total reward system that allows people to structure their remuneration and benefits to suit their individual needs.
Senior  is linked to a Group-wide variable compensation plan, which is described in the report on remuneration on page 60.
Retirement benefit plans BOC considers it important that its people provide for their retirement, and fully supports their efforts in this regard.
Around the world, the Group provides opportunities for people to participate in retirement programmes tailored to suit local conditions.
Just as important, the boards pensions committee takes prudent steps to monitor and control Group-wide retirement benefit plans with local managers being responsible for safeguarding the security of each retirement plan that they sponsor.
During the year, BOC closed its UK defined benefit pension schemes to new members and replaced them with a new defined contribution plan.
The financial position of the Groups main pension funds is detailed in note 8 to the financial statements.
Diversity As one of the UKs few truly global companies, BOC highly values the rich diversity of its people.
While the Group consistently champions a set of unifying values and principles, they are not imposed regardless of local sensibilities.
Rather, the Group strives to build on the qualities inherent in its global environment by encouraging people with different views, styles and approaches.
Wherever in the world it operates, BOC is committed to maintaining a workplace free from discrimination for reasons of race, creed, culture, nationality, religion, gender, sexual orientation, age or marital status.
Disability is not considered a barrier to employment and, as far as local conditions allow, employees are selected on the basis of their ability to perform the job.
Further necessary training is arranged, taking account of their particular needs and the resources required to meet them.
Employee share schemes Many BOC employees in the UK and some other countries have built up an equity interest in the Groups business through employee share schemes.
Options may be granted at a discount to the market price at the date of grant.
The term of options granted could be from three to seven years and any option is conditional on a commitment by the individual to make regular savings from pay that are then held by an independent organisation to purchase shares at the end of the option period.
The exercise of options under these schemes can be satisfied by the issue of new shares or the transfer of existing shares.
24 The BOC Group plc Annual report and accounts 2003
