11 Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility People have high expectations of Boots.
One of the strengths of the Boots brand is that it is more trusted than almost any other brand or institution in the UK.
To earn and sustain that trust, we must be seen to behave with integrity and responsibility.
Business in the Community recently environmental impacts so that sustain progress against a background published the preliminary findings of its business success does not come at a of increasingly energy-intensive first Corporate Responsibility Index.
corresponding cost to the environment.
business needs such as comfort cooling These confirmed our strength in areas For example, despite increasing for customers and staff, and increasing such as community investment and the turnover last year we cut waste disposal warehouse automation.
They also highlighted the by 8.4%.
This saved us around 160,000 Further details of our environmental need which we have been addressing in disposal costs alone and disposal strategies and policies, and a full report for more engagement with corporate costs represent only a relatively small of our environmental performance social responsibility CSR issues at part of the total cost of waste to the during 2002 03, are available on our board level.
business, which also includes the cost website at www.
bootsLast year we strengthened the role of extracting, manufacturing and plc.
com environment of the boards Social Responsibility transporting the raw materials to Committee, now led by non-executive Boots.
Around 46% of the 37,000 Ethical sourcing We source products director Hlne Ploix, and gave executive tonnes of waste we produced last internationally and recognise our board responsibility for CSR to HR year was recovered through recycling responsibility for the conditions under director Andy Smith.
or incineration with heat recovery.
By We are reinforcing the linkage We have now set a five year goal building social accountability into our between CSR policy formation at board of reducing like for like waste disposal purchasing procedures we aim to level and effective programmes of action by a further 20%.
ensure that we and our customers do throughout the organisation.
This work Packaging recovery and recycling not unwittingly support abuse of is led by Ken Piggott, who moved from grew 31.6% to record levels, 4.1% up human rights, unsafe working running Boots The Chemists to take on our previous best.
This avoided the conditions, unfair wage rates, child charge of it.
He has carried out a major need to dispose of over 15,000 tonnes labour or forced labour.
CSR review, benchmarking our of material, saving over 1.3m in landll The standards we ask suppliers to performance against other organisations costs and generating income of around meet are set out in the Boots Code of and developing detailed targets and 280,000 from saleable material.
Conduct for Ethical Trading, based on action plans.
A KPMG audit of our compliance with International Labour Organisation packaging waste legislation reported standards and UN conventions.
We Environment Boots has long been an excellent result and Repak, the Irish require all our suppliers to comply and committed to rigorous environmental compliance scheme, awarded us a to ensure that their own suppliers meet management and reporting, and to Certicate of Excellence.
In cases of non-compliance becoming a more sustainable business.
Our transport eet continues to raise we first give the supplier an opportunity In 2003 we took a major step forward its fuel efficiency.
In 2000 we set a to take specified remedial action, as by establishing a sustainability strategy three-year target of reducing diesel summary withdrawal of our business 3 of stock carried by 3%.
for the chemicals we use in our use per m could itself have a harmful social impact.
products, developed in consultation We have beaten that gure, with a Our own compliance team covers with a wide range of stakeholders.
4.0% improvement from 12.87 to suppliers of Boots branded products in 3 of stock.
Last year We have also published a strategy 12.36 litres per m the UK and Europe, and expects to have on biodiversity, another important we also cut the fuel used per m of assessed all 400 existing suppliers by sustainability issue.
In Asia we use consultants, If we are to make meaningful, Like for like energy consumption who expect to complete assessment of measurable steps towards becoming improved by 2.7% from 147kWh to our existing 270 suppliers there by a more sustainable business we need 143kWh per 000 turnover.
We are autumn 2005. to decouple our growth from our increasing our focus in this area, to Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 12 Corporate and social responsibility This year we joined the Ethical Trading Regular consultation surveys with our Initiative, an alliance of companies, staff confirm their support for health non-governmental organisations and related activities.
We also know that our trade unions.
This will enable us to learn staff are among the most generous from other members, share experience employees in the country.
The Charities and further rene our approach to Aid Foundation gave our relaunched ethical sourcing.
Give As You Earn scheme its Smile award last year, noting that Boots Our people The way we recruit, people donated 40% more than the retain, develop and motivate people national average.
determines our ability to serve customers We continue to support the time and meet our responsibilities to other and energy our people give to stakeholders such as shareholders.
fundraising and community activities Boots has a reputation as a good and last year we matched the 168,000 employer: in recent years, for example, raised by staff for the charities of their we have done much work on familychoice.
We also supported team friendly policies and we retain a good challenges in which 193 staff took a day pension scheme.
out of normal work activity to improve In the past couple of years we have facilities for local community groups faced a new challenge: large-scale for example by decorating rooms in organisational change.
Change can hospitals and landscaping the area affect people for better or for worse.
brings new opportunities, but also stress A partnership between Nottingham and uncertainty.
Some gain new skills City Hospital, New College Nottingham and challenges and unfortunately others and Boots has resulted in the creation of lose their jobs.
To maintain our integrity Time for a Treat workshops at the City as an organisation we must address Hospital.
These have provided a health these issues sensitively and effectively.
boost for more than 100 hospital We have involved people in the patients and clients from the local change process through two-way community.
The positive response to communication and consultation.
Where the workshops for long term patients appropriate we have provided training has led to the development of a for staff representatives and access to permanent patient massage service at independent advice.
Wherever possible, the hospital for patients who are unable when job losses are unavoidable, we to leave their beds.
have developed programmes to help NHS staff have benefited too.
In the people through these difficult times past year two staff Time for a Treat days and to nd alternative work.
at Nottingham City Hospital have In training and development we provided a range of health treatments have focused on giving people the skills for some 300 people from the hospital they need for new roles and ensuring and a neighbouring primary care trust.
that their managers can provide support, The success of these events has led to leadership and motivation.
We have the development plans for a permanent also run programmes geared to specic service for staff at the hospital.
strategic objectives: specialist training For further information on our for some 12,000 people was a crucial community investment, see our element in the drive to raise on-shelf website at www.
com communityinvestment Community investment Our community investment last year amounted to 5.0m in cash, donations and sponsorships, and contributions in kind including 680k worth of recycled merchandise.
We encourage all our stores to develop initiatives in their local communities, and following extensive consultation are preparing a guidance manual of best practice for distribution to stores this summer.
Perhaps the most significant development in our community programme has been its increased alignment with the strategic aims of the business.
In particular, we have worked with the NHS in Nottinghamshire and with other health organisations to support and develop health promotion initiatives in the community.
Boots Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
