Environmental and social performance Our fundamental purpose, as defined by BPs board, is to Various programmes developed and successfully implemented in maximize long-term shareholder value.
This demands not only countries such as China, Angola and Azerbaijan have ensured that that we seek to maximize value through operational and financial we continue to build the number of locally based employees.
performance year by year but also to act to ensure the long-term Our policy is to ensure equal opportunity in recruitment, career sustainability of the company.
development, promotion, training and reward for all employees, Our strategy aims to deliver gains in business performance every including those with disabilities.
All applicants and employees are year.
But to maximize long-term shareholder value we must also assessed against clear criteria related to job requirements.
Where act in ways that aim to benefit our people, the environment and existing employees become disabled, our policy is to provide society.
This short report summarizes our performance.
A more continuing employment and training wherever practicable.
detailed account is published in BP Sustainability Report 2003.
BPs leadership is becoming more diverse.
Now 15% of this group are female and 18% are of nationalities other than the BP: our business UK or US see chart.
We strive to build an environment in which The way we work is guided by values integrity, honest dealing, everyone can feel part of a meritocratic organization.
In our most treating everyone with respect and dignity, striving for mutual recent survey of employee satisfaction, six in 10 employees advantage and contributing to human progress.
These values are considered BP a place where people accepted a variety of ideas, developed into policies that govern areas including health, safety, perspectives and working styles.
Seven out of 10 felt BP protected security, environment, ethical conduct and business relationships.
against discrimination and harassment and encouraged people We use a system of risk management to assess the impact of with diverse backgrounds to succeed.
We have a solid base to activities on the environment, local economies and communities.
build on, but much remains to be done.
Where appropriate, accountability for managing environmental During 2003, we made further progress in learning and and social impact is part of managers performance contracts, development opportunities for employees.
We continued to with specific objectives and milestones.
develop our internal leaders with the ongoing First Level Leaders Peoples safety is of the highest priority.
Managers are programme, while piloting a Senior Level Leaders programme.
accountable for ensuring that safety risks are properly addressed, We also created specialist academies to focus on two important staff are fully trained and facilities are well maintained.
We closely sets of skills project management, and sales and marketing.
The number of serious injury We continue to support employee share ownership with share cases resulting in our employees or contractors being away from plans in almost 80 countries.
Our award-winning ShareMatch plan, work for a day or more has dropped from almost 38 per month in in which we match BP shares purchased by employees, is running 1999 to 21 per month in 2003.
In 2003, we achieved the target of in over 70 countries.
maintaining our 2002 performance while introducing many new Communications with employees cover site events and workforce members through our acquisition of Veba, whose injury group-produced media.
These include global and local magazines, rate was historically higher than that of BP.
intranet sites, targeted e-mails and, most important, face-to-face Despite meeting this important target and reducing overall communication.
Team meetings are the core of our employee injury rates, we deeply regret to report 20 fatalities among our consultation, complemented by formal processes through works employees and contractors in 2003, compared with 13 in 2002 and councils in parts of Europe.
This communication, along with 16 in 2001.
The increased number is a serious cause for concern.
training programmes, enhances awareness of the financial and Most involved transport-related incidents.
We are therefore economic factors affecting BPs performance and contributes to introducing a much tougher group-wide standard on driving safety, employee development and motivation.
which we shall also recommend to our contractors.
We continue to emphasize the importance of doing business As a global organization, we believe our workforce, leadership with high standards of ethical conduct.
To enhance our focus and recruitment should reflect the communities and diversity on compliance with laws, regulations and internal policies and within which we operate.
We are continuing to focus on employing standards, we appointed a senior-level group compliance and and developing local staff and leaders in our operations worldwide.
ethics officer to establish a new centralized compliance and ethics function.
In April 2003, we introduced a global employee concerns Long-term improvement in safety programme OpenTalk to give everyone in BP the opportunity a performance DAFWCF 1988-2003 to report possible breaches of company policy without fear 1.8 of retaliation.
Employees can raise issues, confidentially and anonymously, through an independent multilingual call centre, 1.2 available 24 hours a day and by e-mail.
During 2003, 258 reports 0.6 were received and, where appropriate, action was taken.
Staff in positions of responsibility annually review ethical 0 issues arising during the year with their teams.
They certify to 1988 1993 1998 2003 their manager that their personal actions and those of their teams have complied with policy, and disclose any areas of possible a Days away from work case frequency DAFWCF is the annual frequency per 200,000 non-compliance.
On completion of the process, the group chief hours of injuries or reported illnesses that result in a person employee or contractor being unable to work for a day shift or more.
executive prepares his personal certificate on behalf of the 30 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2003 for the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan BTC pipeline.
The pipeline has been Employee profile by gender and nationality % a routed through a managed reserve in Georgia, which was listed for Senior management 2003 IUCN category IV designation during 2003.
Our website details all a Senior management known IUCN category I to VI areas where we have facilities.
2002 By the end of 2003, 99% of our major operations had been University recruits 2003 independently assessed for certification to the ISO 14001 University recruits international standard on environmental management.
This system 2002 drives continuous performance improvement at our sites to reduce 04 2006080 100 air emissions, water discharges and accidental releases, including Male Female UK US Non-UK US oil spills to sea or land.
a Our own shipping fleet transports significant volumes of oil, Senior management includes the top 609 positions in BP.
gas and chemicals around the world.
To mitigate the risks of major company.
We encourage open discussion, reporting and sharing of spills, we are undertaking a fleet renewal programme.
At the end ethical issues.
More than 500 ethics workshops were conducted of 2003, our fleet numbered 28 oil tankers, with an average age of worldwide during 2003 to provide awareness and training.
three years 25 are double-hulled: three are double-sided, and eight We continue to apply our strong anti-corruption policy, including gas ships, with an average age of six years.
Where we charter prohibiting facilitation payments and identifying and correcting any additional vessels, they are rigorously examined prior to use.
We take disciplinary measures where appropriate.
In 2003, this included the dismissal of 165 people BP in society for unethical behaviour, including fraud, theft and dishonesty.
Our operations bring us into contact with some of the most BP does not make corporate political contributions anywhere challenging issues facing society today.
To address them, we in the world and specifically made no donations to UK or other seek to engage constructively with those who help build BPs EU political parties or organizations in 2003. success.
We strive to ensure that our relationships with investors, Promoting health awareness among our employees, contractors non-governmental organizations NGOs, customers, suppliers, and local communities provides long-term benefits to our people communities and governments are founded on the basis of and our business.
During 2003, in many locations we increased our mutual advantage.
Our relationships are forged over many years, capability to assess health risks and implemented local initiatives.
We developed by understanding the needs and aspirations of all responded immediately to the SARS crisis, providing health support those with whom we do business.
No BP employees contracted the illness.
During 2003, we made progress on issues related to the construction of the BTC pipeline, a project that has attracted BP and the environment some NGO opposition, particularly over human rights issues.
The BP was the first major oil company to state publicly that the risks pipeline will transport oil from the Caspian to the Mediterranean, of climate change were serious and that precautionary action was so avoiding shipping through the Bosporus.
While uncertainties remain, we believe business planning signing of a joint statement by the three host governments and long-term strategy should be based on the need to stabilize committing them to internationally recognized human rights, atmospheric concentrations of greenhouse gases GHGs.
labour rights and environmental standards, including a commitment In 2001, BP achieved its first GHG target to lower operational to the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights.
While emissions by 10% from 1990 levels.
We then set a new target there is much work to be done to ensure that these standards are for 2012 to maintain net emissions at 2001 levels through more respected throughout the lifetime of the project, we believe we efficient operations and cleaner products offering improved fuel have created a strong foundation on which to build.
In 2003, operational emissions of 83.4 million tonnes Our business activities affect and benefit people across the Mte were 1Mte higher than 2002.
We seek to extend these benefits as broadly as possible: efficiencies have already achieved 3.3Mte of sustainable reductions.
for example, by creating economic opportunity for local people Given that the scale of customer emissions from use of BPs in the supply of goods and services to our operations worldwide.
products is much greater than our operational emissions, we Education and training are key to unlocking this potential and now intend to demonstrate how cleaner products are reducing remain a prime focus of our social investment.
Overall, we remain confident that we are on track to support many initiatives in the communities in which we operate, meet our new target.
ranging from the UK Schools Link programme to the Enterprise BP recognizes the need to protect and conserve sensitive areas Centre in Azerbaijan.
that house the rich biodiversity of our planet.
We will only work We believe that open and thriving societies create the best within or close to sensitive areas if we believe we can properly environment for business.
During 2003, we contributed to manage any risks to the environment.
During 2003, after international discussions concerning the issue of transparency, consultation and publication of an Environmental and Social Impact including the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative.
Assessment ESIA, an access road and exploration well site were We hold transparency and accountability as core values in the constructed within a national park in Bolivia, which has been conduct of our business.
We have taken steps to encourage designated as a World Conservation Union IUCN category I area.
greater transparency in the operations of host country In 2002, after extensive consultation, an ESIA was also published governments, for example, in Angola and Azerbaijan.
