Corporate Responsibility We recognise that the long-term interests of our stakeholders are best served by acting in a socially responsible manner, by good corporate citizenship, and by continuous improvement in all that we do.
Solid progress was made during issue of Human Rights and, secondly, generation of wealth and the social 2003 in Friends Providents Corporate to develop a Green Travel Policy in line wellbeing of society.
It allows consumers, Responsibility CR programme and, with a specic commitment in our for example, to transfer risk, buy in March this year, we were listed as Environmental Policy.
This policy draws protection and save for retirement.
The one of The Sunday Times Top 100 together various travel-related initiatives industry pays out 166 million every day Companies That Count.
across the Group and will guide future in pensions and life assurance claims.
actions by means of local travel plans.
Friends Provident was founded in 1832 Here, we summarise our approach and with the aim of alleviating the hardship some highlights from the programme.
Friends Providents vision of its of families facing misfortune.
Today, as we A full report, including objectives for corporate responsibilities is based pay out millions of pounds every working 2004, can be viewed on our website: on CR being part of good corporate day, improving the quality of life of our www.
The full governance in its broadest sense.
Our customers and their families remains our CR Report and this summary have CR programme has been integrated into aim and our core social responsibility.
been written with reference to the routine business planning and  Reporting Guidelines making, ensuring that it is balanced Buying long-term financial products can published by the Global Reporting with other key business drivers.
We be a complicated process and we are Initiative.
The CR and Annual Reports educate our people to think differently pleased to have been re-accredited together provide a comprehensive so that their everyday decisions have under the Raising Standards Quality review of our economic, social and regard to social and environmental Mark scheme, which aims to foster environmental performance.
issues as well as, for example, cost consumer confidence through improved and quality.
Therefore, our people can disclosure and encourage more people to Vision and strategy pursue opportunities to improve our make adequate provision for their longOur Statement of Business Principles sets social and environmental performance term financial needs.
We also support out our vision for corporate responsibility.
at little or no extra cost.
pfeg Personal Finance Education We aspire to be one of the most Group to improve the financial literacy Our vision is also based on the relative successful and progressive UK of future generations of customers.
materiality of our indirect impacts, financial services groups.
Our success focusing our efforts where they can In addition to assuming social depends on the trust and confidence most make a difference.
responsibility towards our customers, placed in us by our customers, Friends Provident has other direct and shareholders, business partners, Our areas of inuence indirect impacts on society.
Our direct staff, the communities around us Friends Provident is one of the leading and society at large.
We will win and impacts are: financial services groups in the UK and deserve that trust and confidence Environmental management: in the FTSE 100 Index of leading UK by maintaining and living up to the companies.
It has two core businesses, distinct values and reputation that Emissions Life and Pensions, which markets a have underpinned our business since Energy efficiency broadly-based range of life and pensions our foundation in 1832.
We recognise products, and Asset Management, that the long-term interests of our Waste managing funds exceeding 63 billion stakeholders are best served by acting at the end of 2003 and which markets Resource use principally paper in a socially responsible manner, a wide range of investment products by good corporate citizenship, and Labour practices to personal and institutional customers.
by continuous improvement in all These core businesses are both in the Community investment that we do.
top 10 of their respective sectors in Our indirect impacts occur through: Underpinning these principles is a the UK.
Two Responsible investment and The life assurance industry is important new policies have been added this year: engagement first, to formalise Friends Providents from both an economic and social approach to the increasingly important perspective, contributing to the Supply chain management 26 Friends Provident Friends Providents most significant A CR manager an ofce-based life and pensions or asset management company is low.
environmental impact is the indirect Dened roles and responsibilities However, we can exert a significant inuence it can exert through responsible across the Group material impact indirectly through investing in its various forms.
Customers Performance indicators for all main is a pioneer of responsible investing.
In impact areas who invest in our Stewardship range of 1984 we launched the UKs first ethical products can be confident their money Unit Trust, the Stewardship Unit Trust.
An objective and target-setting will only be invested in companies that Our Stewardship range of products, mechanism built into the Companys have been screened by an independent now partly operated through our Asset strategic and business planning process Committee of Reference to ensure the Management business, is still the selected investments have positive An internal education and market leader with 33% of the 4 billion community and environmental benets communications programme screened fund market in the UK.
for the world and its people and An internal verication process In 2000, the Group launched reo, a minimise their negative impacts.
state-of-the-art management system for CR risks and opportunities are routinely Through reo we engage with engaging with companies on a range identified through the Groups risk companies on a range of social, of social and environmental issues.
This process environmental and ethical issues.
reo We believe that companies that change requires quarterly reports from each is applied to Friends Providents entire the way they behave to address these business unit specifically covering equity portfolio, including its staff issues also enhance their long-term CR-related risks and opportunities, pension fund.
Each year, our twelvewhich embraces social, ethical and shareholder value.
strong team of specialists selects a environmental issues.
With regard Finally, from 1 January 2003, Friends specic number of topical issues on to the ABI Disclosure Guidelines Provident has fully disclosed the way which to engage and target companies on Socially Responsible Investment, it votes the shareholdings held in key CR-related risks that have been most exposed to the risks associated other companies at those companies assessed include recruitment and with those issues.
We publish retention of key employees, reputational covering those issues and companies, monthly reports which list the way issues, responsible investing, community as well as case studies illustrating the we have voted and include a brief relations, human rights, mis-selling engagement process, are published by explanation of every vote not supporting issues and bribery and corruption.
We our Asset Management business and the recommendations of the Boards of will benefit, as a consequence, from the can be viewed on www.
We feel that making strengthening of our reputation and the Despite their relatively low signicance, this information public reects our growth of the responsible investment market for both screened funds and we still have a structured programme of desire to be open and accountable engagement services.
environmental housekeeping to manage to our customers, policyholders and our direct impacts.
Based on DEFRA investors alike, whose money we To establish our principles, policy are investing, and will raise industry Department for Environment, Food and framework and performance indicators, standards on this issue.
Rural Affairs guidelines, emissions from we liaised with various groups of people gas and electricity at our main office who have a stake in our business and Governance structure and sites amounted to 1,149 tonnes CO2 in have developed a matrix that maps management systems 2003 2002: 5,650 tonnes.
Emissions issues against different stakeholder Friends Provident has a well-developed from company cars amounted to 3,499 groups.
We continue to talk with our and integrated CR management system, stakeholders and take opportunities to tonnes CO 2002: 3,794 tonnes.
2 which includes the following features: link into existing research programmes We used 53 million sheets of plain to ensure this matrix remains up-to-date.
Main Board responsibility paper 2002: 54 million sheets.
At main ofce sites we used 36.6 A Group-wide Steering Committee Environmental performance indicators litres employee day of water 2002: chaired by a main Board director Compared with some industries, the 34.8 litres employee day and produced which meets quarterly direct impact on the environment from Annual Report & Accounts 2003 27 Corporate Responsibility continued Friends Providents most significant environmental impact is the indirect inuence we can exert through responsible investing in its various forms.
855 tonnes of waste 2002: 910 tonnes opportunities more generally through country.
In its first full year 283 schools of which 28.9% was recycled our support for Business in the signed up to use the interactive CD- 2002: 32.4%.
Communitys Opportunity Now, Rom and dedicated website created by the Equal Pay Commission and Barnardos, while around 80,000 has As a result of feedback from been raised by participating schools the Employers Forum on Disability.
shareholders on our 2002 CR Report, towards Barnardos childcare work.
We undertake regular employee surveys we initiated a partnership with Future Through our Volunteer Reading Scheme, and overall satisfaction remains high Forests and Greener Solutions to our staff are given time out of work to at 76% 2002: 76%.
We monitor encourage people to recycle their old visit primary schools to help young employee sickness and turnover and mobile phones.
The phones are used children develop their literacy and we publicly report on our performance for parts or sold at low cost into the social skills.
We have a strong developing world.
This generates an Connected with our sponsorship of track record on health and safety with income, part of which ows to Future Southampton Football Club, the Friends Silver and Bronze awards from the Forests to support their CarbonNeutral Provident Fair Play Awards are now in Royal Society for the Prevention of forestry programme see their fifth year and we have teamed up Accidents.
We maintain a close working www.
with Southampton FC and Southampton relationship with the recognised trade Our Supplier Statement outlines our City Council to tackle the challenge of union, Amicus, with whom we liaise on progressive programme for addressing keeping racism out of football through employee-related business issues and social and environmental issues the Racism Just Aint Saintly initiative.
encourage our people to get involved.
This year we We have also established a community Community developed risk proles for different trust jointly with Southampton FC to We have refreshed and redrafted our supplier groups and tightened our develop afootball academy for primary Community Investment Policy.
charitable giving is channelled through Social performance indicators For the Board the Friends Provident Charitable Workplace Foundation, a charity with wide grantMotivated employees are a key factor in making powers.
We also facilitate and the long-term success of any business promote payroll giving as a simple and and creating the right culture is crucial cost-effective way in which employees to recruiting and retaining the best can donate to their favourite charity.
In 2003 Friends Provident was To support them, we match the Director and Company Secretary again rated as one of the UKs Best first 10 per month each employee Workplaces.
We were also successfully contributes.
In 2003 we re-launched reassessed against the Investor In our payroll giving scheme and increased People national standard for training the number of employees participating and development.
As well as being the needs of our customers come first, able to support the charities of their we try to help our people achieve their choice, employees are also given the optimum worklife balance through option of using payroll giving to sponsor homeworking, job sharing and a child in a third world country through exible working.
a unique link-up with the aid agency, World Vision.
We are an equal opportunities employer.
Our aim is that our workforce Education is a key focus area for our should mirror the gender and ethnic community support programme.
We demographics of the areas in which we partner Barnardos in an initiative called Note: CR performance data relates to FPLP operate without any form of positive Future Citizens, promoting citizenship unless stated otherwise.
We promote equal to 11-14 year-old students across the their CR performance.
