Page heading Corporate Responsibility 19.6m Creating shareholder invested value, within a in the responsible agenda Community Phil Hodkinson Chairman of the CR Forum 46 46 HBOS plc HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Annual Report & Accounts 2003 In 2003, we published our first Corporate has launched its Global Business Principles covering over 1,100 premises and induction Responsibility CR Report covering our and has made a commitment to developing loops have been installed in over 800 marketplace activities, environmental impact, deeper understanding of CR issues.
We also offer brochures in large employment practices and contribution to print and Braille, Textphones and Typetalk A critical achievement this year has been local communities.
In that report, we made and we have a network of sign language agreement on an Ethics Statement which will it clear that although we are very much at the interpreters.
As a leading online bank with a be communicated across the whole Group start of a journey, we are committed to strong commitment to digital inclusion, over in 2004 to ensure not only compliance but bringing CR to the heart of our activities 650 of our branches are linked to our internet colleague ownership.
service through Click and Call units in our The Marketplace banking halls making HBOS the largest UK CR Policies A focus on providing value for money provider in the area.
An Impact Assessment of our Community products is at the heart of our approach Investment has been carried out by the Environmental Impact to CR.
For example, our current account pays Corporate Citizenship Company.
In future we We have set stretching environmental targets: a significantly higher rate of interest than will benchmark our impact against our most High Street banks.
As the largest savings To increase recycling of general office competitors and against recognised best institution in the country, HBOS is the only waste to 50% by the end of 2005. practice.
We have also undertaken an major bank which offers an annual savings independent audit of our CR reporting and To achieve a 10% reduction of gas and review to customers: as a result, over 18bn our external consultants, Casella Stanger, have electricity consumption by the end of 2004. of balances have been moved to better verified the measurements we have used for paying accounts.
To achieve a 6% reduction in water submission to published indices.
HBOS is the established UK leader in social We have a full set of CR policies in place banking through our Easycash and Cardcash We aim to lend and invest responsibly which are approved and monitored by the products.
Our community banking initiatives and have produced a lenders guide to Board and led by a Board Member, Phil have contributed to the financial well being environmental risk management for use Hodkinson who chairs The CR Forum, a group of a number of communities such as Wester by our managers.
whose membership is drawn from every part Hailes in Edinburgh, Mercian Housing of the business.
Our Board review and Our environmental responsibilities extend Association in Birmingham and Paddington approve annually our policies on Community to our customers too and as the biggest Development Trust in London.
Halifax is the Investment, Diversity and Environment.
mortgage lender in the UK, the impact of only bank partnering the Governments Savings flood risk on our customers is immensely As evidence of our commitment to CR we Gateway Scheme in 5 pilot locations in England.
We are currently the only lender have sponsored Business in the Communitys We have introduced a number of initiatives to to offer full insurance cover to our customers BITC CR index and were one of the few ensure that our products and services are as and this year we announced that our Flood financial services companies to submit accessible as possible by all members of the Risk Policy would continue for at least themselves for assessment in the inaugural community.
For example, we have produced another 5 years, providing a flood risk index, achieving second quintile status.
Phil Hodkinson has joined the Board of BITC and product literature in Urdu, Punjabi, Hindi and guarantee for 1.8m customers.
In May 2003, of the CARES Leadership Group which Gujarati for branches in areas with substantial we conducted a survey of our suppliers with promotes a business led volunteering Asian populations.
We are also working with a view to setting up supplier forums to share programme and chairs its Business Impact the National Forum of Wheelchair User best practice in environmental management.
Insight Investment, HBOSs Groups and the Royal National Institute for HBOS has also launched a new programme to asset management business which is a leading the Blind RNIB to make branches more address waste minimisation and recycling in exponent of socially responsible investment, accessible.
A full audit has been undertaken the branch network.
2003 Bank of Scotland Childrens Flood Risk International Theatre Festival insurance cover provided for 1.8m customers HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 47 Corporate Responsibility continued 2003 to Bank of Scotland branches at a cost across the country.
Over 1,300 colleagues The Workplace We believe that our total reward package, of 1.3m.
In addition to regular TV participated in Its a Knockout events held in Halifax, Edinburgh and Bristol and over which enables colleagues to select the programmes covering performance 164,000 was raised from our on-line auction benefits which best suit their circumstances, information, sales targets and live interviews and a holiday raffle.
is both comprehensive and competitive.
with the Chief Executive, colleagues also receive electronic Newsletters and have We focus particularly on share ownership Bank of Scotland delivered an outstanding through Sharesave, Sharekicker and Share access to employment data on Groupnet an sponsorship programme in 2003 with over Option Schemes which produces alignment intranet which also carries news bulletins and 4m being invested in Sport and in the Arts.
of interest between Board, shareholders and items of general interest to colleagues.
Alongside high profile projects such as the employees.
We have developed family friendly Community Premierleague and the Ring Cycle at the policies such as flexible work patterns, and HBOS invested 19.6m in the community Edinburgh International Festival we supported are committed to diversity and equal in 2003. many projects targeted at deprived areas, opportunities.
Our progress over the years socially excluded children and the disabled.
has been recognised by The Chartered The HBOS Foundation, which was launched as Institute of Personnel and Development an independent charity at the AGM in 2002 For example, we launched the Bank of to lead our community investment activities, CIPD, BITC, Queen Elizabeth Foundation, Scotland Midnight League to encourage Opportunity Now, Personnel Today and the has made substantial donations to Money youngsters to participate in a football British Diversity Awards.
We benchmark our Advice Trust, Groundwork Trust, RNIB, tournament at night.
Partnering the Police and National Deaf Childrens Society NDCS, performance on diversity in the workplace the Premierleague Clubs this project has been National Care Homes NCH, National both internally and externally using the Race successfully piloted in Scotland and plans are Debtline and Centrepoint.
A separate portion for Opportunity and Opportunity Now indices.
now under way to roll this initiative out in We are Gold Standard performers in both.
of the annual budget of 4m was distributed England.
During 2003, 20,000 young people locally to smaller projects selected by the took part in sporting events made possible by Our commitment to diversity has helped us businesses.
Over 400 charitable projects were to improve the profile of our workforce but our sponsorship.
Of these, 60% came from supported in this way in 2003. we are committed to increasing the numbers Social Inclusion Partnership areas.
During The Foundation concentrates on two themes: of women in senior management.
2004, we aim to increase the social inclusion improving financial literacy and developing benefits of our sponsorship investment and HBOS encourages volunteering, charitable local communities.
A new departure for to increase the number of children from giving and fundraising by colleagues.
In 2003 HBOS last year was the selection of a Charity deprived areas to 65% of those involved.
the Board agreed to give colleagues up to one of the Year.
By a telephone poll following a days leave for volunteering and hosted an Future plans live TV broadcast, over 14,600 HBOS awards ceremony to recognise colleagues who colleagues voted for Macmillan Cancer Relief, HBOS believes that CR is not something that had made exceptional efforts in these areas or National ChildLine and Alzheimers with can be pursued separately from our business had made distinctive contributions to Diversity Macmillan recording most votes.
It is an integral part of the way we or Environmental best practice.
We aim to Foundation challenged colleagues to raise do business.
We are committed to developing encourage more colleagues to volunteer and 500,000 for Macmillan which they agreed to further the Groups policies on social have set a target for 2004 of 3,000 volunteers.
The 1m target was reached in environmental and ethical risk.
We are also September and by the year-end over 1.5m committed to measuring and reporting our Internal Communication is a key ingredient in was raised, with the excess being shared achieving success in colleague motivation and performance in these fields, in accordance with with the other two shortlisted charities.
in stimulating a positive attitude in the the Association of British Insurers guidelines on workplace.
HBOS has one of the largest The 1m Challenge also provided the focus disclosure of information to the public and to Business TV networks in Europe, extended in for many fundraising and volunteering events investors through the Annual Report.
1.38m raised in 2003 helps fund nine new Macmillan nurses Colleagues from HBOS plc ofces across the UK celebrate raising more than 1m in just 12 months for Macmillan Cancer Relief 48 HBOS plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003
