Annual Report 2003 181 sustainability review Introduction Corporate reporting is moving continuously towards greater transparency, accountability and integrity, as a foundation for good governance see also Corporate governance on pages 158 to 180.
It is becoming increasingly important for companies to focus on the qualitative measures of corporate reporting, which cover the social, environmental and economic aspects of the business.
Investec recognises the value that arises from meaningful interaction with stakeholders and embarked on a process to entrench sustainable growth and corporate responsibility in the groups culture and business model.
As Investecs understanding of corporate social responsibility deepened, its approach evolved from passive philanthropy to a more comprehensive corporate citizenship programme.
Accordingly, the group is establishing a responsible sustainability process, based on a pragmatic approach that emphasises benefits for all stakeholders.
These include shareholders, clients, employees, local communities and the wider society.
Investecs Journey to Sustainability 2003 has been produced as a separate report accompanying the Annual Report for 2003.
The report shows in detail Investecs commitment to enhanced corporate responsibility, stakeholder accountability and creditable performance reporting.
A summary of the report follows.
Black Economic Empowerment Investec recognises that employment equity and the pursuit of black economic empowerment BEE are pivotal elements of the sustainability process in South Africa.
They involve economic and social transformation and, ultimately, aim to achieve sustainable development for the country as a whole.
The groups empowerment strategy was developed over a number of years by its BEE Forum, which is driven by senior management and senior black professionals in the organisation.
As part of this process, Investec underwent a process to transform the organisation from within and to help black owned and managed companies to establish and develop.
Investec acknowledges, however, 182 Annual Report 2003 that it also needs to address the transformation of strategic decision-making bodies throughout all levels of the organisation.
Accordingly, after the 2003 year-end, Investec Limited concluded an empowerment transaction with Tiso Group Tiso, Peu Investment Group Peu and the Entrepreneurship Development Trust.
In terms of the transaction, Tiso, Peu, the broad-based Entrepreneurship Development Trust and an Investec Employee Share Trust collectively acquired a 25.1% stake in the issued share capital of Investec Limited.
In summary, the components of Investecs BEE strategy include: employment equity, human resource development including income differentials and skills development, procurement, enterprise development, corporate social investment, and ownership and control.
Investecs approach to BEE embraces each of these aspects, which are addressed in Investecs Journey to Sustainability 2003 report.
In essence, the groups approach to empowerment and sustainability reflects a spirit of entrepreneurship, manifest throughout Investecs approach to business, employees and society.
Business Investec consistently strives to ensure that clients receive quality products and services by improving technology, enhancing service and taking cognisance of the individual requirements of all stakeholders.
The group encourages debate and the free flow of ideas to ensure employees seek innovative, entrepreneurial solutions to clients requirements.
As a company specialising in Investment Banking, Treasury and Specialised Finance, Private Client Activities and Asset Management, Investec is committed to investing in, creating and developing significant and sustainable businesses.
The group believes that there needs to be a balance between economic imperatives, the needs of society and their combined impact on the environment.
The most significant sustainable impact that Investecs business can have, directly or indirectly, is achieved through the provision of financial services to corporate and private clients.
The group believes that it has a unique ability to identify talented entrepreneurs and assist them in building sustainable and meaningful businesses.
Furthermore, Investec is committed to developing sound sustainable procurement practices that meet the challenges of the environment in which the group operates.
This is being done within the context of the commercial and strategic intentions of the group and the expectations of stakeholders.
Annual Report 2003 183 Employees Investec, as a services-orientated business, relies on the health, motivation and performance of its employees.
The groups philosophy is to employ the highest calibre individuals, who show integrity, intellect and innovation.
Investec strives to inspire entrepreneurship among employees through, for instance, a flat, integrated structure, where individuality is encouraged.
This, together with the groups culture, values and human resources practices, creates a working environment that stimulates extraordinary performance.
In this way, employees are able to be positive contributors to the group, clients and their communities.
The Human Resources division also plays a crucial role in sustaining strong performance by ensuring the well-being, fair treatment and development of employees.
While Investecs values embrace equal opportunity and value diversity, circumstances in South Africa have also highlighted the need for a special focus on employment equity issues.
As such, employment equity is one of the pillars of the groups black economic empowerment strategy.
In the past 18 months, an important goal was to continue to maintain the impetus of employment equity-mindedness within the bank, which relates to both an awareness of and commitment to employment equity, as well as integrating it into the business.
This was achieved partly through increasing management accountability for employment equity and placing employment equity on the corporate agenda.
In addition, an important focus is promoting equal opportunity within the workplace and the group is committed to diversity, which is viewed not only as a social responsibility but a business advantage for the future.
Investecs HIV AIDS philosophy emphasises a commitment to treating all employees with fairness, dignity and compassion: ensuring that individuals with HIV or AIDS are not unfairly discriminated against: and managing the HIV and AIDS epidemic in the workplace.
Society As Investec grows internationally, it nevertheless remains committed to re-building the society from which it originated.
This occurs concurrently with understanding and ensuring synchronisation with the context of the countries in which the group is expanding.
Accordingly, corporate social investment CSI remains dedicated to projects in South Africa, which now include involvement from employees around the world.
In South Africa, Investec has shifted its social investment philosophy to align more closely with changes in the political, economic and social landscape, as well as with its core business strategies and resources.
Investecs offices in the UK, the US, Australia and Israel are also developing social investment projects to address their particular social needs and which are aligned to the groups values and philosophies.
Worldwide, the groups CSI focuses on the creation and development of entrepreneurial initiatives that 184 Annual Report 2003 are sustainable, have a measurable impact and empower people by equipping them with quality education and entrepreneurial skills.
In South Africa, historically disadvantaged groups are a particular focus.
Not only are these initiatives widely recognised to be one of the most effective ways of breaking the poverty spiral.
They also enable Investec to harness the groups collective skills and thus have the greatest impact on society.
A notable achievement in this sphere is the conception and development of The Business Place, a cluster of businesses that support entrepreneurs, in the inner city of Johannesburg.
Along with entrepreneurship, Investec believes that relevant, innovative and top-quality education is crucial to the prosperity of the nation.
To this end, the group invested substantially in CIDA City Campus, a tertiary institution that uses innovative teaching techniques to educate previously disadvantaged students, as well as in secondary and tertiary education, both in urban and rural areas.
Investec also makes significant donations to projects and charities concentrating on health and welfare, environmental conservation and crime prevention.
Spending on health and welfare focuses on the HIV AIDS pandemic.
Environment Investec recognises that it has a direct and indirect impact on society and the natural environment in which it operates.
The group has an impact on the environment internally through its operational activities and externally through its business activities.
Accordingly, the group believes that it is in the long-term interests of the business, staff, shareholders and broader stakeholders to embed a tangible commitment to sustainability into all its activities.
Commitment to sustainability Investec is firmly committed to the transformation process in South Africa and actively embraces the challenge of translating the concept of sustainable development into operational practice and reality.
The groups commitment to empowerment and its entrepreneurial spirit are integral to the way it operates, helping it to grow and enhance sustainable development in businesses, among employees and across society.
