Corporate Social Responsibility 33 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In recent years there has been an increasing Firstly, employees are awarded a Charity Although CSR is not about seeking awards, awareness that companies should take an Day each year.
This is one day every year it was pleasing to receive the Tower Hamlets active role in promoting Corporate Social when they can spend company time either Education Business Partnership IT Award in Responsibility CSR, both when making directly working with a charity or using their 2003 for JLTs IT Partnership with Our Ladys day-to-day business decisions and when time in helping the local community.
Primary School in Limehouse, London.
setting their long-term business strategies.
Secondly, JLT will match pound for pound Environment Although the term Corporate Social any amount raised by employees in JLT considers respect for the environment Responsibility is a relatively new one, fundraising activities they personally undertake to be an integral business responsibility.
its basic principles are something we have for charity up to a maximum of 5,000. sought to follow for some considerable To this end, JLT has set the following time, not only in the workplace and in the Finally, our goal is to identify one or two guidelines within the Group to: wider community, but also in terms of the larger charity projects each year where - carefully manage waste so as to minimise potential impact the Groups activities may JLT can make a real difference.
its production where possible, or suitably have on the environment.
disposing of it through recycling schemes: This new initiative has been well received by - control polluting emissions: The workplace our employees and is in many cases providing - ensure appropriate regulatory compliance The needs and goals of each employee the local community with the key additional in key areas including waste disposal, vary and we endeavour to accommodate resource they require peoples time.
pollutants, energy and building regulations: diversity through our employment policies - design and operate facilities taking into and schemes such as Choices, our flexible The opportunity was also taken in 2003 to account the efficient use of energy and benefits scheme in the UK.
include as part of the UKs flexible benefits materials: scheme Give As You Earn which enables - encourage the adoption of these We also seek to help employees achieve employees to make regular charitable guidelines by contractors acting on their aspirations in the workplace through donations in a tax efficient manner.
It is behalf of the Company.
positively encouraging personal development anticipated that donations under the scheme through training and other activities.
will exceed 15,000 over the first 12 months.
To help further encourage environmental The benefits of the considerable time and awareness within the organisation, we are in resources spent on training not only help the More recently, existing employee social events the process of introducing a targeting and individual but also help the Company achieve have been used to support chosen charities.
monitoring system for both energy its key business objectives.
This included a Race Night and Charity consumption and waste management, Auction, which raised 20,000 for the initially within the UK.
There are also certain responsibilities placed cancer charities Pink Ribbon Foundation on an employer regarding employees health and Everyman.
and welfare, including the need for a balance between the demands of work and personal For the first time in 2003, we repeated our life and these we take very seriously.
traditional childrens Christmas party held at our London office the following day for the Charity and the community benefit of 130 children and their families During 2003 the Group made total charitable through charities such as the Make A Wish donations of 246,000 2002: 175,000.
Foundation, The National Deaf Childrens In the UK the Group is a keen supporter Society and West London Action for Children.
of Business in the Community.
2003 also saw the introduction of a new initiative JLT Making a Difference which gives employees based in the UK the opportunity to become personally and directly involved in fundraising and community work in three important ways:
