Corporate social responsibility The Board takes the area of social Health and safety UK to encourage early return to provide information to, and to responsibility seriously and has The Group has a long-standing work following sickness or injury.
consult with, elected employee for many years had policies with commitment to achieving continual These schemes involve more representatives on Group and respect to business standards, the improvement in health and safety robust attendance management business area policies, strategy environment and health and safety.
Bunzl seeks to identify programmes combined with and performance.
During 2003 While we do not believe that we and share best practice across occupational health advice on a number of UK businesses have have a high risk profile with regard its businesses.
The Group Health fitness for work and programmes been developing and implementing to the environment and health and and Safety Committee, established of restricted duties.
These more formalised information and safety, we believe that positive in 1993, comprises representatives programmes are also being consultation arrangements to actions with respect to social from each business area and extended to provide routine health supplement the European Forums responsibility are not only desirable is responsible to the Board for screening on a voluntary basis.
and to ensure better employee in their own right but are also of reviewing the Groups health and involvement and feedback locally.
potential economic and commercial safety policy and agreeing standards Training courses have been For many years a Company benefit to the Group.
and objectives for the Group held throughout the year both magazine, Bunzl World, has been worldwide as well as auditing health for management and employees produced and distributed around During 2003 we have reviewed and safety performance against to raise safety awareness.
the Group, notifying employees Bunzls stance on corporate social those objectives.
The Technical These have used a number of of major business successes, responsibility and developed an Sub-Committee comprises training methods including use acquisitions and appointments.
This draws together in-house health and safety of external consultants to provide This is supplemented locally by existing Group policies, which in experts who review a range management training, Toolbox a variety of newsletters, briefings some cases have been updated, of detailed safety issues and talks and an in-house designed and intranet communication giving and new Group policies based implement the health and CD-rom for driver training.
more specific information related either on policies used by certain safety programmes worldwide.
to the business or site where an subsidiaries or current practice.
The Bunzl safety audit has employee is based.
The objective of the Groups At the beginning of 2003 four Group continued to provide a useful vehicle policy is to provide a reference level objectives were identified: both for management training and Customers point to guide stakeholders, for identifying a programme of The Groups business and livelihood including all employees, on the improved data collection to workplace improvements with the depends upon its customers.
elements that drive the conduct facilitate the analysis of trends majority of sites now achieving Every employee is responsible for of our business and relationships and to identify actions which overall scores well above 85%.
ensuring that any contact with with the world in which we operate.
would reduce the incidence customers and the public at large The overall policy is made up and severity of accidents: Employees reflects professionalism, efficiency of seven underlying policies Bunzl remains committed to the and honesty.
During 2003, as covering the following areas: implementation of a managed recruitment of high quality staff has been the practice for some Standards of business conduct rehabilitation programme within and developing them within the years, a number of businesses in Code of ethics, Health and the UK similar to those already businesses to provide excellent Outsourcing Services and Filtrona safety, Employees, Customers, operated in the US and Australia: performance and take on more undertook formal customer surveys Environment, Suppliers and responsibility.
This is achieved to measure their customer service Community.
Further details of improved understanding of by a combination of structured performance and rectify any our policies are available on the line managers and individual Group management development issues identified.
employees of their role in programmes, specific skills training senior management meet key improving safety: within respective businesses and customers on an ad hoc basis Standards of business conduct the provision of challenging and to ensure understanding of their Code of ethics continued implementation of responsible roles.
The Group service requirements and gain The Group has a business improvements in the workplace aims to provide opportunities to their perceptions on how these standards policy that was which encourage safe working.
employees and strives to promote requirements are being met.
A established ten years ago and from within whenever appropriate.
series of specially tailored customer has been updated in the meantime, Although the varying methods New graduates continue to be service programmes has been run most recently in 2004.
The policy of recording data within the recruited into the business and, in many of the Outsourcing Services sets out the standards of behaviour different countries in which the in the US and UK, participate businesses during the year.
expected of each Bunzl employee Group operates has meant that in a successful structured and covers the areas of conflicts comparison and consolidation training programme to enhance Environment of interest, compliance with laws, of data has proved difficult, their development.
Bunzl has continued its focus on rules and regulations, dealing overall businesses have reported the environmental aspects of its in Bunzl shares, protection of a reduction in the number of days Appropriate and well timed operations.
There have been two confidential information, protection lost or restricted as the result of communication to and from major themes to the environmental and proper use of company assets, accidents or work-related ill health employees is essential in ensuring programme during 2003.
Firstly, relationships with customers, severity rate.
the effectiveness of the business.
a requirement for each business suppliers and employees, Set up in 1996, the European area to identify any significant compliance with the Code and Filtrona has introduced schemes Information and Consultation environmental risks associated reporting of unethical behaviour.
within its major plants in the Forums continue to meet to with their activities, products and 4 Bunzl plc services.
Secondly, continued as other measures to reduce fuel for children being treated for implementation of environmental consumption and emissions to leukaemia that will enable doctors management systems compatible the air.
The introduction of balers to tailor further treatments to their with ISO 14001 to include targets at many sites has already achieved precise and individual needs: for environmental improvement, a significant improvement in the research into prostate cancer monitoring of performance amount of waste going to landfill.
treatment being undertaken by and auditing.
Wherever possible reusable Imperial College London: and packaging is purchased.
The support of an internet based ISO 14001 was attained by a amount of packaging is reduced, medical advice line run further six manufacturing sites wherever feasible, to the minimum by Breast Cancer Care.
Further within Filtrona and three of necessary consistent with adequate support was provided to Queen the businesses of Outsourcing product protection.
In the UK, the Elizabeths Training College to Services, covering more than 40 Group is a member of Valpak who enhance the Computer Aided distribution sites.
The following discharge the relevant obligations Design training department at the chart shows the significant progress under the Producer Responsibility College with the aim of training made over the past few years in Packaging Waste Regulations.
In disabled people to return to or implementing environmental Germany, the Group is a member start work.
Finally, donations were management systems.
of Duales System Deutschland made to several organisations who operate the Green Dot providing support and advice to Sites achieving ISO 14001 recycling system.
Bunzl is also a homeless people throughout the member of the FTSE4Good index.
In addition, Group companies 80 and individual employees 60 Suppliers worldwide continue to support Bunzl regards suppliers as partners local charitable initiatives such 40 and works with them to help as the Queen of Peace Center 20 achieve policy aspirations in the in St Louis that provides treatment, delivery of products and services.
education, daycare and housing 0 Specifically the Group is committed programs for women and 00 01 02 03 to working with its suppliers of their children.
products and services to ensure These sites, which are shown on that the welfare of workers and a cumulative basis, employ some labour conditions within the supply 54% of staff within the Group.
chain meet or exceed recognised Plans are in place for further sites standards.
Within Outsourcing to achieve accreditation in 2004.
Services management regularly meet with suppliers to ensure The sites that are ISO 14001 mutual understanding and to give accredited have, as part of that and receive feedback on services process, identified those areas and goods received.
In 2003 two in which they impact upon the Filtrona businesses, Globalpack environment.
As a result of this in Brazil and ITC Filtrona in India, work the following measures will attained SA 8000:2001 certification.
be used to monitor environmental The certification process has led performance at Group level: to more structured processes energy usage, water consumption, for improving standards, not raw material consumption and only within the companies, but waste production.
A number of specific environmental Community initiatives are continuing which Bunzl is a member of Business have a positive environmental in the Community in the UK and benefit.
For example, energy at Group level has continued to management remains important, support a cross section of projects particularly in manufacturing sites, within registered charities in the and planned actions range from fields of healthcare, education, investment in new compressors disability and childrens welfare.
drive motors to reducing heat loss In 2003 Bunzl sponsored three from processing units.
Throughout projects relating to cancer Outsourcing Services there is research and support: through focus on route planning and Children with Leukaemia research transport management as well into the development of a test Bunzl plc 5 Number of sites covered
