Group Chief Executive, David Prosser, together with some of our Young Excellence Scheme Members.
The scheme seeks to provide support to young people who have shown exceptional talent in a particular eld, be it sporting or creative.
22 As part of our annual tightly matched to business Our Customers Corporate Social reporting process, we believe objectives, that individual Our success as a business depends Responsibility it is important to set out for training needs can be readily ultimately on our ability to meet shareholders not only the identied and that our People the requirements and expectations financial results of our business Values are fully integrated of our current and potential activities but also relevant into the appraisal system.
Our corporate strategy information on how we behave We also launched a UK-wide is focused on providing broad as a company towards our management training access to value for money financial many stakeholders and the programme.
We carry out extensive wider community.
which is accredited by the market research to understand our Institute of Leadership and customers requirements and we Accordingly, last year, we Management, is designed to monitor closely the regulatory published online a detailed enhance management capability developments which impact our Corporate Social Responsibility throughout the organisation.
product design, sales distribution CSR Report.
Feedback on the and customer servicing.
We aim to Report was obtained and many ensure that access to our products Our People Values: suggested changes have been is as wide as possible.
We have incorporated into our 2003 CSR developed a base of distribution Integrity Report.
This is available online at partners, including many major www.
com csr banks and building societies, Openness and is summarised below.
and aim to give all our customers a choice of ways in which to Customer focus CSR Governance communicate with us.
Given the 2003 saw the establishment nature of the products we provide, A can-do mentality of the Groups first formal CSR we place great importance on Committee.
The Committee communicating their characteristics Results driven provides a high level forum for fully and accurately to our customers.
the discussion of Legal & Generals Teamwork social and environmental Our Communities performance.
The Committee During 2003, our Community reports to the Group Board and We continued to embed our Involvement programme focused comprises senior executives from Partnership Agreement through on the promotion and expansion across the business.
It has both local Partnership in Action work of our employee orientated executive and non-executive with our trades union, Amicus.
A campaign was run director representation and meets In particular, we developed to raise awareness of our charity at least three times a year.
It a Partnership and Consultation payroll giving programme, reviews social, environmental Guide which seeks to provide following which the number and ethical risks and managers with advice on how of donors increased by around opportunities, and monitors to incorporate consultation into a third.
We also launched our first progress against objectives.
Legal & General Community Legal & General continues to seek Awards, aimed at recognising those Our Employees employees who dedicate to provide equal opportunities A new Employee Performance considerable personal time to to all employees and potential Management Framework was helping their communities or employees.
We seek to conform launched this year and rolled favourite charities.
Our major with both the 1948 Universal To view our full Corporate Social out to all UK employees.
community partnership Declaration of Human Rights and Responsibility Report online, visit: The Framework seeks to ensure programme was also further the 1953 European Convention www.
com csr that employee objectives are developed during the year.
Legal & General Annual Report 2003 Corporate Social Responsibility 23 recognised by external Socially Responsible organisations such as Business in Investment Our environmental During the year, the the Environment: we were ranked programme, environmental risks and first in the Life Assurance Sector opportunities faced by over and fourth in the Financial Services established in 75% by market capitalisation sector in their eighth Index 1999, has achieved of the FTSE 350 were assessed, of Corporate Environmental in line with our stated 2003 Engagement.
We achieved all our valuable results target.
In addition, we engaged environmental targets for 2003 in reducing with 35 companies on both with the exception of our target social and environmental to ensure that less than 35% of Legal & Generals issues.
We have continued to waste produced at target sites is direct environimprove the environmental disposed of directly to landll.
The management of our property mental impact.
percentage achieved was 38%, due investment portfolio.
In 2002, to a delay in installing new ofce ISO 14001 certification was waste recycling systems.
The target achieved at two target One such partnership will be carried forward to 2004. properties.
A further four were established during 2003 is Looking ahead, we are placing required to demonstrate, via with businessdynamics, a charity greater emphasis on the indirect internal audit, compliance with which seeks to bring business environmental impact of our all elements of the environmental to life for young people, by business activities and we have management system by the introducing students aged 14-19 to increased the number of targets end of 2003.
This target has the opportunities and challenges in this area in 2004. been achieved.
of business, as well as improving their key skills in preparation for Members of our Group Risk team the world of work.
Our support for took the British Heart Foundations the charitys work in Wales will Get Active at Work campaign to heart!
A number of our employees help ensure that over 5,000 are also taking part in the 2004 students benefit from the London Marathon in support of businessdynamics programme.
Our Group Risk team spearheaded our support of the British Heart Foundations Get Active at Work campaign.
We sponsored the charitys Workplace Health Activity Toolkit and took part in an Activity Month to raise awareness of the importance of regular exercise.
Our Environment Our environmental programme, established in 1999, has achieved valuable results in reducing Legal & Generals direct environmental impact.
The success of our programme has been Legal & General Annual Report 2003 Corporate Social Responsibility
