CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY A responsible business On behalf of our employees, business partners and the wider community, we are determined to maintain the highest social, ethical and environmental standards.
As a commercial company competing at make better-informed decisions about the the highest level, we are proud of the way effect of a wide range of benefits on their in which we do business.
We are also lifestyle, wealth and financial security.
Our keenly aware that winning and keeping the share schemes continue to encourage trust of all our stakeholders is critical to employees to take an active stake in the sustaining our long-term strength and success of our company, with a participation growth.
We want our customers to know level of over 80 per cent.
that we are their best possible choice and our shareholders to know that their Customers and suppliers investment is in the safest of hands.
We are committed to being honest and fair in all our dealings with our customers We take our responsibilities to all our and suppliers.
We use terms of business stakeholders extremely seriously.
Throughout to provide clarity and protection, and to our business, we are taking up the challenge ensure delivery and receipt of products of meeting their expectations and aspirations.
and services at agreed standards.
We closely guard the information they entrust Employees to us and seek to ensure that it is never We have created a working and learning used improperly.
environment which develops the skills and knowledge of our employees.
As part of Community that environment, we operate an appraisal Last year was our second supporting system that clearly links reward to The Trident Trust as our partner charity.
performance and provides a framework Founded in 1971, The Trident Trust aims for training and development.
to help young people between 14 and This year we introduced a coaching skills 25 prepare for life beyond the classroom.
programme for senior managers, designed It enhances their employability and develops to better equip them with the skills needed their individual potential regardless of ability to motivate and develop an increasingly or background.
Tridents national reach and diverse workforce.
investment in the future through its tireless work with young people made it a natural In January, we launched a flexible benefits choice as our partner charity.
programme, enabling our employees to 24 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Our contribution to Tridents management in accordance with the risk management costs provided it with much-needed stability, process described in the Corporate and enabled it to respond more quickly to Governance section on page 31. emerging opportunities.
It also allowed Our Health and Safety policy includes Trident to match-fund new developments procedures for the safe handling of toxic and access funds previously out of its reach.
The result was new projects, greater reach Compliance with the policy is overseen by an and more young people being helped to internal Health and Safety Group.
This Group, bridge the gap between education or with representation from each business area, educational exclusion and the workplace.
meets on a regular basis and considers We are particularly excited about a changes in legislation and related matters.
Our One accident to staff was reported under the employees are working closely with Trident health and safety reporting regulations during and the City of Westminster College to help the year.
There were no other reportable 20 young people, many from unstable or illnesses, dangerous occurrences, or disruptive backgrounds, to acquire the fatalities, nor were any health and safety necessary interview skills and confidence enforcement notices or convictions received.
to undertake a work experience placement.
We recognise that our activities inevitably We are delighted that the value of the work have an impact on the environment.
we have done with Trident was recently Consequently we embrace the principles recognised by Business In The Community, of sustainable development and are who awarded us with the BIG TICK in their committed to a process of continual Awards for Excellence 2003.
The BIG TICK environmental improvement and pollution is awarded to companies and company prevention.
We treat all relevant programmes that have achieved excellence environmental legislation and regulations as in the field of corporate responsibility.
the minimum standard and seek to exceed them wherever possible.
An Environmental In April 2003, we linked up with Special Policy Statement is set out on our website Olympics to help launch the Invest in a www.
Special Olympics is a global provides a framework for developing sports programme for people with learning and reviewing environmental objectives disabilities and the campaign aims to secure and targets.
the funding that will attract one million new participants by 2005.
Key environmental management procedures include the recycling of paper waste and Health, safety and the environment IT equipment, the use of energy saving office equipment and the requirement for It is our policy to maintain healthy and all significant facilities contractors to have safe working conditions and to operate an environmental policy in place.
In addition, in an  manner.
we have an established Energy Management Significant health, safety and environmental Policy and monitor carbon dioxide emissions.
issues are escalated to senior management INVESTING FOR GROWTH 25
