Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 32 Corporate Social Responsibility Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report On joining the Group, all employees are required to agree to the Groups policy statement on business principles and ethical conduct.
The Board believes that its first responsibility is to enhance the The Group attaches high importance to its reputation for honesty, prosperity of the business over time.
However the Board acknowledges integrity and high professional and ethical standards.
It acknowledges that it has obligations not only to its shareholders, but also to its other that standards can only be maintained through the actions and stakeholders including our clients, business partners, employees and conduct of employees and as such the Group provides educational the wider community.
The Group regularly reviews these social, and training programmes for employees where it is appropriate.
This is done as part of our ongoing Enterprise Wide Risk Management process that seeks to Health and Safety identify and assess significant risks arising from these areas, as well The Group accepts its obligations under the relevant health and as opportunities to enhance value from them.
The Board ultimately safety legislation to ensure, so far as is reasonably practicable, the takes responsibility for ensuring that such risks are appropriately health, safety and welfare of its employees on Group premises or identified, evaluated and managed.
Based on these assessments, elsewhere while they are on Group business.
We also recognise our and reflecting the nature of the Groups business, we have sought to responsibility for the health and safety of other people when they develop appropriate policies weighted towards the biggest impact come into contact with our business operations.
The Health and Safety Committee works closely with management Our principal policies, procedures and activities in these areas are and employees to ensure that the Health and Safety policy is outlined below.
All members have completed appropriate training and they continue to promote greater awareness Employment policies amongst employees.
The Group recognises that people are its greatest asset.
We remain committed to maintaining an environment that will attract, develop, The policy is reviewed regularly and additionally in the light of any motivate and reward employees of high calibre, taking into account significant changes to legislation, standards, best practice and the specific requirements of the businesses.
The Group actively promotes involvement in the Company through The Group is committed to providing and maintaining: performance and profit related bonuses, the operation of long-term share-based incentive schemes and other employee share schemes.
safe work environments, system of work and equipment: The Company operates Sharesave schemes in the UK and United States for all employees.
Employees, employee benefit trusts and the assessments and measures to eliminate or reduce risk: Board together hold 17.5% 2002: 13.5% of the Companys issued share capital at the date of this report.
sufficient information, training and guidance necessary to reduce accidents and ill health conditions: The Group has adopted appraisal and continuing professional development systems based on sound procedures to ensure compliance with legal obligations for employees and others who are employees remain proficient and up to date in their roles, to assist affected by our operations: and them in developing their careers within the Group and to identify appropriate training needs.
The Group seeks to ensure that its systems for monitoring the policy.
approach to training leads to forward thinking and business focused solutions to training and development issues to the benefit of both Environment the organisation and employees.
The Group recognises that environmental issues are of fundamental importance to successful and responsible business strategy.
We The Group has a policy of non-discrimination on the grounds acknowledge that our main impacts on the environment are the direct of colour, race, ethnic or national origin, sex, age or disability.
ones arising from energy consumption, waste generation and water Employees who become disabled during their working life will use.
The Group has operations on an international scale and is be retained in employment wherever possible and given help conscious of its obligations to the environment and local community.
with any necessary rehabilitation and retraining.
The Group will We seek to reduce the direct impacts of our activities by improving not deliberately infringe employees rights under the Human Rights operational efficiency.
Act, including an employees right to freedom of expression and to privacy and family life.
The Groups promotion policy is based on sound procedures to ensure all employees have an equal opportunity to be considered and that the successful candidate is competent to fulfil the more senior position.
Wherever possible, job vacancies are advertised internally.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2003 33 Corporate Social Responsibility Report The Group endeavours to: The Community The Group believes that being active in the wider community is an give due consideration to environmental issues in the acquisition, essential part of the way in which we run our business and regard design and location of buildings: such involvement as integral to our future.
We seek to do this both through charitable giving, encouragement to staff to become involved reduce the use of energy in buildings and the associated emissions their local communities and through selective sponsorship of the arts.
The Board is aware of the international commitment to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and as a result During the year the Group made charitable donations of 379,000.
In currently monitors energy consumption and promotes efficient use keeping with our desire to encourage employee engagement we give of energy in all its buildings.
Targets are in place to reduce energy preference to charities where a staff member has an involvement and consumption.
At its London headquarters, energy efficient heating, where our contribution can make a significant difference.
Examples lighting and air conditioning equipment have been installed as part of our activities in these areas in the year include: of the recent refurbishment.
Further, telephone and video conferencing are actively encouraged in order to curb emissions In staff involvement, where events included the Lake Zurich Charity resulting from corporate travel, and interest-free season ticket loans Swim which we organised and which raised CHF 350,000 for three are made available to all UK permanent staff to promote the use of charities in Switzerland, the UK and the US.
public transport: In the local community, where the Group is a leading member monitor water usage and put in place measures to reduce the and supporter of East London Business Alliance, a business led usage of water.
Water usage targets are in place: and and business funded regeneration agency that encourages and facilitates business involvement in the social and economic balance business needs with the aim of reducing its consumption regeneration of East London.
It assists in the transfer of business of materials.
As such, extensive use is made of electronic skills, experience and resources to community and voluntary communication in place of paper usage, and at all the Groups projects in East London through a large scale employee principal offices, waste paper is collected and recycled by external volunteering network.
Aluminium cans are also recycled.
In education, where the Group has pledged 75,000 over three The Groups overseas offices are expected, where appropriate, years to the City of London School Bursary campaign.
This has to establish their own environmental policies and are encouraged enabled the School to attract matched funding and for scholarships to do so.
to be awarded to two eleven year olds and two sixth formers, who will be Man Group scholars for seven years and two years respectively.
The scholars, who all live in London and come from deprived backgrounds, have demonstrated academic potential, especially in mathematics and the sciences.
The Group takes pride in the knowledge that their support has enabled these individuals to attend the City of London School.
In sponsorship of the arts, the Group was delighted to launch the first year of its five year sponsorship of the Man Booker Prize for Fiction.
The Prize has as its key objective the promotion of interest in contemporary fiction to a wider community.
The increased marketing budget facilitated by our sponsorship will help reach new audiences and further promote quality fiction writing.
