CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP HELPING LOCAL COMMUNITIES THROUGH PROGRAMMES SUCH AS OUR UK SA SCHOOLS INITIATIVE Corporate Citizenship | 23 DURING 2003 WE CONTINUED OUR INVOLVEMENT IN SOCIAL INVESTMENT BY SUPPORTING SELECTED CHARITIES AND CARRYING OUT OTHER COMMUNITY ACTIVITIES WHERE OUR BUSINESSES OPERATE The Groups social investment programmes OMSA also has a general donations REDI education invested its budget in two concentrated during 2003 on education, programme.
During the year R3 million was particular areas in 2003, a Primary School health and welfare, local economic development, distributed among 37 educational projects and Mathematics and Science Development the environment and the arts.
In South Africa 14 donations in force also received annual Programme and a Primary School Infrastructure particular attention was given to Black Economic allocations.
A further R1.7 million was invested Regeneration Programme.
The Regeneration Empowerment and HIV AIDS.
Programme contributed R2.2 million and helped 181 schools to purchase equipment, SOUTH AFRICA REDI supply sanitation, water or electricity or to REDI supports the economic development of install perimeter security.
The education service OLD MUTUAL SOUTH AFRICA OMSA 20 communities in six of the nine provinces providers received funding of R1.5 million, OMSA is committed to growing and investing of South Africa.
Old Mutual spent a total of enabling teachers from 263 schools to attend in socially responsible business activities, R28 million over the period 2001-2003 on rural development workshops, and also funded the employment equity and diversity, skills economic development.
These communities purchase of teacher pupil resource materials.
development and affirmative procurement, are linked to twenty individuals referred to as as well as sustainable social investment projects champions.
REDI is unique in focusing on The Train a Trainer Programme was and the active involvement of employees in the holistic development of rural communities, successfully launched in 2003.
Following the social and community affairs.
Its Corporate establishing new businesses and jobs that help completion of REDI HIV AIDS Community Citizenship programme recognises the value villages to become more self-sufficient.
As a result Mobilisation Training Workshops in July, trained of non-financial performance and social REDI is aligned closely with the South African groups in the REDI communities started their accountability.
governments integrated rural development roll-out programmes.
To date, an additional strategy.
REDI recently won the Mail & Guardian 14 workshops and roadshows have enabled OMSAs social investment programme is Investing in the Future Award for Corporations.
800 people to take HIV AIDS education into mainly carried out through the Old Mutual During 2003 a total of 40 new businesses were the REDI communities.
The demand for funding South Africa Foundation the OMSA funded, which brought the total number of new towards Community Food Gardens was so Foundation, which in 2003 contributed businesses established over the three-year overwhelming during 2003 that it was decided some R20 million, R13.8 million of which was period to 190, at a cost of R6 million.
to combine the Food Gardens budget of devoted to its flagship projects.
The flagship R0.4 million with the R1 million set aside projects focus on local and rural economic Local economic development within REDI for HIV AIDS initiatives.
An amount from this development, including the Rural Economic received significant support during the year budget was also earmarked for the establishment Development Initiative REDI, education, and showed excellent growth.
A total of of a community mobilisation centre, to care for including support for the development of R2 million was provided to support new AIDS Orphans in one of the REDI communities.
mathematics programmes and the regeneration businesses that applied for funding support.
Under a partnership with Tiger Brands all of schools, and Community Development.
This vulnerable children in the REDI communities includes establishing food gardens and running will receive food parcels for a year.
The Staff Community Builder Programme, through which staff volunteers support a range of community-based projects, is also a key part of OMSAs social investment programme.
24 | Corporate Citizenship STAFF VOLUNTEER PROGRAMME In 2003, with the assistance of Old Mutual, NEDCOR The Staff Volunteer Programme consists Heartbeat assisted 1,225 orphaned and Nedcors extensive involvement in corporate of the Staff Community Builder Programme, vulnerable children in Botshabelo, Bloemfontein, social investment in South Africa and Adopt an Orphan and the Staff Charity Fund.
Heartbeat also neighbouring countries is funded by a distributed resources, lobbied for services and contribution of net profit after tax from the The Staff Community Builder Programme has included children in activities and support groups.
Banks operating divisions and business units.
been running now for nine years and continues Support is provided for programmes involved to grow in size.
More staff members are adopting BLACK ECONOMIC EMPOWERMENT BEE in education, job creation, leadership a hands-on approach to development in their The past year saw the introduction of the development, welfare and health matters, communities and the programme helps by Financial Sector Charter which aims to including projects that support victims of providing such projects with financial support.
empower black people who were previously HIV AIDS.
Funding for the last of these is This programme won the 2003 Corporate Award excluded and disadvantaged.
Old Mutual was directed at organisations caring for those for Staff Volunteerism in the Mail & Guardian actively involved in the process of compiling infected, supporting income-generation for Investing in the Future Awards.
OMSAs existing 10-point BEE AIDS sufferers, assisting welfare programmes framework coincides in many respects with that care for victims and their dependants Contributions of R0.65 million were provided the Charter and its scorecard.
Old Mutual is and providing assistance to the terminally ill. under the Staff Charity Fund and the already well advanced in the area of skills Adopt an Orphan programmes in 2003. development and is progressing well in relation Notable programmes of the Nedcor Foundation Adopt an Orphan attracted monthly financial to equity employment, two of the areas which during 2003 included the continuing Nedcor commitments from 255 staff members, which will be measured.
Alexandra Development Programme, a series helped to support 355 orphans.
The OMSA of educational interventions in the five high Foundation matched all staff contributions and Old Mutuals objective is to meet the targets set schools of Johannesburgs Alexandra township.
the total monthly commitment went to Heartbeat, by the Financial Sector Charter.
On a weighted Other prominent projects included the building an organisation which has been retained to basis OMSA currently scores as an excellent of a school near Qumbu in the Eastern Cape help with the programme.
The Staff Charity contributor to empowerment and already exceeds and the erection of buildings to serve as small Fund, supported by 179 staff members, raises the targets set in the Charter for corporate business training centres at Villiers in the funds matched by the OMSA Foundation for spending on social investment initiatives.
There was also an  children, the elderly, HIV AIDS homeconscious skills development project benefiting based care programmes and animal welfare.
Old Mutual manages R3.8 billion in assets that unemployed rural women on the Mtentu have social objectives, including infrastructure Estuary of the KwaZulu-Natal south coast, HIV AIDS INITIATIVES development.
It has also established a number substantial support for a national literacy Old Mutual is committed to addressing the of significant joint ventures in this area, campaign reaching all the countrys 27,000 socially and economically crippling challenges including ones with Wiphold, Umbono Asset schools and financial backing for a national caused by the HIV AIDS epidemic in South Managers and Setsing Financial Services.
A four-dimensional strategy has been adopted covering the workplace employees, OMSA will be publishing a more detailed report In all, the Nedcor Foundation supported over the broader community, financial services and on its corporate citizenship activities in April 2004 350 projects during 2003, with particular focus advice customers, and business impacts.
which will be available on the Companys on welfare, community development and website www.
com from May 2004. sustainable development.
Under the AIDS Orphans Programme, It will also be obtainable upon request from the R1.5 million was given to selected Public Affairs Manager, Old Mutual South A subsidiary of Nedcor, Nedbank, also donates non-governmental organisations involved Africa, PO Box 66, Cape Town 8000 and from money to independent trusts based on clients in the programme in five provinces.
the Director of Corporate Affairs, Old Mutual usage of the banks innovative affinity banking plc, 5th Floor, Old Mutual Place, 2 Lambeth products.
Through the Nedbank Arts, Green Hill, London EC4V 4GG.
and Sport Affinities, Nedbank aims to give clients the opportunity to support causes that uplift South African communities.
Nedbanks funding for the trusts is mostly generated by clients using their associated cheque books, credit cards and savings accounts.
Corporate Citizenship | 25 A proactive proponent of the arts, the Arts throughout 2003.
The NBS Centenary Four projects received funding from the health & Culture Trust ACT demonstrated its new Foundation supported the Natal Early Learning and welfare allocation, including the Michelle strategic direction in 2003 by focusing on Rescue Unit Nelru to continue its mentoring McLain Children Trust and a donation which various priorities in the community.
These of pre-schools built by the Foundation.
enabled mosquito nets to be provided to included job creation, improvement of creative malaria-stricken hospitals in the north of and administrative skills, fostering of crossNedcor is publishing a Sustainability Report in Namibia.
The Otjomuise Brass Band received cultural understanding and generation of April 2004 which will be available on its website support through the 2003 Community cultural tourism.
One of the projects supported www.
It will also be obtainable Development budget and two members of by ACT was the conversion of Valley Song, a upon request from the Senior Manager, staff received funding for their community play by playwright Athol Fugard, into a Corporate Governance and Sustainability, builder projects.
groundbreaking opera with empowerment and Nedcor Limited, PO Box 1144, Sandton 2196. employment equity spin-offs.
Valley Song will Old Mutual Zimbabwe has a structured social be the first-ever South African opera putting a MUTUAL & FEDERAL responsibility programme, which is actively Coloured community in the Karoo on stage.
Mutual & Federal has for many years involved in the sponsorship of sport, education committed a portion of its resources to its and health projects, among others.
The Green Trust is a partnership between corporate social responsibility programme.
Nedbank and World Wide Fund for Nature Old Mutual continued to sponsor the Zimbabwe WWF-SA, the conservation organisation.
It aims to improve the quality of life for people in cricket team in 2003, covering home and Current projects include tree planting and food specific areas of need through long-established away test matches, one-day internationals and gardening in poorer urban environments and programmes with organisations such as the overseas tours until 2005.
In conjunction with projects focusing on flagship species.
READ Educational Trust, Nelson Mandela this sponsorship, Old Mutual ran some cricket Childrens Fund, the AIDS Foundation, the clinic trials during 2003.
Under this initiative The Sports Trust focuses on providing and Presidents Award, Nicro and the World Wildlife members of the Zimbabwe team and the upgrading sporting facilities and equipment in Fund.
The list of its partners is periodically marketing manager from Old Mutual Zimbabwe underprivileged and outlying areas.
Sports Trust amended to address new challenges that visited two local schools to teach pupils skills projects in 2003 included the building of sport arise or needs that become particularly acute.
academies in towns such as Virginia and Mdantsane and the laying of sports fields at the Consistent investment is made in areas such Old Mutual supports the arts and culture Noluthando School for the Deaf in Khayalitsha.
as education, health and welfare, road traffic through the Harare International Festival of safety, crime prevention and conservation the Arts.
This has become a major event in A community-focused initiative, Team Challenge, or environmental projects.
Within this broad the cultural calendar of Zimbabwe and is a was introduced during 2003.
This encourages strategic framework there is focus on specific prestigious platform for local and visiting artists.
employees to form teams and become actively challenges such as HIV AIDS, the task of During 2003 Old Mutual was accredited to the involved in a community or environmental providing for the growing number of orphans Tumbuka Dance Groups performances, which project.
Teams vary in size from five to twenty and the effort to combat educational backlogs.
were one of the festivals highlights.
employees and family members or friends can become involved as ancillary members.
REST OF AFRICA Old Mutual continued to run the Mathematics Involvements have ranged from adopting a The Old Mutual Namibia Foundation strives Olympiad in conjunction with the University school and maintenance of school sports fields to empower the communities in which the of Zimbabwe.
This is a programme to discover to starting a soup kitchen.
After six months Groups Namibian businesses operate by and train mathematical talent in Zimbabwe.
working in the community the three projects supporting sustainable initiatives.
Funding in In 2003, 1,424 students from 77 schools that are deemed most successful will receive 2003 was focused on health and welfare, participated in the competition.
community development, education, a community builder programme and The Bermuda Foundation made a donation Following Nedcors acquisition of BoE, a general donations programme.
of 5,000 to the Kenya Harambee Community BoEs corporate citizenship activities are being Project to further its work in underdeveloped integrated with those of the Nedcor Group.
The In 2003 the Katutua Community Art Centre areas by introducing a fresh water supply work of the BoE Charitable Trust and Education and the Onamulele Primary School received to remote communities in Kenya.
Foundation has nevertheless continued a large proportion of the education budget.
26 | Corporate Citizenship USA sponsorship for a charity dinner held by Other charitable activities included monies Old Mutual Asset Management in the the South African Development Community raised through staff participation in the USA OMAM US operates a Charitable Ambassadors Spouses Association to raise Caledonian Challenge in June.
Gerrards team Foundation which supports organisations funds for women and children in South Africa raised 2,000 for the Scottish Community on a local Boston area and national level.
who are victims of drought, floods and diseases.
Foundation, which gives grants to community Its support in 2003 was focused on the groups and charities across Scotland.
In July, community, healthcare, homelessness and UK a team of climbers from Gerrard successfully emergency or crisis intervention.
Old Mutual plc launched a major educational accomplished the Three Peaks Challenge when project in conjunction with the British Council they climbed Ben Nevis, Scafell Pike and The Foundation supports both local and national in the UK and South Africa in 2003.
The project, Snowdon within 24 hours.
The team raised organisations such as City Year, Boys and a linkage programme between UK and 3,000 for Action Research, which will go Girls Club of America and The Pine Street Inn, South African schools, will operate for three towards funding vital medical research into a not-for-profit organisation committed to helping years and provide an opportunity for twelve the prevention, treatment, management and people in need of shelter, food and basic moral primary schools six from the London Borough alleviation of disabling diseases.
of Southwark and six from the Western Cape to enhance their learning processes and In October, Gerrard and Old Mutual plc Employee gifts to charitable organisations are curricular activities.
Particular focus will be paid participated in the 2003 Jeans for Genes Day.
matched by OMAM US through its matching to mathematics and science, to reflect Old Organised by four national charities, Jeans for programme on a dollar for dollar basis up Mutuals desire to see these skills developed.
Genes raises funds for research into serious to an annual limit of $2,000.
During 2003 and life-threatening genetic disorders that affect the projects that were supported in this way The overall aims of this project are to provide children.
Through the support of employees at included the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, professional development of teachers, add Gerrard and Old Mutual, both companies raised the American Red Cross, Muscular Dystrophy value for the ethos of the participating schools over 2,000. charities and several local colleges and and improve overall performance.
the content of classroom teaching and ENVIRONMENT interaction with a school from a different culture As a financial services provider the Groups OMAM US also supports employee are intended to enable pupils to acquire new primary aim is to meet the financial needs of its involvement in charitable organisations, skills, attitudes and experience.
In doing this, the Group recognises that enabling them to provide direct support it has a substantial impact on the environment, to fund-raising activities for events such Two members of staff ran the London Marathon both directly through the running of its offices as the Habitat for Humanity home building and raised over 10,000, after staff matching, and indirectly through meeting the investment programme and the City Years serve-a-thon, for good causes including Mencap and a local needs of its clients.
which restores parks and buildings in the local community centre in Haslemere.
Following the introduction of the Groups Companies within Old Mutual Financial Services environmental policy two years ago and the A number of the Groups US asset management made various donations to charitable projects designation of Julian Roberts, the Group Finance businesses have their own charitable support during 2003.
These included the Shooting Star Director, as the member of the Board responsible programmes.
During 2003 these supported Trust, an organisation that provides support for for the Groups environmental performance, projects with the Samaritans, the Academy of families with terminally ill children, under which objectives were set and individuals named at Business Leadership, Make-a-Wish Foundation, 54,000 is being donated over three years to business unit level to oversee environmental the Phoenix House and a number of others, enable the building of a new hospice.
Monitoring and reporting against Key including colleges and universities.
Performance Indicators KPIs also falls under Old Mutual International continued to support these individuals control and this is, where The Groups US life business provided support the Guernsey Maths Challenge during 2003 possible, being applied across the Group.
during 2003 to the Red Cross of Central Maryland, and also raised money for cancer research.
The Groups KPIs and environmental targets which supports families whose homes have are reviewed annually to ensure their been destroyed by fire, flood or other disasters, Six members of Gerrards staff raised 20,000 continuing appropriateness.
and to The Baltimore Child Abuse Centre, which for The Outward Bound Trust by sponsorship supports sexually abused children by providing associated with their participation in the mental and physical health programmes London Marathon in April.
It also provided Corporate Citizenship | 27 The environmental objectives that the Group The data gathered from the units on Nedcor is aware of the risk of robberies and has set are: compliance with the Groups environmental attacks at its banking business and works objectives are compiled and reported to the continually to improve its systems to minimise to ensure compliance at local, national and Board at least annually.
Internal awareness of the risk to its employees.
environmental issues increased during 2003, international levels: with the introduction of EMSs at several Old During 2003 there were no significant to minimise the consumption of energy, Mutual sites.
A proactive approach to raising accidents, and no material health or safety water and materials across operations: awareness will continue in 2004. issues at work were reported from around the Group.
to minimise solid waste generation by waste The Group has little contact with materials that re-use and recycling wherever possible: could do great damage to the environment.
It FTSE4GOOD JSE SRI INDICES to avoid the use of materials that may cause has ensured, where relevant, that it has Old Mutual plc is a member of the FTSE4Good harm to the environment: avoided using materials that may cause harm.
Index of the London Stock Exchange, the selection criteria for which include working to promote internal awareness of Old Mutual is looking to finalise its towards environmental sustainability, developing environmental issues with staff: and commitment to the UK government scheme positive relationships with stakeholders, Making a Corporate Commitment MACC2 and upholding and supporting universal to support  initiatives early in 2004, along with the introduction of an human rights.
by employees and relevant external groups.
It intends that, by joining MACC2, this will aid the tracking of It has also recently qualified for inclusion in the These objectives are applied across the Group environmental improvements and allow JSE Securities Exchange South Africas Socially at the business unit level, using best practice interested parties to learn what it is achieving.
Responsible Investment Index, which will be in environmental management.
launched in the first half of 2004 and will Old Mutual participated in Business in measure participant companies commitment A proactive campaign of environmental the Communitys Corporate Environmental and performance against a triple bottom line of awareness was supported around the Group Engagement Index for the second time in sustainability in terms of the environment and during 2003.
Baseline data have been collected 2003.
Participation helps the Group to assess of economic and social impacts.
and the first results have been seen.
Natural how well it is managing environmental issues resource use reduced across the Group and and to benchmark itself against other members CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT ETHICS waste production also decreased.
The of the financial services industry in the The Old Mutual Group has adopted and aims introduction of Environmental Management countries where it operates.
to abide by a Code of Business Conduct Ethics.
Systems EMSs at key sites around the Group Copies of this Code are available to staff on in 2003 also helped to identify areas where HEALTH AND SAFETY the Old Mutual intranet and may also be further reductions and improvements can be The Group recognises its obligation to supply obtained from the Company Secretary at the made.
Through these systems Old Mutual its employees with a safe and clean working registered office.
commits to manage its impacts and improve its environment.
Data on health and safety performance continually.
These management compliance are collated and reported to the Martin C Murray systems also formalise targets at a site level Board annually via Julian Roberts, the director Group Company Secretary and aid in the introduction of Group-wide data responsible.
