CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW ACTING RESPONSIBLY BUILDS TRUST The standards we strive to achieve rightly go beyond Key Challenges our legal and regulatory obligations.
We see responsible We are an international business.
With over half of our corporate behaviour as essential to maintaining successful employees working outside the UK and 74 per cent of our relationships with, among others: our customers, who make sales generated abroad, we are acutely aware of the different our business viable: our employees, upon whose talent and uncertainties people face around the world and the significant commitment we depend: and local communities, from whom impact that the way in which we choose to respond to a we recruit and to whom we market our products and services.
range of key global issues relevant to our business will have We believe this approach is central to maintaining and on our customers, employees, communities and others.
building trust in our brand and business over the long term.
We have identified these key issues as: Acting Responsibly Is Good For Business Changing Demographics and Consumer Choice.
Our focus on corporate responsibility is nothing new, Around the world, populations are ageing as people are though subject to continuous improvement.
It is a living longer and birth rates decline.
While living longer is philosophy that has shaped our policies and practices good news for many, it creates a fresh set of challenges for throughout our history.
In the UK, companies are increasingly societies.
Financial service providers have a key role in expected to report on the social, ethical and environmental providing solutions.
The challenge is to develop products issues material to their business and to demonstrate how and services that respond to our customers needs today they are responding to these.
We believe that economic and tomorrow: factors will remain the fundamental basis of consumer choice in future years.
However, we also recognise the Consumer Confidence.
Consumer confidence in savings growing body of research pointing to the fact that a has been affected by poorly performing equity markets company's intangible assets its corporate standards and and expectations of lower nominal investment returns, its social and environmental performance are becoming as well as a range of issues concerning the performance increasingly significant differentiators.
Consumers will and capital of a number of insurance companies in the increasingly support those organisations that exhibit and UK.
Building trust among consumers and giving them define values around trust, ethics and environmental the confidence to buy the products they will increasingly responsibility.
need means developing a sustainable business through responsible marketing, quality customer service, education, Why Focus On Financial Literacy?
providing realistic returns and clearing away jargon: Financial hardship can affect anyone.
Careful forward financial planning is required if the standards of living Globalisation.
As a leading international financial of individuals are not to be hit by, for example, too much services provider we recognise the complex issues that debt or by inadequate provision for longer retirement.
result from corporations extending their facilities overseas.
Given our expertise in financial planning, we are well No international business can ignore the opportunities positioned to contribute to help consumers, customers and for growth and efficiencies that a global market presents, our employees make informed choices that reflect their but our choices instantly affect people around the world.
In parallel with our financial literacy Socially acceptable business growth, based on internationally work, we seek continuously to improve the clarity of the accepted standards of conduct, is key to how we operate: information we provide about our products and services Sustainable Development.
Our natural resources in order that they are clear and easily understood.
are not limitless and it is essential that firms manage their environmental impacts efficiently.
But sustainable INFORMED DECISIONS BENEFIT EVERYONE development is about more than reducing the consumption Managing Our Responsibilities of raw materials and limiting waste emissions.
It also In 2003, we continued to develop and refine our corporate means ensuring human rights, treating staff and suppliers responsibility programme and to integrate it throughout fairly and educating consumers.
Corporate Responsibility Means Integrity Management and Policy We aim to uphold our reputation, built over 150 years, for Our international business conduct is supported by our acting responsibly and with integrity, respecting the laws Group Code of Business Conduct which sets out the and regulations, traditions and cultures of the countries standards we expect from our employees and others acting within which we operate as well as internationally accepted on behalf of the Group on issues such as the prevention of standards of responsible business conduct.
Our policies, discrimination, bribery and corruption and insider dealing.
programmes and management systems support this approach In 2003, the Code was updated to include guidance on and ensure that we understand and respond to material stakeholder dialogue and to ensure consistency with our social, ethical and environmental risks and opportunities.
new Group Human Rights Policy and US Sarbanes-Oxley A detailed report on our performance is given in our on-line legislation.
It was re-communicated to employees by the corporate responsibility report at www.
co. uk cr Group Chief Executive and business unit compliance is and a summary of this is also available in hard copy from our audited annually by Prudentials internal auditors.
PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 27 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED Marketplace Customers is that the subsidy available for parents is based on family We are pursuing a radical approach to consumer information income, with a greater discount for those on lower income.
and marketing through The Plan from the Pru.
The Plan Employee education is provided across our Asian markets was launched in 2002 to encourage people to take more through PRUuniversity, which is available to all staff and is control of their financial health by providing them with a offered in 12 languages.
Programmes are centrally credited free, simple, step-by-step guide to finances focusing on and many are endorsed by external learning institutions.
At the Money Marketing Financial Services The courses cover management and leadership, technical Awards in 2003, Prudential UK won four awards for The and business skills as well as a comprehensive range of Plan from the Pru campaign.
self-improvement material including language courses.
M&G is also concerned with simplifying terminology and Community Society has produced a series of spin free guides designed to Our Plan for Life Learning consumer education programme explain financial products in a straightforward manner.
is testing a variety of financial education approaches in MeetPRU is an opportunity for our customers in the UK to partnership with major charities and is also informing good meet Prudential face to face.
Members of the UK Executive practice and public policy development via research and host regular regional seminars where customers can ask seminar activity.
We have established a three-year partnership questions and get direct feedback.
Senior technical advisers programme with Citizens Advice called Financial Skills are also on hand to answer individual product-related for Life.
This funds nine bureaux to test new models queries.
Events have already been held in Belfast, Cardiff, of delivering face to face financial education, as well Edinburgh, Newcastle, Norwich and Reading.
as supports and co-ordinates existing work in this area undertaken by 65 other bureaux.
Since 2002, Prudential Property Investment Managers Limited PruPIM have been involved with Kingston In Poland we have established the Przezornosc Charitable University in a major industry research project to: Foundation, in recognition of former Prudential policyholders and their heirs, who lost contact with the Company as a establish the sustainable characteristics of individual consequence of World War II and have been unable to properties: claim on their life policies.
The charities selected to receive identify how these should be evaluated in investment funding via the Foundation cover welfare, cultural, historical appraisals: and educational issues.
The Foundation, established in 2003, will run for five years.
ascertain how to measure the performance of a wide range of properties and portfolios with varying levels Environment Sustainable Development of sustainable characteristics.
The Belfry Shopping Centre at Redhill in the UK part of PruPIMs property portfolio in 2003 became one of PruPIM is the leading private sector sponsor in this the first shopping centres in the UK to switch to receiving sustainable property investment project.
Through this all its electricity from renewable sources, saving 600 tonnes relationship we are also supporting the Kingston University of CO every year.
The Belfry was also the first shopping 2 team and others in bidding for further UK Government centre in the UK to achieve ISO 14001, the internationally funding for socially responsible investment related projects.
recognised standard for environmental management, in 2000.
These include an initiative to educate property investors about environmental issues and an initiative to develop In India, one of our most rapidly expanding markets and methods of measuring the environmental performance where we have had a long-standing presence, approximately of buildings.
60 million children aged 6 to 14 are not in school.
We are helping to tackle this issue through our support of the Workplace Employees Commonwealth Education Fund CEF, which acts as a Ensuring that our employees enjoy a safe and healthy catalyst to emphasise the importance of universal primary working environment is of great importance to Prudential.
We are specifically supporting work to build Our key objectives are to maintain a framework which national coalitions on education, deliver training for parents allows us to meet all our legal obligations and to prevent on education spending and increase access for marginalised incidents of work-related accidents and ill health.
Our children who are excluded from school.
The CEF operates safety management system sets out our policies, assigns in 17 Commonwealth countries in Asia and Africa.
This key responsibilities and performance standards to ensure programme is managed through Action Aid, Save the the health and safety of our people, visitors and contractors.
Jackson National Life JNL provides a subsidised child development centre for the young children of JNL employees.
The centre provides more than just childcare.
JNL places a high priority on education for both its associates and their children at all age levels and the emphasis is on education and structured development programmes.
Another unique aspect 28 PRUDENTIAL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Working with Stakeholders We consult regularly with our key stakeholders such as INITIATIVES our customers, our employees and local communities.
We EDUCATING TOMORROWS are also involved in a growing number of partnerships with CONSUMERS In the UK we sponsor the Personal national and international bodies in order to contribute to Finance Education Group pfeg Excellence and debate on key policy issues: Access project which aims to raise the quality and we are sponsoring a major international research study quantity of personal finance education in schools.
being undertaken by the Organisation for Economic Through this, 150,000 children have experienced Co-operation and Development OECD to identify levels personal finance education with 1,000 teachers of financial literacy and education in OECD and selected participating in 300 secondary schools across non-OECD Asian markets and to develop guidelines on 30 per cent of Local Education Authorities in England.
effective financial literacy strategies: Independent evaluation of the project by Brunel University concluded that this was the pupils best in the UK we have partnered with the Scottish Council chance of improving their financial awareness, with Foundation to identify a way forward for improved more than 80 per cent of the teachers surveyed in the financial education in Scotland: evaluation agreeing that personal finance education during 2003 PruPIM joined the Institutional Investors had improved in light of the project.
Group on Climate Change: and COMMITTED STAFF ARE THE BEST we are members of the United Nations Environment INVESTMENT In 2003 we were accredited as Programme.
an Investor In People IIP for our operations in the UK and in India.
IIP is the UK national standard that sets out levels of good practice for the training and development of staff to achieve business goals.
We are one of the first companies to receive accreditation for multiple work sites which also includes our offshore office in Mumbai, India.
DIVERSITY All employees and applicants for roles across the Group are given equal opportunity in all aspects of employment.
This principle is embedded in policies and management practices.
PCA Life Japan sponsored the first Women in Japan Forum under the theme Balancing Work and Lifestyle.
The three hour event attracted over 100 working women with very positive feedback.
PRESERVING NATURAL HABITATS The grounds surrounding Jackson National Lifes headquarters in Lansing, Michigan, have been designed to simulate the natural environment.
When the building was constructed in 2000, all wetlands around the building were protected and still remain intact.
These areas provide habitat for geese, cranes, deer, and other types of wildlife.
Although the original site lacked trees and foliage, Jackson National Life has planted approximately 400 new trees around the site to enhance the environment.
