CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 28 Capita Our approach In 2003 we launched the Sustainability section of our website www.
co. uk, which sets out our Demonstrating financial success alone is no approach to CSR.
It includes our policies and longer enough a business must now prove its performance in such key areas as staff, corporate commitment to marrying business operations contributions and community development and with social values.
Shareholders, customers and environmental management.
employees are now looking for environmental and social success and expect to see evidence Capita has been included on the FTSE4Good Index that these aims are rmly embedded within a Series since 2001, the year of its launch, and we business strategy.
have once again fullled the latest criteria for inclusion in the 2004 Index.
Capita sees corporate social responsibility CSR as fundamental to our business and we have an Environment ongoing objective to improve our performance in Respect for the environment is fundamental to this area.
Our approach to CSR combines a strong sense of While Capita is not considered a business of high responsibility with modern business sense and a impact to the environment, we recognise that our commitment to: day-to-day activities do have some impact on the quality service for our customers and a culture environment, both in positive and negative ways.
of continuous improvement We aim to minimise harmful effects whenever we can and will work to secure business benefit from an emphasis on strong public accountability environmental protection through a continuous responsible employment practices with improvement programme.
well-trained, well-managed and motivated Wherever possible, our ofces recycle paper and employees, who are fairly rewarded sharing printer toner cartridges, while redundant IT in the Companys successes equipment is given to charitable concerns contributing to community wellbeing and playing specialising in cleansing and reconguring the a full role as a corporate citizen supporting equipment to pass on to worthy causes.
staff to do likewise A small number of Capita operations have wider a sustainable approach to environmental environmental impacts namely our print business issues, including the use of natural resources and property consultancy.
These are actively and energy monitored against all legislative requirements.
CTD Capita and Capita Infrastructure Consultancy actively managing risks to our business, are certied as compliant with BS EN ISO 14001 to our clients and stakeholders, as well as Environmental Standard.
In March 2003, our Environmental Policy met the Over the last couple of years, Capita has made FTSE4Good Index Series new environmental steady progress in developing these policies and criteria, requiring low impact companies to have practices, but there is still much more work an environmental policy available to the public.
Our policy sets out our commitment to integrating environmental management into the business and is accessible via our Sustainability section of www.
FTSE4Good This approach epitomises partnership working.
Since its inception in 2001, Capita has They could have based the business centre been included in the FTSE4Good Index anywhere in the country and they chose Series.
The Indices measure the performance of companies that meet Blackburn with Darwen which is good for globally recognised corporate Blackburn and Darwen and good for Capita.
responsibility standards: developing positive relations with stakeholders, upholding and supporting universal What is more encouraging and rewarding is the human rights and demonstrating way they have responded to requests from environmental sustainability.
community organisations to actively encourage staff at all levels to get involved in activities.
Peter Robinson Chief Executive, Blackburn with Darwen Local Strategic Partnership Ltd 29 Capita Corporate social responsibility Community Charity Capita works with communities to contribute to Capita has two corporate charities, The Princes social and environmental needs either directly Trust and the NSPCC.
We are committed to through the work that we do, or through our providing ongoing support to these two charities relationships with clients, such as local councils, and hold a number of Group-wide fundraising helping them to achieve economic regeneration events.
Our Executive Chairman Rod Aldridge is a in their area.
Trustee of The Princes Trust and a Board member of The Princes Trust Trading Company.
He also In 2003, the regeneration work of Capita and chairs the national steering group responsible for Blackburn with Darwen Borough Council was developing its xl programme, focusing on awarded the national Design Award at the British underachieving young people.
Our Chief Executive Council of Shopping Centres Town Centre Paul Pindar sits on the National Appeal Board Environment Awards.
The award specically NAB of the NSPCCs Full Stop campaign, which recognises the transformation of the Cathedral deals with the strategy of the fundraising itself, Quarter of the town into a pedestrian environment, and chairs the Corporate Development Board, part of the Councils ongoing regeneration a division of the NAB.
programme being delivered in partnership with Capita.
It aims to improve pedestrian linkages We also support staff who take part in individual throughout the town, encouraging retail and fundraising events and communicate their commercial investment, increasing local activities through our quarterly staff newsletter, opportunities for people and improving services.
recap, and via our intranet.
During 2003 Capita employees raised money for a huge range of Capita has also created new job opportunities charities, including Child-Safe, the Cystic Fibrosis in the borough, with 700 new posts created Trust, Comic Relief, Children in Need, the Multiple since 2001.
Sclerosis Society, the RNLI, Cancer BACUP and Our South Wales infrastructure rm, Capita Gwent Breast Cancer Care.
Consultancy, has been commended by Andrew For the sixth year running, Capita made a direct Davies, Welsh Assembly Minister for Economic donation to charity in 2003, rather than send Development and Transport, for its pivotal role in Christmas cards to clients and associates.
addressing South Waless regeneration and The money was given to the Association of transportation agenda.
He said: Capita Gwent Childrens Hospices ACH, which supports Consultancy is the driving force behind some of the hospices across the UK that care for long-term Welsh Assembly Governments major strategic and terminally ill children.
investments, as well as being involved in much smaller, local projects which impact on peoples lives.
Among the initiatives Capita is leading on, is the revival of some of the most deprived areas of South Wales, including the Llanhilleth regeneration scheme, aimed at restoring and revitalising the once thriving mining community.
Corporate charities The Prince's Trust xl clubs Prompt payment For 2004 we have strengthened and Our ongoing support of The Princes Since 2001, Capita has donated 100 formalised our partnerships with The Trust's xl clubs goes towards helping to the NSPCC whenever one of our Princess Trust and NSPCC and are setting nearly 10,000 young people across the customers pays an invoice over 25,000 some challenging targets ensuring we country work together to achieve goals within 21 working days.
This scheme really make a difference to these charities.
relating to their education, training and has been extremely successful and 2003 future lives.
was no exception, raising 60,000 for the charity.
