25 Capita Operating review Our people Staff transfers People are at the core of our business and their Capita has a wealth of experience in transferring, energy, enthusiasm and talents fuel our success.
integrating and motivating staff who join us with new contracts or through acquisitions.
Some of For all our 19,000 staff we aim to provide a our major outsourcing contracts involve large working environment that both encourages them numbers of staff transferring to Capita under to use the skills they have and to develop a whole the Transfer of Undertakings Protection of range of new skills.
Employment Regulations, known as TUPE.
Training and development is at the heart of career Since formation, over 60% of our staff have progression.
We have an immediate advantage in joined the Group under TUPE or through that our own training and development business, acquisition.
We ensure that staff who join us Capita Learning & Development, is a market under TUPE retain their current terms and leader and offers an enormous range of learning conditions of employment, as set out in their opportunities for our employees as well as existing contract.
Transferring staff have an external customers.
At every annual appraisal, opportunity to move to a Capita contract as part employees are asked to discuss any training of their integration into the company this is needs or skills they would like to develop, entirely optional and they can do so at any time.
which then forms the basis of a training plan If staff do choose to do this they are then eligible for the year.
for performance related pay, through our Pay is also reviewed at this annual appraisal.
Capita operates a performance related pay Capita recognises that many people may have mechanism.
Our philosophy is simple, a concerns about the transfer process and need to good record of achievement is rewarded with know exactly what it will mean to them.
everything we can to ensure that the whole The benets that Capita offers to staff include process runs smoothly and that transferees feel a pension scheme, life insurance and personal informed and supported throughout.
accident cover and share plans.
Through our We provide a Staffcare Programme with a Staff relationships with external suppliers staff can Support Team, a dedicated Staff Transition benefit from a range of discounts on financial Manager and a wide range of communications, products and services as well as goods, from including a welcome pack, regular Q&A bulletins, computers and washing machines to golf a condential email address and or hotline for equipment and jewellery.
questions, one-to-one consultation sessions At the end of 2003, we launched the Capita and presentations.
Excellence Awards, a scheme designed to celebrate the core values that embody our organisation and to recognise outstanding examples of our culture in action.
Staff nominate each other throughout the year and nalists are invited to a Capita Excellence Awards Dinner, to celebrate their achievements.
Kenny Campbell Yvette Jaquiss Kieran Patini Pauline Dingani Capita Insurance Services Capita Financial Resourcing Local Government Services Capita Registrars Insurance underwriter involved Recruitment Manager Customer Service Advisor Accounts Payable Supervisor with Independent Insurance run-off Age 34 Age 21 Age 23 contract Yvette joined Capita Financial Kieran joined Capitas Local Capita brought unexpected Age 58 Resourcing in January 2003, to help government team, based in Coventry.
opportunities to Pauline, who originally After 40 years in the business, Kenny in setting up a new recruitment Following benets training, his role has joined Capita on a temporary basis transferred to Capita with the business for Capita, specialising in HR since been expanded.
As well as doing general administration duties.
Since joining and Finance Recruitment.
She was customer service, Kieran helps with After a year, a permanent position Capita, he has been able to develop tasked with recruiting consultants audits and referrals and is also a came up and was offered to Pauline his computer skills and work on a across five locations London, buddy trainer for new starters.
in recognition of the work she had variety of projects and contracts.
Windsor, Birmingham, Manchester and already done.
Within three months, In Capita, I have found a role that Leeds and helping establish each she was promoted and given the Since the acquisition by Capita, there offers me job satisfaction.
Having achieved this, opportunity to take the Association is a new buzz about the ofce.
Staff atmosphere is very 'family' orientated Yvettes role has shifted to focus on of Chartered Certied Accountants on various Capita contracts have been and we all work to help each other recruitment of accountants in the ACCA qualication.
moved into our building and there is a achieve our collective goals.
vitality which was missing before.
performance is acknowledged by our I enjoy working at Capita and feel I Joining Capita has provided me with a superiors which gives incentive to get recognition from other staff for my I am confident that the future holds very unique opportunity to be continue moving forward.
I am now much promise for my colleagues due involved in the creation of a brand new working in the area I have always to the professional manner in which venture, right from the start, and see it wanted to and feel my career is they approach their work, which is grow over the last 12 months, has beginning to take off.
evident by the success in gaining new been extraordinary.
