13 Capita Chairmans statement Whilst our prime objective in delivering services awards scheme, The Capita Excellence Awards.
is to satisfy our customers, it is also heartening The awards recognise and celebrate staff who when our efforts are acknowledged by truly reect the values of the Group, delivering recognised industry specialists in Capita's area excellence in service, demonstrating real of operations.
We are delighted to have been responsiveness to customers and supporting awarded Member of the Year status by the their colleagues and the communities in which Contact Centre Association CCA and to have they work.
Employees are nominated by their achieved CCA accreditation at Capita run colleagues and we have been delighted by the operations in Bristol, Darwen, Liverpool, Glasgow, response and quality of nominations, clearly Belfast, Gloucester and Stevenage.
"We were also demonstrating our staff's wealth of talent, delighted to have been named ""Company of the commitment and enthusiasm."
"Year"" at the Royal Bank of Scotland Sunday Future prospects Times Business Awards 2003."
Capita has a proven, scalable business model, 3.
Valuing our people with high barriers to entry, which we believe Capitas track record of delivery for shareholders will continue to deliver long-term shareholder and customers is due to the skill and dedication value.
We are actively managing our existing of our staff who contribute to the Group's business to generate improved returns whilst progress.
We also have a very stable continuing to develop new opportunities.
management team and low turnover of senior Our cash generation is strong, predictable people across the Group.
The team spirit and and growing and we have significant visibility of can do attitude is often commented upon by our revenues and profit for 2004 and beyond.
Capitas clients who also welcome our fair and We believe that shareholders will be delighted open style of doing business.
by Capita's continuing performance.
We would like to welcome into Capita our 2,000 employees who have recently joined us from our newly acquired businesses, through contract wins and by direct recruitment.
They join successful teams and will be fully supported, along with all our staff, in their professional and personal Rodney M Aldridge OBE development.
The Group now employs over Executive Chairman 19,000 people.
During the year, we continued to invest substantially in training across the Group and introduced a new portfolio of training courses in association with our own training business, Capita Learning & Development.
In further recognition of the contribution of our employees to the Group's success, we have launched a staff Workforce mix Growth of staff Capitas track record of delivery for % shareholders and customers is due to 19,000 end of Feb the skill and dedication of our staff who 49.8 contribute to the Group's progress.
17,000 The team spirit and can do attitude is 13,000 often commented upon by Capitas clients who also welcome our fair and open style of doing business.
