Corporate Responsibility We have been assisting customers in their hour of need for almost 300 years, recognising that, in traumatic times, an additional level of responsiveness to customers and the community is something that frequently sets us apart.
Investment Since 1 January 2003, an investment process called Responsible Engagement Overlay REO has been applied to the Royal & SunAlliance funds managed by ISIS Asset Management.
The ISIS REO philosophy is that companies which manage their social, environmental and ethical SEE risks effectively are protecting shareholder value.
This means that fund managers have no restrictions as to which companies they invest in, but once an We make our most significant investment has been made, specialists contributions to corporate from the ISIS Governance & Socially responsibility in the course of our Responsible Investment team engage general insurance operations.
We with those companies to ensure they take the opportunity to use operate to good standards in advanced underwriting and risk managing their SEE risks.
management techniques to help During 2003, ISIS engaged with our clients minimise the risk of over 700 companies on issues incidents that could adversely including corporate governance, impact the environment.
bribery and corruption, climate change, We are committed to maintaining human rights and labour standards.
high standards of integrity and fair The Trustee of the Royal & dealing in our relationships with all SunAlliance UK Pension Scheme our stakeholders.
Whenever we have a 2002 has approved the introduction market presence around the world, we of an ISIS ethical investment fund seek to make a positive contribution option, which will allow members to the communities and environment to elect for their contributions to be we are part of.
invested in companies that satisfy Royal & SunAlliance is a constituent the ISIS REO criteria.
of the FTSE4Good UK Index, which measures the performance of companies Workplace issues that meet globally recognised corporate We work to provide all employees responsibility standards.
The Company with fair terms of employment and is also a member of the FORGE group, safe conditions at work.
The risk which is comprised of insurers and management of the health, safety banks and supported by the Association and wellbeing of our employees, of British Insurers and British Bankers contractors and members of the public Association.
The Group has previously is recognised as a Board level issue.
published guidance on environmental In 2003, we were recognised as management and corporate social a Beacon of Excellence in Stress responsibility and is exploring the issue Prevention by the UK Health & Safety of trust in financial services, with a Executive.
The Company takes a publication planned for 2004. participative approach to identifying 24 Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 previous contents next areas of concern by conducting Tips for Kids programme, which is an annual employee survey in dedicated to reducing the incidence most territories.
of missing and exploited children.
Employees are frequently the first The company funds the production individuals to recognise malpractice and distribution of brochures giving or wrongdoing in the workplace, but advice to children.
they are often reluctant to voice their The US continues to be a key suspicions.
We believe that employees sponsor of Project Connecticut should be able to report any incidents a programme to help communities of malpractice or wrongdoing without prepare for major disasters.
The fear of recrimination, provided that business provides instructors as well any such reports are based on genuine as funding for the scheme.
concerns and made without malice or bad faith.
The global whistleblowing It is not Group policy to make policy enables employees to raise donations to political parties.
However, serious concerns within a controlled following the enactment of the Political environment offering such safeguards Parties, Elections and Referendums Act and support as may be necessary to 2000 PPER, which defines EU protect their personal integrity and, political organisations very widely, in where possible, identity.
2003 the Group sought shareholder approval to allow donations of up to Community 100,000 to EU political organisations.
At the end of 2002, following This will ensure that the Group avoids extensive consultation with staff, any inadvertent infringement of PPER it was agreed that the focus of the when making donations intended for UKs community investment strategy charitable, or similar, purposes and should be the education of young allows staff time off to participate in By November 2003, we had people aged 14 to 25.
We have Trade Union activities.
negotiated contracts for the supply since announced a new three year partnership with Samaritans.
Environment of electricity from renewable sources Samaritans are not only there in The Groups overarching environmental to over 99% of sites in the UK.
times of crisis, but also work with principles are to have regard for our communities to minimise the risk of environmental impacts, including the a crisis happening in the first place.
resources we use and, as insurers, to Our partnership with Samaritans will promote risk reduction.
This is involve education in the workplace, underpinned by our existing Group schools and colleges, offering coping Statement of Environmental Policy.
skills for difficult situations and We use the annual UK Business in information on where to get help.
the Environment Index of The Group also supports charitable Environmental Engagement as a to individual staff members, where it giving by employees, offering a Give benchmarking exercise.
This survey forms part of their performance As You Earn scheme in the UK addresses two major aspects of appraisals.
Staff then utilise internal through which 284,564 was donated corporate environmental activity data and external research to compile in 2003, and matching employee management and performance.
The periodic assessments that are donations to a value of 100 per results of the seventh annual survey submitted to the Board Risk donor per month.
In the US and were announced in March 2003 and Committee, which makes decisions on Canada, similar charitable giving we ranked 41st out of 168 the appropriate actions.
programmes were operated, such as participating FTSE companies.
Further details on some of our the United Way.
Donations from the In March 2003, Royal & Sun Alliance corporate responsibility activities can US totalled US$184,098 and from Insurance Thailand Limited sponsored be found on our website Canada C$104,638 in 2003. the Thailand Wildlife Funds Pang Ma www.
This year, Each business across the Group is Mountain project, to teach young we have changed our environmental responsible for its own community people about the environmental and social reporting cycle to align engagement programme.
with the financial reporting cycle.
examples of current activity are A standalone report is available from outlined below: Risk our website or in hard copy from Much of Irelands community activity The consolidation of corporate the Group Company Secretary at focusses on the education and responsibility policy setting and strategic 30 Berkeley Square, London W1J 6EW development of young people.
We oversight under the remit of the central and complements the information in sponsor the Children of Ireland risk management function Group Risk, this Annual Report & Accounts.
awards, honouring children for complementing previous practice on outstanding courage in dealing with environmental issues, has ensured serious illness, or for giving selessly that these matters are embedded in to others.
The Group contributed business processes.
Once policies are c30,000 to the last event.
implemented, internal and external Trygg-Hansa, our subsidiary in challenge processes ensure that an Sweden, helps to fund the purchase effective system is in place to manage and upkeep of life buoys around the SEE risks.
country, saving many lives every year.
SEE and other risks are considered The company donated over 5,500 life within the emerging risk process, also buoys in 2003 at a cost of 225,000. managed by Group Risk.
This process In Canada we sponsor the Safety involves allocation of issues of concern Royal & SunAlliance Annual Report & Accounts 2003 25 previous contents next
