Corporate responsibility To deliver superior sustainable value we run our business with integrity, openness and clearly defined business principles.
44 Make it happen Corporate responsibility 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility We spent 40.1 million 2002 33.7 million making a difference in our local communities.
46 8.5m generated for over 6,000 good causes through our staff giving programmes Once again met criteria for FTSE4Good 10% ahead The only 16,500 of financial UK organisation staff involved services average to double in our in Dow Jones match staff Sustainability Index volunteers payroll giving programme Princes Trust.
Over 550 staff are actively involved with The Princes Trust, adding their time and skills to the Groups 3.75 million donation.
Staff from across the Group give their time and business knowledge as volunteers working closely with The Princes Trust on the Business Mentoring Programme, providing help to people like Sarah HamesWatson of Beauty Works in Scarborough.
Make it happen Corporate responsibility 47 suppliers and Governments in the form of taxes.
Distribution of income We have built our business on the This brings significant benefits to the communities principles of honesty, openness and the economies in which we operate.
7 and integrity and they are the International indices and guidelines 1 6 We have continued to participate in the most well foundations of our Corporate established Corporate Responsibility indices.
Last year have once again met the socially responsible 5 investment criteria required for inclusion in the the Group made significant FTSE4Good Index, and been selected as an index progress in governance and component for the Dow Jones Sustainability World 4 2 Index and the Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability Index.
3 management of this increasingly Our Dow Jones overall score was 58% in 2003, 10% above the financial services industry average.
important area and will continue to We improved our rating by 9% in Business in the 1 Staff costs 4.5bn give it a high priority.
Communitys annual Business in the Environment 2 Suppliers and other costs 4.9bn survey, and have participated in the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index.
3 Insurance claims 2.2bn Governance and reporting The Group Chief Executive is the designated Board 4 Bad debts 1.5bn The Group has signed up to the UN Global member for Corporate Responsibility and reports Compact and was one of the first banks to adopt 5 Tax 1.9bn twice yearly to the Board and the Group Executive the Equator Principles in June 2003.
We have 6 Shareholders 3.4bn Management Committee.
In 2003 the Board ratified continued to be active members of the FORGE our Corporate Responsibility Policy, which embraces 7 Retained profit 0.8bn Group, which is currently focusing on developing the principles of the Association of British Insurers.
guidance for Corporate Responsibility reporting Total 19.2bn Our Corporate Responsibility team, is responsible within the financial services sector.
for ensuring that this policy becomes an integral part of the day to day management of our business.
Our people We recognise that our success depends on the We recognise the importance of reporting fully on abilities of our people, how we reward them and the Corporate Responsibility matters, and our 2003 way in which we train and develop them.
To attract report provides a more detailed analysis of the past and retain the highest calibre of staff, our overall year for each of our key stakeholders our customers, reward package is among the best in the financial people, shareholders, suppliers and the communities services sector, with a combination of remuneration, in which we operate.
We also report on matters of a final salary pension scheme, a selection of benefits, Corporate Governance, our position in key indices access to profit share and sharesave schemes for and what we do to manage the direct and indirect most of our staff.
environmental impact of our activities.
In 2003 the Group awarded staff a 10% profit share Economic impact bonus in recognition of their contribution to our The economic impact of the Groups activities goes success.
Nearly 190 million was shared between beyond our financial performance.
In 2003 our total 105,000 of our people.
Non-financial benefits are income was 19.2 billion.
The table alongside shows equally important, such as flexible working arrangements to suit our employees personal the way in which this was distributed amongst our circumstances.
key stakeholders including shareholders, staff, Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate responsibility Corporate responsibility continued Our community programme is one of the largest in Europe and in 2003 the Group invested 40.1 million in the communities it serves.
Described by Gordon In 2003, our support for Brown as the Enterprise MAT provided training Oscars the IC100 indexes places for 4,500 money the fastest growing advisers, improving the businesses in Britains quality of money advice inner cities.
Atlas Works of for 800,000 people facing London, begun in a phone serious debt problems.
Face 2 Face With Aim Higher.
Since its The campaign encourages introduction in 1994 over 13 -16 year olds to think 300,000 pupils in over half about the benefits of of the secondary schools higher education.
Seven in England and Wales have roadshows visited 1,300 participated in the F2FWF schools and colleges, programme.
During 2003 reaching 135,000 young the programme was people.
In 2003 we launched a popular reward scheme.
Six of our people with over 5 years service won a brand new car each.
Make it happen Corporate responsibility 49 We have an extensive suite of policies covering We measure our community impact by the difference Awards issues such as diversity, work-life balance and we make to peoples lives.
Volunteer of the Year whistleblowing.
Our recently revised Code of The National Association for the Advancement Conduct sets exacting standards of behaviour.
In 2003 in the UK: of Coloured People for Citizens Our annual employee opinion survey, carried out by We helped Fairbridge and The Princes Trust Can do Award International Survey Research ISR has repeatedly improve the prospects of over 40,000 of the UKs Goodwill Industries for Citizens reported a strong performance by the Group hardest to reach young people.
compared to the UK financial services sector and a group of the worlds top performing companies.
As We worked with the Inner City 100 to Most Innovative Working Practice a result of this consistently high standard, we have demonstrate the role that enterprise can play in now been included in the ISR Global High revitalising inner city economies.
Institute of Financial Services for RBS Workout Performing Norm.
programme We helped 135,000 pupils from our most Environment deprived communities to consider going on to The Giving Campaign RBS continues to actively manage the impact on higher education and Face 2 Face With Finance recognised the achievement of the environment of its own operations with demanding passed the milestone of helping 300,000 pupils to our Give As You Earn scheme targets for reducing emissions, increasing the amount learn about managing their money.
Pay Magazines Payroll Giving Award for 2003 of energy we use from renewable sources and reducing travel and waste.
We report extensively on We are the largest corporate supporter of this in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
Our current partnership will see an investment of 1.8 million in the quality Suppliers of face to face money advice given through We place increasing importance on ensuring that organisations such as Citizens Advice Bureau.
we work with suppliers committed to the same high standards of environmental and corporate Staff giving responsibility CR as ourselves.
Our key supplier At a community level, we believe our staff are management programme embraces an increasing better placed than we are to identify the needs of range of CR issues including equal opportunities, the community in which they live and work: social accountability, health, safety and environment.
For each 1 a member of staff donates to a Community investment charity or community project, we will donate 2 and The Groups community investment programme is we are the only UK based organisation which double one of the largest in Europe.
Last year we matches Give As You Earn on this basis.
contributed 40.1 million into the communities in which we operate.
We also provide Community Cashback Awards of between 100 and 1,000 to the good The programme is clearly focused on social inclusion causes which our staff are involved in as volunteers and education.
In long-term partnerships with charities or as fundraisers.
and government we are working in areas of financial education, inclusion, money advice, widening In total 8.5 million was generated for over access to higher education and helping excluded 6,000 good causes through our staff giving and young people realise their potential.
Some examples of our community programme in the US have been included in the Citizens section of this report pages 40 to 43.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate responsibility 50 Make it happen Operating and financial review
