Corporate Social Responsibility Singer & Friedlander Group PLC is an In addition, the Boards of Directors and senior independent financial services group whose management of each of the operating companies principal activities consist of the provision of accept that they are responsible for promoting banking, asset finance and investment the highest level of business ethics and integrity, management services.
The strategy is to strive to and they aim to create and foster a culture increase the total return to shareholders by throughout the organisation that emphasises and building and strengthening the businesses demonstrates the importance of maintaining high organically, and through appropriate acquisition business ethics.
and other opportunities, and by optimising the use of the Groups capital.
Clients We are committed to providing all our clients Whilst we acknowledge that ultimately we are with a superior banking and investment accountable to our shareholders, we believe that management service.
All our dealings with our in order to achieve our corporate objectives, the clients are made in a regulated environment.
We Group must take into account the interests of all aim to embrace all the regulations and all stakeholders including our employees and our interpretations of best practice.
In order to meet clients, as well as the community and our commitment to maintaining a high level of environment in which we operate.
We have service to our clients, we seek to ensure that adopted policies that support our commitment to dealings are made by appropriately trained and our social responsibilities.
Business Ethics We aim to provide our clients with a high level of The Group operates within a complex legal and flexibility and personal involvement, above all we regulatory environment in which it seeks to treat our clients as individuals, we aim not to be adhere to best practice at all times.
We seek to prescriptive, and our service is flexible, maintain the highest business and ethical accommodating our client requests at all levels.
standards, and to mitigate any risks to our We have short communication lines that enable shareholders or stakeholders.
In order to assist in us to be efficient when dealing with clients the execution of this policy we have in place a requests.
We believe in our ability to forge strong framework to monitor and report risk throughout business relationships with our clients.
We respect the rights of our clients The Board of Directors of the Group meets confidentiality.
regularly throughout the year, and deals with We aim to produce communications with our important aspects of the Groups affairs: clients that are clear, accurate and comply with including, but not limited to, setting and all regulations.
monitoring strategy, reviewing performance, ensuring the adequacy of financial resources The Environment available within the Group, regulatory issues and reporting to shareholders.
We consider environmental issues in the business areas throughout the Group.
The Board of Directors acknowledges its responsibility for approving the strategies and In recognition of the importance of policies for the Group.
This includes an environmental management, we have a policy of appreciation of the risks, and ensuring that the using professional consultants to advise on, and executive management take the necessary steps implement, procedures to ensure that all services to manage the identification, monitoring, control and plant are managed in an environmentally and reporting of these risks in a timely manner.
friendly manner so far as is reasonably practical.
28 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC Report and Accounts 2003 During the year considerable attention has been Employees given to continuing our policy of implementing Our most important asset is our employees.
cost effective and beneficial measures to improve Policies and procedures exist which govern the the operation and efficiency of the mechanical professional relationship with them, which are all and electrical services plant at Head Office.
In in accordance with best practice.
continuation of our policy to review the condition and operation of the existing plant the majority We are committed to developing policies that of which we installed in the early eighties, we encourage all employees to achieve their greatest have commissioned a report to consider a potential and to contribute to the success of the replacement programme to be undertaken over Group.
We seek to develop employees potential, the next three years.
Also in the Head Office, by encouraging them to attend seminars, training existing air conditioning equipment which courses, and providing help in seeking necessary utilises toxic refrigerants are being changed as professional qualifications to further their appropriate, for systems which use careers.
We operate equal opportunities in recruitment, training and promotion of all employees, Charitable Donations and Investment regardless of gender, ethnic origin, nationality or in the Community disability.
It is our policy to treat applicants and We actively contribute to the well being of the employees with disabilities equally and fairly, and community by seeking to cater for the needs of not to discriminate against the disabled in all groups.
We support social, medical, cultural recruitment, training, career development and and educational projects that place particular promotion.
emphasis on supporting the under-privileged The interest of staff in the Groups performance within society.
is achieved in a variety of ways, including profit Employees are encouraged to submit requests sharing schemes, option schemes and sharesave for support to charities in which they are schemes in which staff at all levels participate.
We endeavour to keep employees informed We are a patron member of The Outward Bound about the progress of the business.
The text of Charitable Trust.
As part of our commitment to public announcements is made available to this charity, each year we finance the placing of a employees simultaneously with its public release.
number of school classes on Outward Bound We encourage the development of employee Courses.
In accordance with our policy of involvement in our operating companies through supporting the under-privileged within society, both formal and informal meetings.
the schools chosen have pupils who come from areas of deprivation and where high levels of By order of the Board unemployment exist.
Stephen Doherty, Secretary We are also members of Business in the 26 February 2004 Community.
While financing is a key factor in helping many organisations, we acknowledge that there is also a real need for the allocation of time, experience, mentoring and moral support.
The Company is currently developing a plan to assist pupils from a school in East London with a reading and mentoring scheme.
Report and Accounts 2003 Singer & Friedlander Group PLC 29
