Corporate Social Responsibility 1 Becoming a more sustainable business 2 Delivering sustainable profitable growth through responsible business practice is driven by the Board, which is supported by a Sustainability Committee and a Group Safety Committee.
Although improving Health and Safety is a fundamental part of sustainable development, having a separate Board committee for this aspect of our performance reflects the fact that the Health and Safety of our people will always be of paramount importance.
One of our core values is the delivery of sustainable profitable growth.
We were therefore delighted to receive Business in the Communitys BITCs Company of the Year award in 2003 its top award for Corporate Social Responsibility.
1 We continue to be members of 2 In recognition of Carillion being In 2003, Carillion was again the leading company in its sector in Business in the Communitys Per Cent Business in the Community's BITC BITCs Corporate Social Responsibility Index and was ranked 33 out Club by contributing the equivalent Company of the Year in 2003, its of the 139 companies that took part, which included 56 FTSE 100 of over one per cent of our profits to top award for corporate social environmental and community initiatives.
responsibility, Carillion Chief Executive, companies and 49 from the FTSE 250.
At the Graisley Primary School in John McDonough, attended a reception Wolverhampton, a Carillion team hosted by HRH The Prince of Wales, Creating a more sustainable business is not only an important part transformed a disused medical room President of BITC.
of risk management, but increasingly a differentiator that is helping into a Sensory Room for the children.
us to win more work and deliver better services to all our customers.
Our commitment to applying the principles of sustainable development began almost ten years ago.
Since then, we have sought to understand, measure and improve our impacts on the environment and society and we have published our targets and performance annually.
A copy of our 2003 Sustainability Report can be found on our website at www.
Understanding how the principles of sustainable development benefit our business is fundamental, because if these principles are not economically sustainable they are not sustainable.
We have therefore continued to develop the strategy model we first published in 2001, where we identified the key performance indicators that both improve our impacts on the environment and society and help us to deliver our business objectives.
3 Horsepower makes a return to a Although part of the site was accessible sensitive woodlands development in by tractor, other areas needed more Cumbria.
Carillion Transport brought in a careful haulage to avoid damage to the rare breeds Cumberland fell pony to haul woodland and wildlife.
4,000 saplings of timber during forest replanting near native species, including cherry, oak, Killington Lake Services on the M6.
holly and rowan were planted.
3 14 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 In 2003, we focused on deepening our understanding of the links 4 between sustainable development and the delivery of our corporate business objectives and set six sustainability objectives for the Group.
Communicate and share our sustainability strategy, vision and policy with all and continually improve the way in which we engage with our stakeholders Minimise negative impacts of our services and activities on the environment Reduce waste production across the Group Reduce energy consumption across the Group Demonstrate the business case for sustainability Engage our supply chain in our sustainability programme to improve its sustainable development performance and help us to achieve our targets 4 Carillion continues to work in these projects.
Pictured here is partnership with The Wildlife Trusts.
Councillor Joan Williams, with some of Since 2001, we have financially the team involved in our project with We aimed to meet these objectives through delivering 18 specific sponsored 14 conservation projects the Staffordshire Wildlife Trust to protect targets.
Our average score against these targets was 92 per cent around the UK and created endangered water voles on the Wom compared with the 93 per cent we achieved against the targets we opportunities for our own people to Brook in South Staffordshire.
work with local communities to deliver set in 2002.
This slight reduction in performance does not reflect any weakening of our commitment, but rather the increasingly challenging targets we set year on year.
Supporting the environment Ninety five per cent of Carillions activities are now covered by Environmental Management Systems accredited to ISO14001 and we are pleased to report that during 2003 we had no environmental or ethical prosecutions.
In 2003, we focused on improving three areas of our performance in particular, namely biodiversity, the management and minimisation of waste and the materials we use.
Investigating the feasibility of creating a biodiversity action plan was one of our key targets.
A guidance note has been produced on how such a plan can be developed and implemented and we intend to adopt this on a trial basis in 2004.
We also continued to work with a wide range of environmental organisations to improve our understanding, skills and practices.
This included conservation projects in conjunction with The Wildlife Trusts, with whom we have been working in partnership since 2001.
To date we have sponsored 14 conservation projects with the aim of creating links with local communities that give these communities and our own people opportunities to work together to deliver these projects by working together.
To develop our strategy for waste, we have been investigating how we can move forward from just managing waste to include the work we are doing to minimise waste and ultimately to achieve zero waste.
This highly aspirational objective is encouraging us to seek new levels of innovation and efficiency, an approach we are hoping to incorporate into the long-term objectives we are implementing in 2004.
Applying the principles of sustainable development effectively to the use of materials means working closely with our supply chain partners.
One of the most pressing issues we need to address is the procurement of timber.
Our policy is to procure timber from sustainable sources for all our UK projects.
However, this is not straightforward when timber is purchased by others in the supply chain.
Consequently, we have been working with Greenpeace and the WWF95 Group to define the basic principles we need to adopt in order to help ensure that our policy is followed by our suppliers and sub-contractors.
Reducing carbon emissions and energy consumption continue to be important objectives.
We reduced carbon emissions from our vehicle fleet by a further five per cent in 2003 and our head office carbon emissions have reduced by over 30 per cent.
15 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Supporting people and communities Almost everything we do affects people and the communities in which we operate.
Consequently, one of our key targets in 2003 was to create a new community policy and framework of guidelines, which build upon our current experience and which can be applied consistently across all our activities.
Working with the support of Natural Step and Business in the Community, we have made progress towards 5 Carillion is one of the UKs leading developing a better understanding of how our business affects providers of training for the communities and wider social issues and how we can create more construction industry.
We aim to finalise and implement our new policy some 800 Modern Apprentices qualify with our Construction Training NVQ and guidelines in 2004. from our 18 UK training centres.
As a member of the Business in the Communitys Per Cent Club, 5 we continue to contribute one per cent of our profits in cash or in kind to supporting environmental and community initiatives.
Carillion Construction Training is a UK leader in training and providing people with the skills they need to work in our industry, including brickwork, carpentry and joinery, plastering and painting and decorating.
We train more Modern Apprentices than any other single organisation, with around 1,800 apprentices in training at anyone time and some 800 qualifying every year with our Construction Training NVQ.
The quality of our people is an important differentiator and key to our success.
Their skills and commitment provide the vital link 6 between our strategic intent and front line delivery.
Consequently, attracting, developing and retaining excellent people to become an employer of choice are high on our list of corporate objectives.
In 2003, we set a target to help us develop our employees to achieve their full potential through providing all our people with personal one-to-one performance appraisals.
These appraisals include assisting people to understand and implement sustainability principles.
Some 78 per cent of our staff received personal appraisals in 2003 and we shall be striving to raise this to 100 per cent in 2004.
6 The Carillion Academy, our resource centre of learning excellence, provides a broad range of training and development courses for our people.
The Academy ensures that all our people have access to high quality training tailored to the needs of our businesses.
16 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Safety by Design Health and Safety We aim to eliminate hazards through the design process.
A training The Health and Safety of our employees and all those affected by programme has been implemented across the Group and Safety our activities remains paramount.
First class Health and Safety by Design audits are now in place on all our major construction performance is also essential to the delivery of our strategy for projects.
Accident Investigation We therefore have an ongoing and determined commitment to Improving our accident and investigation processes to identify the improve our own performance and that of our industry by working causes of accidents is an ongoing priority.
In 2003, we introduced with others, including the Health and Safety Executive, to develop an improved protocol and new procedures, supported by training.
and implement best practice into everything we do.
Occupational Health Across the Group in 2003, there were 350 injuries reportable under Although health has always been an important part of our Health the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases an Dangerous Occurrences and Safety programme: we have increased its priority.
A dedicated Regulations for a population of 40,000 people, including direct team has been created to promote awareness of occupational employees and subcontractors.
Our Accident Frequency Rate AFR health, revitalise our health screening programmes and produce reached its lowest ever level of 0.34 per 100,000 hours in 2003, easy to use advice on occupational health.
compared to 0.45 in 2002 when we had 408 reportable injuries.
We therefore expect our performance to once again rank with the Carillion has also been actively involved in producing Health and best in our industry.
Safety information for internal and external use on a number of other specific areas, including working at height, workplace vehicle Despite this improvement in our AFR, tragically there were three control, manual handling and hand-arm vibration syndrome.
fatalities and 66 major injuries in 2003.
In February 2004, four of Carillion sites have acted as mentors for the Construction Industry our people were killed and four others injured in an accident on the Training Board scheme to produce a Good Practice Guide for nonWest Coast Main Line railway, which is still the subject of formal English speakers, and we participated in a project funded by the independent investigations.
Following this fatal accident and those Health and Safety Executive to produce guidance for supervisors in 2003, the deep sense of shock and sadness felt by all our people on the management of health on construction sites.
has redoubled our commitment to Health and Safety.
Our challenge is to turn that absolute commitment into further real and measurable progress so that our people can work safely wherever they are.
Accident profiles are regularly analysed to identify better control measures to reduce accidents.
For example, hand injuries were identified as a particular problem and a campaign was mounted to increase awareness and ensure that our people wear protective gloves in appropriate circumstances.
This resulted in a 34 per cent reduction in hand injuries.
Our Health and Safety strategy in 2003 focused on the four target areas highlighted below, which were selected as a result of analysing accidents and incidents.
We also aligned as many of our improvement targets as possible with current Health and Safety Executive campaigns to take full advantage of their promotional benefits.
We made significant progress in all four areas.
Behavioural Safety We recognise that we need to identify the behaviours that are likely to lead to accidents and address the root causes of these behaviours.
All our business groups have developed and put in place behavioural safety plans, which address their specific business needs.
This summary is an outline of the progress we have made in the past 12 months.
You can find out more from our detailed Sustainability Report 2003 on our website.
com sustainability 17 Carillion plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003
