Corporate Social Responsibility Standard Chartered aims to be an ethical and responsible partner, which means that Corporate Social Responsibility CSR is integral to everything we do.
Basing our business activities on sound CSR policies and principles not only enhances shareholder value, but means Standard Chartered can have a strong and positive influence in the markets where we operate.
CSR in Standard Chartered is much first time independent environmental issues such as sustainable use of more than corporate philanthropy: its audits of the offices covered by GEMS renewable natural resources, socioabout how we manage our operations were conducted and we are on target economic impacts and protection of in different markets, the values that to reach our goal of involving 70 per cent human health, cultural properties and drive our behaviour and underpin our of our operations by 2005. biodiversity.
The Equator Principles performance and the impact that our reinforce our commitment to provide business has on customers We also created GEMS-Lite, an loans only to customers demonstrating and communities.
information service for employees in that their investments are socially and our smaller markets, designed to help environmentally responsible.
By taking a socially responsible reduce their environmental impact.
approach Standard Chartered has Standard Chartered is also a signatory accrued real benefits.
CSR has made a Our Environmental and Social Risk Policy, of the United Nations Environment major contribution to risk management, designed to ensure we do not lend to Programmes Financial Institutions has enhanced our reputation in local inappropriate customers, was thoroughly Statement on the Environment and markets, has attracted new business reviewed in 2003.
In addition, we Sustainable Development.
and has helped deliver record levels of completed a series of workshops for employee engagement.
Human rights customer relationships managers Standard Chartered is committed to covering the range of social and Standard Chartered complies with all environmental risks inherent in lending.
supporting the principles established by international and local legal obligations This information, along with an the United Nations Universal and adheres to international codes of e-learning environmental awareness Declaration of Human Rights.
We also understand our wider course for our employees, was made obligations to the communities in which Our business approach is clear.
We available via our intranet.
This is reflected in the support people and economies, not breadth of CSR initiatives Standard We recognise our duty to encourage individual governments or regimes.
our suppliers to meet our high CSR In mid 2003 we decided to cease standards.
All principal suppliers conducting business in Myanmar Environment and service providers in our major Burma and close our representative We are committed to minimising our procurement centres of Hong Kong, office there.
We had a small operation Singapore and London are now required in Myanmar and were not an integral environmental impact.
In 2003 we to demonstrate in tender documents part of the economy.
conducted a complete review of our Group Environment Policy and boosted how they meet our social, ethical and Standard Chartered first had a presence the coverage of our Global Environment environmental standards.
in the country in 1862, but with increasing Management System GEMS, to over half Our commitment to preserving the international condemnation of the of our employees, up from 40 per cent environment was underlined last year government of Myanmar and no sign of in 2002. by our decision to adopt the Equator any change or improvement in the GEMS identifies areas where we make Principles.
Based on International regimes approach to human rights, an impact on the environment, such as Finance Corporation Standards, the we felt our presence in the country waste and energy use, and measures Equator Principles are voluntary could no longer be justified.
how we perform against targets.
For the guidelines for project finance addressing Human rights Labour standards The United Nations Standard Chartered supports Standard Chartered aims to Global Compact the United Nations Universal uphold the International Labour Standard Chartered adopted Declaration of Human Rights.
Organisation ILO core the UN Global Compact in In 2003 we closed our conventions.
Rewarding our 2001 and actively addresses representative office in employees success and the principles contained in Myanmar Burma.
helping them to fulfil their it.
We are members of the potential makes a key UN Global Compact UK contribution to our performance.
Forum and spoke at the UN Global Compact Policy Dialogue on HIV AIDS.
20 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2003 FTSE4Good Business in the Environment We are part of FTSE4Good, the Socially Responsible Business in the Environment Investment Index that recognised Standard recognises companies Chartereds substantial achieving high standards progress in its environmental of Corporate Social index, published in 2003, Responsibility.
FTSE4Good increasing our average score reviews its constituents every to 70 per cent, up from six months and Standard 48 per cent the previous year.
Chartered has been a member since its launch in July 2001.
Community Partnership for Africa With a growing presence in African markets, Standard Chartered has created a unified aid programme designed to make a lasting impact in local communities.
The amount we contributed through the Community Partnership programme increased to $1.5 million in 2003.
Close cooperation between our staff, governments, local businesses and customers means we are making positive progress on a range of projects.
For example, in Gambia we have funded the construction of a centre to provide counselling and rehabilitation advice for street children.
In Nigeria we are refurbishing and equipping the Ayinke House State Teaching Hospital and in South Africa we have provided funding for furniture and a pre-school teacher for a school in Soweto.
Being the Right Partner means dedication to making a difference to the communities where we operate.
Award for International Impact Business in the Community is the UKs leading organisation promoting Corporate Social Responsibility.
Our Community Partnership for Africa Brazil programme won the 2003 Standard Chartered staff planted 150 pine and fruit Example of Excellence for trees, working together with Casa Da Paz, Home International Impact.
of Peace, which houses homeless children.
Child bankers clinic In Thailand, Standard Chartered employees educated Environment the children of the Samakkee Songkhor School in Our investment in the community US$m Standard Chartered made basic banking.
Cash support 8.5 significant progress towards Staff time 7.3 reducing our environmental impact as measured by Gifts in kind 0.1 Business in the Environment Management costs 0.6 BiE.
We became a signatory TOTAL 16.6 of the Equator Principles and our Global Environment Note: Calculated using Business in the Communitys PerCent Management System GEMS, Standard guidelines.
This represents 1.1 per cent of our operating profit for 2003. was expanded to over half of our employees.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Standard Chartered 21 Corporate Social Responsibility Living with HIV Actress Glenn Close presents Standard Chartered with the Global Business Coalition on HIV AIDS 2003 Award for Business Excellence in the Workplace.
We took the decision to leave Myanmar after consulting widely with relevant non-governmental organisations and governments.
Community As well as being responsible to our customers through our financial service offerings, we also want to be responsible towards the communities in which we operate.
In 2003 we invested $16.6 million in community activities as defined by the UKs Business in the Community.
Adding the $1.44 million raised by staff for Seeing is Believing and the $365,000 raised by the Standard Chartered marathons makes over $18.4 million contributed to our communities.
On World AIDS Day we placed eye-catching advertisements promoting business responsibility in fighting the HIV AIDS pandemic.
Community Week During Community Week 22 September As well as contributing to the Ignorance and discrimination are a real neighbourhoods in which we do business, barrier to tackling the disease in many to 26 September 2003 every member Community Week allowed our staff to countries, so we have made education of staff was given a days leave to work have fun while making a difference.
Our Living with HIV course for a charity or community project of was designed to answer the questions their choice following the basic themes Living with HIV our staff and their families needed of youth, health, education and the Standard Chartered believes we have answering, such as how HIV is spread, environment.
We offered employees the both a moral duty and a business need how it can be prevented and how chance to win $10,000 for their chosen to confront the worst pandemic the to care for those infected.
All of our charity and the scheme prompted our world has ever seen.
As a company 30,000 employees participated in the employees around the world to initiate a with nearly 5,000 employees in Africa course in time for World AIDS Day, on huge range of activities.
and a major presence in markets such 1 December 2003.
The winning events were a car rally in as India and China, where the spread of India involving blind navigators and, in Living with HIV proved so effective that HIV AIDS is particularly rapid, the Sri Lanka, music and drama workshops in some markets, such as Brunei and disease impacts our business.
for children living in slums.
Three Bahrain, Standard Chartered employees employees were also awarded threemonth sabbaticals to work for the charity of their choice.
Sierra Leone Staff participated in a community walk to raise funds for our HIV AIDS and Seeing is Believing campaigns.
Philippines Staff helping pre-schoolers at the Resources for the Blind Centre.
22 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Jordan General Manager for MESA, David Edwards and CEO Jordan, Zahid Rahim, along Community Week with other staff from the Bank, Every member of staff was donated eyeglasses to Beit Al given a days leave to work Amal School.
for a charity or community project of their choice following the themes of youth, health, education and the environment.
were invited to educate health service Standard Chartered launched Seeing is for local businesses with a mass officials in the public sector.
We are very Believing, which aimed to restore the shopping trip in May.
proud that the programme was sight of 28,000 people the number of Employees were supplied with T-shirts awarded the Global Business Coalition Standard Chartered employees in bearing the slogan We Believe in Hong on HIV AIDS Workplace Award for February 2003 by World Sight Day on Kong and more than 1,000 took part in Business Excellence in 2003.
9 October 2003. a rally in Hong Kongs main shopping In 2003 we incorporated the provision Fundraising schemes were launched by centre to demonstrate the citys will to of anti-retro viral drugs for employees our teams around the world and we far fight back.
In cooperation with the and their dependents wherever possible.
By the Singapore government, we also took We also made Living with HIV end of 2003 we had raised $1.44 million, out a full-page advert in the Financial information freely available via our enough to restore the sight of more Times when the World Health website www.
com than 56,000 people around the world.
Organisation took Singapore off the global csr com com hiv intro.
html to We intend to develop Seeing is SARS list.
Believing through 2004, with a target to restore sight to a million people.
If you Marathons Seeing is Believing would like to help, please contact We have taken an active role in promoting It is a staggering fact that of the Genevieve Kotta, whose details are on health and fitness by sponsoring 45 million blind people in the world today, the back of this report.
marathons in markets where we operate.
80 per cent of cases could be prevented In 2003 we sponsored marathons in or cured with the right knowledge or Shopping against SARS Hong Kong, Singapore and Nairobi, treatment.
Sight loss plays a major role Being a responsible organisation also which attracted large numbers of local in perpetuating poverty and after we means helping communities overcome citizens and raised money for charity.
asked our staff which social issues they relevant issues.
would most like to see us address, The 2003 Standard Chartered Bank The SARS outbreak hit Hong Kongs blindness emerged as a top theme.
Hong Kong Marathon, for example, economy particularly hard, with tourist saw 18,000 runners take to the streets One of the biggest causes of blindness traffic falling by 65 per cent during and raised more than HK$2 million is cataracts, which can cost as little as March, April and May last year.
In US$260,000 for the Hong Kong Sports US$25 to cure.
With this in mind, response, hundreds of our staff in Hong Association for the Physically Disabled.
Kong caught the imagination The 2003 Standard Chartered Bank of the public and media by Singapore Marathon attracted over demonstrating their support 9,000 runners and raised SG$130,000 US$76,000 for Action for AIDS Singapore, and the first Standard Chartered Bank Nairobi Marathon raised KES2,225,000 US$29,000 for cataract operations in Kenya.
In 2004 we will add Mumbai to our list of marathons for the first time.
CSR online Full details of our CSR Thailand activities and our latest Group Chief Executive environmental report are Mervyn Davies above available at visits Khun Thongchai www.
Sanpolamuang, a sugar com ourbeliefs cane farmer in Thailand, who can see again as a result of our Seeing is Childrens Ward at Islamia Hospital Believing campaign.
We funded the construction of the Standard Chartered operating theatre and childrens ward in the Islamia Hospital in Dhaka, Bangladesh.
Group Executive Director Chris Keljik above, removes the bandages from a young girl whose sight was restored through our Seeing is Believing campaign.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Standar Standard Charter d Chartered ed 23 23
