Our People In the banking industry, our customers are ever more demanding.
We will develop a competitive edge through our people through their relationships with our customers in working together to deliver superior service and by applying their wealth of talent and skills to add value to customers in complex markets and across borders.
Mervyn Davies, Group Chief Executive - Accounting for People, DTi Report Our people make a difference Our focus is on helping our people play to their strengths, through identifying and developing their talents, to improve personal and team performance.
We have established a range of processes and benchmarks to measure and enhance the contribution of our employees.
Our work on human capital measurement means we understand the difference that talented and motivated employees make in every area of our business.
It also shows that we continue to make progress in building a strong performance culture.
The International Dinner, part of Standard Chartereds intensive Career Development Programme, is an opportunity for management trainees to network right.
Being the Right Partner to our employees is about building a work Successful employees place which helps our people grow, Standard Chartered employees celebrate achieving certification following one of our sales programmes.
enables individuals to make a difference and teams to win.
Engagement and 54 deposits growth Standard Chartereds human capital measurements studies 74% 95% show that high employee 31 higher engagement is a leading indicator of business performance.
For example, highly engaged staff within Employee engagement 2001 2002 branches in Ghana enjoy Our Q12 employee engagement Branches with bottom quartile engagement much greater deposits growth.
survey asks our employees Branches with top quartile engagement Continuous engagement about 12 key factors that improvement remains a key underpin a productive and focus of our people strategy.
stimulating place to work, including Do I have the opportunity to do what I do best every day?
In 2003, the survey covered 53 countries, with an average of 95 per cent of our employees responding.
18 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2003 % deposit growth R E E M S P T D O U I A N O S G B I A N V S E O E E S R S T A S T I C C E R S U C, S O T M R W P E T O E R R L I T P C H O S Y, E P E V C E R A R M L U E S U O A U T A Global picnics Human Resources Picnics were held all over the Tim Miller, Group Head of world to celebrate our Human Resources at employees and their families Standard Chartered, and in our 150th anniversary year.
some of his global team, responsible for best in class people management practices across the Bank.
An international employer Learning across markets Engaging our people We employ just over 30,000 people in Continuous development is crucial in A committed and engaged workforce 56 countries and territories, with equal helping us outperform the competition.
Our top 500 have been systematically improving Learning Roadmaps help our people managers represent 70 different employee engagement through a identify the knowledge and skills they nationalities.
More than half our process of team based measurement, need to further their personal and employees are educated to degree discussion and action planning.
Our One Bank level, while 26 per cent possess a training curriculum means we maintain Central to this is our employee post-graduate qualification.
consistently high standards across engagement survey.
In 2003, 95 per New talent is vital for our future our different markets, whilst providing cent of employees across 53 countries performance.
We have a global all employees with access to responded and our results continue to graduate recruitment programme that appropriate learning.
highlight strong year-on-year increases is second to none.
Using a global in our employees engagement.
Our This is complemented by an online online selection system, in 2003 we internal modelling, a leading indicator of assessment tool that enables our recruited 125 graduates split equally business performance, shows that people to identify and maximise their between genders and representing teams that enjoy strong or significantly talents through coaching from one of 21 different nationalities.
improved levels of engagement our 100 qualified internal coaches.
outperform others on a range of Nurturing talent The quality of training we offer our business outcomes.
These include Our talent management process, people is reflected by our position as a productivity, revenue growth and covering 93 per cent of all our supplier of learning services to major customer satisfaction.
employees, identifies and accelerates non-competitor banks.
Additionally, our focus on continuous the development of those who can two-way communication is designed to make a greater contribution in the future.
The right rewards engage everyone in our Strategic Intent: We want our employees to share in We take an integrated approach to to lead the way in Asia, Africa and the Standard Chartereds success.
Our developing leadership and management Middle East.
The launch of Strategic reward programmes are designed to capabilities.
This includes an intensive Intent in late 2003 has ensured that support our business strategy and individual development process in every employee within Standard reinforce our corporate values.
which over 100 of our top leaders have Chartered understands our long-term participated and the Leadership Employees total remuneration is geared business goals and how they personally Workshop designed to address to their performance and we ensure can contribute to them.
basic pay and benefits are competitive.
Thank you to all employees for their The Workshop has been developed All employees are also eligible for contribution in making 2003 another with Templeton College, Oxford incentive rewards based on their year of great progress.
University and 200 senior managers performance and the Groups results.
Our learning We offer a range of equity plans and providers also include Harvard Business 40 per cent of employees globally School, INSEAD and The London participate in the Save-As-You-Earn Business School.
HOW AM I HOW DO WE Human Capital Roadmap RECOGNISED ATTRACT AND AND RETAIN THE REWARDED?
Standard Chartereds Human Driving Capital Roadmap provides a Business Performance HOW ARE WE HOW AM common and consistent EXPECTED TO I DOING?
DO THINGS framework for people, HERE?
HOW DO I management policies and DEVELOP MY STRENGTHS?
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Standard Chartered 19 F I T C V I O O E O F E N U, I S L N Y A T S V E T R E E N H M A T T S I G O A N N N I R A D L U E P S M R A C O E W O C M O U E N R S K A S G E E S O O U N S K
