Corporate responsibility Remaining within the FTSE4Good indices We were pleased to be included in the Dow Our ongoing success and sustainability depend requires us continually to improve our corporate Jones Sustainability World Index for the first time.
As a commercial organisation, stakeholders: environment and society.
This to ensure responsible our first responsibility is to meet identifying key impact areas section highlights our major issues, behaviour by being clear our residential and commercial and ensuring that challenges based around a framework on our expectations of our customers needs for essential and issues are properly developed by Business in the employees and of what services in and around the addressed by our brands: Community, under the headings we offer in return: home.
Through our business seeking to give a balanced workplace, marketplace, the to ensure the people we activities, we are an integral part view of performance by environment and community.
employ reflect the customers of local communities.
We create participating in independent we serve so that we can deliver wealth for employees, generate benchmarking: and Workplace appropriate services: taxes to government, create jobs presenting information on our Our ongoing success and to attract the best people to among suppliers and deliver a impact and performance in an sustainability as a company work with us in achieving our fair reward to investors who intelligible and accessible way.
critically depend on the people business objectives: finance the business.
Through normal to ensure that our leaders In order to lead the development business activity, we have millions understand and apply our We also understand that success and application of our corporate of customer contacts every year.
values in all that they do: in the marketplace can only responsibility strategy, the The conduct of each and every to develop our people in a be sustained if we accept and Centrica board has established one of our employees is the structured way to further respond to a set of responsibilities a corporate responsibility basis on which we build effective their skills and understanding to society as a whole.
By committee, comprising senior relationships with our customers, of our values: and understanding our impact on executives from across the group.
with fellow employees and to promote a safe and healthy society, the economy and the During 2003, the committee has with the communities in which working environment.
wider environment, we can build worked at group and business we operate.
positive relationships with the unit level to define and agree the Values communities of which we are level of performance and reporting We want to be an employer of Centrica has articulated its part of.
This approach benefits to be achieved for all key impact choice, developing initiatives values and introduced a new our shareholders and employees areas of Centrica business activity that help attract, develop, retain guide to sound business through the development of a and to ensure that corporate and motivate the best people to practice, setting out the successful and sustainable responsibility strategies provide work with us to succeed in our standards of behaviour we approach to doing business.
During the expect from our employees on a year, a coherent global people range of issues.
The guide was It is important that corporate We review our performance strategy was developed to enable circulated to all UK employees.
responsibility becomes an through external benchmarking.
us to meet specific business integral part of our company In 2003, Centrica remained within needs.
The strategy has been Our values and business culture.
At the heart of this the FTSE4Good indices, an widely shared and communicated principles are supported by approach is a clear articulation indication that we had continued within and across the group.
policies that ensure the support of our vision and values.
This to improve our corporate In many areas, there is still much we provide employees is both is supported by our business responsibility performance.
to be done but we believe we effective and relevant.
Following principles, which outline our We were also ranked middle have a framework in place that a comprehensive review process, commitment to operating quintile in the Business in the will allow us to continue to invest 36 new or revised policies have responsibly.
By doing all this we Community CR Index.
been introduced in the last year.
aim to create the service our pleased to be included within customers, suppliers, business the Dow Jones Sustainability Our corporate responsibility Diversity partners and colleagues expect.
World Index for the first time.
strategy in the workplace We are working to build an seeks to bring alive our values employee profile that is both Our corporate responsibility Our aim is to continue to report and to realise our objective representative and inclusive strategy is based on: fairly and transparently on the of becoming an employer and that understands the identifying, consulting with range of factors that affect us, of choice.
The priorities for requirements of the broad and responding to the views of including our impact on the action that we have set are: customer base we serve.
18 Centrica plc report 2003 In 2003, Centrica introduced a new diversity A new graduate brand was developed in 2003.
As of November 2003, British Gas is the second strategy that includes both employees and largest business in the UK with Investors in customers.
In 2003, Centrica introduced Attracting talent provide greater clarity from a range of opportunities to a new diversity strategy that We continue to be involved in a the business strategy and develop their skills, whether includes both employees and range of employment initiatives management agendas to they are new to the group or customers.
We have appointed across the UK to recruit people individual objectives.
The new existing managers facing new a new diversity director, and from different backgrounds system seeks to create and challenges.
Programmes cover established a diversity action and groups in the community maintain a high performance company induction, change group chaired by a senior including people with culture across the group with management and leadership executive.
The group is driving disabilities, lone parents, carers greater emphasis on helping skills, personal effectiveness an integrated approach that will and the long term unemployed.
build on the excellent practices From 2004 onwards, managers we have currently developed A new UK graduate recruitment will use the behavioural Our graduate development and ensure they are consistent brand was developed in 2003. competencies to identify their programme seeks to develop throughout our business.
The website was extensively development needs and then future senior managers through overhauled to enable applicants receive feedback on how they a thorough understanding of During 2003, Centrica conducted to apply online and we are doing.
the operational aspects of a review of the pay levels between developed on-campus support our businesses, before men and women in accordance to help with marketing activities.
Training programmes have developing into a specialist with our commitment made in The number of UK graduates equipped managers with the role.
Our programme is the Kingsmill Report.
The results Centrica recruited in 2003 necessary support to review and structured to provide a showed that the gender pay gap increased to 42 from 12. manage the performance of their number of key placements in Centrica is much narrower than teams.
We have also initiated a including time spent within our national norms and our current Leadership new framework across the customer service operation.
pay policies and practices contain Centrica recognises that quality group that aligns individual no gender bias.
This review will of leadership is a central factor rewards even more closely People development now be a regular report to our in achieving our business to business objectives.
Investors in People IIP executive committee.
objectives and in ensuring that provides an ideal opportunity the behaviour of our employees In June, the executive to benchmark the continual We are working with a number of truly reflects our values.
This is committee agreed actions to development of everyone who organisations that enable us to a priority area for us.
develop talented managers contributes to our success share best practice, learn from across the business.
others and continually improve During 2003 we identified the management talent review The AA gained IIP accreditation our approach to diversity.
These key behaviours required by enables the organisation to across all of its business in include the Employers Forum leaders at all levels if Centrica is plan succession for the most October 2002 as part of its on Disability, the Institute of to achieve its business goals.
senior roles in the business.
internal Just AAsk launch and Employment Studies, the Following research with our Succession plans were in support of its brand values.
Employers Forum on Age and employees, we created a clear developed in 2003 and used In November 2003, it was Business in the Community.
and concise set of behavioural to increase the movement of announced that British Gas competencies for leadership a number of people between had achieved business wide Centrica participated in the 2003 that are consistent with our brands and across functions.
recognition to the new IIP Employers Forum on Disability culture and values.
We believe standard, underpinning our Global Inclusion Benchmark this will create an environment In 2003, we launched a new commitment to the development that monitors the inclusion of that provides the right challenges range of personal and of our people.
As of November disability in a companys social and support to allow our people professional development 2003, British Gas is now the reporting process.
Having been to achieve their potential.
opportunities to provide us second largest business in the placed sixth in 2002, our with a clear understanding UK with such accreditation.
performance improved during Based on these competencies, a of the future leadership talent 2003 when we achieved second new performance management within the organisation.
The The creation of the British Gas position in the survey.
system was developed to programme offers our people Engineering Academy has Centrica plc report 2003 19 Corporate responsibility continued The creation of the British Gas Engineering We have maintained a low frequency of major Centrica is committed to continually improving Academy has helped us develop and re-focus injuries through a continuing programme of risk standards of customer service.
helped us develop and re-focus targets are linked to specific also included on Essential, a Our main impacts are in the our training facilities to handle performance indicators.
All new intranet portal that was following areas: the extra training requirements targets and key performance launched in 2003 across all our ensuring that our customers for an additional 5,000 recruits indicators are monitored and UK businesses.
Reaching our enjoy high quality service: into our engineering work force.
reported regularly to the employees with relevant making access to our services The academys strategy is to use Centrica board.
Detailed information is critical if they are easy through meeting the not only our own training centres scrutiny of actual or potentially to interact productively with diverse needs of all our but also to engage in significant incidents identifies colleagues and customers in customers: partnerships with further lessons to be learned and their day-to-day activities.
ensuring that our sales education colleges.
This enables preventative action to be taken.
Feedback to the techniques inspire trust and us to handle our peak training Again we are pleased to report communications channel has are credible: requirements for technical no fatal accidents in 2003 the been positive and Essential will offering advice to customers training within British Gas.
group having experienced only be extended to other parts of our on safe and responsible use of one fatality since demerger.
business during 2004. our services: and Our commitment to training has We have maintained a low ensuring our suppliers reflect been recognised by frequency of major injuries, This year we enhanced our and embody our values in their government.
Our chief executive despite the significant growth employee survey to get a better relationships with us.
chairs the National Modern in our operational businesses.
insight into their engagement Apprenticeship Task Force and This has been due to our with Centrica and understand Customer service Ambition:Energy, a New Deal continuing programme of risk what actions are needed.
The We are committed to improving initiative to get unemployed assessment, training, team shift from satisfaction to our standards of customer people into employment.
We will briefs and auditing.
engagement is consistent with service and have a range of be extending the concept of our culture and values.
Seventyquality management programmes modern apprenticeships into We introduced a number of four per cent of our employees in place across the group.
We other areas of our business occupational health and safety responded to the 2003 survey measure customer satisfaction during 2004, in particular into initiatives to highlight and with more than 50% completing on an annual basis whilst monthly customer service roles.
manage particular risks within the survey online using the indicators of service delivery are our business.
reported to senior managers In 2003, the British Gas included managing throughout the group.
Information Engineering Academy trained occupational road risk, Marketplace is also fed through to the Centrica more than 500 modern managing stress in the Passion for customers is the customer service committee apprentices and 1,000 adult workplace and reinforcing our cornerstone of the who determine and monitor key recruits.
Our Direct Energy policy on the use of mobile organisational values that we customer service targets.
In North America, a have set for Centrica.
Being business in Canada is also confidential Employee responsible in how we behave in This reporting process enables initiating an apprenticeship Assistance Programme is our customer relationships is us to track both the performance programme and is now a available to all employees.
central to how we achieve our of our own service delivery and recognised, certified body to company vision and how we that of our suppliers in areas such license technicians.
British Gas was awarded the define our values.
as alternative media provision Gas Industry Safety Award in and text phone availability for Health and safety 2003 for supporting the Our main brands are known and disabled people.
We also Making proper provision for the furtherance of gas safety trusted in their markets.
All our provide the facility of a voluntary health, safety and welfare at throughout the UK and Europe.
brands, new and old, share a service register for older or work of our employees and passion for customers and disabled people, so they can others who could be affected by Communication and interpret this in ways appropriate help us develop the services we the groups activities is a top engagement for the markets and offer, and a language translation priority for our business.
Employment policies and a communities where they service for customers whose Centricas health and safety range of other information are operate.
first language is not English.
20 Centrica plc report 2003 Material recycled from Centrica offices % 03 48 02 32 01 18 00 15 30% initial 50% revised The textphone is part of our approach to meeting Reducing our emissions to air is one of our key 2005 target 2005 target the diverse needs of customers.
Meeting diverse needs 750,000 customers are included Supplier relationships Renewable energy We have a responsibility to on British Gas, AA and One.
Tel We expect our suppliers to We are required in the UK to meet the diverse needs of all registers, advising us of their have similar high standards source 4.3% of our electricity our customers.
Many need service needs as a result of their to our own in terms of workforce from renewable sources in help to benefit fully from the age or disability.
practices, production 2003 2004, rising to 15.4% in services we offer and we are procedures for goods and 2015 2016.
We continue actively investing in initiatives to In Britain, we send out over services, health and safety, to support the development of a enhance customer choice, 17,000 alternative format and the environment.
traded market, to promote safety and energy efficiency, bills, statements, letters and development of renewables.
with a particular emphasis marketing communications Centrica has set up a team on alleviating the burden of each month to our customers.
dedicated to managing our In July, we announced our fuel poverty.
These formats include Braille, top 20 strategic supplier investment strategy for large print and audio tape.
Establishing this renewable generation assets.
Through the Energy Efficiency In August 2003, Centrica formal group-wide relationship The intention is eventually to Commitment programme, launched a customer diversity with our key suppliers has source around half of our British Gas provides free and intranet site, to provide additional certainly proved positive and renewable obligation from our discounted energy efficiency advice and information on a encouraged suppliers to work own assets.
measures to help customers range of customer diversity more proactively with Centrica, save energy and reduce their issues to our employees.
enabling us to gain maximum Environmental management fuel bills.
systems Sales As a group we have derived The acquisition of gas-fired Since the start of the Centrica uses a variety of significant tangible benefits power stations and a major gas programme in April 2002 channels to sell its products and suppliers in turn have storage facility have influenced British Gas has provided energy and is committed to ensure also benefited.
We saving measures to over that the same standards of are introducing environmental 4 million homes, nearly 45% responsibility apply regardless This more structured and comanagement systems EMS of which are low income of the sales channel.
A particular ordinated approach has across all of our businesses to households.
We have insulated focus is face-to-face selling resulted in stronger group-wide manage this and to help identify more than 360,000 homes, through our direct sales agents.
contract management for opportunities for improving our provided 1.3 million households We have reviewed our own some suppliers and in a performance.
We aim to with energy efficient appliances, recruitment and training greater focus on process implement an EMS that meets installed 65,000 energy efficient procedures as well as improvement with others.
the requirements of ISO 14001 boilers and heating controls and encouraged the emergence Some suppliers are now across our established UK provided more than 2.3 million of industry standards.
providing consultancy, advice businesses and key activities by homes with low energy light and training within their fields 2005.
Targets have been set for bulbs.
By the end of 2003, All British Gas energy sales of expertise.
This support 2005 and we have so far we had delivered more than staff are EnergySure accredited, benefited the group by more achieved certification for 13 of 60% of our three year energy showing they are appropriately than 2.3 million in 2003. the 15 selected businesses.
trained and registered on a Currently, the major elements of nationwide database designed Environment EMS are in place for the AA, At the heart of our service ethic to protect consumers.
As We are working to ensure British Gas, power generation is a commitment to treat all our founder-members of the that we effectively manage and gas production.
customers both fairly and Association of Energy Suppliers our impacts on the equally.
Each month we publish AES, we have worked with environment through: Transport and energy an internal diversity report, the industry, regulator and reducing our emissions: In 2003, Centricas commercial which looks specifically at the consumer bodies to agree our renewable energy strategy: vehicles covered more than services we provide to diverse the AES Code of Practice for and 191 million miles and used 29 groups of customers.
million litres of fuel to deliver Centrica plc report 2003 21 Corporate responsibility continued here to HELP progress as at 31 December 2003 Activity Status Zones signed up 517 Households included 262,380 Zones completed 41 Household assessments completed 51,952 10,230 Charity referrals of which 90% are completely new clients for the charities Completed benefit checks 3,171 Total unclaimed benefits identified 1,826,537 Potential average benefit gain per qualifying household pa 1,619 In July, we announced a major commitment Anne Minto, group director, human resources, to build renewable generation assets.
planting a tree as part of the Natural Capital campaign.
roadside service and install, with an environmental champion social housing providers and mixture of classroom learning maintain and repair central on each site to promote the seven national charities to and home study, helping young heating, white goods and other initiatives of the campaign.
improve the quality of life for people learn about the products in the home.
We Roadshows have been run at 24 individuals and families in some importance of energy efficiency.
prioritise fuel efficiency in new sites and 3,000 individual of Britains most deprived To date, more than 17,000 UK vehicles and implement travel pledges have been signed.
The programme is schools have requested Think and fuel reduction policies.
We Feedback has been very positive providing practical ways to Energy resources.
also run a fleet management and increased awareness is make homes warm, safe and programme to reduce the beginning to show results in comfortable.
To date, some The AA amount of travel by employees, terms of the site environmental 50,000 household assessments The key social impacts of the AA and in turn reduce impact on programmes and the annual have been completed resulting are related motoring and the environment.
in the installation of over 17,000 transport issues.
Our main energy efficiency measures, impacts are road safety, for We are committed to reducing Community 10,000 referrals to our charity drivers and pedestrians, and car building energy use per Our community investment partners and the identification of use impacts, such as traffic and employee and increasing the programme focuses on projects over 1.8 million of unclaimed road management.
amount of waste recycled, that address social issues most benefits, which equates to a particularly in offices.
In 2003, closely aligned with our potential average benefit gain of Centrica established The AA energy consumption per officebusiness.
During 2003, we around 1,600 per qualifying Motoring Trust in 2002 to carry based employee was reduced contributed 6.6 million to household each year.
forward and strengthen the AAs by 10%.
All energy for Centrica community causes.
Community historic public interest role offices is sourced from certified contributions are measured We also engage in education, looking after the interests and renewable supplies.
Our waste using the London Benchmarking training and job creation.
British safety of road users.
The charity recycling programme has Group model that includes cash, Gas worked in partnership with was launched in February 2003. achieved significant results, the time and in-kind support and Mencap and the Employers office recycling rate rising to 48%.
helps us assess what these Forum on Disability to publish The Trusts key road safety resources really achieve for our Paying your Bills.
The booklet programme is its European Involving our employees community partners.
Our was developed with the help of a Road Assessment Programme Our employees play a vital role in strategy is to focus on cross-section of people with a EuroRAP, which promotes road helping us to reduce the programmes that reflect our core learning disability.
It is a guide to safety by highlighting poor road environmental impact of our business, skills and experience.
help manage household bills design.
EuroRAPs second set of operations.
We rely on them to The main programmes operated and covers issues including how results were released in work in ways that influence our by our brands are described to find the easiest method of September 2003 and the customers and suppliers to use below including examples where payment, how to get support if following month 24 EU transport our products and services in a the knowledge of our problems arise and tips on ministers declared action on more environmentally sensitive community partners has helped saving energy and money.
dangerous roads when the way.
us improve the experience of our programme was launched in customers.
In addition, our aim In July 2003, we were delighted Italy.
In its first year, the AA Trust In early 2003, we launched is to provide opportunities for to receive the Business in the has won international Natural Capital, a UK campaign our employees to become Community Award for recognition for EuroRAP and that aims to increase levels of involved in their communities.
Excellence in Education and also received the Autocar 2003 employee awareness of Lifelong Learning for the British award for safety.
environmental issues and British Gas Gas Think Energy programme.
encourage direct action through A key social issue for British Gas Think Energy is an energy The Trust also played a key role behavioural change.
is ensuring sustainable access education programme for 7 to 18 in representing motorists views to energy.
Through our here to year olds and has reached 49% over congestion charging in The first stage of the campaign HELP programme, British Gas of schools in the UK since its London and elsewhere in the has targeted office employees, is working in partnership with launch in 2000.
Other work in 2003 included 22 Centrica plc report 2003 Focus of contribution in 2003 Charitable gifts 4% Community investment 69% Commercial initiatives 21% In-kind support 6% Sir Roy Gardner launched our partnership with British Gas has developed an employee Centricas community spend is focused on volunteering programme to encourage direct Cancer Research UK, our employee charity of the a number of priority areas, linked to issues involvement in community activities while year 2003-2004. relevant to our business.
demonstrating the danger of programme, which helps South Centrica is also a member of satisfaction, workplace morale people talking on mobile phones and West Texas families in crisis Employers for Carers, a group and the environmental impact of while driving, whether hand-held pay their home energy bills.
that includes major employers, our products and services, as or hands-free.
After crash testing Following an initial contribution, employers organisations and well as our long-standing child car seats, a campaign was we will be contributing government agencies.
launched to encourage higher US$350,000 213,700 to the promotes the business benefits safety standards.
programme on an annual basis.
of supporting carers in the The external commentary also workplace and seeks to identifies areas where we have North America Our employees influence current employment room to improve.
These include In North America, Direct Energy, The Centrica employee charity policy and practice to support improving performance through our direct in the of the year is supported by the carers in and into work.
measurement against our stated community programme, vast majority of our UK business principles, setting clear focuses on social issues related employees.
During 2003 our Reporting and assurance targets for managers to achieve to safe and affordable housing, charity partner was Meningitis In addition to this overview of our and understanding better the especially for families, older Trust for which we raised more corporate responsibility implications of our commitment people and the disabled.
We are hoping activities, there is more detailed to sustainability, especially for work combines charitable giving for similar success with our information available on our our energy and motoring with activities designed to foster current charity partner, Cancer website at www.
We will and encourage our employees Research UK.
We have also seek to address these issues in to volunteer in their communities produced a short, printed report everything we do.
and support causes they value.
Launched in 2003 in North that can be accessed via the America, the direct in the website.
Important initiatives include community programme also support of Raising the Roof, supports our employees through For the first time, we have Canadas only national charity the Dollars for Doers commissioned an impartial solely dedicated to finding long programme.
Employees who assessment of our website term solutions to homelessness.
volunteer more than 10 hours information by a specialist Direct Energy provided per month are eligible to apply external agency, The Corporate C$250,000 108,800 in for a corporate donation of up to Citizenship Company.
It has corporate donations and C$500 220 for the registered conducted an assurance employees raised close to charity they support.
In addition, process on the information C$30,000 13,050 during the the Donated Expertise presented and provided a Fall Pledge campaign.
programme encourages commentary on our progress employees to provide towards being a more socially The mad cow disease scare of assistance to charitable responsible company.
The full 2003 badly damaged the Alberta organisations in their community statement is available online.
Direct Energy by providing paid time off during donated C$50,000 21,800 to their working day for this In summary, this commends our the Alberta Food Bank network important voluntary work.
systems to manage and and also donated C$2 for each implement our corporate Albertan who contacted Direct Centrica has continued its responsibility policies, especially Energy Preferred for information partnership with Carers UK.
In the adoption this year of the on products and services.
December, we supported statement of Centricas values Through this offer, a further Carers Rights Day, which and business principles.
aimed to raise awareness of the highlights the fact that we are rights of people with caring addressing responsibility issues In Texas, Direct Energy supports responsibilities and the benefits in our mainstream business a  that are available to them.
practice, such as customer Centrica plc report 2003 23
