AstraZeneca Annual Report and Operational Review 30 Form 20-F Information 2003 Corporate Responsibility CR The trust and confidence of all our stakein 2002 as the contact for investors wishing who need them, to be sold and used in holders, together with our reputation, are to raise high level concerns about any more affluent markets.
Differential pricing among our most valuable assets.
Along with potential corporate governance issues.
can only be of benefit in countries where our commitment to competitiveness and healthcare systems can deliver medicines performance, we will continue to be led by our We also reviewed, re-published and widely to the patients that need them and ensure core values to achieve sustainable success.
circulated internally our Code of Conduct that they are used appropriately.
see page 138 to make sure that our stated Management codes of practice continue to be Research into neglected diseases of the Good corporate responsibility depends appropriate.
Compliance with the Code of developing world is essential to the effective on the right level of commitment from all Conduct is mandatory and is monitored treatment of these diseases in the future.
employees, led by the AstraZeneca Board through the annual letter of assurance AstraZeneca has recently made a and Senior Executive Team, who approve process and Group Internal Audit reviews.
substantial investment in new research the strategic direction, and our senior facilities in Bangalore, India that are focused management, who are accountable for The Code of Conduct includes procedures on finding a new treatment for tuberculosis, the development and implementation of for employees to raise integrity concerns, a major and increasing threat to life in appropriate programmes in their areas of including a confidential telephone helpline developing countries.
successful in identifying a potential new to integrate CR into business processes medicine, a key priority will be to develop it and consolidate the framework for local Priority action planning in partnership with governments, local implementation of our global standards to Stakeholder expectations are constantly organisations and international bodies, in ensure consistent and appropriate behaviour evolving and we continuously monitor our order to achieve the earliest possible worldwide.
Based on the global CR policy, internal and external environment for issues approval according to global standards.
local implementation programmes are relating to our business that affect or We hope that we can then again work in required to take account of regional, site concern society today.
We use a formal risk partnership with the relevant global and or functional priorities and objectives.
assessment process to identify both the local organisations to ensure that any new opportunities and the challenges that these treatment reaches the patients who need it.
Monitoring progress issues present and to plan the actions We have for some time had processes in needed to ensure our response is In all cases of facilitating access to our place for monitoring our economic, appropriate and consistent.
During the year, medicines, we can only be successful if we environmental, safety and health we added sales and marketing practices to can ensure that the product is not diverted performance.
More recently, we have been our CR Priority Action Plan to ensure they away from those who need it and that we focusing on developing key performance continue to receive the appropriate high retain intellectual property rights, which indicators KPIs in other areas of social level of attention and that we develop ways enable us to protect our core business and responsibility.
We are continually exploring of improving our global reporting in this provide for future investment in the the ways in which we can meaningfully area.
The settlement of the Zoladex discovery and development of new benchmark our performance.
investigation in the US see page 104 medicines for a wide range of diseases.
strengthened our commitment to delivering Auditing compliance high standards of ethical behaviour in the Our product donations and patient In 2003, we included a formal requirement marketing of our medicines worldwide.
assistance programmes make products to develop local CR implementation plans available free of charge or at reduced in our annual compliance report by senior Access to medicines prices.
In 2003, our commitment in this area management to the AstraZeneca Board Each of AstraZenecas development totalled $724 million at average wholesale the letter of assurance.
Alongside this, products is reviewed independently in price.
we are expanding our established safety, relation to pricing and access in all markets, health and environment audit programme to so that plans can be put in place early for Community support include additional areas of CR.
In 2003, 11 those which may be regarded as essential We aim to make a positive contribution to out of a total of 14 site audits included CR.
medicines, either because they address our local communities through charitable diseases prevalent in developing countries donations and sponsorships that help to Corporate governance or because they are potentially a leading or make a difference.
In particular, we make During the year, we reviewed and refined unique product in their class, offering contributions that are consistent with our our corporate governance controls to significant patient benefit in a serious or life business of improving health and quality of ensure that we are meeting new laws and threatening condition.
In these life and which promote the value of science regulatory requirements, including the ability circumstances, we aim to make among young people.
to meet the appropriate executive arrangements to ensure patient access to certification requirements of the Sarbanesthese medicines through charitable In 2003, our spend on community support Oxley legislation in the US and the changes donations, expanded access programmes totalled $22 million, including charitable introduced in 2003 by the revised or differential pricing.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the UK Financial Reporting Council.
While we support the concept of differential More information is available in the separate pricing in this context, we continue to seek 2003 Corporate Responsibility Summary AstraZenecas senior Non-Executive safeguards that differentially priced Report and on our website: Director, Sir Peter Bonfield, was nominated products are not diverted from the patients astrazeneca.
