Our commitment to society Investors are paying increasing attention to the ways These health checks identify specic social, economic in which social, environmental and ethical issues are and environmental impacts both positive and negative managed to both preserve and grow shareholder value.
and particular CSR risks and opportunities.
A report is For example, the Dow Jones sustainability indexes then compiled, including recommended actions.
rank companies for their success in managing those In addition, social, ethical and environmental factors for competitive advantage.
During the 2003 matters have been incorporated into the directors financial year, BT was ranked as the top induction programme.
telecommunications company in the Dow Jones We have important relationships with a wide range Sustainability Index for the second year running.
of different stakeholders, including employees, We also won the Queens Award for Enterprise customers and suppliers.
We engage with these in recognition of our contribution to sustainable stakeholders in a number of ways, including consumer development.
liaison panels, an annual employee survey and a A further manifestation of investor interest is the supplier relationship management programme.
Association of British Insurers disclosure guidelines We also employ a number of CSR experts who covering social, environmental and ethical risks and investigate long-term societal trends, identify potential opportunities.
issues that might affect the business and support BTs BTs top-level response to those guidelines is commercial activities.
provided in the section on Corporate governance, Finally, our social and environmental report with further information provided here.
has been brought into accordance with the 2002 Other parts of this report cover business integrity, Global Reporting Initiative guidelines and received corporate governance and employee issues, such as a commendation in the 2002 Association of diversity and health and safety.
This section Chartered Certied Accountants ACCA Sustainability concentrates on CSR corporate social responsibility Reporting Awards.
governance, CSR risks, digital inclusion, environment, community and business opportunities.
Social, environmental and ethical risks More detailed disclosures on BTs implementation Currently, we identify no social, environmental or of social, ethical and environmental policies and ethical risks that would have a material impact on procedures are available online in our independently our business.
veried social and environmental report.
However, we have identied the issue of supply chain working conditions as posing a potential risk to Corporate social responsibility governance our reputation.
In order to address this potential risk, A Board committee the Community Support we have introduced our Sourcing with Human Dignity Committee oversees social investment expenditure programme a collaborative undertaking seeking the and establishes the strategy for maximising our active support of all our relevant suppliers.
The committee, chaired by By 31 March 2003, 16 key suppliers 79% of those Sir Christopher Bland, consists of representatives from targeted had signed an agreement with BT giving their BT businesses, two non-executive directors and two written support concerning ethical trading.
external independent members, who have a reputation Over the past two years, 16 initial on-site for excellence in this eld.
assessments and seven re-visits have been undertaken An internal committee, known as the Corporate in industry sectors where we believe the risk of falling Social Responsibility Steering Group, oversees the short of our Sourcing with Human Dignity standard implementation of our CSR programme.
This includes is at its highest.
risk assessment, performance management, public BTs certication to ISO14001 includes an accountability, ISO14001 certication the environmental risk assessment process and the bulk international standard for environmental management storage of diesel fuel for use in back-up generators systems and objective setting and control.
The at telephone exchanges has been identied as our steering group, which makes regular reports to only significant environmental risk.
the Board, is chaired by a member of the Although there are a small number of BT sites Operating Committee.
where ground remediation is taking place, the cost is During 2003 the steering group agreed an action not material and so we declare no material contingent plan to ensure that BTs CSR activities help deliver the environmental liability in our financial statements.
In BT strategy and established a set of non-financial key order to minimise any future liability in this area, we performance indicators to provide an overview of BTs are undertaking an 18 million programme to cover social and environmental performance.
The steering tank testing, enhanced maintenance scheduling and group also approved an accompanying set of targets remedial works.
BT takes quality very seriously and is fully Digital inclusion accredited to ISO9001.
The digital divide is a key public policy issue and we To ensure that CSR is embedded into BTs are working together with the UK Government and commercial operations we have commenced a the voluntary sector to nd effective ways to use series of CSR health checks of our main communications technology to tackle social exclusion.
24 BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 Our commitment to society In particular, we launched a digital inclusion campaign one of the largest in the UK and reduced our to support the Governments aim to give all citizens fuel consumption by 11%.
online access within the next few years and demonstrate how communications can help Community improve society.
We commit a minimum of 0.5% of our UK pre-tax A key element of the campaign is the profits to direct activities in support of society.
This Everybodyonline programme, which has been has ranged from 10 million in 1987, peaking at established in partnership with charity campaign group 16 million in 2001 and was 8.2 million including Citizens Online and is initially focused in five deprived 1.2 million to charities in the 2003 financial year.
The campaign aims to increase access BT operations also provided a further 17.9 million to communications technology in underprivileged in funding and support in kind over the past areas and to deepen the understanding of the causes financial year.
and effects of the digital divide and how they may The focus of our community programmes is on big be addressed nationally.
issues where better communication can make a real Through our age and disability action team, we are difference to society.
committed to providing older and disabled customers For example, more than 8,300 schools and around with access to a full range of products and services.
two million young people engagements with the For people with hearing or speech impairments, BT Education Programme a drama-based campaign our textphone offers easy access to BT TextDirect helping children to improve their communication skills the service that enables textphone users to dial direct have taken place.
This activity is supported by our to other text or voice users.
In addition, our mm215 volunteering programme which, at 31 March 2003, Videophone has improved communications for people had 4,000 registered volunteers working with schools.
who rely on non-verbal communication, such as British BTs contribution to charitable causes uses a range Sign Language.
Building on the success of our Big of communications tools, including our telephone Button phone, the range has been extended to include network, for disaster appeals and for telethons such as an analogue cordless version with a digital DECT Comic Relief, Children in Need and GMTVs Get Up version being planned.
Through our support, we enable the appeals We continue to offer services to protect the to raise tens of millions of pounds each year.
telephone lines of people who are vulnerable, free We are working with ChildLine on a major new directory enquiries for those unable to use the printed campaign to help ensure that all young people can directory, as well as billing, service and product be heard.
At the heart of this campaign is our information in a variety of formats, such as Braille commitment to raise funds to help ChildLine answer and large print.
every one of the 4,000 children who call them We are committed to increasing the accessibility every day.
of our internet pages and currently offer an alternative During the second year of the BT Community text version of the www.
Our age Connections scheme ending in July 2003 BT will and disability website, www.
com age disability, award 1,700 internet-ready PCs to individuals and highlights features of products and services that may community groups.
be beneficial to older and disabled people and is In addition, BT people gave 2 million directly to continually updated to ensure that it can be accessed charities during the 2003 financial year through Give by all customers, regardless of ability.
as you Earn, to which BT added a direct contribution of 1 million.
Environment In the 2003 financial year we continued to focus on Business opportunities reducing our environmental impacts.
We invested Following a detailed statistical analysis of customer 845,000 in our energy conservation programme opinion data going back up to 80 months and based on which, despite the roll-out of broadband, enabled us to tens of thousands of interviews, we have been able to restrict our electricity consumption to a 4% increase.
show that a 1% improvement in the publics perception A combined heat and power supply contract provided of our CSR activities results in a 0.1% increase in our 76% of our electricity needs, saving 274,000 tonnes retail customer satisfaction gures.
of global warming CO emissions.
This is a critical correlation and shows how 2 Also in the 2003 financial year, we recycled 24% important it is not only to protect our reputation of our total 89,878 tonnes of waste.
We received through appropriate risk management activities, but 4.26 million income from our recycling activities, also to enhance it through our community activities.
offset against the 8.29 million we spent managing our Long-term sustainability trends are creating market waste contracts, recycling our waste and sending waste opportunities for us, such as the use of to landll.
The cost of sending our waste to landll teleconferencing and exible working to reduce the sites was 1.17 million.
However, during the year we need to travel and provide more exible lifestyles.
succeeded in reducing the amount of waste sent to Increasingly, BT has to address social and landll by 1.1%.
environmental matters when bidding for business.
In In the 2003 financial year we reduced our the 2003 financial year, contracts to the value of more operational eet by 9.4% to 33,979 vehicles still than 300 million required us to demonstrate expertise in managing these issues.
BT Annual Report and Form 20-F 2003 25
