Corporate responsibility During 2003 we produced our first corporate Community relations responsibility publications: an overview for the Hanson operates internationally but is focused group and reports for our two largest markets: locally.
Our businesses are closely connected with North America and the UK.
We have been producing the communities in which they are located.
Many an environmental report since1999, and broadening of our sites are in rural areas where we contribute to it to encompass other workplace and community the local economy, through the goods and services was a natural progression.
These documents, which we purchase and the people we employ.
are available in hard copy or on our website, provide Local management teams have overall responsibility more detailed information on our corporate for engagement with the communities in which we are responsibility policies and practices.
This ensures that we respond appropriately Health and safety to the differing needs and interests of communities.
We consider health and safety to be one of our Our staff hold meetings with the local community highest priorities and a fundamental element of where an interest to meet is expressed.
Continual improvement meetings provide an opportunity to address concerns is sought throughout Hanson in the workplace for with input from a broad range of interested parties.
the health and safety of its employees, contractors, We help charities and voluntary groups around our customers and visitors.
Hanson companies around sites and ofces and support initiatives that offer the world actively engage with government agencies, benefit to local people.
trade associations and other similar bodies to promote the benets of a safe and healthy We encourage organised school groups to visit working environment.
our sites and also hold open days for members of the community, including the families of our employees.
We have a network of safety professionals sharing information and best practice to ensure that lessons The environment learnt from accident investigations are applied Hanson understands that its reputation for managing across the group.
We collect data on the number, environmental issues carefully is a valuable asset.
type and incidence of accidents and of the amount As such, it is an integral part of our business strategy.
of time which is lost as a result of workplace We maintain a high standard of environmental accidents.
We analyse this information to help us to performance while making a positive contribution to identify where we need to focus particular attention society through our products and land management and to assess the effectiveness of our initiatives.
To prevent injuries and other incidents from Our environmental policy is intended to provide the occurring we: framework for setting and reviewing environmental Train our employees to work safely and objectives and targets.
It is applied as the minimum to eliminate the causes of unsafe behaviour standard across our business.
Where businesses Use safe systems of work identify a need for additional, more stretching Create a safe production culture requirements, they are encouraged to build upon Continually strive for improved safety performance this policy.
Adopt best practice, commit to industry improvement initiatives and improvement targets The Report of the Directors on page 34 of the Annual Report and Form 20-F has information on Hansons safety performance for 2003.
