Control of Unilever the Leverhulme Trust, which awards grants for research and If you hold Nedamtrust certicates you can attend or appoint a education: and proxy at NV shareholders meetings.
From 2004, Nedamtrust will the Leverhulme Trade Charities Trust, for the benefit of automatically give you a power of attorney to vote, if you attend members of trades which the first Viscount considered to have such meetings.
If you hold Nedamtrust certicates with a bank or particular associations with the business.
broker in the Netherlands and have notied the Shareholders Communication Channel see page 51, you will receive a proxy The major assets of both these trusts are PLC ordinary shares.
form enabling you to authorise and instruct Nedamtrust to vote at the NV shareholders meeting on your behalf.
Nedamtrust is When the will trusts were varied in 1983 the interests of the obliged to follow these instructions.
beneciaries of his will were also preserved.
Four classes of special shares were created in Margarine Union 1930 Limited, For shares for which Nedamtrust does not receive instructions, a subsidiary of PLC.
One of these classes can be converted at Nedamtrusts Board decides on the best way to vote the NV the end of the year 2038 into a maximum of 157 500 000 PLC ordinary and preference shares it holds at shareholders meetings.
These convertible shares replicate Trust companies in the Netherlands will not usually vote to the rights which the descendants of the Viscount would have had inuence the operations of companies, and in the past under his will.
This class of the special shares only has a right to Nedamtrust has always followed this policy.
However, if a dividends in specified circumstances, and no dividends have yet change to shareholders rights is proposed, Nedamtrust will been paid.
PLC guarantees the dividend and conversion rights of let shareholders know if it intends to vote, at least 14 days in the special shares.
It will do this by advertising in the press, but it will not necessarily say which way it is planning to vote.
The first Viscount wanted the trustees of the trusts he established to be Directors of PLC.
On 28 February 2004 the trustees of both As a holder of Nedamtrust certicates, you can exchange your the charitable trusts and the will trust were: Nedamtrust certicate at any time for the underlying ordinary or preference share or vice versa.
Sir Michael Angus former Chairman Sir Michael Perry former Chairman Hitherto the majority of votes cast by ordinary and preference Mr N W A FitzGerald Chairman shareholders at NV meetings have been cast by Nedamtrust.
Dr J I W Anderson former Director Dr A S Ganguly former Director Nedamtrusts NV shareholding uctuates daily its holdings on 28 February 2004 were: On 28 February 2004, in their capacity as trustees of the two charitable trusts, they held approximately 5.38% of PLCs issued Ordinary shares of 0.51: 441 256 531 77.20% ordinary capital.
7% Cumulative Preference Shares of 453.78: 9 820 33.86% 6% Cumulative Preference Shares of 453.78: 6 0.00% N. V. Nederlandsch Administratieen Trustkantoor 4% Cumulative Preference Shares of 45.38: 23 0.00% Nedamtrust Nedamtrust is an independent trust company under the Material modications to the rights of security holders Netherlands law, which has an agreement with NV to issue On 10 May 1999 the share capitals of NV and PLC were each depositary receipts against NV shares.
We do not control consolidated see notes to NV and PLC Dividends tables on page Nedamtrust it is a wholly owned subsidiary of N. V. Algemeen 161.
Otherwise there have been no material modications to the Nederlands Trustkantoor ANT ANT.
Five Dutch financial rights of security holders.
institutions hold 45% of ANTs shares between them they have between 5% and 10% each, and the rest of its shares are owned by a large number of individual shareholders.
As part of its corporate objects Nedamtrust is able to: issue depositary receipts: carry out administration for the shares which underlie depositary receipts it has issued: and exercise voting rights for these underlying shares.
The depositary receipts issued by Nedamtrust against NV shares are known as Nedamtrust certicates.
They are in bearer form, and are traded and quoted on the Euronext Stock Exchange and other European stock exchanges.
Nedamtrust has issued certicates for NVs ordinary and 7% cumulative preference shares, and almost all the NV shares traded and quoted in Europe are in the form of these certicates.
The exception is that there are no certicates for NVs 4%, 6% and 0.05 cumulative preference shares.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 155
