Accounting information and policies Deferred taxation because of their size or nature, are disclosed to give a proper Full provision is made for deferred taxation on all significant understanding of the underlying result for the period.
These timing differences arising from the recognition of items for include restructuring charges in connection with reorganising taxation purposes in different periods from those in which they businesses comprising impairment of xed assets, costs are included in the Group accounts.
Full provision is made at the of severance, and other costs directly attributable to the rates of tax prevailing at the year end unless future rates have restructuring, and profits and losses on disposal of businesses.
been enacted or substantively enacted.
Deferred tax assets and United Kingdom FRS 3 would require profits and losses on liabilities have not been discounted.
disposal of most businesses to be excluded from operating profit.
However, because the business disposals in the period and Provision is made for taxation which will become payable if the restructuring costs are part of a series of linked initiatives, retained profits of group companies and joint ventures are separate presentation would not give a true and fair view and distributed to the parent companies only to the extent that therefore all exceptional items arising from these initiatives have we are committed to such distributions.
been included on a single line in operating profit.
Costs associated with restructuring, such as training, are recognised Provisions as they arise and are not treated as exceptional.
Provisions are recognised when either a legal or constructive obligation, as a result of a past event, exists at the balance Transfer pricing sheet date and where the amount of the obligation can be The preferred method for determining transfer prices for our own reasonably estimated.
manufactured goods is to take the market price.
Where there is no market price, the companies concerned follow established Derivative financial instruments transfer pricing guidelines, where available, or else engage in The types of derivative financial instruments used by Unilever are arms length negotiations.
described in note 15 on page 97, in the Financial review on page 20 and under Risk management on page 46.
Hedge accounting, Trademarks owned by the parent companies and used by as described below, is applied.
operating companies are, where appropriate, licensed in return for royalties or a fee.
Changes in the value of forward foreign exchange contracts are recognised in the results in the same period as changes in the General services provided by central advisory departments, values of the assets and liabilities they are intended to hedge.
business groups, divisions and research laboratories are charged Interest payments and receipts arising from interest rate to operating companies on the basis of fees.
derivatives such as swaps and forward rate agreements are matched to those arising from underlying debt and Leases investment positions.
Lease payments, which are principally in respect of operating leases, are charged to the profit and loss account on a straightPayments made or received in respect of the early termination line basis over the lease term, or over the period between rent of derivative financial instruments are spread over the original reviews where these exist.
life of the instrument so long as the underlying exposure continues to exist.
Share-based payments From 1 January 2003, Unilever has reected the economic cost Research, development and market support costs of awarding shares and share options to employees by recording Expenditure on research and development and on market support a charge in the profit and loss account equivalent to the fair value costs such as advertising is charged against the profit of the year of the benefit awarded.
The fair value is determined with in which it is incurred.
reference to option pricing models, principally adjusted BlackScholes models or the multinomial pricing model.
The charge is Group turnover and Turnover recognised in the profit and loss account over the vesting period Group turnover comprises sales of goods and services after of the award.
Figures for prior years have been restated on the deduction of discounts and sales taxes.
It includes sales to joint same basis.
Share-based payments are described in more detail in ventures and associated companies but does not include sales by note 29 on page 116. joint ventures and associated companies or sales between group companies.
Turnover includes the Group share of the turnover of Shares held by employee share trusts joint ventures, net of the Group share of any sales to the joint Unilevers accounting policy for the treatment of its own shares ventures already included in the Group gures, but does not has always followed the requirements of Netherlands law.
include our share of the turnover of associates.
The recently issued United Kingdom Urgent Issues Task Force Abstracts 37 and 38 UITF 37 and UITF 38 regarding the Discounts given by Unilever include rebates, price reductions treatment of own shares is now consistent with Netherlands law and incentives given to customers in cash or company products.
and therefore Unilever has adopted UITF 37 and UITF 38 with no At each balance sheet date the degree of expenditure incurred effect on the consolidated financial statements.
but not yet invoiced is estimated and accrued.
The assets and liabilities of certain PLC trusts, NV and group Revenue is recognised when the risks and rewards of the companies which purchase and hold NV and PLC shares to satisfy underlying products and services have been substantially options granted are included in the Group accounts.
The book transferred to the customer.
value of shares held is deducted from other reserves, and trust borrowings are included in the Groups borrowings.
The costs of Exceptional items the trusts are included in the results of the Group.
These shares Exceptional items are those items within ordinary activities which, are excluded from the calculation of earnings per share.
Unilever Annual Report & Accounts and Form 20-F 2003 75
