Corporate Social Responsibility 2003 was a landmark year for Barclays and our approach to Corporate Social We invested over 32m in the community, Responsibility CSR.
Over the past 12 months we have fundamentally which included a continued commitment of reviewed our CSR strategy against an agenda that is becoming more challenging and increasingly complex.
As a result of this review, and with 1% of UK pre-tax profits.
a clear mandate from the Board and Group Executive Committee, we have renewed and strengthened our determination that Barclays should be a We paid almost 1bn in taxes in 2003. leader in this eld.
We upgraded a further 312 branches to meet Our aim is simple: to become a leading company in our approach to CSR, the needs of customers with disabilities.
and to be recognised as such by all our stakeholders.
As Vice-Chairman and a member of the Barclays Board, I have been charged by the Group We helped tackle financial exclusion by Chief Executive to lead our efforts worldwide in pursuit of this goal.
providing access to banking through our We intend to embed CSR values into every aspect and level of decision making within the organisation.
Over the following pages, we provide Cash Card account for 55,500 new a brief outline of what we have achieved during 2003. customers.
In 2003, we maintained our membership of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index and of FTSE4Good.
Additionally, we received public recognition We co-developed and adopted the Equator for our pioneering work on tackling financial exclusion and for our Principles to support our commitments progressive HR policies in areas such as employee pensions and in our approach to diversity in the workplace.
Building on our achievement in to socially and environmentally responsible 2002 when we received accredited certication to the International lending.
Standard ISO 14001 in recognition of our work on Environmental Management, our new headquarters building currently under We achieved an Excellent Environmental construction at 1 Churchill Place, incorporates leading-edge features Assessment BREEAM rating for our new and was the first to obtain an Excellent rating under the BREEAM 2002 for Ofces scheme on the Canary Wharf Estate.
HQ building at 1 Churchill Place, Canary Our community programme continued to go from strength to strength, Wharf, London.
with employee involvement at its heart.
We supported over 20,000 employees in their volunteering and fundraising activities in 2003.
Our We continued our HIV AIDS support total investment in local communities amounted to over 32 million, programme in Africa for employees and making the Barclays Community Programme one of the largest of its kind in the UK.
Barclays is a global bank, and the scope of our programmes is spreading 7,659 employees participated in Make a all the time.
In Africa, for example, Barclays is regarded as a role model Difference Day in the UK, Spain and Africa.
for our work among the disadvantaged and particularly in the eld of HIV AIDS prevention and support.
We introduced an innovative new pension A key CSR priority for 2004 is to enhance trust and reputation in scheme afterwork for UK employees Barclays.
The establishment of a Brand and Reputation Committee comprising our most senior business line executives will play a major designed to provide them with more role in this regard.
We recognise that we have more to do, but I hope you nd the following account of our CSR performance interesting, engaging and inspiring.
Chris Lendrum Vice-Chairman For more information: www.
co. uk socialresponsibility 10 Governance CSR in the Marketplace Good governance is the basis from which we manage our approach Our CSR activity is founded on financial performance.
performance provides a significant contribution to CSR in itself, but in addition it provides the foundation for greater aspiration and creativity A Board Standard on Corporate Social Responsibility is being developed, in developing the CSR agenda.
CSR activity contributes to ensuring that with progress monitored regularly relative to key risk indicators.
good financial performance is maintained.
In addition, Barclays has formed a Brand and Reputation Committee as In 2003, Barclays continued to provide funding, advice and access to a sub-committee of Group Executive Committee.
Its purpose is to: basic financial services to vulnerable customers and the nancially ensure conformance of all businesses to the Brand and CSR Board excluded.
Standards: anticipate decisions that could affect the Groups reputation: Our basic bank account, the Cash Card account, acts as a financial identify and manage areas of non-compliance: gateway for people who otherwise might nd themselves nancially act as a think-tank for the development of the Barclays CSR agenda: excluded.
The number of Cash Card customers, grew by a net 55,500 and to 257,500 in 2003, and in the UK we spent over 680,000 funding oversee Barclays progress as a socially responsible organisation.
Oversight of CSR by the Barclays Board takes place through the Board In an effort to make it easier for some disadvantaged groups, including Risk Committee.
the homeless, to open a basic bank account, we extended the range of documents that are accepted as proof of identity and address.
We aim to be a responsible lender and continue to support the provision of free, independent money advice.
We believe we make an important contribution to improving the financial capability of current and potential customers.
Ensuring our business was conducted in a responsive, responsible and ethical way remained a key priority in 2003.
One of the most important developments was our adoption of the Equator Principles that apply to all project loans with a capital cost of $50 million or more.
In adopting the Equator Principles, we undertake to provide loans only to those projects whose sponsors can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the bank, their ability and willingness to comply with comprehensive processes to ensure that projects are developed in a socially responsible manner and according to sound environmental management practices.
In 2003, we completed the next tranche of work to ensure our UK branch network was accessible to customers with disabilities, upgrading over 300 branches.
Additionally, the Barclays Global Diversity Council agreed that, where possible, UK Disability Deployment Guidelines should be adopted for our branch refurbishments worldwide.
Changes have already been made to some Barclays branches in Zambia and Ghana.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2003 11 Corporate Social Responsibility Our initiative to help employees in Barclays Africa cope with the issue of CSR in the Workplace HIV AIDS was augmented by the addition of a dedicated resource to run Barclays respects and values people from all backgrounds and is our HIV AIDS management programme for our people and their families.
committed to becoming a more inclusive organisation with a workforce We currently provide anti-retroviral drugs to HIV positive employees and that reects the markets we serve.
up to three dependants in Botswana, Zambia, South Africa and Kenya.
In 2003, Barclays introduced a new UK employee pension scheme called Plans are in place to extend the programme to other countries in 2004. afterwork.
It replaced the existing Retirement Investment Scheme and was designed to give members more certainty around the final value CSR in the Community of their pension.
It requires employees to contribute 3% of their monthly salary.
In 2003, we contributed over 32 million to the communities in which Barclays operates and supported over 20,000 employees in their The Government introduced a number of rights for parents around volunteering and fundraising activities.
exible working, which we extended to all our employees regardless of whether they have children.
We strive to recognise and reward our people who put something back into the community through an internal awards scheme, the Chairmans We continued to enhance access to learning for employees with the awards for CSR, further underlining our wish to build a deeper opening of a fifth Barclays University bu metro centre and the third bu understanding of the CSR agenda among employees.
More than 4,500 people applied for bu learning funding of up to 150 to support career development.
Our two-year Invest and Inspire programme designed to make the arts more accessible was completed in 2003.
More than 32,000 people The total spent on training fell to 30 million in 2003, down from enjoyed free activities at the National Gallerys Titian After Dark, event.
42 million in 2002, reecting savings from increased use of distance learning and improved operational effectiveness.
In 2003, we carried out substantial research among internal and external stakeholders to review the positioning and funding of our sponsorship The proportion of senior executives from an ethnic minority background activity.
We established a desire to move in a new direction as far as increased to 2.7% in 2003 2002: 2.2%.
We are on course to meet our national sponsorship is concerned and we are working with an existing target of 3% by the end of 2005. partner, Groundwork, to design a new programme combining Barclays committed to double the representation of women in senior community regeneration with sporting activity.
positions from 11% in 2001 to 22% by the end of 2005 in the UK and to 20% across our global operations by the end of 2006.
These remain challenging targets: we are making progress.
In 2003, this proportion CSR in the Environment increased to 13% but there remains much to do.
We recognise that one of our most important contributions to society Health and Safety Challenge comes through a responsible attitude to the environment.
We have a An internal audit of health and safety was conducted.
The findings well established Environmental Management System in place, but we showed that the Group has a clear set of policies that meet legal realise that one of our most significant environmental impacts is obligations on health and safety.
It also provided the opportunity to introduce a number of We have long recognised that, as a financial services organisation, we enhancements: have significant environmental impact through lending policies and procedures, particularly for business customers.
An Environmental Risk the development of a standard process across the Group to be certain Management Unit was set up in 1992 to develop and help implement health and safety checks are made and compliance levels achieved: environmental risk lending policies and to provide specialist input to an agreement on the approach to health and safety in our non-UK lending proposals.
locations, through the People Risk Board Standard: increased rigour around project inception and management to ensure One of the areas where we can exert a positive environmental inuence the implications of health and safety are considered sufciently: is through our supply chain and by using our buying power.
the delivery of further health and safety training across the Group: and In terms of indirect impacts, we continued to use an environmental the development of more accurate and accessible accident data.
sourcing tool to ensure suppliers are evaluated on the basis of ethical Our internal auditors are satisfied with the actions taken during 2003. and environmental standards, this applies to the goods and services we The following table shows the number of accidents currently recorded in buy as well as the policies of the suppliers themselves.
respect of the stated years.
of accidents including near misses and dangerous occurrences 3,595 3,663 3,337 No.
of reportable accidents 206 173 221 12 Section 2 Impact 14 Directors and Ofcers of Risk Management Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC 37 Risk Management and Control Overview 41 Credit Risk Management 43 Analysis of Loans and Advances 17 Directors Report 49 Loans and Advances in Non-local Currencies and to Countries Receiving IMF Support 19 Corporate Governance Report 51 Potential Credit Risk Lendings 53 Provisions for Bad and Doubtful Debts 60 Market Risk Management 23 Barclays Report on Remuneration 63 Disclosures about Certain Trading Activities including Non-Exchange Traded Contracts 35 Accountability and Audit 65 Derivatives 66 Treasury Asset and Liability Management 70 Management of Other Risks 36 Presentation of Information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2003 13 Directors and Ofcers 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Directors and Ofcers of Barclays PLC and Barclays Bank PLC a 1 Sir Peter Middleton, GCB, Chairman 5 Professor Dame Sandra June Noble Dawson Sir Peter Middleton GCB age 69 was appointed as Chairman at the Professor Dame Sandra June Noble Dawson age 57 joined the Board 1999 Annual General Meeting.
Sir Peter joined the Board in 1991 as in March 2003.
She is currently KPMG Professor of Management Studies Deputy Chairman and Chairman of BZW.
This followed a long career at the University of Cambridge, and has been Director of the Judge in HM Treasury where he was Permanent Secretary from 1983 to 1991.
Institute at Cambridge since 1995, and Master of Sidney Sussex College, He became Chairman of Barclays Capital following the reorganisation Cambridge since 1999.
Professor Dawson has held a range of nonof BZW in 1997.
In 1998, he relinquished his executive responsibilities executive posts in organisations including Rand Europe UK, the Society as Deputy Chairman and Chairman of Barclays Capital but remained a for the Advancement of Management Studies, JP Morgan Fleming non-executive Director.
He is Deputy Chairman of United Utilities PLC, Claverhouse Investment Trust, and Riverside Mental Health Trust.
She Chancellor of Shefeld University and Chairman of the Board was also a member of the Senior Salaries Review Board.
She is a member Nominations and Board Risk Committees.
of the Board Audit Committee.
a a 2 Thomas David Guy Arculus 6 Sir Brian Garton Jenkins, GBE, Deputy Chairman Thomas David Guy Arculus age 57 joined the Board in 1997.
He is Sir Brian Garton Jenkins GBE age 68 joined the Board in 2000 as a Deputy Chairman of Severn Trent plc, Earls Court and Olympia Group Limited Chairman on completion of the acquisition of Woolwich plc.
He joined the and the UK Governments Better Regulation Task Force.
He is also a Woolwich Board as a non-executive Director in 1994 and was appointed non-executive Director of mmO plc and a delegate of Oxford University Deputy Chairman in 1995.
He became Chairman later that year and 2 Press.
His previous positions include Chairman of IPC Group Limited and oversaw the conversion of The Woolwich Building Society to a public Group Managing Director of EMAP plc.
He is a member of the Board limited company in 1997.
Sir Brian is a former senior partner of Remuneration and Board Nominations Committees.
Coopers & Lybrand Chartered Accountants, has served as Lord Mayor of London, President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & a 3 Sir Richard Broadbent Wales and as President of the British Computer Society.
He is President of Sir Richard Broadbent age 50 joined the Board on 1st September 2003. the Charities Aid Foundation and a member of the Board Audit, Board He had previously been the Executive Chairman of HM Customs and Remuneration, Board Nominations and Board Risk Committees.
He was formerly a member of the Group a Executive Committee of Schroders plc and a non-executive Director 7 Sir Nigel Rudd, DL of the Securities Institute.
Sir Nigel Rudd DL age 57 joined the Board in 1996.
Sir Nigel is nonexecutive Chairman of Pilkington PLC, Pendragon PLC and Boots PLC.
a 4 Hilary Mary Cropper, CBE He recently retired as Chairman of Kidde PLC.
He is Chairman of the Hilary Mary Cropper CBE age 63 joined the Board in 1998.
She is Board Remuneration Committee and a member of the Board Honorary President of Xansa PLC, where she was, until recently, the Nominations Committee.
Xansa is a leading supplier of business enabling technology services.
Mrs Cropper is also an external adviser to the Home Civil Service Senior Appointments Selection Committee and a member of the Governments National Employment Panel.
She is a member of the Board Risk Committee.
14 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 a Independent non-executive Director b Executive Director c Group Executive Committee member a b c 8 Stephen George Russell 12 Roger William John Davis, Chief Executive, UK Banking Stephen George Russell age 58 joined the Board in 2000 on completion Roger William John Davis age 47 was appointed as Chief Executive of UK of the acquisition of Woolwich plc.
He joined Woolwich plcs Board as a Banking on 1st January 2004 and joined the Board on the same date.
He was previously Chief Executive of Mr Davis previous roles for the Group include: Chief Executive of Business Boots PLC from 2000 until 2003.
He is Chairman of the Board Audit Banking: Chairman and Chief Executive of Barclays Capital, Asia Pacic Committee and a member of the Board Risk Committee.
and was a member of the Barclays Capital Executive Committee.
He joined the Group Executive Committee in February 2003.
Before joining a 9 Dr Jrgen Zech Barclays, he spent 12 years in the British Army and began his City career Dr Jrgen Zech age 64 joined the Board as a non-executive Director at Robert Fleming & Co where he was a member of the Board of Jardine in July 2002.
Dr Zech retired as Chief Executive of Gerling-Konzern, the Fleming Holdings and Managing Director of Jardine Fleming India.
general insurance arm of Gerling at the end of 2001.
He is a non-executive c Director of Misys PLC and Partner, Re Limited.
He is a member of the 13 Robert Edward Diamond Jr, Chief Executive, Wholesale and Institutional Board Audit Committee.
Robert Edward Diamond Jr age 52 was appointed to the role on 1st January 2004 and is also Chief Executive, Barclays Capital and b c 10 Matthew William Barrett, Group Chief Executive Chairman, Barclays Global Investors.
He joined Barclays in July 1996 Matthew William Barrett age 59 was appointed as Group Chief from CSFB where he was Vice-Chairman and Head of Global Fixed Executive and joined the Board in 1999 and will succeed Sir Peter Income and Foreign Exchange.
He was appointed to the Group Middleton as Chairman on 1st January 2005.
He joined Barclays from Executive Committee in September 1997.
Bank of Montreal where he was Chairman and Chief Executive officer.
c 14 Gary Stewart Dibb, Group Chief Administrative officer He joined the Bank of Montreal in 1962 and during his career held a Gary Stewart Dibb age 53 joined Barclays from Bank of Montreal in variety of senior management positions in different areas within the 2000.
He is responsible for Human Resources, Communications, Bank, including Retail Banking, International Banking and Treasury.
He Marketing, Strategy and Planning, Public Policy and Group Property was appointed Chief Operating officer in 1987, Chief Executive officer in Services as well as the implementation of Value Based Management.
1989 and elected Chairman of the Board in 1990.
In 1994, he became He joined the Group Executive Committee in February 2000. an officer of the Order of Canada, the countrys highest civilian honour, and in 1995, he was awarded the title of Canadas Outstanding CEO of b c 15 Gary Andrew Hoffman, Chief Executive, Barclaycard the Year.
He is a non-executive Director of the Molson Companies Gary Andrew Hoffman age 43 was appointed as Chief Executive of Limited and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Barclaycard in September 2001 and joined the Board on 1st January b c 11 John Silvester Varley, Group Deputy Chief Executive 2004.
Gary joined the Group in 1983 and has held a variety of John Silvester Varley age 47 was appointed as Group Deputy Chief Executive management positions, as well as sitting on the Executive Committee of on 1st January 2004 and will succeed Matthew Barrett as Group Chief Retail Financial Services and being a member of the Group Operating Executive on 1st January 2005.
He had previously held the position of Group Committee.
He joined the Group Executive Committee in 2001.
He joined the Group Executive Committee in September 1996 and was appointed to the Board in 1998.
Mr Varley was previously Chief Executive of Retail Financial Services from 1998 to 2000 and was Chairman of the Asset Management Division from 1995.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2003 15 Directors and Ofcers b c Current Group Executive Committee members Appointed to Group 16 Naguib Kheraj, Group Finance Director Executive Committee Naguib Kheraj age 39 was appointed as Group Finance Director and joined the Board on 1st January 2004.
Mr Kheraj had previously held the Matthew Barrett Group Chief Executive 1999 positions of Chief Executive of Barclays Private Clients, Deputy Chairman of Barclays Global Investors, Global Head of Investment Banking and Roger Davis Chief Executive, UK Banking 2003 Global Chief Operating officer at Barclays Capital.
He joined the Group Bob Diamond Chief Executive, Executive Committee in March 2003.
Before joining Barclays, Mr Kheraj Wholesale & International 1997 held the post of Chief Financial officer for Europe at Salomon Brothers.
Gary Dibb Chief Administrative officer 2000 b c 17 Christopher John Lendrum, Vice-Chairman Christopher John Lendrum age 57 was appointed Vice-Chairman of Gary Hoffman Chief Executive, Barclaycard 2001 Barclays Bank PLC on 1st January 2004 after 35 years with the Barclays Naguib Kheraj Group Finance Director 2003 Group.
He was appointed to the Board in 1998 and was appointed to the Group Executive Committee in 1996.
His range of responsibilities Chris Lendrum Vice-Chairman 1996 includes overseeing Barclays strategy and policy in the area of corporate Robert Nimmo Group Risk Director 2002 social responsibility and accountability for governance and control throughout Africa and the Asia Pacic Region.
He is Chairman of David Roberts Chief Executive, Barclays Africa and a Director and Trustee of the Banks Pension Fund.
Private Clients and International 2001 Mr Lendrum has previously occupied a succession of roles including John Varley Group Deputy Chief Executive 1996 Chief Executive, Corporate Banking and Executive Vice-President, Barclays Bank of New York.
David Weymouth Chief Information officer 2000 c 18 Robert William James Nimmo, Group Risk Director Robert William James Nimmo age 56 joined Barclays in January 2002.
He began his career at Citibank in 1969 and most recently he served as Other ofcers Appointed to position Chief Risk officer at First Union Corporation.
He joined the Group Lawrence Dickinson Group Secretary 2002 Executive Committee in January 2002.
Patrick Gonsalves Joint Secretary, b c 19 David Lawton Roberts, Chief Executive, Barclays Bank PLC 2002 Private Clients & International Mark Harding Group General Counsel 2003 David Lawton Roberts age 41 was appointed as Chief Executive of Private Clients & International on 1st January 2004 and joined the Board Colin Walklin Director of Group Finance 2002 on the same date.
Mr Roberts joined the Group in 1983 and has held various management positions, including Chief Executive of Personal Financial Services and Chief Executive of Business Banking.
He joined the Group Executive Committee in 2001. c 20 David Avery Weymouth, Chief Information officer David Avery Weymouth age 48 joined Barclays in 1977 and was appointed Chief Information officer in February 2000.
He joined the Group Executive Committee in February 2000.
He had previously held other management positions including Managing Director, Service Provision for Retail and Corporate Banking and Chief Operating officer, Corporate Banking.
