The Environment & Corporate Social Responsibility Managing our impacts British Land published its first Environment and Social Report in Managing and monitoring environmental and social issues associated with December 2002.
It has been well received with positive feed back our investments: from many of our stakeholders, as well as from our own employees.
Incorporating environmental and social considerations into the design The focus was on the management of environmental issues, based process of our development projects, including the sustainable use of 52 on our Environment Policy which has been in place since June 2000. resources and materials, avoidance of harm to the local environment and Since the publication of the Report, we have fulfilled our contributing to the well being of the community: commitment to revise the Policy in order to integrate our developing Ensuring the construction of new developments and improvement of approach to the wide range of Corporate Social Responsibility CSR existing investments is carried out with the aim of minimising disruption issues.
We have also revised the way the Company manages and pollution: CSR matters.
Promoting efficient use of resources and reduction in the production of The appointment of Claudine Khatchik as Corporate Social greenhouse gas emissions, and promoting the minimisation, re-use and Responsibility Executive has increased our ability to respond to this recycling of waste arising from our activities.
fast changing CSR agenda and to promote our commitment to Corporate Values sustainable development.
Complying with legislation, other relevant requirements and best practice guidelines: The Environment and Society Policy Complying with relevant codes of corporate governance: The new Environment and Society Policy addresses the four areas of Maintaining on-going dialogue with our stakeholders, including our jointWorkplace, Marketplace, Community and Environment, providing the venture partners, to identify key environmental and social issues and basis for objectives and targets to add value and manage risks and developing effective strategies to manage these issues: impacts, in a way that adheres to British Lands corporate values.
Providing a good working environment for our employees and treating all The Policy is widely communicated through our website, intranet, employees with fairness, dignity and respect: internal workshops and road shows at our properties around thePromoting a high standard of health and safety for our staff and Country.
It also provides a basis for dialogue with our managing contractors: agents, tenants and other stakeholders.
Operating an equal opportunities policy to ensure all job applicants are treated equally: The British Land Environment and Society Policy Upholding International Human Rights standards through our business principles and operations: The British Land Company PLC is one of the UKs largest property companies.
Reporting on progress through our annual Environment and Social Report.
We recognise that environmental and social considerations should be integrated into our everyday working practices and embedded into our corporate values.
All our employees are responsible for the implementation of this policy.
This policy sets the framework for the way we manage our impact on the workplace, the marketplace, the environment and in the communities in which we operate, and our aim to continually improve performance.
The British Land Company PLC is committed to: Adding Value Respecting the environment in which we operate whilst maintaining commercial viability, long-term profitability and enhancement of our reputation: Developing the corporate Environmental Management System to be in line with relevant requirements in support of this policy: Setting objectives and targets and monitoring our performance against them to ensure continual improvement: Using our influence to improve environmental and social performance in our supply chain and to encourage purchasing of sustainable products and materials: Continuing to support local community initiatives: Raising the awareness of our employees, agents, tenants, suppliers and contractors to ensure effective management of our environmental and social impacts.
The British Land Company PLC The Environment & Corporate Social Responsibility The Environment & Corporate Social Responsibility Environment and Society Management i Resource Consumption To implement the new combined Environment and Society Policy, the The Resources website was set up last year to monitor energy and revised management system consists of a senior level strategic water consumption, and waste recycling.
This has been a useful tool Environment and Society Committee and two review panels, one for in enabling our asset managers and managing agents to track environmental matters and one for marketplace, workplace and consumption and take any necessary action to reduce consumpcommunity matters.
i The Environment and Society Committee ii Supply Chain The Environment and Society Committee has responsibility for We are analysing our list of suppliers and mapping the supply chain managing the Companys CSR Strategy.
The Committees duties in order to identify where our most significant impacts are likely to be.
include: setting the Environment and Society Policy for British 53 Land and its subsidiary companies, developing objectives and makiii Training ing sure they are met.
Internal interviews are underway with each business unit to estabJohn Weston Smith Chief Operating Officer chairs the Environlish the environmental and social training needs of staff across ment and Society Committee.
External consultants provide guidance the Company.
and verification of the Companys performance and achievements.
Benchmarking Surveys ii The Environment Review Panel In the Business in the Community Survey for 2002 British Land The Environment Review Panel is responsible for setting, reviewing maintains a consistent score, coming fourth in our sector.
British Land and monitoring the Companys environmental targets.
It is comwas the only Real Estate company to participate in the first ever posed of representatives from business units within the Company, Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Survey.
We including the Meadowhall Shopping Centre, Broadgate Estates and achieved a score of 61.4% resulting in a position in the fourth quintile.
the Eastgate Shopping Centre in Basildon.
We are using the results to review our action programme and targets.
The Panel representatives are responsible for ensuring that the In the Property in the Environment Group Survey 2003 British business units and their agents, consultants and suppliers adhere to Land was placed in the Vanguard category, recognising those the Policy and achieve the associated objectives and targets.
The companies who lead the industry on environmental issues.
minutes of the meetings and reporting on progress against targets are made available through the Company intranet.
Health and Safety The Company is proactive in creating a safe, healthy and pleasant iii The Society Review Panel environment for staff, visitors and contractors and complying with The Society Review Panel is responsible for setting, reviewing and health and safety legislation and codes of practice.
All employees monitoring targets in the areas of workplace, community and marreceive training and are issued with a staff handbook, which contains ketplace.
The Panel, including representatives from Meadowhall, the Companys detailed Health and Safety Policy and procedure.
Blythe Valley Park and Peacocks Shopping Centre in Woking, brings All managing agents are issued with the Company Health and a wealth of experience in delivering community initiatives.
At construction sites regular monitoring and review sentatives from head office and Broadgate Estates offer additional enables effective health and safety management on all our develexpertise in the fields of workplace and marketplace.
The Panels job opment projects.
is to ensure continual improvement in these areas.
Communication CSR web page Environment and Society Committee The new CSR web pages on the British Land website communicates our Environment and Society activities and enables stakeholders Environment Society Review and the public to provide us with feedback: Please visit Panel Review Panel www.
com or email us on CSR@britishland.
Environmental Society Objectives Objectives and and Targets Stakeholder Communication Targets Two way dialogue Environment and We continue to meet with our stakeholders to find out what they Society Report perceive as our significant social impacts.
We also meet with Socially Responsible Investment analysts and fund managers to understand what investors see as the key issues and to discuss our performance in this important area.
Performance against targets We look forward to providing further updates on our work on CSR We will provide a detailed report on progress on our targets in the in the 2003 Environment and Society Report which will be published December 2003 Environment and Society Report.
At this stage, nearin December.
ly half way through the year, we can report on progress so far in the following areas.
The British Land Company PLC
