Corporate Social Responsibility Report How we do business - Vitas corporate social responsibility beliefs and actions At British Vita we employ over 8,000 people.
Structure & Integration We want every one of them to go home Vita has 113 manufacturing sites in 21 safely to their families at the end of each countries providing a rich social mix.
Vitas beliefs are straightforward: challenge is to ensure the same high standwe respect our colleagues and operate a ards are reached at all sites.
The Company safe and healthy workplace, while managing has been present in these countries for many our activities with consideration to the enviryears and this ensures that we have a deep onment and our neighbours.
We believe in understanding of local cultures.
developing strong partnerships with our Executive directors reported at each of the stakeholders to the benefit of all parties: eight Board Meetings on Health, Safety & the these relationships are grounded on fair play Environment, Supply Chain & Customer Conand ethical conduct.
Vita aims always to sumer issues and Corporate Governance.
The achieve, and where possible exceed, compChief Executive reported on Health, Safety & liance with expected standards.
the Environment, while executive directors During 2003 and 2004 we are consolidating with responsibility for the divisions reported on our existing strands of Corporate Social RespSuppliers & Customer Consumer issues.
In onsibility CSR to form a cohesive framework 2004 reports will also be made at Board Meetfor the Groups operations.
Following three ings on Employee and Community issues.
years completing the Business in the EnvironControl of operational matters is delegated ment Index and steady improvement of our to four Executive Control Groups ECGs, one Index score, 2003 was the first year the Group for Cellular Foams, one for Nonwovens and completed the full Business in the Community two for the Industrial Polymers Division.
CSR is Corporate Responsibility Index, recognised as integrated into the life of each Vita business the leading measure of social responsibility.
through the Business Model which details We have used the framework of this survey to Vitas best practice for the fundamental further develop our beliefs, plans and actions aspects of our operations and is used by in this area.
senior managers at all Vita businesses.
14 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com Health & Safety We must provide a safe and healthy workWith help from the TUC Partnership place for employees and all others on our premises.
Vitas Health, Safety and EnvironInstitute, partnerships have been ment Committee, which includes representpiloted at three Vitafoam businesses atives from the ECGs, meets six times a year prior to ECG meetings to formulate policy, to unite management and employees promote initiatives and monitor performin the common goal of improving ance.
Chief Executive David Campbell Health & Safety.
Pivotal in communicating the required standards for Health & Safety is the Responsible Care Programme, which is included in the Business Model.
This incorporates Vitas Accident Severity Major Injuries policy and model code for Health, Safety 0.6 35 and the Environment.
These sections have 30 0.5 been translated into local languages at all 25 sites and are available to employees on the 0.4 Companys Intranet.
These policies provide 20 0.3 an umbrella under which all businesses must 15 prepare their own plans to meet their individ- 0.2 10 ual circumstances.
0.1 5 Operating safely, with due regard to the 0.0 0 Health & Safety of employees and everyone 2000 2001 2002 2003 2000 2001 2002 2003 on our sites, is paramount to the success of our business.
As an indication of its importance, a Health & Safety and Environment instances this will embrace several sites.
Review is the first agenda item at all Main Every Vita site is required to prepare and Board, subsidiary board and ECG meetings.
monitor a Health & Safety plan annually.
It is a topic at all monthly management There were a number of Health & Safety meetings held for each business in some initiatives launched during the year.
These included the inaugural UK Health & Safety Conference, attended by more than 30 safety personnel from Vita sites: the success Tool Box Talks were of this event has resulted in another in March 2004.
Following Vitafoams positive experintroduced by Vitafoam ience with partnerships, a step by step guide and were later rolled was circulated to managers at all Vita businout throughout the esses about embarking on the Partnership process.
Partnerships offer the opportunity Group.
The main to reduce lost time accidents, sickness and purpose is for people create greater openness in our businesses.
The same standard definitions of injuries as to share information a result of an accident at work apply across relating to Health & all Vita companies worldwide.
All lost time accidents and near misses are recorded and Safety.
investigated and, where appropriate, information is circulated to similar operations to Annual Report 2003 15 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued update best practice.
All accidents that result in a major injury must immediately be reported to the Corporate Centre and an investigation report submitted within seven working days.
This ensures lessons learned are communicated to all other relevant sites to minimise the risk of a similar incident elsewhere.
A small Corporate Centre team of trained staff is available to advise and assist local management on Health, Safety & Environment Environmental matters.
Major sites undergo Energy consumption has been identified as regular site surveys by external insurers, Vitas principal environmental impact.
This primarily to minimise fire risks.
sets us apart from other companies in the Vita monitors against nine Health & Safety Chemical sector, since in general we manukey performance indicators for all businesses facture recyclable products and have low during the year.
The Group performance emissions to the environment.
Vitas managestatistics for 2003 show a range of results: ment focus is to reduce energy consumption accident severity has improved by 10%, while and waste.
Performance indicators and incidents resulting in a major injury deteriortargets are agreed for businesses annually.
There were a total of 32 such injuries These indicators include energy consumption during 2003, 38% of these resulted from slips by energy source, water consumption by and trips.
source, waste sent for disposal, waste reVitas ultimate objective is to eliminate cycled and emissions to air.
The key target all accidents and therefore the Company for 2003 was a reduction of 3% in CO per 2 does not issue targets for Health & Safety tonne of production and we are pleased to that could imply an acceptable level of report that the Group achieved a reduction accidents.
Energy use was 0.299 0.302 CO per tonne of production and there 2 was an absolute saving of 32 million kWh of energy used in 2003 compared with the All new greenfield previous year.
Efforts are made to minimise waste prodsites are designed to uced and we recycle almost all scrap prodbuild in energy saving uction material.
Systems are also in place to and low emission recycle customer waste.
Some Vita operations have small amounts of emissions and technology.
Our new continued efforts are made to reduce and site in Central Europe eliminate any environmental impact, in addition to complying with all statutory and local will conform to IPPC regulations.
For many years we have worked regulations prior to with the authorities and our chemical suppHungarys forthcoming liers to identify and, if possible, reduce or eliminate any residual chemicals in our prodaccession to the EU.
ucts when in use, or when recycled or otherwise disposed of.
Vitas approach has always been that hazardous chemicals should be replaced by less hazardous alternatives wherever possible.
16 For more information on British Vita visit www.
com One of the most significant examples of this has been the work achieved by Vitafoam in Vitafoam has reduced its usage of reducing its usage of methylene chloride as a blowing agent in the manufacture of flexible methylene chloride as a blowing polyurethane foams.
Vitafoam has met the agent by 60% since 1996. dual challenge of retaining product quality while using less hazardous materials.
This work started in 1996 and since then the company has reduced its usage of methylene chloride Energy used kW hours by source by 60%.
It continues to work towards reduc- 300,000,000 ing this figure further.
2002 With the acquisition of VTC Synco, British 250,000,000 Vita now has six businesses that have achiev- 2003 ed ISO 14001.
Vitas in-house Environmental 200,000,000 Co-ordinator was involved at 12 sites during 2003 assisting with energy improvement opportunities.
A number of measures have 150,000,000 been born out of this involvement such as the installation of inverters to reduce energy 100,000,000 consumption on the production lines at Doeflex Vitapol in Swindon.
50,000,000 0 Electricity Gas Gas Diesel Oil Heavy Fuel Oil LPG Manufacturing & work closely with our customers and suppliers.
engineering forums The Business Model gives guidelines for were established for ethical behaviour in dealings with both customers and suppliers, including the rejection the Industrial division of any business practice that might reasonduring the year.
ably be deemed improper or using ones Bringing together authority for personal gain.
Many of Vitas products are designed in operational managers, response to increasing environmental awarethey identified best ness of consumers and the need to use scarce resources wisely.
Already mentioned practice and commis the use of post-consumer waste for autounicated it within Vita.
During the year Hyperlast launched a high performance elastomeric material that can be applied to printing cylinders, used for high-volume Marketplace printing of packaging and postage stamps Vita aims to be at the forefront of developamongst other things, which allows the ing and manufacturing materials that are cylinders to be re-used.
This could free up innovative, cost effective and recyclable.
the huge redundant stock of steel gravure We seek to manufacture in a responsible printing cylinders archived around the world manner products that enhance the everyand is another example of Vitas technology day lives of consumers.
To achieve this we unlocking a recycling opportunity.
Annual Report 2003 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued Vita sponsored a two-day business programme for sixth formers at Wardle High School, Rochdale and achievement awards for students in the Department of Computing and businesses must have contingency plans to Mathematics at Manchester deal with major incidents that could affect Metropolitan University.
local communities in the vicinity of our sites.
Arrangements concerning Corporate Governance are found in the Governance Report on page 23.
Development & training We actively work to avoid incidents that Vita is fully committed to the continued could result in prosecution.
However, during development of its people.
The Business 2003 there were two prosecutions in the UK - Model offers best practice for developing one brought by the Health & Safety Execour employees, taking into account the utive concerning an injury to an operators importance of local employment law and hand while cleaning a machine at Doeflex cultural diversity.
Vita operates a totally Vitapol in Swindon: this resulted in a fine of non-discriminatory employment policy, part 12,000.
The other was brought by the of which is the proper consideration of all Environment Agency relating to a spillage applications for employment from ethnic of PVA resin into a surface water drain at minority communities and from people with Portways in the West Midlands, resulting in a disabilities.
Each business strives to develop fine of 2,000.
Both sites have reviewed their its people in order to achieve its aims and operations to identify the causes and prevobjectives.
Community We seek to foster good relations with our Vita Baltic International local communities.
Our policy, included in the Business Model, determines that each in Lithuania have business should review annually its key commsponsored a local unity issues.
youth soccer team Support is given to a range of projects through financial donations, gifts of products for a number of years.
such as foam donated to a local dance In 2003, they won the troupe and use of company facilities rooms at Vitas Training Centre are used by local bronze medal in the schools for designated projects.
The criteria National Youth for selecting projects are that they have a technological theme or benefit people who Championships.
As part of our crisis management plans, all 18 For more information on British Vita visit www.
