PAGE 75 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate social responsibility The Group continues to recognise the importance of its responsibility to the environment, the community, its employees and shareholders.
This report sets out how the Group deals with its environmental, social and corporate responsibilities.
The Group has recently established a CSR Committee made up of senior executives from various areas within the Group to formulate the Groups ongoing policy in respect of CSR and to oversee the implementation of such policy.
Environment As previously reported, the majority of the Groups businesses have little impact on the environment but, where they do, the Group ensures that a responsible approach to their obligations is taken at all times.
Some of the Groups suppliers, particularly in the Books and Music divisions, do have an environmental impact and, therefore, wherever possible, these divisions ensure that their suppliers maintain a high standard of environmental responsibility.
Chrysalis Books Group is committed to the social accountability standards set out in the UN Global Compact on the Responsibilities of Businesses.
Chrysalis Books works with suppliers all over the world, including the USA, Europe and Asia and is mindful of its responsibilities to ensure these suppliers are meeting their obligations to their staff and stakeholders.
Since January 2003, Chrysalis Books has been working closely with other leading UK book publishers to define an industry-wide Code of Conduct that can be adopted by Chrysalis Books and its suppliers.
It is clear that such a code will be all the stronger for being supported by the publishing industry as a whole and this co-operative approach is the best way of ensuring global understanding and compliance.
This code will be fully auditable and enforceable on all suppliers to Chrysalis Books wherever they are in the world, yet it will take a pragmatic and progressive approach that is sensitive to the local laws and customs of a particular supplier situation.
It will define standards and audit procedures in the areas of working hours, remuneration, child labour, forced and prison labour, disciplinary practices, discrimination, employer representation, facilities, re protection, health and safety, staff welfare and the environment.
As well as providing for audits to assess compliance, the implementation of the code will also provide for corrective action plans to promote appropriate and lasting improvements across all of these areas.
Chrysalis Books expects that the code will be nalised early in 2004 and be ready for implementation by Chrysalis Books and its suppliers by the end of that year.
Until then, Chrysalis Books remains committed to only contracting suppliers who share our concerns in these areas, and ensures that this is the case through annual inspections of all suppliers by senior members of Chrysalis Books management team.
Chrysalis Books impacts upon the environment through its relationships with its printers and paper suppliers.
Chrysalis Books continues to work towards ensuring that it has a minimal adverse impact on the environment and only uses suppliers who are environmentally aware, preferably with an ISO 14001 accreditation.
In terms of book manufacturing, this global standard defines working practices relating to waste disposal, the chemical content of inks and paper, pollutants and other by products.
Where suppliers have not yet reached this accreditation, Chrysalis Books encourages them to reect these standards by implementing appropriate working practices of their own.
In selecting and purchasing paper stocks, Chrysalis Books is working with its suppliers to ensure that all materials used are fully identiable, and can thus be traced back to their particular source.
In this way, Chrysalis Books can be satisfied that the wood pulp used in the paper it purchases originates from responsibly managed forests and that the paper mills involved have stringent environmental policies of their own.
The Echo Label impacts on the environment primarily through the production of CDs.
It chooses manufacturers for its CDs who are environmentally aware and have their own environmental policies.
The Label encourages artists to adopt a policy of contributing to future forests, ensuring that CDs produced are carbon neutral.
The Group as a whole encourages recycling of waste products wherever possible and has continued to work closely with recycling companies to ensure the recycling of as much waste as practicable.
Community Chrysaliss businesses continue to operate their own community programmes and the Groups radio stations in particular pride themselves on their strong link to the communities which they serve.
All of the Chrysalis radio stations have carried out many community focused activities over the year and have contributed to numerous charitable causes assisting them in raising considerable sums of money.
Some of the highlights have again been 100.7 Heart FMs First Steps Charitable Appeal, which raised over 150,000 for the Heart of England Radio Charitable Trust, of which over 140,000 was raised by the annual Run For Home fund raising event, which involved approximately 1,000 local listeners.
100.7 Heart FM was instrumental in launching the public phase of the Why my Child Appeal which aims to raise 1 million to create a research unit for childrens diseases.
PAGE 76 Chrysalis Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate social responsibility Heart 106.2 was the first ever ofcial radio station for the Nordoff-Robbins Music Therapy Silver Clef Awards lunch which took place in June 2003.
Leading up to the event, Heart ran a two month-long airtime campaign to raise awareness of and encourage fundraising for the charity.
The station also raised an additional 5,000 via a vote by text campaign, which encouraged listeners to vote for their Heart Record of the Year.
Throughout the year, either via the Ground Patrol, presenters or direct donations, Heart 106.2 has also supported a variety of charities, including Breakthrough Breast Cancer, Great Ormond Street Hospital, Make A Wish Foundation, the Royal Marsden Hospital, Trees for London, Leukaemia Research Fund, Cancer Research UK, Cancer Backup and the Salvation Army.
The Galaxy Network continued its support for the local community, holding numerous courses in practical radio skills throughout the areas in which they operate.
It also supported a variety of charities by assisting them in fund-raising.
Chrysalis Books raised 13,607 for the Free Spirit charity through a sponsored run in which a number of its employees took part.
Employees All of the Groups businesses are hugely dependent upon the people they employ and the success of the Group is reliant on how well we manage, nurture and develop these people and how good an environment we provide for them to operate in.
The Groups employer practices are based upon best industry practice and legislation.
We are continuing to develop and improve our employer practices in line with our corporate goal of becoming an employer of first choice.
The Group is, as ever, mindful of its obligation in the areas of workplace diversity and equal opportunities.
We continue to adhere to current legislation and best practice standards at all times.
The Group employees are selected purely upon their ability to full the demands of the role.
The Group actively encourages adherence to equal opportunity codes of practice and promotes diversity within the workplace.
It is the Groups policy to give every consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons and to afford them full opportunity for appointment to and training for positions within their capabilities.
Should an employee become disabled during his or her employment with the Group every effort is made to continue employment within their existing capacity where practicable, or failing that, in some suitable alternative capacity.
The Group continues to invest in learning and development, which is an ongoing focus for the Groups Human Resources team.
The Group carries out a bi-annual performance review programme which provides the Group with valuable information relating to the developmental needs of our people.
Initiatives such as a management development programme have been created to build upon existing training and development schemes.
Such initiatives are vital in differentiating ourselves from our competitors and providing us with a continuing competitive advantage.
Staff welfare remains an important aspect of our employer practices and we are consistently reviewing our efforts in this area.
The Group carries out an annual staff attitude survey which provides us with valuable data in this area and new initiatives arising from the responses to the survey have included a staff communications forum.
This forum allows our employees the opportunity to raise issues that are of importance to them.
Internal staff communication is considered a vital part of good management practice and the Group has a dedicated Corporate Communications Director with responsibility for both external and internal communications.
It is the Groups policy to ensure that employees are made aware of significant matters affecting the performance of the Group in writing or by informal briengs via the Groups intranet site.
All employees receive a monthly update of the Groups performance from the Group Chief Executive.
Further initiatives include an upgrade of the Groups corporate website and intranet site providing better access to and more indepth information on the Groups activities for both employees and external parties.
The Company operates an executive share option scheme, a SAYE share option scheme, a restricted share plan operated through the Chrysalis Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust, and various performance related bonus schemes for its management and staff as incentives for their participation for the business in which they are employed.
Health and Safety The Group meets its health and safety responsibilities by ensuring that each business complies with the health and safety policy set by the Group.
The Group takes all practical measures possible to ensure the health and safety of its employees, contractors and the members of public with whom it interacts.
The Radio division in particular prides itself on its health and safety policies when organising events at which members of the public attend and the staff who are responsible for organising such events regularly undertake specic health and safety training.
The divisions health and safety policy contains a direct chain of responsibilities so that all staff who are involved in organising events are aware of their and their colleagues responsibilities.
Directors and advisors Board of directors as at Advisors Solicitors Registered and Head Ofce 17th December 2003 Auditors Harbottle & Lewis The Chrysalis Building C N Wright BA KPMG Audit Plc Hanover House Bramley Road Executive Chairman and Founder 8 Salisbury Square 14 Hanover Square London W10 6SP London EC4Y 8BB London W1S 1HP Telephone: 020 7221 2213 R N L Huntingford FCA Facsimile: 020 7221 6455 Group Chief Executive Brokers and Corporate Clifford Chance Email: enquiries@chrysalis.
com Finance Advisors 200 Aldersgate Street Website: www.
com N R A Buttereld FCA Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein London EC1A 4JJ Group Finance Director 20 Fenchurch Street Company Registered in England London EC3P 3DB Registrars and Wales No.
946978 PA Lassman Computershare Investor Chief Executive Bankers Services plc Lasgo Chrysalis Limited The Royal Bank of Scotland Registrars Department 135 Bishopsgate PO Box 82 P S Riley MBA London EC2M 3UR The Pavilions Chief Executive Radio Division Bridgwater Road National Westminster Bank Bristol BS99 7NR C J C Levison MA, LL.
M 30 North Audley Street Non-Executive Director London W1A 4UQ Property Advisors Deputy Chairman Lambert Smith Hampton Corporate PR Regent Arcade House G Howard-Spink Buchanan Communications 19-25 Argyll Street Non-Executive Director 107 Cheapside London W1V 1AA London EC2V 6DT Sir George Martin CBE Bollingbrook Limited Non-Executive Director Mortimer House 230-236 Lavender Hill D B Murrell FCA London SW11 1LE Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director C R Potterell ACIS Company Secretary Designed and produced by Bostock and Pollitt Ltd, London Chrysalis Group PLC Group Chrysalis Radio Chrysalis Music www.
co. uk The Chrysalis Building www.
co. uk Chrysalis Books www.
