Corporate Responsibility Hammerson is committed to conducting all aspects of its business to high standards of probity and professionalism.
It recognises that it has responsibilities towards all those with whom it has dealings including its shareholders, employees, tenants, customers and suppliers.
It also acknowledges its responsibilities towards the local communities in which it operates and the environment.
Within the Companys risk management programme, the Board approves all policy relating to ethical, social, environmental, health and safety issues and receives regular reports on these matters so as to ensure that internal standards are met and legislation complied with.
A committee, comprising senior employees from different disciplines and chaired by J A Bywater, is responsible for formulating and monitoring Corporate Responsibility policies.
BUSINESS ETHICS All employees receive a copy of the Hammerson Code of Conduct.
This makes clear the standard of behaviour expected from them in their business dealings on behalf of Hammerson and their responsibility for maintaining and enhancing the Companys reputation.
It also sets out managements policy towards fraud.
Hammerson has made a commitment to all its business partners and advisers over the way in which it deals with them.
In particular, it aims to be honest, professional and fair and it encourages suppliers and sub-contractors to operate according to similar principles.
SHAREHOLDERS The Board believes in the importance of effective communication of its stewardship of the Companys affairs.
It seeks to improve shareholders understanding by publishing extensive information relating to its portfolio and explaining its strategy and objectives.
The Company devotes time to meeting its shareholders to explain Hammersons business and financial performance, to answer their questions and listen to their opinions.
The Companys approach to corporate governance is set out on pages 4 to 6.
EMPLOYEES Hammerson provides its employees with clean, healthy and safe working conditions and respects their human rights.
The Company recognises the need to attract and retain employees of a high calibre and is committed to the principle of equal opportunity, within a framework of clear terms of employment.
It invests in its employees, offering training and development to help them maximise their potential and contribute further to the Companys business objectives.
Individual performance is regularly appraised.
In the United Kingdom, Hammerson has had Investors in People recognition since 1997.
The Company believes in a fair remuneration policy and that employees should have an interest in the Companys financial performance.
Subject to length of service, employees are eligible for grants of options.
Details of the Companys share option scheme and deferred share plan are set out in the Remuneration Report which follows on pages 13 to 18.
In addition, employees are able to participate in a savings related share option scheme.
HEALTH & SAFETY Hammerson operates and continually reviews its health and safety policies and practices, monitoring current and proposed legislation to ensure appropriate safety standards are maintained.
All its properties are subject to an external health and safety audit programme.
Employees receive appropriate training and are made aware of health and safety policy and their responsibilities for its implementation.
LOCAL COMMUNITIES The support of local communities is crucial to the success of Hammersons developments, particularly its city centre, retail-led regeneration schemes.
Attention is paid to ensuring that the future users of each development have an opportunity to understand the development proposals and voice their opinions.
Development schemes often make provision for public art and wherever possible local artists and schools are encouraged to contribute their work.
PROPERTY INDUSTRY Directors and senior management are encouraged to represent the Companys views and contribute towards the development of the property industry by serving on the boards of industry bodies such as the British Property Federation, the British Council of Shopping Centres, the City Property Association, the European Public Real Estate Association and the Fdration des Socits Immobilires et Foncires.. 11 Corporate Responsibility ENVIRONMENT The Companys environment policy, which may be viewed on the Companys website, www.
co. uk, sets out the procedures concerning environmental management that Hammerson follows to ensure compliance with local environmental legislation in those countries in which it operates.
The policy, which is regularly reviewed, covers environmental matters relating to the management of its investment and development properties and the conduct of its business.
The Company carries out regular maintenance and, where practicable, improvement programmes to ensure the efficient operation of its buildings and to reduce energy consumption having regard to tenants needs and the age of buildings.
In addition Hammerson encourages tenants to follow environmental procedures compatible with its own.
The environmental impact of developments and building works is managed through careful consideration of design, selection of materials and construction techniques.
Consultants and contractors are required to adhere to the Companys policy and encouraged to suggest improvements.
Prior to any property acquisition, an environmental assessment is undertaken to identify possible contamination or the presence of materials considered environmentally harmful.
Remedial action is taken where appropriate.
In its day to day business, Hammerson follows guidelines aimed at reducing energy consumption, uses appropriate supplies and encourages recycling.
It recycles paper, toner cartridges and glass at its own offices.
Employees are aware of the Companys responsibilities and their duties in implementing environmental management procedures.
The Company has set itself a number of environmental targets and management tasks with clearly allocated responsibilities.
Progress against these targets is certified and reported, along with quantitative measures of the environmental impact wherever possible, in the document entitled Corporate Responsibility 2004, which is being issued with these accounts, and which can also be found on Hammersons website www.
co. uk, A founding member of the Property Environment Group PEG www.
net, Hammerson was ranked amongst the best performing companies in the January 2004 PEG benchmarking survey of environmental engagement in the property industry.
The Company also participates in the Business in the Environment annual index of the FTSE 350.. 12
