Corporate social responsibility White Rose study support centre, Leeds The White Rose study support centre was developed in partnership with Leeds City Council and Education Leeds.
We have equipped the centre with IT equipment and an area for arts and crafts sessions, and all facilities are fully accessible for people with disabilities.
During the year we continued to develop our Stakeholder area of responsibility approach to corporate social responsibility Board member CSR following the formation of our CSR Customers occupiers Mark Collins Ian Ellis committee last year, which is chaired by the Group chief executive, Ian Henderson.
To ensure Shareholders and other investors Ian Henderson Andrew Macfarlane that our activities are in line with best practice Employees Ian Henderson we retained external advisers who have reviewed Suppliers, advisers, contractors and consultants Ian Ellis Francis Salway our current activities and who will be monitoring Government Ian Henderson future progress against our objectives.
Community Ian Henderson Our CSR policy statement is being developed as Health, safety and environment Francis Salway a statement of intent in relation to our Corporate governance, business ethics, compliance and verification Board activities in this area and will be closely aligned with our existing business ethics policy.
This We are developing a Group-wide system for During the review process we have examined covers the Groups most significant areas of managing our CSR activities while, at the same our CSR management structure in relation to: corporate responsibility and is being updated to time, each business unit and certain Group ensure that it captures our key stakeholder support functions are developing specific policies, programmes, initiatives and case groups, priority CSR issues and areas of impact.
objectives and targets in relation to their study examples addressing CSR issues: The current policy sets out the Groups activities and areas of impact.
These objectives external standards certification systems: operating principles and is available on our and targets will form the basis upon which we website.
The table below details the key areas or will measure and report on our CSR activities in measurement and monitoring systems stakeholder groups that this policy covers and future, and, we intend publishing a full review and performance related information: and the Board members with main responsibility later this year complementing the progress we organisational responsibilities for different for these.
have made to date on reporting our aspects of CSR.
In future, we will aim to report on CSR, to include our Environment Report, every year in the autumn.
LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 28 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Corporate social responsibility Left Below Below right At the Almondvale Shopping The archaeological dig We believe that our Centre, Livingston we have undertaken on 30 Gresham employees make Land launched the first UK trial of Street site and the special Securities, so by encouraging a unique Truancy-Free exhibition created to everyone to undertake Zone initiative to build showcase the finds have both personal development and closer relationships with the been recognised with awards training and to live our local community and the from the British core values, we are ensuring police while encouraging Archaeological Society and our future success.
more responsible centre Interpret Britain Awards.
HR policy The review has enabled the Group to identify well as with other employees.
An employee gaps in our CSR activities and is proving a useful recognition and award programme helps The employment policies of the Group maintain its commitment to equal communication tool internally with regard to maintain momentum and motivation.
The criteria for selection and We are also keen to encourage employees to promotion are the individuals suitability for the position of employment offered and his or Our continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good become involved in activities outside their Index as well as our leadership position in the normal work in a wide range of activities in the her skills and abilities.
We maintain our policy of giving full and fair consideration to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, where in 2002 community, such as schools, colleges, hospitals we were named European Real Estate Market and other voluntary organisations.
employment of applicants who are disabled and Leader, demonstrates our commitment to CSR.
for incorporating the needs of people who may become disabled during the course of their We are aware, however, of the need for The Group also closely monitors its employee continuous improvement and we have set out policies and practices to ensure it maintains employment with the Group.
a three-year target of improving the Groups high standards and best practice, particularly in score in these indices as well as attaining relation to equal opportunities in recruitment Our business ethics policy is circulated to all membership of the BIC Sustainability Index.
and internal career progression as well as fair staff and provided to all new employees in their induction pack.
All staff are required to abide by and equitable remuneration.
Copies of our employment This year the Company has also carried out a policies are available on our website.
We have a tradition of encouraging our sitebased staff to be involved in community Group-wide employee opinion survey with over initiatives in the locality in which they are 80% of the employees responding to a wide based.
More recently all our employees have range of issues on a confidential basis.
been involved in workshops to establish and The Company communicated the results and communicate our values.
These values, which management action plans to all employees include Integrity and Respect for the individual, and, overall, achieved a marginally higher rating underpin our behaviours and relationships with on satisfaction than an external all-industry our customers, suppliers and the community, as benchmark.
LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 29 Health, safety and environment making sustainability work Environmental Panels exist We also continue to in each business unit to set integrate environmental annual targets and ensure and health and safety that the Group policy and considerations into the objectives are translated daily activities of our into everyday actions.
various teams and at the end of 2002 we formed a new department of Health, Safety and Environment.
During the year we merged existing teams to Health and safety To reduce our reliance on outsourced audit establish a new department for health, safety We continued to make good progress in expertise, which has resulted in annual enhancing the management of health and and environment, combining these related savings of nearly 300,000 and our audit disciplines to provide a focused service to each safety across the Group.
We set and achieved processes being more closely integrated with business unit.
Francis Salway retains Board several key objectives in the year to 31 March ongoing operations.
These were: responsibility for the departments activities, To develop and implement a programme to with Neale Goff, director health safety and comply with the revised Control of Asbestos To review and update our health and safety environment, responsible for directing at Work Regulations.
The new programme has operational delivery.
policy and management systems and been devised and work on resurveying and implement a programme for proactive implementing management controls monitoring.
To revise our procedure for accident reporting We also made a major investment in training and develop a database to capture this to increase the health and safety awareness information more effectively.
Statistical and competencies of our professional staff.
information is available to the Board and Some 35 people passed the NEBOSH health and safety team and used as a means certificate in occupational health and safety for evaluating the effectiveness of our safety further complimenting our IOSH Managing improvement programme.
and Working Safely training programmes.
To develop a more empirical approach to auditing compliance with internal and external health and safety requirements.
LAND SECURITIES ANNUAL REPORT 2003 30 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Health, safety and environment Environment report Crossways Business Park In 2002 we produced our Our Crossways business park second stand-alone in Kent Thameside received Environment Report the Millennium Marque as an outlining our impacts and excellent example of communicating the 19 economic and environmental targets established for improvement at a former 2002 03.
We continue cement works in Dartford.
working with our external partners to raise awareness of environmental matters.
Environment We won three Green Apple Awards for our We remain committed to ensuring that our We developed further our programme for environmental activities, one for our people have the tools and training to ensure managing our environmental impacts, environment day which is now to be an annual that we achieve our environmental objectives.
embedding these principles more firmly into event.
We won a gold award for Making a As well as specialist environmental auditor 2 our standard procedures.
We published our Corporate Commitment MACC to reduce CO training, last year we accumulated more than 2 second Environment Report, which described emissions and a bronze award for the intranet 150 person-hours of targeted training for key and quantified our achievements against a system implemented to control Land Securities managers across the Group.
For the year ending March Trilliums ISO14001-certified environmental 2003, we set 19 targets and, subject to external management system EMS.
We became a Our successes were acknowledged in two verification, successfully met them all.
founder member of Trucost, a system for influential surveys.
In the Business in the measuring and benchmarking total Environment Index of corporate engagement We are participating in the trial UK Emissions environmental footprints using both direct and our score rose from 67% to 78% in 2002, and in Trading Scheme, which runs until December supply chain impacts.
Land SecuritiesTrillium the sector-specific Property and Environment 2007, and are committed to an ongoing cut of encouraged and helped one major supplier to Group survey conducted by Upstream, our about 1% per year in aggregate emissions of develop its own EMS to achieve certification score increased from 69% to 76%, ranking us CO across our portfolio of managed offices, to ISO14001.
2 which equates to more than 3,500 tonnes over five years.
We comfortably beat our target for We continue to foster our relationship with We have changed our mailing envelope for the 2002, earning over 13,500 from the scheme clients in order to help them develop systems annual report to a poly-wrap enclosure this for successful compliance, a reward we shared and procedures to meet their own year.
It is a process that saved over 4,500 and with our contractors who were instrumental environmental objectives.
We have helped the supports our commitment to environmental in our success.
DWP achieve a recycling rate of 60% by weight, policies, as the plastic used to make the polycompared to the national average of around wrap is biodegradable.
12%, and are already up to around 22% for the BBC, where we are also developing a combined For more details on our environmental heat and power plant.
programme for 2003 4, and to see our 2002 environment report in full, please go to our website.
