10466 COMPASS p3 p28 LOWRES 01 05 04 10:52 AM Page 18 great service Acting responsibly is part of our corporate DNA and is at the very heart of our vision and values.
18 Compass Group PLC 10466 COMPASS p3 p28 LOWRES 01 05 04 10:52 AM Page 19 Where weve come from For Compass Group Compass in the Community Our commitment Corporate Social Responsibility doing business in a socially responsible way is to corporate social responsibility is best As a global company, employing just plain common sense.
Over the last decade, illustrated by our Compass in the Community 400,000 people in over 90 countries, as we have grown into a global business, the programme.
Established in 1996 the programme we are acutely aware of the impact of challenge has been to ensure that we live our recognises the best community based initiatives values to the highest possible standards in across the world and rewards successful teams our operations on the communities in order to protect the long-term interests of all with a donation to support their project.
Specific which we do business and on society our stakeholders.
In particular, we are committed aims of the programme are to tackle social in general.
Acting responsibly is part to making a meaningful contribution to those exclusion, improve employability and promote communities in which we work and in which sustainability and diversity.
of our corporate DNA and is at the our people live.
very heart of our vision and values.
In 2003 the worldwide Compass in the This commitment is reflected in our can do Community Gold Award went to Select Service attitude.
We achieve the greatest impact by Partner UK Rail for their work with the Railway encouraging and supporting our people to do Children Charity.
There are over 150 million what is right at a local level.
Our operational street children around the world and railway culture ensures that our values are shared stations are an important first point of contact.
But we recognise that SSP has raised 100,000 to support the sometimes the policies and principles that charitys work.
SSP has developed a particularly underpin how we do business are not as visible close link with the charity in India where children as they might be.
as young as six beg at railway stations.
This money has helped to establish a drop-in centre Whilst we already do a great deal at the local at Calcutta railway station from which children level we need to do more to understand and go to a half-way house where they are looked measure the impact of our values globally.
after and receive basic education whilst efforts We are committed to improving the are made to reunite them with their families.
communication of what we do to all our stakeholders but because of the diversity and The Silver Award went to Eurest in Brazil for geographic spread of our business it will take its involvement in Projecto Encaminhar, a us some time to achieve and report measurable programme to provide real work experience for results in all areas.
young people in a country where unemployment is high and wages low.
Participants go on a What we have done in the past year We three month internship to learn new skills, have conducted a global audit of existing activity knowledge and experience for their professional to establish best practice in twelve key areas future and develop the desire to become a including equal opportunities, lifelong learning, productive citizen.
food safety and supply chain.
We have also begun to consider how we can improve our In Australia we have received awards for performance in these areas and how we will our Indigenous Training and Employment measure and report on the impact of our Project ITEP which provides opportunities activities.
During 2004 it is our intention to for individuals to complete a nationally produce a five-year social responsibility recognised traineeship, whilst gaining job strategy which will be made available through experience.
Since its inception we have our website.
recruited over 200 indigenous Australians into full-time employment.
During the year we have also established a CSR forum made up of senior managers from In Angola we are investing 0.2% of our across the Group which reports to the Executive revenues in that country into funding community and Group Boards.
The forum is responsible projects and vegetables and eggs are being for increasing awareness across the Group of sourced from the Quenguela community project.
the priority we attach to responsible and Angolans will occupy 25% of senior sustainable business practices.
It will also define management positions in Angola within best practice standards in each of the twelve key three years.
areas and a framework to enable every country in which we operate to reach the required best In North America we are members of practice standard over time.
the Multicultural Foodservice Hospitality Alliance, National Society of Minorities in During 2003 we have become members of Hospitality, Womens Foodservice Forum Business in the Community BITC and in and Rainbow Push.
2004 we will be participating in BITCs Social Responsibility Index and for the first time in the Our commitment to supporting local Business in the Environment Index.
Details of our communities, not just through charitable performance in these indices will be published giving, but also through employee volunteering on our website.
We are already members of the is recognised by our inclusion in The Giving List.
Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI and Published annually, the list features companies FTSE4Good.
who are working towards donating 1% of pre-tax profits.
We are also included in BITCs Per Cent standard.
Compass Group PLC 19 10466 COMPASS p3 p28 LOWRES 01 05 04 10:52 AM Page 20 Corporate Social Responsibility continued great people In 2003 we have ratified and implemented global health and safety and food safety policies.
great results Cooking oil produced in our units will be diverted into the production of environmentally friendly biofuels.
great people In 2003 we have carried out vision and values training sessions involving 90% of our people.
20 Compass Group PLC 10466 COMPASS p3 p28 LOWRES 01 05 04 10:52 AM Page 21 Environment, Health and Safety and As a major global employer operating in over Food Safety Our Group Environment Policy 90 countries conducting business in an ethical was ratified and implemented in 2002 and way is extremely important and this is during 2003 we have rolled out our underpinned by our strong operational culture.
Environmental Awareness Handbook and But we recognise that as we continue to grow training materials to over 18,000 unit we need to formalise our ethical approach to managers across Europe.
We are working with the Institute of Business Ethics to develop a code of conduct In the UK we are diverting all the waste cooking that reflects our approach to doing business and oil produced in our units into the production of the realities of operating globally.
The code will environmentally friendly biofuels.
be ratified by the Board and made publicly available during the second half of 2004.
This will be achieved by 1 January 2004 and we believe Compass is the first catering The CEC Compass Group European Council company in the UK to put in place such a continues to play a vital role in consultation and programme to divert all its waste cooking oils policy development.
During 2003 the CEC was away from the animal feed market in advance involved in the establishment of our health and of the 31 October 2004 deadline under the safety and food safety policies.
During the year we also held the first meeting of Working in conjunction with Greenergy, the our UK Works Council, well ahead of this being UKs leading independent supplier of low a legislative requirement.
emission fuels, some 2,500 tonnes of waste cooking oil will be processed into a blended What we still have to do My board colleagues biodiesel, some of which is planned for use and I acknowledge the enormous commitment in Compass Groups delivery fleet.
all of our people have to improving the communities in which they live and work.
Darron Rathbone, health, safety and We also recognise that we have an important environment manager for ESS UK Division, contribution to make to the global challenges received the prestigious Zurich Municipal of diet, nutrition and obesity and sustainable Supreme Safety Award from the Institute of development.
Occupational Health and Safety for the excellence of the health and safety practices We are adopting a rigorous and thorough within ESS.
ESS also won a National Safety approach to the ongoing development of Award for its offshore division from the British our social responsibilities and to defining our Safety Council for the second consecutive year.
contribution to these global challenges.
As our strategy develops we will make our policies, In Norway, SSP won an award for the best performance and impacts available through environmental report in the category for our website.
companies employing more than 250 people.
We are doing a great deal already but there is In 2003 we have ratified and implemented more for us to do.
To realise our vision of great global health and safety and food safety policies.
people, great service, great results we have to Details of these policies can be found on continue to work with all our stakeholders to our website.
protect and more importantly enhance their interests.
This we are committed to doing.
During 2004 we will be developing health and safety and food safety handbooks and training materials for unit managers to ensure compliance with these policies.
Workplace Our vision is great people, great service, great results.
Great people are at the Clive Grundy heart of our success and our aim is to be the Group Human Resources Director preferred employer in our industry.
This vision is supported by five simple values: win through teamwork, embrace diversity, share success, passion for quality and a can do attitude.
In 2003 we have carried out vision and values training sessions involving 90% of our people in over 2 million additional hours of training.
We have also carried out a survey amongst 270,000 employees to see how well we are living these values.
We will repeat the survey again in 2004 and report on our performance using 2003s results as a benchmark.
