Shareholders SRH is extremely proud of its reputation and continues SRH aims to build shareholder value through long term sustainable to strive to maintain its market leading position.
It growth and to protect the interests of shareholders whilst not doing recognises that in order both to preserve and enhance anything to disadvantage one class of investor at the expense of another.
It communicates timely and accurate information on its this reputation, it is important to retain a set of core activities, achievements and performance via its website, annual report values and approaches when conducting business so and meetings.
Financial information is provided in accordance with that it can operate to the highest standards of ethical statutory requirements and accepted principles of good corporate governance.
SRH realises that it has obligations to all those with whom it has dealings, including shareholders, Clients employees, clients, competitors, advisors and that SRH believes that personal contact and responsive action are vital in the trust and confidence of those people, as well as developing and maintaining long term client relationships and aims to provide value in terms of price and quality.
Although SRH considers of the communities in which it operates, is a real asset it important to nurture these relationships, no employee may give or which is fundamental to the continued growth and receive money or any gift of significant value which could be construed success of the group.
as being intended as a bribe.
Employees SRH recognises that its ongoing success depends upon every company in the group and accordingly considerable value is placed on the contribution of its employees.
SRH aims to provide competitive terms and conditions of employment and supports the principle of equal opportunities, opposing all forms of unlawful discrimination on whatever grounds.
More information on our employees can be found in the Directors Report on pages 20 to 22.
Suppliers, advisors and business partners SRH seeks to develop and maintain mutually beneficial relationships with its suppliers, advisors, contractors and business partners and will try to ensure, so far as is practicable, that they adhere to business principles consistent with its own.
The groups policy is to pay suppliers timeously and in accordance with agreed terms and conditions, normally within 30 days.
corporate social responsibility report 16 srh annual report and accounts 2003 Competitors SRH recognises the importance of environmental responsibility and SRH will compete honestly and will not seek to damage the reputation although it considers that the nature of its activities generally has a low of competitors either directly or by implication.
environmental impact, it does seek to conduct its operations responsibly in a manner which minimises adverse effects on the environment, Community particularly in areas of waste management and energy efficiency.
SRH considers the community to be at the heart of its operations and Accordingly, the group promotes the use of electronic communications each radio station and newspaper cultivates a strong relationship to save on paper.
Recycling schemes for various types of paper, card with the local community it serves.
It aims to conduct business as a and newspaper products as well as aluminium cans and old fax and responsible corporate citizen, to observe the law and to be sensitive printer cartridges are also in operation to help reduce waste so that less to and supportive of local cultural, social, educational and economic landfill sites or incinerators are needed.
At Radio Clyde alone, 4.3 tons needs.
of waste has been recycled since June 2002.
This paper is collected, sorted and processed into half-ton bales, ready for despatch to paper All Scottish radio stations within the group have been working closely mills in the U. K. or to export markets such as China.
Once at the paper with the Scottish Executive in the relaying of important public service mill, the material is pulped, screened, fide-inked, then rolled into tissue messages.
These include Flu jabs, the Environment, Drug Driving and or writing products.
In addition to the environmental benefits, this Racial Abuse and at critical times of the year, awareness is raised to contribution has created green collar jobs in the industry.
Within the Fire Safety, Blood Donors and Drink Driving.
press division, the policy is, where possible, to use either recyclable Every group company is involved in community projects.
The majority newsprint or newsprint produced from sustainable forests.
Morton of group companies are involved in generating cash for local charitable Newspapers was highly commended by the Department of Environment causes with Radio Clyde and West Sound together raising approximately for its support on the Wake up to Waste initiative.
The campaign was 900,000 for Cash for Kids, ensuring that under-privileged children in aimed at persuading everyone to reduce, re-use and recycle disposable west-central Scotland have a good Christmas.
In Northern Ireland, plastic bag waste and was extremely successful in raising awareness Downtown Radio and Cool FM linked up with the Volunteer Services throughout Northern Ireland on the negative effect of these on the Bureau whose role is to attract volunteers to carry out work in the environment and our wildlife.
Heavy promotion ran on both stations with calls to the Bureau increasing by 400% and presenters volunteered for various tasks ranging from visiting the sick and elderly to restoring a historical garden at a National Trust property.
Radio Forth re-introduced its community access unit, Forth Action, manned and operated by community service volunteers and has tackled issues such as epilepsy, domestic violence, breast cancer and pension credits.
Health, safety and the environment It is SRHs policy to protect and safeguard the health and safety of its employees while at work and the group has in this regard commenced a major health and safety initiative this year, introducing valuable policies at each company, in accordance with the group policy which was created last year.
In addition, external consultants visited group companies to review their health and safety management systems in order that potential risks associated with unsuitable equipment and procedures could be identified, monitored and eradicated.
Specific training, including risk assessment, took place at a number of sites, and is to be extended to all other group companies in 2004.
A group Health & Safety Advisor will be appointed early next year which will provide in house expertise and experience and ensure that SRH continues to fulfil its legal obligations in this area.
