Corporate social responsibility The Board recognises the importance of social, environmental and ethical The Board has set the following key objectives for the coming year: matters in the conduct of the Companys business.
The Chief Executive is - Identify a suitable benchmark for waste management from responsible for the development of policies and practices in matters refurbishment projects.
relating to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR.
Reports are submitted - Review the approach to specification of materials, particularly timber.
- Ensure all schemes above 50,000 are registered under the relevant The Company is a constituent of the FTSE 4 Good Index, which is Local Authority Considerate Constructors Scheme and achieve intended as a guide for socially responsible investment, and is one of the acceptable ratings for all registered schemes.
inaugural companies to be listed in Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index.
In addition, Shaftesbury has been awarded - Review the opportunities to extend the existing waste management membership of Business in the Communitys PerCent Club, recognising the initiatives throughout the portfolio.
Companys community investment in excess of 1% of pre-tax profits.
- Investigate potential for purchase of green tariff electricity for The Companys Environmental, Social and Community Policy is reviewed Head Office and those parts of the portfolio where the Company is annually to assess whether it continues to reflect the CSR risks and responsible for supplies.
A revised Statement of Policies was approved by the Board in July 2003.
The policy document and regular Shaftesbury in the Community progress reports are available on the Companys web site.
An external audit was undertaken by our advisers, RPS Consultants, in August 2003 in order The Companys policy is to align its charitable support and community to verify working practices against Policy Goals and achievement of involvement to its areas of investment in Londons West End.
Support is objectives and targets in the Action Plan.
provided to a number of organisations involved in the arts, theatre and music together with support and involvement with community groups and charities which are addressing important local issues.
In addition we Environmental Strategy are working closely with the local statutory bodies to maintain and Shaftesburys business involves the reconfiguration and refurbishment of improve the local environment.
existing buildings with the aim of providing a good standard of efficient The Company provides financial support to the National Campaign for accommodation to meet the needs of modern occupiers.
Our approach is the Arts, the Association of British Orchestras and the Donmar Theatre.
to conserve and extend the useful lives of existing buildings thereby Active help, advice and financial assistance are provided to a number of avoiding the environmental impacts of demolition and development of non-political local groups including the Hungerford Drugs Project, the new buildings, which are often prone to greater obsolescence.
Soho Green Project, the Soho Family Centre, the Covent Garden For refurbishment projects it is recognised that the principal issues that Community Association, the Seven Dials Monument Charity and the require management are minimising local environmental impacts, Chinatown Working Party.
In addition, The Company is giving active particularly noise and dust, managing construction waste and sourcing support to the local communitys efforts to secure and fund a permanent materials.
Efforts to improve the management of these issues have venue dedicated to Chinese arts.
included the implementation of the following during 2003: Shaftesbury recognises the importance to the continuing appeal of its - A number of refurbishment schemes of a capital value above 50,000 Villages to tenants, their staff and customers, and local residents of have been registered with the relevant Local Authoritys Considerate ensuring public areas are well-maintained and provide safe, welcoming Constructors scheme providing external scrutiny from the local authority environments.
We continue to work closely with Westminster City with respect to the management of these schemes.
All those that have Council and Camden Council to identify local problems that arise been audited achieved satisfactory scores.
particularly from high visitor numbers and long hours of trading and develop practical solutions where possible.
In particular we have been - Shaftesburys Environmental, Social and Community Policy is included actively involved in drafting Westminster City Councils Action Plans for within tender documentation for subcontractors with guidance provided the improvement of Chinatown and parts of Covent Garden.
We have for the specification of materials.
offered to fund additional services or initiatives that will benefit the local - Monitoring of waste management activities has been introduced for the environment in our locations such as CCTV, lighting, cleaning and refurbishment schemes but due to the nature of the portfolio and the improvements to street environments.
often small scale of the individual projects it has not yet been possible to identify a suitable benchmark figure.
During 2004 it is intended to research and identify a sensible key performance indicator.
Employees Within the Companys villages there have been a number of initiatives to Shaftesbury employs 16 staff including executive Directors.
The welfare improve waste management for the benefit of the environment, tenants and safety of employees is a key priority.
Staff turnover is low and there and the local community.
In Chinatown, a report was commissioned in have been no reported staff grievances or any reportable health and safety October 2002 which identified various options to improve the existing incidents in the year ended 30th September 2003.
The Company actively waste management situation.
The recommendations from this report, encourages staff involvement in the development of the Companys including waste segregation at specific collection points and the use of a business and community activities.
compacting machine are being taken forward in conjunction with Westminster City Council as part of its Chinatown Action Plan.
Jonathan S Lane Chief Executive 2nd December 2003 Page 31 SHAFTESBURY PLC Annual Report 2003
