36 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Corporate Social Definitions: What we mean by Corporate Social Responsibility: Where companies integrate social and environmental concerns in their business operations and in their Responsibility interaction with their stakeholders on a voluntary basis and principals of Group Environmental Policy EU Green Paper 2001.
What we mean by Performance Data: Data used to asses an organisations level of performance, as measured against detailed economic environmental or social criteria.
What we mean by Impacts: The effects of an organisations operations both negative and positive on either the economy, the environment or society.
We believe that our responsibility to local communities and Financiers, commentators and the government prefer us wider society are fundamental to the way in which we conduct because we demonstrate good governance, adopt a measured and our business.
This year for the first time we have produced a standresponsible approach to our risks, and have embedded the principles alone CSR report a full copy can be obtained from our website on of sustainability into our business strategy.
com, or alternatively contact the Deputy Secretary, Employees are proud to work for the company and are actively this is a resume of the full report.
encouraged to develop their skill sets because we recognise that a positive, engaged and learning workforce is essential in delivering This report covers the financial year ending 31 December 2003 and business goals, and that staff wish to work for a company that concentrates mainly on our UK activities.
The scope of data varies reflects their personal values.
In some it is comprehensive, in others we are working Competitors respect us because we operate successfully and to improve our data collection.
with integrity to deliver consistent growth in earnings per share, and strive to outperform in all aspects of management economic, Our CSR policy social and environmental.
The CSR policy we have developed aims to bring together and Suppliers want to work with us because we treat them fairly and formalise our vision for the business, offering an umbrella framework openly, seek to establish long-term relationships to ensure that their to encompass Group policies in areas including corporate governance, businesses are sustainable, and provide them with the support business ethics, risk assessment management, the environment, health necessary to meet the exacting standards we ask of them.
and safety, supplier payment, equal opportunities and customer and Communities embrace us because we engage with them to ensure tenant satisfaction, with various others currently under review.
that our activities make a positive contribution to peoples lives, and that through our developments we enhance the economic, We have long been committed to the principles of corporate social social and environmental fabric of the built environment.
We identify, measure and manage our impacts by defined economic, environmental and social criteria.
We strive to follow best Our commitment to CSR is evolving and we recognise the need practice in these areas, and integrate them into our business strategy, for continual improvement to ensure that our business processes, based upon a belief that this approach will add value to our long-term procedures and reporting reflect CSR best practice.
We seek to measure business performance.
our improvements through the use of Key Performance Indicators and annual target-setting programmes.
We seek to carefully identify the financial and non-financial risks to our business, because we recognise that robust risk management Governing structures and a readiness to capitalise on new opportunities are the foundations Our CSR strategy is the responsibility of our cross-functional Group Risk of a sustainable corporation in a rapidly changing environment.
We try Committee consisting of our: to consider the views of most relevant stakeholders in our strategic Chairman decision-making and to ensure that we identify opportunities for Chief Executive their long-term benefits as well as our own.
Finance Director General Manager Investment Division We believe in building our relationships on trust, transparency, and Group Company Secretary responsibility, whilst also helping and encouraging others to move Director of Human Resources towards sustainability in their own activities.
The committee is responsible for: We strive towards a position where Co-ordinating the implementation of our CSR Policy Investors understand us and are keen to invest because we Measuring our CSR performance communicate transparently about our commercial strategy, attentively Establishing the standards we will strive to achieve manage our risks, and continuously seek out new business opportunities.
Monitoring and reviewing objectives and targets, and Customers recommend us and expand with us because we offer Communicating our CSR activity effectively to internal and an excellent service, treat them fairly and respectfully, and contribute external audiences towards their own business performance.
37 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Definitions: What we mean by Stakeholders: A stakeholder is any individual or What we mean by Sustainability: The UK Government defines interest group having a stake in our organisation, whether because they four objectives for sustainable development.
affect us or because we effect them.
Stakeholders include, but are not Social progress which recognises the needs of everyone limited to, shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and the Effective protection of the environment community at large.
Prudent use of natural resources Maintenance of high and stable levels of economic growth What we mean by Benchmarking: The process of comparing ones and employment.
performance relative to peers or competitors for the purposes of understanding and improving performance.
The Committee works to five principles: Our shareholders Good corporate citizenship requires you to minimise your harmful Part of our mission statement focuses on creating superior value for impact on the environment and improve quality of life in the our shareholders.
Our sustainable approach to business continues to communities in which you operate generate attractive returns for our shareholders.
We have an honest A companys success should be measured not only by its financial and open investor-relations policy.
We ensure we are proactive and performance but also by its social and environmental performance transparent in this relationship, holding regular meetings between Corporate reputation is enhanced through adherence to high senior management and institutional investors, giving tours of our standards of performance, good overall management, and openness portfolio, and explaining the Groups strategy.
We believe in the and transparency importance of maintaining robust corporate governance controls.
The concept of CSR needs to be embedded in the business culture The principles and responsibilities set out in our corporate governance and secured through Board level commitment and vision guidelines are listed on pages 40 to 41 and are founded upon the We should aim to maintain a dynamic and motivating environment: basis of maintaining the successful continuity of the business.
one in which employees and all the people with whom they interact can flourish Our customers In keeping with our vision we work hard to make sure that our External benchmarking helps us to gauge our performance as a responsible customers are happy with the service we provide.
The security of company and adds credibility to our efforts in this area.
During 2003 we: our portfolio and of people that work in our buildings are business Came third amongst participating real estate companies in the priorities, and we seek to ensure that the premises we supply comply Business in the Environment BiE Index of Corporate with best practice standards in this regard.
Another priority is Environmental Engagement accessibility and we aim to conform fully with the requirements Came third out of 19 participating property companies in the of the Disability Discrimination Act and ensure that that all our Property Environment Group PEG annual environmental newer buildings we own and develop offer good access to all.
benchmarking survey Were listed in the FTSE4Good and Dow Jones Sustainability indices: Our suppliers and We believe our relationships with our suppliers should be mutually Received a Highly Commended award from the South East of beneficial, based on trust, transparency and a shared commitment England Development Agency SEEDA for our overall approach to high standards.
As part of this, we settle invoices within 14 days, to sustainability and corporate responsibility.
without holding back monies against possible future problems.
Whilst endeavouring to persuade and help our suppliers to manage Stakeholders their own economic, social and environmental impacts we ask that Our people they demonstrate their H&S and environmental credentials and Each of our employees has a part to play in driving our future success.
we contribute to some smaller contractors training and We seek to attract and retain the best people through awareness programmes.
a competitive remuneration and benefits package and to give them the training and development necessary to enhance their capabilities and Our community reach their full potential.
We have recently been carrying out a review We have always been actively engaged with the communities in which of our policies which means a period of change as we adjust to new we operate believing that community vitality and business prosperity ways of working, 2004 will see a full programme of focused meetings are closely entwined.
We work with organisations that support business, at which employees and senior management will work together to help charity, education, the arts, recreation and welfare locally and nationally.
everyone understand how their role contributes to our overall success.
We have introduced a Charity of the Year Scheme with MacMillan Further details of this review can be found in our full report.
Cancer Relief and have set a fundraising target of 50,000.
In our charitable donations we look to help achieve positive, long-term impacts.
In 2003 we donated 539,557 to charitable organisations and further details of our community partnerships are given in our full CSR report.
38 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Government The implementation of the policy We value good relations with government at all levels, from local The Group Board takes full responsibility for ensuring that this policy is authorities in areas where we operate to national policy makers.
Our relationship with Slough Borough Council has become a model The Group Board regularly reviews the scope and content of the policy of good practice, showing how business and public authorities can work and considers any amendments required as a result of evolving practice.
We also recognise our responsibility to Operational implementation of the policy is embedded in the contribute our knowledge and experience to help guide policy formation.
responsibility of senior line managers who submit regular reports on the progress achieved.
Health & Safety The environmental management system includes a set of targets for Health & Safety H&S is not negotiable and is a critical issue for each operating division which form the basis of an annual review the Group, cutting across stakeholder groups and business activities.
Robust management controls and careful auditing procedures underpin In the event of adverse incidents the Group Chief Executive is a H&S record in which we can all take pride.
The Group Board sets informed and a report submitted to the Chairman and the Board policy, whilst implementation lies with a cross-departmental committee without delay.
spanning the UK, Europe and North America.
Further details of our H&S Appropriate on-going training is provided to allow all employees record are available in the full CSR report.
to meet their environmental responsibilities effectively.
Environment Development We are committed to protecting and enhancing the environment The policy of improving environmental standards is achieved by: both locally and globally in all our operations, both for its own sake, implementing local environmental control policies and complying and for the major business benefits it offers, such as reduced risk, with the relevant environmental regulations, such as Environmental operational efficiency, enhanced reputation and opportunity for Impact Assessments, Biodiversity Action Plans and Travel Plans.
Responsibility for monitoring and managing our a commitment to regenerating areas of previously developed land environmental impacts lies with a cross-departmental Environmental and brownfield sites in line with national government policy.
Committee, with the Chief Executive reporting to the main Board reviewing all proposed development projects to assess the presence on our performance.
Our environmental achievements are audited of any contamination and, where necessary, remediating consistent every year by our advisers to give an objective assessment of our with best practice.
In 2003 we fully achieved 87 per cent of our specifying and monitoring works to remediate contaminated environmental targets, a significant improvement on 2002. property and to minimise the risk of pollution which might pose More comprehensive details can be found in our full CSR report.
a threat to the environment or to health.
Principles of the Group Environment Policy Building design and construction The Groups Environmental Policy is based on the following general In building design and construction the following measures are applied: principles: an assessment of projects using BREEAM Building Research the Group in all its activities is concerned for the environmental Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology, where well-being of the communities in which it invests.
appropriate, with a minimum requirement of a very good score.
the Group considers the impact of its activities on the environment in eliminating the use of materials containing ozone depleting all aspects of its business, prioritising the prevention of pollution and substances in accordance with relevant legislation.
contamination and working to achieve the most sustainable practices.
where possible, specifying building materials with low environmental the Group complies with current environmental legislation and impacts throughout their life cycle, and from sources certified as regulations as a matter of course and seeks to exceed these sustainable e. g. FSC-certified timber.
promoting energy efficiency through innovative site and the Group strives to achieve continuous improvement in its building design.
environmental performance through implementing the latest specifying engineering solutions and fittings that are efficient environmental standards and practices.
in their use of natural resources.
the Group actively promotes environmental awareness internally considering the need to reduce dependence on the private car amongst its employees, and externally with its customers and suppliers.
through the provision of cycling and walking facilities and integrated when placing contracts, the Group seeks to ensure that contractors and transport links.
other interested parties comply with the Groups Environmental Policy.
minimising construction waste through careful design and incorporating the Group protects the health and safety of its employees and visitors.
facilities for occupiers to segregate and sort their own waste.
enhancing landscaping and external aspects in harmony with existing surroundings, and where appropriate, considering sustainable urban drainage systems.
reclaiming waste building materials for re-use where practical and disposing of other waste in compliance with the Duty of Care.
39 Slough Estates Annual Report 2003 Definitions: What we mean by Environmental Management System: Part of an overall management system which includes the organisational structure, responsibilities, practices, procedures, processes and resources for determining and implementing the environmental policy Source: EMAS implementing effective pollution prevention strategies on site to Targets for the future ensure that developments do not cause air, water or ground pollution.
To maintain continuous improvement, our 2004 targets are more adopting best health and safety at work practices including measures ambitious than ever before.
This is not a definitive list a complete list to protect workers, visitors and the public from exposure to of our targets can found in the full CSR report.
limiting the effects of noise, dust and hazards through the Customers targets for 2004 implementation of the Groups Responsible Contractors initiative To develop a comprehensive extranet for the Slough Trading Estate so as not to cause a nuisance.
To establish extranets for Slough Estates top two UK commercial sites, provide greater services for occupiers, and promote business Leasing and estate management to business relations between them.
The policy of improving environmental standards is achieved by: continually assessing the environmental impact of the uses and Suppliers target for 2004 processes of current and prospective occupiers.
To ensure that all subcontractors on Slough Estates approved supplier inspecting all land and buildings owned within the portfolio at least database have a policy of paying staff above the minimum wage.
annually to ascertain whether environmental damage has occurred or is at risk of occurring and maintaining a comprehensive register H&S targets for 2004 of the finds.
To maintain fines for H&S non-compliance at their current level zero specifying and monitoring works to remediate contaminated To raise awareness about hand injuries on construction sites property and to remove pollution which might pose a threat throughout training and presentations.
to the environment or to health.
ensuring that occupiers commit through the lease to observe Community targets for 2004 environmental regulations and maintain good environmental standards.
To introduce a policy allowing each member of staff to devote a day helping and encouraging all occupiers to manage their own environmental a year of company time on a community project or company-wide performance by distributing relevant contracts and information.
community initiative To develop a directive for management staff on retail centres to Slough Heat & Power Ltd SHP implement at least one major community initiative a year, and to This company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Group, adopts measure, track and report on their community initiatives generally.
Best Available Techniques Not Entailing Excessive Cost BATNEEC to ensure, as a minimum, its compliance with current and future Environmental targets for 2004 regulations.
SHP observes the following basic principles: Identify and introduce a method of auditing the EMS minimising and controlling all releases to air, water and land to Work with expert bodies to develop a Group Biodiversity Policy comply, as a minimum requirement, with all relevant legislation.
Investigate the various methodologies under development in encouraging the most efficient use of energy by providing advice preparation for the EU performance of Buildings Directive, and to customers on energy efficiency and by optimising the power seek to contribute to the development of new methodologies station energy efficiency by generating both steam and electricity in where appropriate.
a combined heat and power plant.
Develop a data gathering system on the Group intranet for energy, using reclaimed and processed waste fuel to reduce reliance water and waste impacts from the multi-let properties on fossil fuels.
Run a tenant awareness campaign on waste reduction and recycling continuing to develop and modernise the power station to across the UK shopping centre portfolio reduce the overall environmental impact whilst maintaining Develop and incorporate into the tender process initiatives for cost-effective operations.
contractors to reduce waste integrating environmental management into normal operational Develop a generic Green Travel Plan for all speculative developments procedures at all levels to ensure that all environmental objectives over 5,000 sq.
m. gross external area initiated in 2004 and seek to and statutory requirements are continuously monitored and achieved.
introduce this to incoming occupiers Company administration Slough Heat & Power targets for 2004 For its own part, the company in its internal operations will: To reduce by 10 per cent the quantity of hazardous waste disposed monitor and measure consumption of energy and water and production of to landfill of waste to enable environmental impacts to be effectively managed.
To increase by five per cent the total output of electricity and steam use, as far as practicable, materials that are obtained from generated from non-fossil fuel sources.
sustainable sources or are from recycled material.
return used materials for recycling.
maintain a safe and healthy working environment for the well-being of employees and visitors to its premises.
provide incentives to employees for selecting more fuel-efficient vehicles and encourage car sharing as part of a Green Transport Plan.
