At WHSmith corporate responsibility is an on-going journey: Corporate Responsibility a search for new opportunities to improve our performance in all areas.
This is not only good business practice: it is also the right thing to do.
This commitment is now formalised in the Companys Code of Business Conduct, which came into force in April 2003.
While we are primarily focused on delivering value to our shareholders, the Code of Business Conduct takes into account the interests of all stakeholders: investors, employees, customers, suppliers, competitors and the wider community as well as the environment shared by everyone.
WHSmiths Code of Business Conduct Shareholders The Company is responsible to those who provide funding.
We: Provide financial reports that are accurate and timely.
Seek to use financial resources entrusted to us in ways that maximise value over time.
Communicate honestly to all concerned our policies, achievements, risks and prospects.
Work at all times to comply with the provisions of the London Stock Exchange Listing Rules and aim to comply with corporate governance best practice.
Employees The Company values its employees highly.
We: Respect the dignity and rights of all employees.
Provide healthy and safe work environments.
Have a transparent remuneration policy that rewards the contribution of our people.
Encourage employees to develop skills and progress their careers.
Do not tolerate any sexual, physical or mental harassment of our employees.
Do not discriminate on the grounds of race, gender, sexual orientation, age, disability or religion.
Do not employ underage employees.
Speak Up Encourage employees to report any suspicions of fraud During 2003, we have put in or undesirable practice and we have introduced a process place foundations of Speak Up, to facilitate this Speak Up.
a condential helpline whereby employees are able to report Customers undesirable working practices.
Speak Up goes live early in 2004.
The Companys customers are of paramount importance.
We: Seek to be honest and fair in our dealings with our customers.
In the past WHSmith has encouraged employees to report undesirable Provide the quality and standard of service that customers working practices via channels such have a right to expect.
as Human Resources, Group Risk or Provide and promote a range of products responsive to Internal Audit.
Whilst these channels customer needs that provide value for money.
still exist, we recognise that occasionally Provide products that are safe, t for purpose, meet legal there are sensitive issues that people standards and are never described in a misleading manner.
may not feel comfortable reporting Treat all customer complaints seriously and provide a readily in this manner.
accessible source of advice and guidance regarding our All matters reported via Speak Up products and services.
will be investigated promptly and condentially.
Suppliers The Companys relations with its suppliers are based on mutual trust and respect.
We: Seek to be honest and fair in our relationships with suppliers.
Pay suppliers in accordance with agreed terms.
Respect copyright and intellectual property rights.
Have a policy not to offer, pay or accept bribes or substantial favours.
Have an ethical code of supply, communicated to our suppliers.
Work with our suppliers to ensure the standards set out in the Supply Code are met.
Competitors The Company seeks to compete vigorously, but honestly.
We: Will not seek to gain advantage over our competitors by illegal means.
25 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Community and environment Corporate Responsibility The Company seeks to be a good corporate citizen, respecting continued the laws of the countries in which we operate and contributing to the communities in which we operate.
We: Seek to be sensitive to the local communitys culture and social and economic needs.
Encourage our employees to be involved with local communities to their mutual benefit.
Measure and, where appropriate, seek to reduce the environmental impacts of our business activities.
We will use energy and natural resources efficiently and reduce our generation of waste.
WHSmiths achievements in corporate responsibility so far are receiving due recognition.
The Company features in the FTSE4Good Index of socially responsible companies and building on our established place in the Business in the Community Environmental Index, in 2003 WHSmith gained a place in Business in the Communitys first Corporate Responsibility Index.
FTSE4Good And if a company can be judged by the company it keeps, the list The FTSE4Good Indices have been of WHSmiths memberships provides a positive indicator.
These designed to measure the performance organisations include the Ethical Trading Initiative, Institute of of companies that meet globally Business Ethics, The Corporate Responsibility Group, Business recognised corporate responsibility standards, and to facilitate investment in the Community and the Retail Energy and Environment Club.
FTSE4Good Through our membership of these organisations, WHSmith takes is used as a basis for the creation of socially responsible investment part in seminars and working groups to design processes to help products.
It also provides a reference us implement our Code of Business Conduct in a practical way.
point for companies wishing to Membership of these organisations also provides: achieve best practice in corporate A forum for discussion on community and corporate responsibility standards.
responsibility issues with a range of key stakeholders.
FTSE4Goods inclusion criteria are An opportunity to share and promote best practice regularly reviewed so that they reect in corporate responsibility.
a broad market consensus on An opportunity for corporate sector practitioners to develop what constitutes good corporate successful and sustainable corporate responsibility activities.
responsibility practice as it evolves.
An opportunity for corporate sector practitioners to discuss improvements to the management of corporate responsibility programmes.
An opportunity to facilitate interaction between corporate responsibility practitioners, voluntary and community groups, government and other appropriate organisations.
To ensure corporate responsibility remains high on the business agenda, the Board intends to form a Corporate Responsibility Committee of the Board.
Details of membership and terms of reference will be posted on the Companys website www.
com WHSmiths corporate responsibility activities focus on four broad categories: the community, the marketplace, the workplace and WHSmith TXT the environment.
It is essential that young people receive the best possible education and I passionately believe that The community business has a part to play in helping From its start as a newsagent in London in 1792, WHSmiths schools to achieve this.
Through success has been founded on the written word.
Therefore, it WHSmith TXT we are focusing is entirely appropriate that the Companys agship community our community efforts on a project programme focuses on helping teachers to raise literacy skills that helps make a real difference to literacy standards in schools, among students aged 1114. to the confidence of the students Called WHSmith TXT, this initiative concentrates on selected involved, and ultimately to the 2003 Chief Executives schools across the UK.
These are chosen with the help of the way we do business.
Community Awards Richard Handover, Department for Education and Skills as well as external In 2003 Jessie Dunkley of WHSmith Chief Executive, October 2001 consultants.
Every year, for the past three years, WHSmith Leicester was announced as the overall winner of the WHSmith Chief has provided each of the 104 participating schools with an In September 2002, through Executives Community Awards.
Her WHSmith TXT, I became a volunteer annual 4,000 worth of books, magazines and gift vouchers reader at Islington Green School 1,000 prize went to support her local absolutely free.
Parkinsons Disease Society, for which in London.
During my first year of Jessie serves as a visitor and telephone visiting, I was pleasantly surprised A key part of the programme has also been the development befriender.
Im thrilled to be by the enthusiasm and commitment of relationships between individual schools and stores to to learning of individual pupils and recognised for the work I do, she said.
These relationships have opened the progress that their reading made, Other awards went to causes up opportunities for volunteers from stores to become in a short space of time, as a result supported by employees in towns involved in a range of other activities to promote literacy of a little extra individual attention.
and cities across the UK including in participating schools.
I am delighted to be a part of the Cardiff, Glasgow, London, programme again this year.
Such volunteer work is nothing new for WHSmiths 30,000 Louise Evans, employees, many of whom are active on a personal basis in their Media Relations Manager, WH Smith PLC own communities.
Recognising that these people are great ambassadors for the Company, WHSmiths Chief Executives Community Awards spotlight their efforts.
This 20,000 programme annually awards grants of 1,000 to encourage 26 WH Smith PLC the best examples of staff community involvement.
Annual Report and Accounts 2003 More broadly, the WHSmith Trust Registered Charity Corporate Responsibility No.
1013782 supports the voluntary efforts of staff that continued are making a genuine difference in their local communities.
To date, some 500 organisations have benefited in this way, with grants of up to 3,000 each.
The marketplace As a responsible retailer, WHSmith aims to sell products that are of high quality and made by people working in decent conditions, with the minimum possible impact on the environment.
Since the Companys supply chain circles the globe, this is not an easy task.
That is why WHSmith has embarked on a number of partnerships with organisations in tune with these objectives.
WHSmith Trust For example, WHSmith works with Envirowise, a governmentTye Lohrenz works at the funded organisation that promotes environmental responsibility headquarters of WHSmith UK in the supply chain.
Envirowise offers suppliers help in identifying Retail in Swindon as part of the the ways in which they can reduce overall environmental impact Store Development and Construction while at the same time saving themselves money and preserving team.
During the year, with two friends, he undertook to raise funds the worlds natural resources.
Over the last year, WHSmith for the construction of a soft safety suppliers who took part in the Envirowise Retail Supply Chain playing surface to enrich the lives Partnership project identied ways of reducing their environmental of the children who attend Canons impact, worth an estimated 105,000 in cost savings.
Canons House in Devizes offers short-term away breaks for Of course, as a leading publisher, and retailer of books, stationery, children and young people who have newspapers and magazines, WHSmith is particularly committed severe learning disabilities and who to promoting responsible sourcing of forest products, such may also have a physical disability.
as paper and wood, in line with recommendations from the Tye and his friends undertook local fundraising and, with a 1,000 grant WWF 95 Group.
WHSmith is a member of the WWF 95 Group, from the WHSmith Trust, quickly One of our primary targets this year a partnership between WWF-UK and businesses who are achieved their objective and was to inform and raise awareness with committed to acting responsibly and promoting responsible completed the project.
our key external own brand suppliers forestry.
This means, at a minimum, ensuring that any wood and about WHSmiths commitment to pulp in WHSmith branded products is from legally logged forests.
responsible management of the Wherever possible, however, the objective is to source products supply chain and our environmental requirements therein.
To this end, made from materials that originate from certied, well-managed on 26 February 2003, in conjunction forests such as those accredited by the Forestry Stewardship with Envirowise, WHSmith hosted Council FSC.
the Retail Supply Chain Partnership Forum in Swindon for 25 delegates.
Similarly, membership of the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI links WHSmith with an organisation that aims to bring about The Forum provided delegates with a range of ideas to help them improvements to the lives of workers and their families identify practical ways of reducing by applying internationally recognised labour standards.
In alliance with the ETI, WHSmith hopes to continue to act as These included six free workshops a catalyst for change, working with suppliers to achieve the high covering waste minimisation, water standards on which the principle of ethical sourcing is built.
minimisation, packaging optimisation, cleaner design, energy efficiency and Since 2001 WHSmith has had an ethical code of conduct for green procurement.
This has been implemented in the Far East with the Envirowise undertook free on-site help of local agents.
In order to ensure greater control over audits to help suppliers identify ways the implementation and monitoring of ethical standards of to reduce energy use and waste at The Ethical Trading Initiative ETI their premises.
our Far East suppliers, we have appointed a Quality Manager Exists to identify and promote good who is based in Hong Kong.
A large part of this role includes practice in the implementation During the year we also sought to of codes of labour practice.
It is engaging with suppliers to help them meet the requirements inform and raise awareness among an alliance of companies, nonour own buying and merchandising of our ethical code of conduct.
This will enable us to form government organisations and trade teams about the importance of stronger relationships and monitor improvements more unions committed to working increasing the percentage of own closely in the future.
together to achieve this aim.
brand timber-based product from The ETI does not endorse the FSC certied sources that we use.
Examples of some of the small changes which have taken place practices of member companies To this end we brought our suppliers in our supply chain in the last 12 months include: ensuring that but works with them to encourage and buyers together for a seminar suppliers provide personal protective equipment to employees, continuous improvement.
detailing our commitments to for example face masks and ear plugs, in hazardous environments: sourcing paper and wood products The ETI runs seminars, sets up working with suppliers to ensure that employee representatives from well managed forests experimental projects and working consequently we estimate that attend external first aid training programmes: working with groups and holds meetings where the overall volume of FSC certied suppliers to ensure that their premises have clearly dened members share information, product we use has increased by experience and solutions to and marked emergency escape routes in case of re.
2.5 per cent and we hope to build common problems.
In the next 12 months WHSmith will be actively participating in the ETIs China Working Group and Homeworkers Group.
27 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 The workplace Corporate Responsibility Closer to home, WHSmith pays the same attention to workplace continued quality in the Companys own shops, news houses, warehouses, ofces and other facilities.
Throughout, this means providing a safe, rewarding environment in which people are challenged to make a difference.
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining high standards of health and safety for everyone who may be affected by our business.
The effective management of health and safety is not only a legal issue but is also business critical as it affects reputation, investor confidence, supplier relationships and overall profitability.
Maintaining high standards of health and safety for everyone who may be affected by our business is at the forefront of everything we do and, as a matter of course, the Companys health and safety policy is regularly reviewed by the WHSmith Board to ensure that high standards are maintained.
A copy of the policy may be viewed on the Companys website at www.
com The policy states that all employees have a responsibility for health and safety but that managers and supervisors have special responsibilities.
Additional duties are placed on the directors of each of the Companys businesses and the Group Finance Director, John Warren, is specically tasked with keeping the Board advised on health and safety issues, compliance with the policy and ensuring that suitable support is available to the businesses.
Management teams in each business, supported by professional safety advisors from the Group Risk Department GRD, monitor key safety performance indicators and an annual report of each business detailing trends, performance and recommendations is presented to the Board.
Each business also has a properly constituted health and safety committee that comprises employees representatives, management, trade union safety representatives and ofcials.
All work place accidents are monitored by the GRD.
This helps to identify trends and put in place early remedial action to prevent re-occurrence.
The numbers of accidents affecting the Company are illustrated below: Accidents and incidents Rate per 100,000 employees 2003 2002 2001 Major injury 86 69 79 Injury resulting in over 3 days absence from work 557 451 564 All RIDDORS 643 520 643 The number of accidents legally reportable under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations.
In the past year the workplace accident performance rate per 100,000 employees was 643 identical to the 2001 gure and disappointingly higher than the 2002 rate.
Most of these accidents have involved manual handling, slips, trips and falls and striking against or being struck by objects.
It is our rm intention to address the root causes of accidents.
Strategies on how we will improve in this area will be reported in the corporate responsibility section of the WHSmith website.
Accidents by type 1 September 2002 31 August 2003 1.
Struck by moving falling object 17% 5 4.
Physical assault 1% 3 28 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 While safety must be the primary issue in any discussion of the Corporate Responsibility workplace, other improvements are important as well.
continued Introduction of exible working policies, for example, is helping staff adapt to increasingly demanding lives, while giving the Company the edge in retaining experienced, well-trained staff.
Working pattern options now include term-time working, job shares and career breaks.
As part of an abiding commitment to equal opportunities, racial equality and workforce diversity, WHSmith has taken part in two important annual benchmarking surveys for Opportunity Now which focuses on gender and Race for Opportunity.
While the feedback from these surveys has highlighted that WHSmith has some excellent policies and practices in place, for example term-time working, they have also highlighted the need for WHSmith to prepare an in-depth diversity strategy.
The first step towards this, which we are currently working on, involves assessing the possibility of employing a diversity manager to co-ordinate our approach across the Group.
Respected employees make for a highly productive workforce.
The WHSmiths Christmas Awards are a new initiative that recognise this and reward employees who contribute to delivering excellence for customers over Christmas.
The Christmas Awards are separated into three areas: stores, head ofce and area managers.
Individuals are assessed in terms of service and standards by mystery shoppers.
There is also an additional award for the Best Store Leader voted for John Dickinson Stationery by store employees who believe that he or she has demonstrated John Dickinson Stationery Limited is exceptional leadership.
based in Cambridge and manufactures paper stationery for WHSmith.
Winners in the Best Store Leader category in 2002 were Wendy Standardisation of raw materials and Croall of Arbroath Store and Debbie Lansdown of WHSmith a reduction of packaging have helped Bexleyheath, who both won 3,000 for their outstanding the company stay ahead of the contribution over the key Christmas trading period.
Winners deationary curve that the industry in the Best Support Team Category were Central Operations is experiencing.
The company has already identied cost savings of and the Communications Team.
57,000 this year, as a result of their actions taken.
For example, by The environment Bookpoint switching to larger pallets, the In 2002, Bookpoint, the provider of WHSmith is committed to reducing the environmental impact business has increased pallet ll, distribution services to the publishing of its business activities.
As part of that effort, the Company has and now uses fewer pallets, overall.
industry, embarked on a project implemented an Environmental Management System covering Further savings in the order of to establish an Environmental all UK operations and we are working to extend its remit to 22,500 through minor changes to Management System and gain product make up and manufacturing our non-UK operations.
ISO140001 registration for its site methods are also expected in the in Oxfordshire.
The system is administered by an Environmental Action Team, coming year.
Site Facilities Manager Derek chaired by the Corporate Responsibility Manager.
Meeting The WHSmith Retail Supply Chain Hamiltons first task was to appoint quarterly, the team monitors progress against agreed targets and Partnership Forum has changed a Green Team to co-ordinate the ensures that all WHSmith businesses are kept aware of relevant signicantly the way we look at our project and galvanise employee product development and forced us issues and legislative developments in the environmental area.
A series of targets relating to question almost everything we do to the key impact areas of energy, Environmental impacts with regard to product make-up.
If an waste and resource use were set, and action doesnt really add value to our the action plan to meet these and 2002 03 2001 02 customer we no longer undertake it.
an employee awareness raising Energy 159,4250,000 Kwh 163,941,000 Kwh Graeme Hargreaves, Retail Business campaign were put in place.
Sales Manager, Waste 49,500 tonnes 48,400 tonnes One year on, the Green Team has John Dickinson Ltd. Transport 85,163,000 kms 84,157,000 kms achieved actual year on year savings 3 3 Water 195,200 m 203,200 m of 51,000, with a full year projected saving of 66,000.
Highlights CO emissions 127,900 tonnes 128,750 tonnes 2 have included reducing paper consumption by an estimated 10,000 CO emissions have been calculated based on the energy and transport gures.
2 A4 pages per month and reducing The 2001 02 gure was adjusted to take account of an amendment in the waste tonnage to landll by 53 per DEFRA guidelines on calculating CO2 emissions following identication cent.
The original target to reduce of an error in their conversion factor for road freight.
energy consumption by 5 per cent was surpassed with the actual reduction coming in at 10.6 per cent.
The teams efforts were rewarded this year as Bookpoint successfully gained ISO14001 status.
29 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Objectives 2002 03 Corporate Responsibility 1.
To undertake an energy saving campaign within WHSmith continued UK Retails regional business.
Progress: WHSaving Energy Care for the Environment is a poster campaign designed to give employees tips on how they could save energy, water and waste both at work and at home.
The poster has been distributed to all of our UK businesses during the year.
Our engineers have also visited the seven regional stores with the highest energy consumption to provide store managers with information on how to reduce the energy consumed.
Data management software that reduces the lag in reported information on energy use and allows more rapid response to high-energy users has also been updated across the business.
To reduce gas consumption across the retail business by 7 per cent per square foot and to reduce energy consumption at the head ofce of WHSmith UK Retail by 5 per cent.
Progress: A reduction of 6.7 per cent per square foot in gas consumption has been achieved across the retail business and a 4 per cent reduction in total energy consumption has been achieved at the head ofces of WHSmith UK Retail in Swindon.
The heating and hot water at the headquarters of the UK Retail business in Swindon is provided by three 1-mega watt dual red boilers.
The three units were beyond their economical life and therefore over the last four years each section of the warehouse three in total have been converted to a high velocity ducted warm heating system.
The final requirement was to install two smaller boilers for the ancillary areas and a hot water generator for staff restaurant and toilet facilities, thus allowing the removal of the old boiler system.
This work was completed at the beginning of 2003, which when comparing the energy usage at Swindon on a year on year basis, has resulted in an energy saving as previously stated.
Five news distribution centres have also been identied as targets to reduce energy consumption and in the current financial year work on this will begin.
Waste generated at WHSmith UK Retail headquarters in Swindon 1998 99 1,290 tonnes 1999 00 1,208 tonnes 2000 01 976 tonnes 2001 02 894 tonnes 2002 03 653 tonnes 3.
To review all waste management contracts across the Group with a view to achieving environmental improvements and business benets.
Progress: The waste management contracts across the Group have been reviewed.
We anticipate that new contracts will be signed off in the first quarter of the financial year 2003 04, which will not only bring about financial benets to the business but will also allow us to increase the amount of waste that is recycled.
To identify and implement actions to reduce the impacts Corporate Responsibility of our Company car eet.
continued Progress: Company Car Prole in the last 12 months average CO2 emissions have reduced by 2 per cent on petrol cars to 201g km and 2 per cent on diesel cars to 155g km.
Fuel efficiency has improved by 2 per cent on petrol cars and 1 per cent on diesel.
The number of people choosing a diesel car has increased by 5 per cent, resulting in a eet ratio of petrol 35 per cent and diesel 65 per cent.
The Company car eet travelled approximately 15,657,300 kms for business purposes, which is approximately 4 per cent less than last year.
To extend the trial on ideal delivery frequency to cover the whole of the UK Retail distribution network, resulting in increased efficiency in fuel consumption.
Progress: This trial was not rolled out because other projects took precedence.
However, a number of other initiatives, including, the purchase of 20 new vehicles which are the most fuel efficient on the market and a number of optimised routes will help towards increasing efficiency in fuel consumption going forward.
To improve the quality of mileage and fuel use data available for the News Distribution eet particularly for the WHSmith owned vehicles.
Progress: A fuel and mileage monitor has been developed, and implemented at the majority of locations.
This enables mileage and fuel used to be reconciled and has resulted in reduced consumption at some sites by identifying under performing vehicles.
Enhanced reports are also now available from our vehicle maintenance provider, giving actual mileages for our own commercial vehicles.
In addition, we have invested considerably in the commercial eet this year, improving the age prole and raising the number of newer vehicles, which are more fuel-efficient.
Five vehicles serving Heathrow airport have been tted with particulate traps which dramatically reduces emissions.
These vehicles are supported by Powershift grants.
A sound environmental policy should have as wide a constituency as possible, involving customers as well as employees.
To that end, The Woodland Trust WHSmith has been a leader in the campaign to promote the Established in 1972, The Woodland recycling of inkjet cartridges.
To encourage customers to Trust is the UKs leading woodland participate in this campaign, a donation is made to WWF, the conservation charity and has over 250,000 members and supporters.
global environment network, for every cartridge returned.
This The Trust has four key aims: supports WWF in its mission to promote responsible environment To stop further loss practices, by avoiding wasteful consumption and managing waste of ancient woodland.
To restore and improve the biodiversity of woods.
Similarly, WHSmith has continued support for the Woodland To increase new native woodland.
Trust in its Christmas Card recycling scheme.
In 2003, customers To increase peoples awareness Inkjet Recycling recycled 22 million cards or 432 tonnes of used Christmas cards and enjoyment of woodland.
Environmental Business Products at WHSmith stores between 6 January and 2 February: a 21 per EBP is the worlds largest supplier The Woodland Trust now has cent increase in the number of cards recycled in 2002.
This not of re-manufactured inkjet and over 1,100 sites in its care covering only raised awareness of the importance of recycling, but also compatible inkjet cartridges.
approximately 47,000 acres and it WHSmith has worked with EBP prevented a significant amount of waste from being dumped as offers free public access to nearly for over three years on a scheme to all of its sites.
The funds raised help create and care for new woodland encourage customers to recycle their across the UK.
In thanks for the support of empty inkjet cartridges using the WHSmiths Christmas card recycling freepost envelopes available in store.
All of WHSmiths efforts and initiatives in corporate responsibility scheme, the Woodland Trust has have a unied objective we are working towards: a safe, contented For every inkjet cartridge that is dedicated a stand of trees in Hucking workforce selling top-quality, ethically produced, environmentally returned to EBP for re-manufacture, Estate, Kent to the Company.
EBP donates at least 50p to the WWF sound merchandise in a way that benets every community in 75p per cartridge up to 10,000 and which the Company is involved.
In achieving this goal, benets 50p per cartridge thereafter and will also accrue to WHSmith itself, providing real shareholder in the last six months WHSmith value in the form of a satisfied and sustainable customer base.
customers have helped raise in excess of 10,000 to support the WWF in their work.
31 WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2003
