Safety, Health and the Environment SHE Croda International Safety, Health and Environment policy Croda International Plc will operate its business in a manner which actively seeks to prevent or minimise the possibility of its operations causing harm to people, plants or animals.
We will strive to provide the material and resources to educate and involve every individual in the Company in achieving this objective.
It is my belief that aspiring to excellence in the management of Safety, Health and the Environment is vital to ensuring the long term future and profitability of the Company.
We believe that all accidents, incidents and work-related ill health are 5.
We will continue to search out new ways of conserving all the preventable and we will manage our business with this aim including natural resources used in our processes.
the provision of adequate resources for the prevention and control of major accidents.
We will continue to innovate in order to improve our products and processes so that their effect on safety, health and the environment 2.
Because we are human, mistakes will be made: but because we is reduced.
are committed, intelligent human beings we will investigate to identify the basic causes and take action to prevent these mistakes 7.
We will continue to improve communication and the exchange of being repeated.
views with employees, employee representatives, customers, contractors, suppliers, neighbours and any other individual or 3.
As an absolute minimum we will comply with all national organisation affected by our business.
regulations but in addition will set our own demanding internal corporate standards on matters relating to safety, health and the environment and endeavour to comply with them throughout our international operations.
Divisional management teams within the Company will be measured Mike Humphrey for their contribution to the continuous improvement of safety, Group Chief Executive health and environmental performance in their area of responsibility.
Director responsible for SHE 17 Safety, Health and the Environment SHE The Group controls its business by the delegation of much of its Indicators of SHE performance management responsibility, including SHE matters, to its divisional managing directors and general managers.
The Group SHE department has issued a number of internal Group SHE objectives over the last five years, against which the manufacturing The overall strategy and review of SHE performance within the Group sites have been required to produce targets and, at regular intervals, to is controlled by the Group SHE Steering Committee and is assisted in report progress.
this by the Group SHE department in setting standards, providing guidance, brokering best practice and auditing the sites against national In 2001 the Group published several safety, health and environmental standards as well as our own internal standards.
Progress against these targets is given in the following text.
A Group Environmental Management System GEMS was implemented Since the publication of the original targets, several structural changes in 1995 to provide sites with a framework upon which their individual have taken place within the Group with the opening of one site, the sale environmental management systems could be developed.
UK sites were of some sites, the closure of some sites, the assimilation of one site into audited against their compliance with GEMS in 1996 with follow-up another and the withdrawal from a significant market area.
The audit process was repeated at all Group worldwide manufacturing sites in 2001 2.
Where necessary the original objectives and targets have been re-based on current operations manufacturing at the end of 2003.
In the example Similarly a Health and Safety audit based upon Health and Safety of one site being assimilated into another, the statistics of both sites Executive guidelines has been performed by Group SHE on all UK combined have been retained.
Overseas sites are also regularly reviewed.
A new round of Health & Safety reviews for all our sites The successful achievement of these challenging targets is due to the started in early 2004. hard work, will and dedication of all involved.
The results of these audits are used to focus the Group SHE initiatives ISO 14001 and the annual Group SHE objectives.
Objective For all our manufacturing sites worldwide to attain external validation of The audit process, used by the Group SHE department to audit the their environmental management systems.
manufacturing sites, has been externally validated by environmental consultants URS in 2001 as being in accordance with ISO Target auditing standards.
All manufacturing sites to be accredited to ISO 14001 by the end of 2003.
This objective has been successfully completed with all manufacturing sites achieving ISO 14001 accreditation by the end of 2003, the only exception being Crodamazon in Brazil, a new manufacturing site in 2002, which has been given an extension until 2006.
18 Energy consumption Waste disposal Objective Objective To implement energy conservation policies at all UK manufacturing sites To identify alternative waste disposal routes for the wastes presently sent in line with the UK chemical sector agreements with DEFRA.
In 2000 we landfilled 26% of all wastes generated by our operations in the UK.
Target Energy consumption per tonne to be reduced by 18% by 2010.
Target To reduce the amount of waste sent to landfill in UK by 5% per year until 2004.
This objective for 2010 was achieved in 2003.
Overall the UK energy used per tonne of manufactured product has This objective has been achieved.
The figures for waste are for waste generated by the manufacturing Including the overseas companies the energy used per tonne of operations.
One-off disposals of waste not directly associated with the manufactured product has decreased by 23.9% since 2000. manufacturing process, for example, construction excavations or contaminated land remediation, are excluded.
Waste recycling and recovery In 2003 the UK tonnage of waste sent for landfill reduced by 60.7%.
The Since 2000 our sites have identified the total amount of waste that is percentage of waste sent to landfill reduced from 19.6% in 2002 to disposed of off-site and how much material is recovered and recycled, 13.7% in 2003. for example packaging materials, raw materials and some by-products from primary production streams.
Including the overseas sites the overall tonnage of waste sent to landfill reduced by 54.2% and the percentage of waste sent to landfill reduced Objective from 21.1% in 2002 to 16.4% in 2003.
In 2000 we recycled or recovered 60% of the total amount of waste generated by the Group in the UK.
We aim to increase this amount Overall since 2000 the amount of waste sent to landfill for all sites substantially to reduce the cost of waste disposal and optimise our reduced by 67.1% and the percentage of all waste going to landfill use of raw materials.
Target To recycle or recover 68% of our total amount of waste generated in UK by the end of 2003.
This objective has been achieved.
Overall since 2000 the UK sites have increased their recycling from 60.1% to 68.5% and including overseas companies the Group has increased its recycling from 53.5% to 54.8%.
19 Safety, Health and the Environment SHE Air emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds VOCs SHE initiatives 2003 Objective Accidents and enforcement action To continue with our programme to reduce the release of VOCs to atmosphere.
The accident rate in the Group continued to decline in 2003, this time by 30% and by 58% since 2000.
Target To reduce our release of VOCs to atmosphere by a further 5% in 2003.
The changes in the manufacture of gelatin as a result of the impact of the BSE crisis caused severe problems for the control of the effluent This objective has been achieved.
treatment plant at one site in 2002.
As a result of this the site was prosecuted by the Environment Agency in April 2003 and fined 24,000 Emissions of VOCs in the UK are reported annually to the Environment in the magistrates court for these breaches of consent.
Agency and these figures are published on the Environment Agency website.
In 2003 we released 12.2% less VOCs than in 2002.
Soil and groundwater investigations Including the overseas sites, in 2003 we released 20.9% less VOCs than The Group believes it has already identified its major liabilities with in 2002. regard to historical contamination of the ground and groundwater.
In 2004 we will complete our programme of detailed intrusive surveys at Waste water discharges all our remaining sites to ascertain whether any of those will require any immediate remediation.
To date, although some minor contamination has Objective been identified, detailed risk assessments by our environmental To reduce the impact the Group has on controlled waters.
consultants of the threat to human health and controlled waters have not resulted in any immediate action being required.
Target To strive for 100% compliance against all licence conditions on every SHE targets for 2004 sample taken but to aim to be above 95% compliance by the end of 2003.
It is now four years since we published our first set of SHE Group objectives and targets.
Most of these objectives and targets have run This objective has been achieved.
their course or have already been achieved.
It is therefore appropriate that we review the objectives and targets for the next few years.
The Group has measured compliance with its effluent discharge consent to sewer and to controlled waters for many years.
The record shows a Several changes have been introduced.
Initially the Group SHE objectives steady improvement in the UK from 58.3% in 1993 to 94.8% in 2002. were directed at the UK operating companies because we had greater knowledge and understanding of our SHE performance in the UK.
Since In 2003 the Group achieved a compliance rate in the UK of 95.6%.
2000 we have come to have a better understanding of the performance of our overseas sites and increasingly we have begun to provide details in Including the overseas companies, we achieved a compliance rate in this report of the performance of the Group as a whole.
20 With the introduction of the Integrated Pollution Prevention and Control Regulations in the UK, authorised manufacturing sites are required to provide annual environmental performance indicators which are indexed to the manufactured tonnage.
Although our energy targets are already normalised in this way, we have decided to index all our targets so that we can provide consistency in our public reporting.
The new objectives and targets for 2004 onwards are given below: Objective Target To continually improve the effectiveness of our SHE All manufacturing sites to be accredited to OHSAS 18000 by 2009. management systems.
Objective Target To continually improve the energy efficiency of our To improve energy efficiency GJ tonne at all manufacturing sites by manufacturing processes.
Target Objective All manufacturing sites to halve the amount of waste kg tonne disposed to To minimise the quantities of waste disposed to landfill.
Objective Target To minimise the mass of Volatile Organic Compounds released to All manufacturing sites to reduce VOC emissions kg tonne by 40% by 2009. air from our processes.
Objective Target To reduce the environmental impact the Group has on All manufacturing sites to maintain greater than 95% compliance with their controlled waters.
effluent discharge consents in every year.
Objective Target To reduce the Group requirements for mains water.
All manufacturing sites to reduce the use of mains water by 25% per tonne by 2009.
