15 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2003 A responsible company As the UKs leading chilled dairy foods company, we take our responsibilities to the environment, employees, suppliers, customers and local communities seriously.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for performance in these areas.
Environmental, health and safety and energy policies are included in the schedule of matters reserved for approval by the Board and are available to employees via the companys intranet, our Good Environmental Practices manual, training courses and in-house publications.
Copies can be downloaded from www.
Environment Our environmental management system audited by an independent third party is controlled by the Groups Technical Director and covers all operations.
The Board monitors performance via a quarterly report on environmental, health and safety, quality and risk issues and we are pleased to report that, once again, there have been no prosecutions for breach of environmental legislation.
We have realised our objective to achieve ISO 14001 accreditation across all Dairy Crest manufacturing sites, including Kirkby, acquired in November 2002 from the Uniq Group.
Our sites now set annual targets to improve environmental performance and we will develop our reporting over the next year to publish relevant data in these areas.
We maintain regular communication with the Environment Agency, reviewing energy efficiency performance and water pollution prevention.
The Group continues to seek out areas for improvements in waste packaging and the reduction of energy usage by the adoption of best practice guidelines, developed through our membership of relevant industry groups.
None of our mainstream refrigeration plants use CFCs and the use of HCFCs will be phased out by the end of 2007.
Health and safety Our commitment to health and safety contributes to business performance by reducing injuries and ill health and our track record in this area, as measured by the Accident Incidence Rate, continues to improve.
Company-wide guidelines promote safe working practices and food handling procedures which, together with hygiene rules, continue to be rigorously enforced.
All new employees including directors are offered relevant training The Dairy Crest Farm Assurance to help maintain our high standards in food safety and quality.
Scheme ensures the delivery of top quality milk in terms of food safety, We are augmenting the Groups internal health and safety audit programme with a rolling animal welfare and protection of annual programme of external accreditation from the British Safety Council.
This year three the environment.
sites Davidstow, Maelor and Hanworth were audited and earned audit scores of either 4 or 5 stars.
We are also involved in the Health and Safety Executive initiative to enable FTSE 350 companies to take part in a lead assessor scheme.
As part of our plans to meet the Government's Revitalising Health and Safety initiative, we have instigated an annual joint review with the HSE whereby we co-develop the Companys health and safety plan.
Top quality milk Milk producers play a critical role in the delivery of a healthy future for the industry.
The Dairy Crest Farm Assurance Scheme which embraces the industrys National Dairy Farm Assured Scheme ensures the delivery of top quality milk, produced to the standards required by consumers, in terms of food safety, animal welfare and protection of the environment.
Dairy Crest provides a subsidised farm support package through the White Gold Service, to enable supplying producers to achieve Farm Assurance Standards with the minimum of disruption and cost.
