Environment, Health and Safety Progress Against Improving Environment, Health and Safety EHS performance is vital to the success 2002 2003 Objectives of our business.
Last years report introduced our EHS systems and structures.
It also summarised our EHS performance and set some objectives and programmes for the future.
3Completed This year we report significant progress against those objectives, introduce new objectives uSome progress made for the coming year and present a second year of EHS performance data.
6No progress Environment, Health and Safety at fide La Rue 3Complete Phase 1 of ISO14001 We strive to minimise the effects on the environment of our operations and to safeguard the health implementation programme and safety of those affected by them.
We consider strong performance in these areas essential to uIntroduce and develop intranetoverall business success and are committed to continuous improvement.
based EHS information and management tool Highlights and Challenges uDevelop corporate EHS This year we have made strong progress in bringing EHS to the forefront of business and operations procedures and formalised EHS training programmes at all levels management.
This has been achieved by securing greater engagement in the EHS process by senior executives.
A more comprehensive and transparent internal reporting process has been used to3Improve EHS benchmarking and self audit programme encourage greater ownership of EHS within the business units.
3Strategic Review of H&S This year we also achieved certification to ISO14001 at our two paper mills, which have the greatest Management and Resourcing environmental impact of all our operations.
We also placed greater focus on internationalising our EHS across all operations programme.
This is evident in Phases 3 and 4 of our ISO14001 programme, with five of the eight sites 3Host Interlock 2002 2003 in the programme located outside the UK.
Other significant developments have been the investment EHS Conference in additional EHS professionals within each division and the move to standardisation and greater uDevelop and implement Group enforcement of Group policies and procedures.
supply chain management procedures Our key environmental challenges for next year will be the continued implementation of ISO14001 and the incorporation of corporate environmental guidance into a consolidated EHS manual.
We also intend3Develop an EHS performance reporting system across to complete the integration of environmental issues into the existing health and safety audit process and the Group to establish fully data assimilation processes to enable quantitative performance improvement targets to be set in 2004 2005.
The implementation of the improved self-assessment audit tool will also allow 2003 2004 Objectives sites to prepare more focused and effective EHS improvement plans.
nComplete development and implementation of EHS Health and safety improvements for next year are expected to come through continued development procedures with intranet system of our EHS management systems: extending our audit scope to take greater account of site specific management systems: ensuring every site prepares a suitable EHS plan: implementing formal trainingnKeep ISO14001 implementation programme on target arrangements for all levels: and further expanding our EHS intranet facility.
nComplete cycle of internal EHS audits Managing Environment, Health and Safety Effective management of EHS is based on a combination of risk identification, policy setting, nFurther develop EHS data assurance processes, implementation of management systems at operational sites and development assimilation process and set targets for 2004 2005 of both employee awareness and a company culture that promotes desired EHS behaviours.
nComplete development and implementation of EHS Identification of EHS Risks and Effects training programmes fide La Rue operates a global business providing a diverse range of products and services to a broad range of customers.
We therefore need to satisfy changing legislative requirements and customernHost Interlock 2003 2004 EHS Conference expectations with regard to EHS performance.
Operational risk and impact identification is the responsibility of site management supported by site and divisional EHS advisers.
External and strategicnReview Occupational Health management risks are identified and managed through the function of the Group Risk Committee, details of which are set out on pages 33 and 34. fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 23 Environment, Health and Safety continued Summary of Consumption Although only a small number of our sites has the greatest EHS impact, we recognise that all of our and Emissions operations have risks and effects that need to be managed.
All sites consume natural resources, such as energy and produce some form of waste that needs to be minimised or safely managed, Water Consumption and each operation has associated health and safety hazards.
3 million m 7 Our Cash Systems division is characterised by assembling cash handling machines and equipment 6.44 and servicing these machines in customer locations.
The environmental impact of this business is 6 5.27 relatively low, consisting mainly of low volumes of waste generation and energy consumption.
Health 5 4.13 4.01 and safety risks are principally manual handling and ergonomics for the assembly of machines and the 4 personal safety of field engineers when travelling to and servicing equipment.
3 Security Paper and Print operations potentially have higher EHS hazards, as they involve chemical 2 handling and machinery hazards and present environmental impacts such as emissions to air and 1 water that require treatment prior to release to the environment.
0 2002 2003 Global Services essentially consists of hi-tech coating processes and information management Consumption Process water discharge solutions.
Whilst this still involves the use of chemicals and machinery the hazard potential is generally lower than our security printing operations.
Environmental impacts are primarily waste generation and solvent and energy consumption.
fide La Rues EHS Policies Energy Consumption GWh We have EHS policies with which all of our operations must comply.
The key features of these policies are: 2002 Electricity 102.7 29% na commitment to preventing pollution and accidents or ill health and to continuous improvement: Gas 241.2 68% Other Fuels 12.5 3% na commitment to identify, control, reduce or eliminate both health and safety risks and significant Total Energy 356.4 100% environmental impacts: 2003 nto provide a clear definition of EHS responsibilities throughout the organisation: Electricity 124.2 34% Gas 232.1 63%nto train and inform all employees to ensure adequate knowledge and commitment of the Other Fuels 9.2 3% entire workforce: Total Energy 365.6 100% nan overriding commitment to comply with legislation: nto conduct annual managerial reviews of our progress and review these policies based on findings: nto make appropriate resources available in order to ensure compliance with our EHS policies.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions 000 tonnes as CO 2 Total Management Assurance 350 331.8 Total EHS assurance comprises the processes and mechanisms that provide the Board with confirmation that 297.3 300 all sites and business units comply with Company policy and legislative requirements and are making 250 progress with their improvement plans.
200 During the year 2002 2003 we reviewed our EHS assurance process and as a result introduced new 150 levels of accountability and internal reporting.
The Board is ultimately responsible for EHS matters and 100 is committed to ensuring that the Groups policies are implemented.
The Chief Executive is the Board 50 member with designated responsibility for EHS and chairs the Environmental Steering Group while the 0 Company Secretary chairs the Health and Safety Steering Group.
These Groups are responsible for 2002 2003 setting strategy, responding to legislative developments, developing new corporate procedures and Freight transport Passenger transport disseminating information to appropriate sites and business units.
Process Other fuels The Group Risk Committee prepares a quarterly EHS report for submission to the Board.
Gas Electricity 24 fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 Solid Waste Generation and An audit schedule is used to ensure that all sites are audited on a periodic basis with higher risk Management 000 tonnes sites audited more frequently.
In 2003 2004 the audit programme will be extended to incorporate 25 Total Total environmental issues and to assess site specific management systems.
A self-assessment process 21.2 20.9 that allows sites to measure how they are performing in respect of Company policies and expectations 20 supports the audit programme.
This system has been overhauled this year in response to feedback 15 from the sites and in recognition that Company policy and legal requirements have changed and that improved forms of measurement were required.
10 5 Management Systems Robust management systems are critical in defining how we identify and control EHS risks, and who 0 2002 2003 is responsible for doing so.
We are continuing to implement an ISO14001 accredited Environmental Recycle Management System EMS at our key sites while further integrating our Group-wide procedures to Incinerator provide an overall framework for EHS management.
Landfill Hazardous solid waste accounted In 2002, we undertook a strategic review of health and safety management across the Group.
The for 68 tonnes in 2002 and review identified that more management system development was required at site and divisional level.
We also identified that we needed to bolster our EHS resources across the Group.
Another finding was the need for more standardisation across businesses and improved quality of direction setting from 3 Liquid Waste by Type m 2,500 Group in the form of greater clarity of corporate goals and objectives.
Total 2,176 Getting this right is the key challenge for our business.
The diversity of the business means this is no 2,000 Total 2,082 simple task.
However, we are already making inroads.
Standard accident investigation procedures have 1,500 been implemented and new EHS management structures have been developed for each division, with additional EHS professionals recruited at site and divisional level.
1,000 An intranet-based EHS information and management tool is available to all our sites.
This has 500 been integral to our drive for consistent Group-wide practices and to improve EHS communication 0 across the Group.
2002 2003 Other Waste inks and solvents Awareness and Culture Photographic and plating waste Continually developing awareness and embedding EHS within the operating culture are critical to Papermaking waste Adhesive waste the success of improving EHS performance.
In this last year we have worked hard on these areas.
The new reporting systems that have been implemented for Board assurance purposes also have the Emissions to Air 000 kg effect of encouraging all managers to engage in the EHS process.
To encourage further management 2002 2003 engagement we have introduced a scheme whereby remuneration for members of the Operating Board Non-Chlorinated VOCs 128 153 considers EHS performance along with other business critical performance measures.
4 Each quarter we issue a business briefing.
This is cascaded from the Board to divisions to site, with VOCs Volatile Organic Compounds each successive level adding pertinent data.
This year we added EHS to the briefing in order to make are organic materials containing carbon it clear to all employees that this is a core business value.
They are common solvents and are found in most paints and inks.
In 2002 we held a third EHS conference which was attended by senior managers, operational personnel and EHS and union representatives from worldwide operations.
We use this conference to encourage Emissions to Water 000 kg sharing of best practice, to launch new corporate procedures and for operational personnel to exchange 2002 2003 views with senior management.
The conference was opened by the Chief Executive and chaired by the COD 158 125 Company Secretary.
Other forums where EHS is discussed include the European Employee Forum and BOD 28 25 the annual Senior Management Conference.
Suspended Solids 28 29 We assessed our EHS training needs at site and divisional level.
Some management training has taken BOD Biochemical Oxygen Demand place and some sites have implemented site-wide training programmes for ISO14001 and other health COD Chemical Oxygen Demand Suspended Solids the filtered dry and safety initiatives.
However, we have not yet implemented formalised training programmes for all weight of solids suspended within the liquid effluent.
We hope to complete this in 2003 2004. fide La Rue Annual Report 2003 25 Environment, Health and Safety continued Summary Safety Our Overton paper mill provides a good example of the culture we are looking to develop.
The site has Performance Data gone through a major EHS change management programme complementing ISO14001 and the Making Paper Safely initiatives.
The programme has included investment in training and machinery guarding, 2002 2003 Over-3-Day Reportable and improving employee consultation and involvement of all levels in the health and safety process.
Accidents 60 78 A particular innovation was to place EHS as the first agenda item at all site meetings and to include Other Recordable Accidents 390 499 employees in developing and delivering the sites EHS plan.
The result has been a marked reduction Over-3-Day in reportable accidents and consequently a movement up the Paper Federations league table.
Incidence Rate per 100,000 employees 913 1,178 Days Lost due to Environment, Health and Safety Performance Indicators Over-3-Day Accidents 1,009 1,988 We have introduced various monitoring systems which enable us to measure our EHS performance against specific indicators.
This year we have expanded our measured data to include a breakdown of Reportable accidents are those that result in the injured person having the principal contaminants within our air and effluent discharges, and we have expanded our health and more than three days off work.
We also safety data to include total days lost and the nature and cause of accidents and incidents.
There were include road traffic accidents and other dangerous occurences.
no fatalities and we have not been subject to any fines or prosecutions for any operation worldwide.
Recordable accidents are all other incidents where an employee or With only two years of data it is too early to establish performance trends whether good or bad.
Our reporting processes are also still evolving.
In fact many of the changes in our performance data from last year are attributable to improved reporting processes including better data collection.
This Over-3-Day Injury Incidence Rate per 100,000 employees is certainly true of our accident reporting data where overall we experienced the expected increase 1,800 in reportable and recordable accidents following the improvements to our reporting and investigation 1,600 processes.
Increased verification of data submissions from our sites has led to correction of reporting 1,400 errors and misinterpretation of reporting requirements by sites.
This verification process has also 1,200 resulted in a restating of some data from last year.
1,000 800 There have also been real changes in our EHS performance.
We believe that some of this is due to 600 improvement initiatives and the continued implementation of ISO14001.
Within the Security Paper and 400 Print division the Currency business reduced the number of reportable accidents by over 40 per cent 200 compared with 2001 2002 representing the excellent performance at Overton and the other banknote 0 1 2 3 Total printing sites.
However, it is also attributable to changes in production arrangements and annual 2002 2003 fluctuations in production output.
A transfer of production from our Singapore and High Wycombe 1 Security Paper and Print 2 Cash Systems operations and acquisition of the Byfleet facility have resulted in different production efficiencies and 3 Global Services the generation of abnormal waste streams as plant is decommissioned.
At Overton, our biggest facility, UK manufacturing industry average production fluctuations and other manufacturing measures have also resulted in lower consumption and 2001 UK HSE statistics environmental emissions.
Over-3-Day Accident We aim to establish our data reporting and management process further in this coming year.
With Breakdown by Type greater data integrity we will then be in a position to begin meaningful trend analysis and introduce improvement targets and external benchmarking from next year.
Full copies of our EHS policies are available on our website, or from the Company Secretary, details of which are on the inside back cover.
By Order of the Board Manual handling injury 45% Slips, trips and falls 18% Contact with moving machinery or material 10% Hit by moving object 9% Other 5% Hit by vehicle 5% Ian Much Chief Executive Fall from height 4% Hit something fixed or stationary 3% Contact with a harmful substance 1% 26 fide La Rue Annual Report 2003
