corporate social responsibility report Dimension Data recognises its responsibility toward its employees, society and the environment, and is committed to conducting its business and reporting according to the highest ethical standards.
Dimension Data has evaluated the key risks related to Corporate Social Responsibility, and considers that the ability to attract and retain appropriately skilled and motivated staff is key to the Groups success, and that a shortage of such talent would be a material risk to the business.
The Group acknowledges that its efforts with its employees and local communities add to its sustainability as a Group, as well as to the sustainability of the communities within which it operates.
Employees personal development plan to ensure that In 2003, US$410 per employee was spent The Group remains committed to performance is effectively managed.
throughout the Group on training.
attracting, retaining, and developing the Employees can earn bonuses based on highest calibre of employees, to ensure a performance, and many are also offered The People Dimension System has been culture of high performance.
During the target-based options in the Share Option used during 2003 to capture, track and year the Group continued the development Scheme.
Currently 5,080 employees hold report on skills across the globe.
Having of the DD Way, a global performanceoptions in the scheme.
an on-line system allows the Group to based transformation programme which report accurately on our skills and aligns the Group behind a common vision.
Group companies aim to maintain health certifications, provide timely and accurate A key element of the programme is to and safety policies in accordance with information on skills for tenders bids, utilise best practice people management best practice and adhere to the regulatory locate specific skills required for projects, processes for a global organisation.
The requirements of the regions in which they and allows the identification of any skills DD Way will continue as the context operate.
Local labour standards are gaps that need to be addressed with through which the Group drives and adhered to, with most employees working further training and or certifications.
The accelerates the alignment of people and 40 hour weeks unless contractually Executive Chairman has also initiated a operations as well as the execution of agreed otherwise because of the nature Talent Management Strategy, which change.
includes identifying key employees on a global basis, and fostering their talent for During 2003 the communication It is Group policy to adhere to local labour the benefit of the Group.
infrastructure has been consolidated on a standards and globally accepted human global basis, with all employees receiving rights practices.
It is Group policy not to During 2003 Dimension Data established consistent and focused communications.
Freedom of a global corporate university, DDU, with On-line information including policies and association is also Group policy on a the aim of accelerating the execution of procedures and other employee-related global basis, with works councils existing our strategy through training and information is now available to all in some countries where appropriate to development of our staff.
This is enhanced by the local law and practice.
that training and development initiatives regular production of @Didata, an remain focused on the strategic priorities employee magazine.
The Executive Skills Development and Training of the Group.
In line with this, four DDU Chairman and regional CEOs regularly The Group relies on highly skilled staff to Centres of Excellence were established communicate with employees on matters enable us to deliver a superior standard of namely: ANS, Sales, Services and of relevance to them, with staff and service to our customers.
It has an Leadership and Management, under branch meetings being held regularly.
ongoing commitment to provide high which all training and development quality training for staff to ensure they initiatives fit.
The global, web-based employee selfhave up-to-date product solution service system, internally known as the knowledge and strong management and The Sales Centre of Excellence has People Dimension System, has allowed leadership competencies, as well as to focused on two main areas: the building of for the consistent implementation of a provide training for continual career our sales management capability and the formal performance management system development.
development of our customer-facing across Dimension Data.
The performance employees to enable us to sell our management process also includes a solutions services more effectively.
ANNUAL REPORT 2003 39 corporate social responsibility report Training was preceded by the completion focus on information and communication Our Saturday School is run from our of a sales skills assessment across all our technology ICT skills development.
offices in Midrand, South Africa.
This was followed by the rollout of Group companies also participate in a opened in 1995 in an attempt to expose customised Sales Management, Account broad range of activities in the youngsters from disadvantaged Planning and Solutions Selling training.
communities in which they operate, backgrounds to computing.
The primarily using their ICT expertise to curriculum has now been extended to The Leadership and Management Centre leverage the assistance they provide.
include other subjects, with an emphasis of Excellence has developed the Hion preparing promising pupils for Performance Leadership HPL In South Africa, skills development university or college.
This programme was custom remains the primary focus of community 100% pass rate and has seen several designed for Dimension Data and aims at and charitable initiatives.
During 2003 students earn bursaries and go on to developing senior leaderships these initiatives have been consolidated perform well at tertiary level.
Once they effectiveness in thinking strategically and into the DD Bridge programme: a multihave completed their education, students acting decisively.
The HPL programme will faceted, carefully structured programme.
are encouraged to return to Dimension be delivered by world-class experts in the The programme reaches into previously Data for employment.
DDSA has fields of leadership and strategy disadvantaged communities at the earliest contributed over US$10,000 in cash to the execution, and has commenced in the UK possible age, and, through a tiered Saturday School.
Dimension Data also and Australian territories.
approach called the Ladder of Learning, provides the venue, administration seeks to make individuals from those functions and other facilities for the Strong middle management is seen as communities eligible to lead the ICT Saturday School free of charge.
The critical to the execution of the strategy industry at the highest level.
The Ladder principal of the School and many lecturers within the business.
As a result, a of Learning is divided into two parts: are Dimension Data volunteers.
Management Development Programme projects affecting employees and MDP has been custom built for prospective employees, and those external At a tertiary level Dimension Data Dimension Data and is being delivered in to Dimension Data.
It starts at school continued its involvement as the IT partnership with the Manchester Business level, and moves through to tertiary Strategic Partner for CIDA City Campus, School.
education, internal learnership as detailed in last years Report.
programmes and then to skills Dimension Data has contributed Investment was also made in the development within Dimension Data.
US$127,000 in cash and a further development of short, customised US$350,000 in kind to CIDA during the e-learning modules to enable all Dimension Data South Africa Pty Ltd 2003 financial year.
Contributions in cash employees to better understand the DDSA supports the Ndzululwazi Senior have been used mainly to provide Groups vision.
These self-paced learning Secondary School in the Eastern Cape, information technology infrastructure and modules are highly effective and efficient, and the Diepsloot Combined School in the services, enabling Internet and personal allowing for a wide audience to be Diepsloot township north of computer access for CIDA students and reached and for the user to learn in Johannesburg.
Contributions in kind are related to his her own time.
US$20,000 to providing and upgrading developing the information technology sporting and library facilities at the curriculum and providing lecturers in this Communities Diepsloot school, and more than 100 area, which is a core subject for CIDA Dimension Data is committed to the Dimension Data volunteers have been students throughout each of their four principle of corporate citizenship.
As a involved in activities at the school, ranging years of study.
Dimension Data also Group, Dimension Data supports from catalogue services in the library to provides IT training for CIDA staff to educational initiatives, including provision of manual labour for the ensure that they can sustain their own development in sport, with a particular upgrading of sporting facilities.
40 DIMENSION DATA During 2003 DDSA made a further hospitalised children and their families.
In Given the current industry pressures in US$70,000 contribution to the South addition, it raised US$27,000 for Putting the IT sector in which the Group operates, African Paralympic Organisation to enable IT Back.
It is also currently supporting and its low environmental impact, the them to assist disabled athletes to Social Ventures, an organisation that development of further environmental compete at a national and international provides mentoring and financing for initiatives has not been a priority in 2003. level.
DDSA also made a donation of Australian-based social ventures.
However, management intends authorising US$7,000 to the St. Raphael AIDS a benchmarking exercise at its main Orphanage in the Eastern Cape, to enable Environment centres, in order to establish what key them to extend their services to orphans Dimension Data recognises that its areas should be included within the scope with or affected by AIDS in one of the business activities have both direct and of future environmental initiatives.
poorest areas in South Africa.
The contribution is part of a three year Groups environmental policy is as follows: Ethical commitment to supporting the AIDS The Dimension Data Group embraces the orphanage and coordinates with an Being office-based by nature, Dimension highest standards in its business activities.
internal communication programme Data has very low primary and direct The Group operates in accordance with related to HIV AIDS within DDSA.
The Group is an ethical code which is distributed to mindful of the necessity to be efficient in employees via the corporate intranet.
As part of Dimension Datas relationship its consumption of energy and strives to During the period under review the ethical with Manchester United, three Manchester exceed wherever possible the statutory policy has been revised further and an United Soccer School coaches recently requirements which apply to the Group in ethical conduct declaration exercise has visited South Africa, giving three days of the countries of operation.
The recycling been carried out in the Datacraft Asia their time in order to coach players from of waste materials and the reduction of subsidiary, and will be carried out within four township schools, including Diepsloot non-renewable resources, as well as the the other subsidiaries shortly.
A copy of Combined School, a development team environmentally friendly disposal of any the revised code is available on the from a local club sponsored by DDSA, and hazardous resources employed by the Companys website www.
a provincial team which is coached by a Group, is encouraged.
When developing Dimension Data staff member.
systems, the environmental concerns and The Group is non-political.
It does not statutory obligations of customers are make contributions to political parties or Dimension Data also supported a reflected in the solutions we provide.
allow its assets and services to be used in University of Sussex initiative by making any way which favours any particular video conferencing facilities available to Dimension Datas Group companies political grouping, other than in the schools in the UK and South Africa for a recycle paper, boxes, toner cartridges, provision of its normal products and video conference between pupils in those save electricity, and dispose of old services, under its usual terms and countries on the subject of citizenship and computer equipment to charities or in an conditions of sale.
Dimension Data Australia annually donates the Dimension Data Australia has remained provision of IT services and support to committed to the charities it regularly Clean Up Australia Day, the largest supports, donating about US$55,000 in community participation event in the 2003.
It has provided an upgrade of the IT country.
infrastructure throughout Australia for the Starlight Foundation, a non-profit organisation which is dedicated to brightening the lives of seriously ill and ANNUAL REPORT 2003 41 corporate social responsibility report South African Employment Equity Operational and management control Entrepreneurship formation Report Operational management participation is DDSA encourages entrepreneurship DDSA believes that like many other South at the heart of DDSAs BEE strategy.
The formation by leveraging its skills and African companies it has a moral company is already working towards contacts within the industry, to the imperative to address the inequalities of attaining a set target of 40% previously advantage of an empowerment partner, as the past through a concerted and ongoing disadvantaged executive directors by well as offering employees an opportunity public-private sector partnership.
Vusi Dlamini, HR director at DDSA, to run their own businesses.
It has formed addressing Black Economic has been tasked with accelerating the an empowerment deal with call centre Empowerment BEE by means of a skills level of previously disadvantaged specialist Kwezi, in terms of which DDSA multifaceted strategy in a manner that is employees at DDSA.
will provide skills transfer and the two consistent with the South African companies will source business together.
This also addresses Affirmative procurement A process is underway to identify and the needs of our shareholders to invest in DDSA supports a government policy to promote similar partnerships with other a company that provides sustainable establish and support a competitive, black-owned companies.
It has also superior returns, thereby achieving a sustainable and viable base of suppliers initiated an owner-driver programme which better strategic positioning for DDSA, and from previously disadvantaged sees DDSA arranging everything drivers enabling it to deliver improved returns to communities.
Office supplies, print bureau, need to manage their own outputs and its shareholders.
recycling, pest control, waste disposal and gains, and thus learning to run their own security services as well as building, plant businesses.
Shareholding at equity level and vehicle maintenance have been DDSA has invested in black majority subcontracted to BEE companies.
DDSA Employment equity owned companies, having a 49% stake in has put in place SME development DDSA has to date met its transformation both Plessey and Choice Technologies, through affirmative procurement and targets at all levels within the organisation and a further 39% investment in blacksubcontracting to 15 black-owned SMEs, as submitted to the Department of Labour owned M-IT through their subsidiary including the recent appointment of every year since 1998.
It has formed an Protocol.
In addition US$560,000 in Seekers Lesedi to handle the Groups Empowerment Equity Committee to drive shareholder loans has enabled the substantial travel requirements.
The empowerment, with the mandate to establishment and growth of their company has furthermore committed itself implement transformation at every level, business.
In all cases, DDSA has provided to at least 30% of non-stock purchases and has provided the executive shareholder funding, managerial and through black-owned companies by the sponsorship to back up this commitment.
operational assistance, skills transfer and 2004 financial year.
Additionally, a significant Skills development stake in DDSA has been made available In 2003 previously disadvantaged and a task team is actively seeking managers made up 45% of our suitable equity partners.
Executive commitment to the MDP ensures that the programme goes beyond affirmative action to real empowerment and meaningful advancement.
