Corporate citizenship Value, choice and service must be delivered programme offers free, condential access to alongside a supportive workplace, good citizenship, counsellors and legal and financial advice.
ethical procurement and concern for the environment.
Share bonus and incentive schemes enable employees Reporting to the Board, our Corporate Social to share our success directly.
Through training and Responsibility Committee identies and assesses development programmes we are committed to social, environmental, ethical and reputational issues creating a highly skilled and motivated workforce.
which impact on the Group and ensures appropriate actions are taken to address them effectively.
Disabilities Its terms of reference are summarised on page 39.
This year, we increased our focus on disability issues.
A mystery shopping audit of our stores A supportive workplace by a disability charity has enabled us to assess Being the Best sets out the philosophy that shapes accessibility and help our staff better meet the our working behaviour, towards our customers, our needs of customers with disabilities.
We also piloted colleagues and our competitors.
disability awareness training in partnership with a number of disability charities.
Our Respect for People programme helps to ensure that we work in an environment free of harassment, Promoting health and safety bullying or discrimination.
The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of health and safety.
The Group Human Our customers reect every background.
So too Resources Director is responsible for health and should our employees.
Our commitment to equal safety at Board level.
opportunities gives us access to the broadest range of skills and experience.
In the UK, Asian and Black We identify and assess risks, reducing or eliminating Britons make up 10 and 4 per cent of our employees them where possible and raising risk-awareness respectively, exceeding their representation in the among our management teams.
The Group Health population as a whole.
and Safety Committee oversees policy development and compliance and reviews performance.
Operating Where practical, the Group supports exible working procedures are reviewed regularly by local committees.
Our independent employee assistance Health and safety management 2002 03 2001 02 Average number of UK employees in the year FTE 24,024 24,576 Table 1 Reports made under the UK Reporting Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations 1995 and Safety, Health & Welfare at Work Act 1989 Ireland 412 425 Of which: Injuries 66 designated major, 2001 02: 60 412 424 Reportable disease 0 1 Dangerous occurrences 0 0 Reports per 1,000 full time equivalent employees 17 17 Total accidents 4,002 4,186 Change -4.4% Days lost in consequence: Retail operations 1,624 1,359 Mastercare 1,736 1,077 Total days lost 3,360 2,436 Days lost annually as % of total employee days 0.06% 0.04% Table 2 Reported violence or threat of violence against employees 458 557 Change -18% Note: Total accidents were mistakenly presented as violence to employees in the 2001 02 Annual Report.
22 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 The most significant health and safety risks arise from Charitable giving the manual handling of products.
The Group provides The Dixons Foundation gave 983,995 to training and equipment to reduce the risk of injury charitable groups during the year.
The Foundation and has invested signicantly in mechanical handling continues to support education, sponsoring a chair aids.
We operate a rehabilitation programme for in Entrepreneurship and Innovation at Edinburgh employees injured at work.
Workplaces are designed University and the Dixons City Technology College and equipped to minimise customer and staff risk, with and Education Action Zone EAZ in Bradford.
The key performance indicators reinforcing site safety.
Action Zone impacts directly on the standards and achievements of 20 schools in the area, supporting We maintained our strong safety performance, the aspirations of 10,000 pupils and their families.
with no prosecutions or convictions for health The Group has committed a further 100,000 to and safety offences in the UK during the year and extend the life of the EAZ for a further two years.
prompt resolution of any safety concerns raised by enforcement authorities.
The number of reported Our Health Matters campaign continued to support accidents and of reportable injuries remained stable.
the Stroke Association, the Breast Cancer Campaign, We are harmonising the Groups approach to health the Prostate Cancer Charity and the Multiple and safety across our international subsidiaries to Sclerosis Society, raising more than 480,000 over ensure that all meet appropriate standards.
To protect our customers and achieve high levels Ethical procurement of safety and reliability, we conduct strict product To ensure that all own brand products are sourced testing, regular inspections of manufacturing from factories that demonstrate a measurable facilities and work closely with suppliers.
commitment to social and ethical standards, we have rolled out a comprehensive audit of own-brand Employees receive guidance on handling aggressive suppliers.
The audit requires compliance with clear or potentially violent situations and on avoiding standards covering all aspects of working conditions, confrontation and risk.
including a ban on child labour and guarantees on acceptable working hours and a safe and healthy Good citizenship workplace.
Our community involvement stretches from local fundraising for schools, hospitals and community Over the period, we have audited more than groups to major sponsorships of academic institutions.
70 per cent of own-brand suppliers in Asia.
Around Mastercare sponsored Innovation@Stevenage2003 half met our standards on first inspection.
Others to promote local employment opportunities.
have given written commitments to improvements in areas such as machine safety, pay and working Our employees participate in voluntary activities hours, and these will be monitored.
Those suppliers from regeneration projects to crime prevention and failing to meet the required standards will be schools management.
Further details of this policy are available in our training and development modules.
Our new Community Fonebak scheme recovers Trading standards and recycles old mobile phones, enabling charities Maintaining compliance with trading standards and community groups to convert used phones requirements plays an important part in delivering into vouchers and cash.
Over the year the scheme high levels of customer service.
Over the period we processed 168,000 phones of which 84 per cent reduced the number of complaints received from were processed for reuse and 15 per cent recycled.
trading standards authorities by 45 per cent.
Under our Building Bridges programme the Group has The Group works closely with the Mobile Industry developed better links with enforcement authorities Crime Action Forum MICAF and the Home Ofce and improved understanding on both sides.
to reduce mobile phone crime.
The initiative has received widespread support and Dixons and The Link were praised by Scotland Yard for their commitment to Operation Pavilion, the police undercover anti-phone fraud operation.
Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03 23 Corporate citizenship continued To reduce carbon dioxide emissions, the Dixons Concern for the environment We continue to make progress in integrating Group was among the first eet users in the UK to order new EURO IV diesel engine vehicles.
By environmental issues into all areas of our business.
Responsible environmental management continues increasing the numbers of diesel and unleaded vehicles, we have reduced the average CO to be important.
Environmental management 2 working groups monitor performance and progress emissions on all company cars purchased to 150.86 grams, an improvement of 6.6 per cent and consider improvements where required.
The Group Human Resources Director has Board over the year and exceeding the Governments 2003 target for eet emissions of 160 grams by responsibility for this area.
The Group maintains dialogue on its environmental objectives with suppliers, investors, government and We have reviewed the sustainability of materials used in carrier bags.
We have also identied a other stakeholders.
Our management programmes aim to: way to reduce the weight of bags without reducing their strength.
The reduction in total packaging will minimise resource use: strengthen controls over energy consumption: and save around 262 tonnes of plastic in its first year of operation.
manage waste safely and recycle where practical.
Benchmarking success At our Stevenage national distribution centre we remove bulky external packaging from smaller The Group has supported the Business in the Environment BiE Index of Corporate Environmental items before shipping in reusable, long-life plastic containers.
The packaging is recycled and the plastic Engagement since it began seven years ago.
The Groups overall score increased from 66 per cent boxes ll otherwise void space in our larger lorries, reducing the number of journeys.
to 74 per cent this year, conrming our improving performance in environmental management.
Dixons Our Stevenage centre recycled 2,664 tonnes of Group plc is a constituent of the FTSE4Good UK, European and Global Indices.
packaging waste in the financial year, an increase of 9.5 per cent.
This is the fourth year of continuous improvement in waste management.
Package waste recycling per year in tonnes Card Paper Plastic lm Polystyrene Total tonnage % change 2001 02 1,818 301 66 248 2,433 2002 03 2,059 235 54 316 2,664 9.5% Average CO emissions on eet cars 2 grams % change 2001 02 161.48 2002 03 150.86 6.6% 24 Dixons Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2002 03
