ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 Corporate social responsibility As highlighted in previous annual reports, the board the standards of integrity and honest conduct expected.
recognises the importance of corporate social responsibility The Groups whistle-blowing policy enables UK employees CSR and the Group aims to fulfil its responsibilities to its to report in confidence any breaches of the Code of stakeholders including shareholders, employees, Conduct, fraud or any other criminal acts to an external customers, suppliers and the communities in which the party.
This is in addition to existing designated internal Groups businesses operate.
The board made a clear contacts available to employees worldwide.
The Group is commitment to operate all its business activities with currently reviewing external party contacts for non-UK high standards of business ethics and integrity in its operations.
This was issued by the The Group has an established UK Human Resources chief executive in December 2001, is regularly reviewed, Forum, attended by representatives of the operating and is available on our website.
The statement is supported businesses.
Topics covered during the year include an by appropriate policies in each area.
The board has overall update on current and future developments in employment responsibility for ensuring that these CSR policies are law, grievance and disciplinary procedures, appraisal regularly reviewed and verified, and the chief operating systems, recruitment and selection techniques and other officer is responsible for their implementation.
The board current HR issues.
There are equivalent HR structures in takes regular account of significant social, environmental our key non-UK businesses.
As reported under corporate Health, safety and environmental governance, short and long-term risks associated with The Group regards environmental and health and safety these matters are regularly assessed.
matters as of key importance for its stakeholders and is The Group is to publish its first CSR Report in April committed to the continuous improvement of its 2004.
This provides examples of how policies and practices performance in these areas.
The Group aims to achieve are being developed around the Group, provides key high standards of health and safety and of environmental statistics and targets and highlights some of the local protection and seeks to keep all concerned aware of best community and charity initiatives in place.
The Group plans practice and the statutory frameworks.
The chief operating to broaden and deepen its CSR reporting in the future.
The officer is responsible for the overall implementation of the report is available on the website.
Groups environmental and health and safety policies, and Aga Foodservice Group is a member of the FTSE4Good the senior managers with responsibility for these issues index.
report directly to him on these matters.
Employment Detailed environmental and health and safety policies The Groups operations are mainly carried out by its have been adopted within each of the Groups operations, operating subsidiaries and responsibility for employment with business unit managers responsible for matters resides primarily with individual businesses.
Policies and practices are reviewed and However, the Group requires its operating subsidiaries to updated for changes in legislation and employees are made comply with its equal opportunities policy which stipulates aware of the policies and their responsibility to ensure that that policies be followed throughout the Group to ensure these are effectively applied.
that there is equal opportunity of employment, retention, To help leverage best practice and to drive progress, promotion and training regardless of race, ethnic or national the Group has a European health, safety and environmental origin, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, religion, committee and a separate US network co-ordinator.
The trade union membership or disability and that appropriate committee meets regularly to review standards, set targets consideration is given to disabled applicants in terms of for improvement and to promote best practice.
the focus has been on standardising documentation and Employees are kept informed of developments across data collection.
the Group by a variety of means.
These include a Group The health, safety and environmental committee has newsletter, The Aga Times, which is updated online and developed a system of internal audits using health and is distributed regularly to employees.
In addition, a number safety specialists to benchmark across operations.
These of the Group companies have their own newsletters.
audits are currently being extended to include Business unit management also hold briefing sessions for environmental and other CSR topics.
External consultants their local workforces and employees are encouraged to are utilised when specific needs arise.
access the Groups websites and local Intranet.
The Group monitors reportable and non-reportable The Groups Code of Conduct for employees outlines accidents at all operating units and sets annual 25 FOODSERVICE GROUP Corporate social responsibility improvement targets.
All UK businesses are now members development of products that reduce costs and waste, of the British Safety Council and the Group benchmarks raise standards, are more energy efficient and improve the its UK accident statistics against industry standards.
Group is currently reviewing benchmarking in Europe and The Group has been working with its customers and the US.
Accident and lost time statistics are available in using its know-how to address these challenges.
Accordingly, the Group has increased its investment in The Groups environmental policy sets out the principles research and development and has a new generation of for enhancing environmental performance, minimising products ready to market.
These include the Infinity Fryer impact and of maximising efficiency.
This framework forms which has been developed by Falcon and uses Rayburn the basis of detailed policies that are adopted by and are pre-mix burner and heat transfer technology see appropriate to the activities of individual businesses.
In addition, The Group monitors key environmental indicators and Williams is developing highly cost competitive glycol specific improvement targets are being developed to help refrigeration systems, with lower running costs and lower minimise the environmental impact of any aspect of the heat emissions into kitchens helping to create a better Groups operations.
These targets, and progress in meeting working environment.
them, are fully reported in the CSR Report.
Supply chain ethical trading code The Groups environmental impact covers a range of The board recognises the importance of managing the areas, such as energy use, water consumption, transport, supply chain to ensure, so far as is practicable, that its waste and recycling, due to both our manufacturing direct and indirect suppliers adopt the same core principles processes and non-manufacturing usage and the as the Aga Foodservice Group.
The Group introduced an performance of our products.
Ethical Trading Code in 2002 which encompasses a set The Group supports the adoption and implementation of global sourcing principles covering fair terms of of environmental management systems at its operating employment, human rights, health and safety, equal businesses where this is considered to provide added value.
opportunities and good environmental practice.
All The Rangemaster sites at Leamington Spa and Long Eaton operating companies are required to review supplier were accredited to ISO 14001 in March 2003.
Falcon compliance with this code, monitor any areas of nonFoodservice and Williams Refrigeration are working towards conformance and take action where appropriate.
Further information on these and other Group develops and expands, this monitoring process is initiatives can be found in the CSR Report.
necessarily on-going, as already noted under Risk Factors In 2003, the Company introduced a Group in the corporate governance section.
environmental award to encourage employees to suggest areas where environmental practice could be improved.
Community involvement Vic Cocker reviewed the submissions and presented prizes Each operating company and its employees are encouraged to the winning employees and heard how their submissions to become involved with and to support local community were being implemented to contribute to improving projects, educational establishments, charities and other environmental practice and to resource efficiency within causes.
This support may be via donations, fundraising or the Group.
Our retail businesses have In addition to the environmental impact of its day-toorganised events and allowed charities to hold meetings day activities, the Group also seeks to minimise the risk in the Groups outlets.
Liaison on community issues is of environmental pollution incidents.
If such incidents occur, encouraged and comments are logged, responded to and the Group has in place a policy for prompt corrective action reviewed at Group level.
to be taken, and where appropriate the relevant regulatory Verification authorities would be notified.
During the year, there were Aga Foodservice Group has instituted a regular review of no fines or prosecutions as a result of environmental its CSR policies, and in March 2002 appointed CSR incidents.
Consulting Ltd to assist the Company in evaluating its Customers current policies and procedures and reinforce the Groups The Group recognises that its customers in both the public commitment to corporate social responsibility.
At present and private sector want substantive progress from their the board does not believe that an overall external CSR suppliers to help meet the targets they are setting audit would be appropriate but where significant issues themselves on CSR issues.
These targets vary, but include are identified utilises external specialists.
