Corporate Social Responsibility Review The Group recognises that if it is to prosper Health and safety Environment and provide good returns to its shareholders Operating safely and taking every reasonable During 2002 03, the Group advanced its over the longer term, it must operate to precaution to provide a safe, healthy and environmental management and reporting, high standards and act responsibly in all its clean working environment for all employees reinforcing its commitment to minimising business dealings with customers, employees, and members of the public is paramount the impact of its operations on the environment.
investors, suppliers and the communities in to the Groups successful performance.
Responsibility for environmental management which it operates.
Annual targets are set to reduce the number rests with each of the divisions, within the of accidents and the severity rate.
Progress is framework of the Group Environmental The Group has defined and communicated monitored through monthly reporting by Policy.
Divisional activities are co-ordinated and throughout the organisation its Key Corporate the divisions on eight criteria and against reviewed through the Group Environmental Values which require all employees always divisional targets.
The Groups companies Committee that meets regularly and is chaired to act ethically and with integrity, treat their worldwide have adopted the UK Reporting of by the Group Chief Executive.
colleagues fairly, equitably and with respect, Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences work safely and protect the environment.
Regulations RIDDOR definitions of major Further progress was made during the year These are supported by more detailed injuries.
This information is reported to the towards our goal of having an appropriate policy documents on health and safety, the Board twice yearly and, as an indication of environmental management system EMS environment, workplace malpractice and its importance, safety is a fixed agenda item in place at all sites.
23 Group sites have other topics.
The Group Chief Executive is at all divisional review meetings.
The Group been identified as having higher potential the Director responsible for corporate social recognises that it has considerable scope to environmental impact due to their larger size responsibility matters and reports to the reduce accidents and progress was made in or type of operations.
13 of these sites are Board on these.
2002 03 with a 4% reduction in the frequency certified for the ISO 14001 EMS: DS Smith rate for all accidents.
Packaging Bristol and St Regis Hollins mill Safety and the environment have been obtained certification during 2002 03 and identified as the highest priority areas of In order to maintain the drive for greater St Regis Kemsley mill was certified since corporate social responsibility on which safety, investigation results, lessons learnt the financial year end.
The ten other the Group is focused.
from accidents and information on health higher potential impact sites are currently and safety initiatives are communicated progressing towards achieving ISO 14001 promptly throughout the Group.
A number certification, of which six are on course to of the divisions use independent consultants be certified during 2003 04.
The Groups or trade associations to act as independent 72 other sites will all implement a simplified auditors of safety performance.
In the UK, EMS appropriate to their lower level of divisions collaborate with the Health and potential environmental impact.
The Group Safety Executive and trade unions to spread has been working with external consultants best practice and raise standards.
Across the to establish and implement a suitable Group, risk assessment and safety training programmes have contributed to creating a culture of heightened safety awareness amongst employees.
1 2 Leaders in recycling Corrugated is a cost-effective and fully recyclable packaging material 1 St Regis is the UKs largest producer of recycled paper, processing one million tonnes of recovered paper per year.
2 In the recycling process, the fibres in the recovered paper are prepared for making new paper by separating out other materials such as plastic and polystyrene.
A centrifugal cleaner removes sand, glass and metal contaminants.
22 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003 simplified system for the lower impact sites.
policies, environmental management systems Severnside Recycling has recently commenced 19 of these sites have a simplified EMS in and procedures.
An increasing number of an innovative pilot project collaborating with place and 13 are in the process of establishing customers are requesting information on a leading supermarket chain to raise the level one.
The remainder will implement a simplified our businesses environmental policies and of recycling of packaging both by staff at the EMS over a reasonable timescale.
back of stores and by consumers.
While the paper mills and some other major Packaging and the environment Investment by the Group in its paper sites have monitored key environmental The Groups packaging operations work collection and recycling operations makes performance data for some years and set with their customers to ensure that optimum a key contribution to the UK meeting the targets for improvement, data for all the types, specifications and quantities of requirements of the Producer Responsibility Groups sites has not previously been packaging are used in compliance with the Obligations Packaging Waste Regulations collated.
The Groups businesses are now all Essential Requirements element of the EU 1997, under which certain businesses are required to report on energy usage, carbon packaging waste regulations.
The Group required to recover and recycle packaging dioxide CO2 emissions, water usage, waste recommends the Incpen Industry Council materials to achieve a minimum annual disposed of to landfill and waste recycled.
for Packaging and the Environment national recovery target.
The UKs target for This information is being monitored at Responsible Packaging Code of Practice 2003 is to recover 59% of packaging material divisional and Group level and improvement which sets out guidelines for optimising and this target will increase over time.
targets are increasingly being set across the packaging specifications.
This will enable the Group to report reduces damage to products and contributes The Groups Plastic Packaging products more fully on its environmental performance to minimising waste and the total cost are largely based on polyolefins, principally and progress in future years.
high and low density polyethylene and polypropylene.
Much of the plastic packaging The Group had no major environmental DS Smith plays an important environmental can be re-used, in some cases many times.
There were a role through the recycling process of its The bottle crate business recycles old crates number of minor incidents, following which Corrugated and Paper operations.
Severnside by reprocessing the plastic to produce short and long term corrective action was Recycling is the UKs largest collector and new crates.
taken and the appropriate agencies were merchant of recovered paper and St Regis is informed, where necessary.
the UKs largest recycler of packaging waste and the largest producer of recycled paper.
The Groups businesses are increasingly Kaysersberg is also a significant recycler of engaging with their supply chain on recovered paper in France.
St Regis, Spicers is produced predominantly from recycled and John Dickinson have systems in place paper and is a cost-effective and fully to monitor their suppliers environmental recyclable packaging material.
Material Collected by Severnside Recycling 000 tonnes Increased waste Corrugated packaging Total paper and plastic recovery 773 736 717 696 664 Severnside Recycling has invested in its collection infrastructure to help 511 meet government targets and reduce 458 424 waste sent to landfill.
Total paper and 396 375 plastic collected has increased by 16% over the last four years: collection of corrugated packaging has increased by 36%.
1999 1999 2000 2000 2001 2001 2002 2002 2003 2003 23 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003 Corporate Social Responsibility Review Continued Environmental management All the UK paper mills have invested to sustainable development in connection with Paper improve their oil and chemical storage timber procurement.
Various recycling and Paper manufacturing has the largest facilities.
Sudbrook mill has recently waste segregation projects have reduced the environmental impact of all the Groups commissioned a new fibre recovery plant quantity of waste going to landfill.
It accounts for approximately to reduce the amount of suspended solid 85% of the Groups total CO2 emissions material in its effluent and it is continuing In addition to the Groups primary focus on and approximately 90% of water usage.
with investigations into means of reducing safety and the environment, the Group places Performance measures are well established the impact of its effluent discharge.
considerable importance on its dealings with in the nine paper mills and six of them have its employees and local communities.
The UK mills are Kaysersberg paper mill commissioned its regulated through Pollution Prevention combined heat and power plant which has Employees and Control PPC permits under which substantially reduced its emissions to the air.
The Group is making substantial effort to they each have specific improvement The mill was awarded an Eco-trophy by the create an environment in which its people, programmes and targets.
local Vosges Mountains Nature Park for its while meeting the Groups aims, feel that they environmental actions.
are well managed, treated with respect and are St Regis is a key participant in the UK able to fulfil their own potential.
Training and paper sector Climate Change Levy Agreement Corrugated and Plastic Packaging development is organised at the divisional and CCLA with the Department of Environment, A large number of environmental initiatives local level, as appropriate to each business, Food and Rural Affairs under which the contributed to reductions in energy with a strong emphasis on performance industry has undertaken to achieve energy consumption, water usage and waste levels management and improvement.
St Regis has consumption reduction targets.
The installation of automatic developed a major management development comfortably met its first CCLA target for controllers on lighting, machines and boilers, programme, accredited by the University of the year ended September 2002 and is on power factor correction equipment and Derby, that has been successfully completed course to meet the next target for the year to insulation of heating systems has reduced to date by over 70 supervisory, operational September 2004.
St Regis overall compliance energy consumption.
The use of inks, varnishes and general business managers.
DS Smith with its PPC emission targets improved from and solvents with lower environmental impact Packaging is now also participating in this 99.0% in 2001 to 99.7% in 2002 and its CO2 has been increased.
Waste water recycling development activity and additionally runs emissions per tonne of paper produced loop systems are reducing effluent discharge.
a strategic leadership programme for senior decreased by 3%.
managers in association with Ashridge The Tri-Wall Monmouth plant received the business school.
The Group is committed to Water usage and emissions per tonne of National Champions Award in the 2002 applying equal opportunities in all recruitment paper produced by St Regis increased by 2% Paper and Packaging category in the Green and employment practices.
It is also committed, during the year due to technical difficulties Apple Awards for Environmental Best as a minimum, to meeting the labour rights with a water recycling system at Sudbrook Practice Scheme, whose participants include and legislative requirements in each of the mill which have now been resolved.
A new many large and prestigious companies.
It won countries in which it operates.
effluent plant installed at Hollins mill has the award for a range of projects principally significantly improved the quality of its covering energy reduction and recycling.
Community involvement effluent: ways to re-use the water are being Community involvement principally investigated to reduce the volume of fresh Office Products takes place at the business level with many water consumed and effluent discharged.
In addition to initiatives to reduce energy initiatives that seek to foster good relations usage at its distribution centres, Spicers with local communities.
One way in St Regis increased its recycling of reject continues to focus on ways to reduce the which the Group meets its community material, such as plastic and polystyrene environmental impact of its vehicle fleet.
responsibilities is through supporting that is produced during the paper production Its own primary fleet is fitted with low charitable fund raising activities through process, by 27% while reducing waste disposed emission Euro II engines and the latest two cash contributions and in the form of of to landfill by 4%.
This was achieved vehicles use Euro III engines that reduce product and services or staff time.
The through improved operational disciplines emissions even further.
Spicers continued majority of the modest amount of money and the commissioning of Kemsley mills to increase the significant tonnage of paper, donated by the Group is given by individual waste-to-energy plant which burns reject board and stretchwrap that it recycles.
businesses, principally to causes in the material.
This plant not only reduces the communities in which they operate.
quantity of material going to landfill but John Dickinson uses recycled materials Donations by the Group headquarters are also lowers costs by being a net generator wherever appropriate and minimises the focused on a small number of causes that of energy.
usage of energy and natural resources in help educate and train young people to its manufacturing processes.
It is a founder become involved in business and working member of the WWF 95 group which is life.
The Group is a member of Business in committed to promoting legal and the Community and donates regularly to The Princes Trust.
24 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2003
