In 2003 we began implementing our Global Environmental, Health & Safety Management System GEMS at every level of our business, and in every part of our international network.
As a result, the entire company now has a single operational vision for safe working and the protection of the environment, easily accessible to each employee.
Corporate Responsibility Introduction The international nature of our operations brings with it many obligations.
These responsibilities are extensive from protecting the environment throughout the continents in which we work, to safeguarding the health and safety of our employees: from reducing noise pollution to ensuring integrity and honesty in our business dealings.
In these and many other ways, it is Aggrekos objective to operate worldwide in a safe and responsible manner.
Aggreko and the environment Aggrekos equipment is designed to function in all continents and all types of terrain.
By careful design and use of the most suitable technology, we also aim to minimise the environmental impact of that equipment.
All Aggrekos equipment and solutions are designed to comply with applicable laws, regulations and industry standards wherever we operate it in the world.
In effect, this means they comply with the laws, regulations and standards of some of the most stringent jurisdictions in which we do business, and therefore go far beyond the levels required in many others.
Our commitment to the environment is also evident at a more strategic level.
The key features in our company-wide Environmental Policy include: 18 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 considering environmental issues in the design, In 2002 Aggrekos environmental, health and maintenance and operation of our equipment: safety managers from across our regions and divisions joined together to create the Global promoting and demonstrating our commitment Environmental, Health & Safety Management to pollution prevention: System GEMS.
In 2003 we drove forward the implementation of GEMS on the frontline of working with suppliers, customers and our business.
At the core of GEMS is a Best subcontractors to develop more sustainable Operating Practice document that is published products and services: and in 9 languages English, French, German, Dutch, Spanish, Finnish, Italian, Norwegian, Swedish integrating environmental considerations into and distributed to every Aggreko employee all relevant business decisions.
We are continuing to implement all of the components of the GEMS in all corners of Legislation to limit exhaust emissions around the globe in which we do business.
The majority the world is becoming increasingly stringent of GEMS components are now fully implemented year by year and Aggreko takes its environmental throughout all Aggreko locations.
In addition to responsibilities very seriously.
In 2003 Aggreko our Global Environmental, Health & Safety introduced four new engines to its generator Policy, these components include: rental fleet certified to the latest North American standards i. e. Tier 2 of the Environmental a uniform accident and incident data Protection Agency regulations, and which collection system: also comply with the requirements of future European legislation.
global key performance indicators for environmental, health and safety issues: Health and safety Just as our corporate responsibility policies the implementation of monitoring and respect places, so too do they respect people measuring tools for those key performance both our own people and the people impacted indicators: and by our operations.
It is Aggrekos objective to safeguard the health and safety of our employees, the incorporation of environmental, health our customers and the communities in which and safety issues into our selling process.
Among the key features of Aggrekos Health and Safety Policy are: This new system gives us a comprehensive but practical tool that is truly global, a single vision considering health and safety issues throughout for corporate responsibility that can be applied the design, maintenance and operation of our throughout the entirety of our operations.
fleet: supplying safe and reliable products and services to the market-place: timely communication of our business activities and the risks associated with our operations to employees, customers, governments and the communities in which we operate: working diligently to prevent all incidents by engaging with employees and educating them in the implementation of our policy: and integrating health and safety considerations into all relevant business decisions.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 19 Corporate Responsibility continued Corporate ethics Aggreko has a reputation for delivering innovation, performance and solutions.
Also at the heart of our long-term success is something less tangible, less easily illustrated with figures or case studies.
This key element is integrity and honesty in our business dealings, a factor that contributes to our long-term relationships with customers.
All Aggreko employees are expected to behave ethically in their work, and our expectations of them are set out in a Corporate Ethics Policy.
The objective of the policy is to make Aggreko a good company to work for, to maintain our reputation for exceptional customer service, and to ensure the business is managed to a consistently high standard.
Employees who suspect any breaches of the Corporate Ethics Policy are encouraged to speak up, and their confidentiality and position is protected if they do so.
Managing the policy Responsibility for ensuring that Aggrekos Environmental, Health and Safety Policy is implemented and monitored lies with a nominated member of the Board.
In addition, the Board of Directors of Aggreko plc will ensure that the necessary organisation and resources exist to facilitate the achievement of Aggrekos environmental, health and safety goals.
It is also the responsibility of each and every Aggreko employee to implement the policy and live up to its commitments.
See our Corporate Responsibility Website Further information and copies of the Environmental, Health and Safety Policy and Corporate Ethics Policy are available on www.
com ourcompany  20 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Governance GOVERNANCE Governance Board of Directors 22 Directors Report 24 Directors Responsibilities 28 Corporate Governance 29 Remuneration Report 32 Independent Auditors Report 41
