acquisition of new titles On 2 April 2003, Emap announced Emap Frances eight magazines in the proposed acquisition of Excelsior Top 25 by circulation: Publications SA, owner of a portfolio of Pleine Vie magazines in the science and knowledge, Le Chasseur Franais womens fashion and mens lifestyle Modes & Travaux markets in France, for 90 million Top Sant 62 million.
The acquisition is subject Tl Star to competition authority clearance Tl Poche in France which we expect will be Nous Deux forthcoming in July 2003.
AutoPlus Key magazines in the Excelsior portfolio include Science & Vie, Science & Vie Junior, Biba, 20 Ans, Vital and Max.
These well established brands will strengthen Emap Frances portfolio as well as making Emap the second largest consumer magazine publisher in France.
The new titles t well with Emap Frances existing portfolio and bring improved prospects for good top-line growth and margin improvement.
Science & Vie is a range of popular science magazines built around the central Science & Vie brand.
The core product is a leading mainstream monthly science magazine with authority amongst scientific and teaching communities.
Biba is a monthly lifestyle glossy magazine for the modern, working, independent woman aged 25-35.
20 Ans is a young womens monthly with attitude one of the few successful For further information, go to teenage titles in France.
Vital is a monthly wellbeing title for women in their 30s.
OJD Publishers statement 2002 Total paid circulation 20 emap Awards 2002 Pleine Vie won Les etoiles Sport Auto won Prix fide emapmedia.
com website fide lOJD for the highest la meilleure une fide Presse most appreciated by media magazine circulation rise for Best Cover of the Year professionals, MMC MediaBench a growing portfolio New Titles Well Established In September 2001 Emap France launched a new car title, ADDX.
this years circulation battles The title is targeted at 18-24 year old male car enthusiasts and is loosely based on Max Power in the UK, which has a current circulation of 215,000 Source: ABC July-December 2002 and is the best selling Tl Star and Tl Poche car magazine in the country.
had a tough time in the TV listings market with weekly circulations of 1.6 million ADDX has established itself well and and 1 million respectively, is becoming an important part of Emap both down 2% year-on-year Frances automotive portfolio.
It is already in line with the overall TV number one in the tuning market with listings market a circulation of approximately 60,000.
Pleine Vie had a good year, Now into its fourth year, FHM was especially on the newsstand, successfully relaunched in France in up 6% year-on-year at Autumn 2002, resulting in an increase 1.1 million in circulation of 8%.
Top Sant at 425,000 was It has quickly established a modern mens down 5% year-on-year but gained ground against its key lifestyle market in France and strong competitor, Sant Magazine advertising revenue growth has helped it reach breakeven this year.
The automotive market has come under pressure this Circulation year which hit AutoPlus, Magazine circulation is measured in France by Office fide Justification down 4% at 325,000, although fide la Diffusion OJD which releases figures at the end of each year Autojournal held steady supplemented by Publishers statements at each half year.
at 158,000 Emap Frances portfolio has had a mixed year but maintained its share FHM continued to show good of circulation value average circulation x frequency x cover price at growth, up 8% year-on-year 11.4% in the OJD Publishers Statement 2002. at 150,000, proving that France is no exception to FHMs funny, sexy and useful universal appeal Source: OJD Publishers Statement 2002 emap 21 Finance Directors review A YEAR OF OUTPERFORMANCE costs and the tax impact of all these items.
This denition It is often said that the strong is consistent with that applied in our previous scal year.
stand tall in the face of adversity, I will also make reference to our underlying performance and from my perspective Emap in the following commentary.
This allows me to benchmark definitely stood tall in the last like-for-like performance without the distortions created by acquisitions, disposals, new product launches and closures.
twelve months in the face of continued depression in the wider Financial Headlines In the year to 31 March 2003 the Groups turnover media markets, and a volatile from continuing operations increased by 3% to 967m stock market as well.
In other 2002 938m, whilst total turnover reduced by 6% down from 1,029m reecting the part year contribution words its been a tough year, but from our now disposed US operations in the prior year.
a good one, as reected in our Group operating profit from continuing operations increased by 14% to 191m 2002 167m with total operating full year results.
profit up 5% at 192m 2002 182m, again taking In this section I will present these results on the basis of into account the impact of prior year disposals.
This how we measure business performance on a day-to-day flows through to a pre-tax profit of 175m 2002 151m basis using our normalised denition of profits.
I believe this after recognising interest payable and other funding provides a better guide to assessing our overall financial costs a 16% year-on-year increase.
The normalised results exclude the amortisation tax and minority interests the Groups earnings per share and impairment of goodwill and intangible xed assets, any was 49.0p 2002 41.0p, up 20% on the prior year, profit or loss on the disposal of businesses and xed asset and we are proposing an 11% increase in the full year investments, other exceptional items including nancing dividend, taking it up to 21.6p 2002 19.5p.
