We have developed a public statement that integrates our policies in a number of key areas of corporate social responsibility: workplace, community, environment, human rights, product values and supplier management.
Social Responsibility At EMI we believe that sound values are key to business During the year we engaged with a number of investors success.
Our Standards of Business Conduct policy, and investment research organisations about our CSR aimed principally at our employees, sets out the basic practices, and were accepted as members of the values by which we manage our business.
Corporate Responsibility Group, an alliance of leading UK companies dedicated to driving forward corporate This year we have developed a public statement social responsibility.
Within our sector, we continue to that integrates our policies in a number of key areas play an active role in the Media Sector CSR Forum as of corporate social responsibility CSR : workplace, it works to identify key social responsibility issues for community, environment, human rights, product values the sector and establish best practice.
The CSR policy was adopted by the Board in April 2003, and will be published this Employment summer in our Social Responsibility Report for 2003.
The integrated CSR policy includes the key points of our employment policy framework equal opportunity, We believe that this is a good step forward in terms health and safety, open communication and fair reward.
of the increased levels of transparency that many of Responsibility for the management of employment our stakeholders artists, employees, shareholders, matters continues to rest with each business operation customers, suppliers, governments and society at large within that framework.
We are also continuing to expand the scope of our reporting to cover a wider range of CSR We are committed to equal opportunity for all employees areas in our policy and this year our reporting of regardless of gender, ethnic or national origin, religion, employment issues includes diversity.
disability, age, marital status or sexual orientation.
We have begun to measure workforce diversity, in the We are pleased that we continue to be included in UK and North America.
In these regions, women made a number of CSR indices, such as FTSE4Good and up 48% of all staff and 32% of management, and the Dow Jones Sustainability Group Index, and have ethnic minorities made up 15% of all staff and 6% retained our high sector ranking in Business in the of management.
A very small percentage of our staff Environments 2002 Index of Corporate Environmental less than 1% in these regions are disabled.
31 Global Warming Potential CO emitted due to energy use in buildings factories 2 kilotonnes 121.8 116.9 115.0 114.2 114.0 103.0 104.0 87.6 80.7 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Global Warming Potential CO emitted due to energy use in buildings factories per unit of turnover 2 tonnes m 50.3 48.8 48.9 47.8 45.1 43.2 38.9 37.1 35.8 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 As part of our commitment to training and development, At a corporate level, EMI continues to fund the the Recorded Music division will be following up its administration costs of the Music Sound Foundation recently launched performance management initiative MSF, enabling it to devote all of its resources to its with development programmes to encourage learning funding activities.
and development of core management skills.
This complements programmes already in place at a local MSF continues to do wonderful work in the area level in a number of our operating companies.
of childrens music education and has now made cumulative donations exceeding 1.6m to schools, In employee health and safety, we have built on last students and teachers throughout Britain.
years reporting of UK performance and gathered statistics for most of our worldwide locations.
These MSFs main activity remains the sponsorship of now cover all our manufacturing plants, distribution secondary schools that aspire to become performing centres and recording studios as well as approximately arts colleges, and it is now the largest single sponsor 70% of our office locations.
We had 55 reportable of these arts colleges in the UK.
To date 22 schools have injuries illnesses 8 per 1,000 employees, based on UK successfully achieved arts college status with the help standards, and an average of 4.1 days absence through of MSF, bringing enhanced music, drama and dance illness per employee.
We incurred no health and safety education to over 20,000 students.
enforcement notices or convictions in any country in which we operate.
Rising costs mean that the demand for assistance from young people needing to improve the quality of their We have worked during the year to improve internal chosen musical instrument continues to grow.
MSF communications through a new worldwide, fortnightly has helped hundreds of individual students upgrade electronic newsletter, and by revamping our global their instruments and, through its bursary scheme, intranet to provide a more useful, accessible and has enabled dozens more to further their studies practical tool.
Community EMIs worldwide charitable and sponsorship donations We aim to make a positive contribution to the in the year totalled 1.5m.
In the UK, the scale of EMIs communities in which we operate, and to be a overall activity qualifies it for the PerCent Club logo, responsible neighbour.
Globally, the main causes we the community investment benchmarking scheme run support are youth and education, arts and culture, by Business in the Community.
The logo is assigned and health and welfare, and our businesses determine to companies that invest more than 1% of their pre-tax their community investment priorities locally within profits in the community, through a combination of cash, that framework.
EMI Recorded Music in the UK offers off and longer-term cash donations, by provision of very practical help in addition to its continuing financial materials and facilities and by contributing employee support of the school: each year staff from EMI make time.
Some examples follow: a presentation to one of the BRIT School student groups and set a project for the students to undertake In South Africa, EMI now supports Cotlands, a charity generally these relate to developing business and that provides care for abused, abandoned or terminally marketing plans for a hypothetical band.
ill children with the objective of creating self-sufficiency for children and families living with HIV and Aids.
In the Environment run up to World Aids Day, EMI arranged for local pop A highlight of the year in our environmental management group 101 to meet the Cotlands children, and made a programme was the introduction of renewable energy generous donation to the charity.
EMI staff will now forge to more of our premises.
In the UK, we have now moved closer links by providing commercial input and linking to 100% renewables for electricity supply throughout with other EMI-signed artists who want to get involved.
our operations, and the manufacturing and distribution facility at Uden in the Netherlands also switched to In the US, EMIs Capitol Records continued its longrenewables this year.
CD manufacturing is energy standing support of the California Institute of Arts intensive compared to the rest of our operations, and CalArts by providing studio time at Capitol Tower for this should, therefore, produce a significant reduction a selected number of students usually 10 groups a year in our worldwide carbon dioxide CO2 emissions and to record and mix a CD, and then manufacturing copies a consequent reduction in our global warming impact.
for distribution to the music press, college radio stations, Our CO2 emissions this year dropped by 7.9% in educational conferences and other audiences.
Some absolute terms, although with the 11% fall in revenue 500 young musicians, composers and graphic they rose by 3.6% when related to turnover.
designers from CalArts have had their best work documented and distributed as a result of this annual We have been tracking our solvent use since 1995, and project, and there is now a long list of talented CalArts have made steady progress in its reduction through both graduates who have gone on to successful careers process changes and the use of replacement solutions.
in music, working with artists including Macy Gray, Solvents are volatile organic compounds: as such, The Wallflowers and Smashing Pumpkins.
they can both pollute the factory environment and, in quantity, contribute to photo-chemical smog.
The UKs BRIT School British Record Industry Trust for Performing Arts and Technology is the only school in Britain dedicated to education and vocational training for the performing arts, media, art and design, and the technologies that make performance possible.
It was 33 The manufacturing and distribution facility at Uden in the Netherlands also switched to renewable energy this year.
Polycarbonate Scrap tonnes million units of CD output GW ON 2.9 2.61 2.24 2.2 2.2 2.18 1.97 1.86 1.83 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 This year, our plant in Uden discovered a calculation We continued our participation in Digital Europe, error in prior years that had led to under-reporting.
This a pan-European study on the environmental and social has now been corrected, and it accounts for almost all effects of e-business supported by the European of the increase in reported solvent consumption this year Commission and managed by the UKs Forum for the 14.7% in absolute terms and 29.1% per unit produced.
Our environmental case study, carried out by Our target is to resume our reduction in solvent use from German research partner the Wuppertal Institute, this new base.
was the first attempt to quantify the impact of a shift from the traditional business model of manufacturing We generate very small amounts of hazardous waste and distributing a physical CD to using direct digital which we continue to try to minimise.
This year showed distribution of the music.
The initial findings are a drop of a further 11% per unit produced.
In CD interesting, and show that, with so many variables production, our levels of non-hazardous polycarbonate involved eg the time to download a music file, scrap rose by 1.6% per unit produced.
The increase is consumer behaviour will play a large part in realising almost wholly the result of the closure in 2002 of our UK the potential environmental benefits of digital plant, which had a very low scrap rate.
If a consumer downloads and plays music plants achieved reductions.
digitally but does not burn a hard copy onto a blank CD then, in the best case, less than half the resources are Our US manufacturing facility in Jacksonville, Illinois, used compared to traditional physical production.
has successfully completed its first-round audit If CDs are burned at home, this saving could be reduced, for certification to the ISO 14001 environmental reversed or, in some cases, enhanced, depending on management system and is on track for complete how efficiently the CD-Rs are used for music storage.
certification by the end of June 2003.
We feel this has been a year of good progress in terms With this in place, 93% of our CD output will come of EMIs contribution to society, and we will be building from certified plants up from 60% in the year ended on this in future.
34 Rolling Stones Directors Report Utada Hikaru
