effective purchasing of freight disposal of liquid and all other Thames that derives energy capacity on long-haul routes road-borne waste to the site from waste.
A public inquiry to Europe and the Americas.
This was partially commenced on 1 July 2003 into During the first half of the year, offset by steady river-borne using a site in Bexley for such a seafreight activities benefited from waste volumes and increased purpose.
The Secretary of State some switching of technology revenues from recycling activities.
is expected to announce the consumables from airfreight, some Performance from landfill result of the inquiry later in 2004. of which unwound during the last operations in Gloucestershire, few months of the year.
Demand the North West and the Midlands Prospects forExels seafreight consolidation was helped by a general firming Exels good performance in services continues to grow, driven of landfill prices.
The expansion 2003 confirms that the Group in part by the development of of Corys contract with can deliver solid growth in Exels international inbound Gloucestershire County weak economic conditions The translation of US solutions provided to US Council also made a positive and secure the new business dollar earnings will almost andUKretailers.
In June, Cory required to achieve future inevitably have a negative opened a new landfill site at progress.
At the same time, New business secured during the Lyme and Wood Pits Colliery effective cost management impact on reported year included major wins with in Merseyside.
and strong cash generation have results.
However, growth Halliburton and HP and continued to yield benefits in opportunities remain additional business with Philips Corys municipal services business maintaining firm margins and strong and, providing Semiconductors.
Gains were performed well, delivering profit reducing financial charges.
emerging trends in world also secured with other improvements from most companies in the contract contracts.
In October, Cory Exels strategy continues to economic conditions manufacturing, healthcare, acquired Packaging Datastore provide competitive advantage remain positive, we retail and technology sectors.
Limited, a provider of a unique in a market where customer believe Exel is well service collating and analysing expectations continue to rise.
positioned to make good Environmental packaging materials for The acquisitions and other underlying turnover and Cory Environmental made good businesses in the UK and Eire.
investments made during the progress during 2003, delivering Packaging Datastore will enhance year will provide opportunities profit progress in 2004. solid revenue growth and Corys foothold in the packaging for Exel to maintain its advantage John Allan maintaining good margins and waste market and provide an and deliver enhanced levels of Chief Executive profitability.
Turnover increased additional value-added service customer service.
6.7% to 111m 2002: 104m to offer to Exels customers as and operating profit was they look to optimise the financial The translation of US dollar unchanged at 14.2m.
and environmental impact of earnings will almost inevitably Operating margins were 12.8% packaging waste.
However, As reported at the half year, one growth opportunities remain Waste management operations future alternative use of Corys strong and, providing emerging achieved a solid result for the river-borne waste, currently trends in world economic year despite several changes being taken to the landfill at conditions remain positive, we to the mix of activities.
The Mucking which is expected believe Exel is well positioned to landfill operation at Mucking to close at the end of 2007, make good underlying turnover in Thurrock, Essex, ceased the is to develop a facility on the and profit progress in 2004.
Cory Environmental made good progress during 2003, delivering solid revenue growth and maintaining good margins and profitability.
Strategic investments in new services and facilities have further strengthened Corys market position with municipal and commercial customers.
David Riddle Chief Executive, Cory Environmental 02 Performance Environmental Exel plc Annual Report 2003 19
