Introduction As the world leader in supply chain management, Exel has long 2.
Code of Ethics recognised its social and environmental responsibilities and seeks 3.
Employment to contribute to the development of sustainable transport systems 4.
Environment and health and safety overview and solutions through its core logistics competence.
Exel has been 4.1 Environment an active participant in the World Economic Forums newly formed 4.2 Health and safety Logistics and Transportation Corporate Citizenship Initiative L&TCCI, 5.
Ethical trading and supports its Principles of Corporate Citizenship.
Community involvement to the L&TCCIs work programme to develop key performance 7.
Verification indicators for each of these Principles and plans to ensure they are fully embedded within Exels operations.
Exel is a member of the FTSE4Good index.
In early 2003, as detailed in last years Annual Report, Exel took two significant steps to help ensure that its corporate social responsibility CSR commitment is fully integrated into its operations: it issued its Code of Ethics and published its first Environmental Report.
As detailed below, a key area of focus of Exels CSR activities during the year has been to communicate these policies clearly to employees and to continue to work on environmental performance.
In reporting on CSR, as last year, disclosure is in accordance with the guidelines on social responsibility published by the Association of British Insurers ABI.
Code of Ethics Exels Code of Ethics, which can be viewed on the website, is central to our business.
The Code emphasises the way Exels core principles of integrity, honesty and respect for people must be applied in dealings with all stakeholders customers, employees, suppliers and shareholders alike.
During 2003, we communicated the Code to our stakeholders, for example by featuring it in our customer magazine.
During 2004, we plan to update our whistleblowing procedures.
Employment Exels policies and procedures are designed to respect the human rights of all employees, whether directly employed or sub-contracted, in accordance with the UN Declaration of Human Rights.
Exel also complies with the core International Labour Organisation conventions and prohibits the use of any form of child, under-age or forced labour.
These policies, with the Code of Ethics, are incorporated into induction and training programmes.
@ To view Exels Code of Ethics go tohttp: investor.
com exelplc csr codeofethics 03 Governance Corporate social responsibility Exel plc Annual Report 2003 39 Corporate social responsibility continued Exel has a policy of equal opportunity in all its operations, selecting, Once published, Exels 2003 Environmental Report will be available developing and retaining employees on the basis of ability and on the Groups website.
The Report includes details of the Groups qualifications for the work to be performed.
This is done without objectives, targets and achievements.
discrimination or prejudice under any circumstances.
Exel encourages the involvement of employees in the planning and direction of Exels environmental policy, also available on the Groups website, their work.
Training programmes are provided at all levels and, sets out the principles for enhancing sustainability, minimising where appropriate, employees have an annual training and environmental impact and maximising efficiency.
each business unit to adopt and comply with an environmental policy appropriate to its particular activity.
Two-way communication with employees is encouraged at all levels, facilitated by our quarterly internal publication, Exel World, Exels corporate environmental objectives cover the following areas: and through the Groups internal communications systems.
Energy to maximise efficiency and minimise emissions, indexed 4.
Environment and health and safety overview to turnover Exels policy is to establish and manage safe and healthy working 2.
Waste and recycling conditions for all employees and to seek effective and efficient to minimise waste and to maximise the reuse and recycling ways to protect and enhance its operating environment.
To this end, of our own waste and the waste we handle on behalf of Exel measures, appraises and reports performance on the basis of our customers continuous improvement and with the longer-term aim of enhancing 3.
Environmental management the sustainability of its business and that of its customers, suppliers, to implement environmental management systems appropriate partners and the wider community.
to our various businesses and their environmental impacts to extend and improve our data-gathering process Exel has a global Safety, Health and Environmental SHE management 4.
Suppliers and partners system covering the three regions of the Americas, Asia Pacific and to work with our suppliers to understand and progressively Europe, Middle East and Africa.
Formal business plans are in place minimise the environmental impact of the products and within each region to identify continual improvement and cost saving services we purchase from them programmes, training and other initiatives.
Communication Committee reviews these business plans quarterly.
During 2003, to communicate our environmental performance to our CSR matters were included in this risk review procedure as part of stakeholders, including employees and customers the risk management process referred to in the report on Corporate 6.
The global gap analysis of systems and performance to minimise our use of natural resources against objectives, referred to in the Annual Report 2002, was to minimise our use of ozone depleting materials.
The results are being evaluated and an action plan developed.
In line with these corporate objectives, Exels business units set operational targets for environmental performance and 4.1 Environment improvement, according to the type of business and its key impacts, Exels supply chain processes have a number of environmental taking into account cost and benefit considerations.
These cover a range of areas such as energy use, emissions and vehicle size and numbers.
Exels key environmental impact is The processes for the setting, measuring and monitoring of energy consumed in the transportation of customers goods.
Other objectives and targets are evolving and, as noted above, Exel impacts are energy consumed in its facilities, waste generation and continues to work with the World Economic Forum to formulate recycling and water use.
key performance indicators suitable for the logistics and transportation sector as a whole.
By working with customers, suppliers and employees to drive inefficiencies out of the supply chain, Exels solutions improve the Exels environmental management processes provide the framework environmental performance of many industries.
As a result, Exel to implement environmental policy and objectives.
They are established sees an increasing focus on environmental issues as complementary in approximately 40% of the Group, measured as a proportion of to its growth strategy and an area of competitive advantage for total turnover.
These processes are used to identify activities having the Group.
the potential for significant environmental impact and to review and evaluate those activities that can be controlled or influenced.
Progress is measured and monitored using internal and, where appropriate, external verification.
Corporate social responsibility Exel plc Annual Report 2003 40 Achievements in 2003 included: Exel is in the process of collating individual regions health and safety by working with its customers, Exel has obtained accreditation statistics, for example on lost time accidents, on a global basis and to ISO14001 for its environmental management systems and plans to publish performance and targets in 2005. processes at a number of sites around the world.
These include operations in our Retail, Automotive and Asia Pacific businesses Progress in 2003 included: Exel in Korea, Singapore, Malaysia and Australia uses route a Health and Safety forum was established in the UK: this meets planning and global positioning systems which reduce costs, four times a year and will be extended across the rest of the improve efficiency and benefit security European region in 2004.
A health and safety control tool in The Netherlands, Exels road services are seeing environmental has been developed to enable internal audit to assess the level benefits from fully spoilered vehicles with lightweight trailers.
of health and safety controls at site level Further savings have been achieved by specifying gearboxes and a Health and Safety Workshop was held in Manila in October, rear-axles with the brand new reduction 1:2,72, thus reducing where it was agreed to aim for the standards required by engine speed OSHAS 18001, with the target that all the key operating countries in Europe, Exels automotive sector exceeded a 5% target for should achieve it by 2005.
The programme is well underway improvement in fuel effectiveness with the development of in the Americas, Exel operations adopted a collective goal to Integrated Collection Services for a number of key customers reduce occupational incidents by 10% each year since 1998.
This Exel is working with development company Eneco on a hybrid has been accomplished by implementing proactive management diesel-electric delivery van.
The van is capable of operating on techniques, and through comprehensive training programmes electricity alone for short periods, giving effectively zero emissions and aggressive internal audits.
In the US, 2003 was the sixth and low noise in sensitive delivery zones.
Following successful consecutive year of incident rate reduction and a new hot-line trials, a long-term evaluation vehicle is being built has been established throughout the region to improve incident in Asia, Exel is rolling out its go green programme.
Initiatives reporting and follow-up action.
include the use of timers to switch off lights during meal breaks, with a 5% saving at one Hong Kong location.
Ethical trading is being extended to air-conditioning systems, with Japan and Exels Code of Ethics states that no employee may directly or indirectly Penang achieving 3-5% savings offer, pay, solicit or accept a bribe or any other payment which may across Asia Pacific, Exel has reduce, reuse and recycle be construed as such, in any form.
In China this is focused on paper usage, Hong Kong achieved a 22% reduction in packaging consumption and in Exel seeks mutually beneficial relationships with customers, Malaysia a pallet salvage programme repaired some 990 pallets contractors, suppliers and joint venture partners and requires that, programmes to reduce water consumption in the Philippines, as far as is practicable, all of these, and in turn their own business Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand cover staff awareness, inspection partners, adhere to business principles consistent with Exels own.
of leaks and the installation of regulator valves.
In Penang, water Although already implicit, in 2004 we intend to ensure this is made consumption was reduced by 9.9 million litres in 2003. explicit in our purchasing guidelines.
Further examples are given on our website and in our Environmental 6.
Exels Code of Ethics pledges Exel to conduct business as a responsible corporate citizen, to observe the laws of the countries 4.2 Health and safety in which it operates, to give proper regard to the health, safety The Board and senior management team of Exel recognise and and environment of local communities and to be sensitive to and accept the vital role that sound health and safety practices play in supportive of local cultural, social, educational and economic needs.
the success of the business.
A copy of the general health and safety policy is on display at sites and is reviewed annually in accordance Exels major community impact is through its employees.
With over with developments in the business.
It is Group policy to provide and 74,000 employees in 120 countries, Exel brings employment to maintain a safe and healthy working environment, equipment and many local communities.
Our employees are also involved with local systems of work for all employees: and every employee is expected activities and Exel, through its charitable contributions, supports to accept responsibility for their own safety and for the safety of this involvement.
other people who may be affected by their acts or omissions.
@ To read Exels environmental report go to www.
com environment 03 Governance Corporate social responsibility Exel plc Annual Report 2003 41 Corporate social responsibility continued Exel recognises that it can impact a local community positively or Achievements in 2003 included: adversely and it is Exels policy to ensure that any issues which may in the Americas, raising money for a community project to provide affect a community are properly communicated and discussed.
children with clothes and associated accessories for schooling in In the UK, Exel is a member of Business in the Community.
This project involved a number of differentfund raising initiatives by local Exel operations For its charitable activities, Exel encourages community involvement in Asia Pacific, the Exel Spring Bud programme has been set through local initiatives.
Money raised through these activities is up in the Sichuan province of China to provide financial support matched by Exel: so far, 300 projects worldwide have been supported to encourage girls who have left school to complete their primary through the scheme.
school education, with further encouragement of an Exel Scholarship for those who pass the entrance examination to Exels main charitable donations are channelled through The Exel middle school.
Other projects to support children include working Foundation, which has regional committees in the Americas, UK with disabled children in Singapore and orphans in Malaysia and Ireland, Europe, Middle East and Africa and Asia Pacific, and in the UK, during the second year of sponsorship of the Variety the P H Holt Benevolent Fund.
Club of Great Britains Childrens Charity a cheque for 270,000 was presented to the charity at the AGM.
Two successful UK One of Exels major aims is to use its expertise to tackle issues where initiatives, Exel Partnering Education, whereby Exel employees logistics can make a difference.
As highlighted in the Annual Report provide support for a local school, and the Trucks and Child Safety 2002, Exel is a founding member and the worldwide logistics Campaign, are being introduced globally.
partner of the Digital Partnership, an initiative of the Prince of Wales International Business Leaders Forum, which aims to promote During 2003, the Group made charitable donations of 0.9m.
affordable access to computers and the internet in disadvantaged 2002: 1.2m.
South African schools and community centres.
In 2003, Exel received accolades for its contribution from the Chief Executive of the Digital 7.
Verification Partnership and from the South African ambassador in Japan.
Exel evaluates its CSR policies and practices as part of its internal audit and risk management process.
The Board has considered the potential external verification of the Groups CSR performance but has limited this to external professional advice on specific health and safety, employment and environmental matters as required.
01 Exel presents a cheque for 270,000 to John Ratcliff right, Director of Administration for the Variety Club 01 02 Trucks and Child Safety TACS initiative 02 03 in Ghana, Africa 04 03 Exels Spring Bud Class in the Sichuan province of China 04 Sponsored cycle relay from Cork to Belfast in Ireland Corporate social responsibility Exel plc Annual Report 2003 42
