16 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Corporate social responsibility report This is the second year that FKI has reported on social and FKIs values of performance, improvement, innovation, trust and ethical responsibilities and the third year that it has reported on integrity provide a framework for the conduct of the Groups environmental, health and safety matters.
High standards of business and form the basis of its relationships with all Corporate Social Responsibility CSR are essential to our its stakeholders.
continued business success, ability to add value in society, financial Specifically, FKI has laid down the following social and ethical performance and contribution within our local communities.
policies to be implemented at all units.
In addition to this summary report, a full version of the CSR report 1.
Standard of conduct FKI will conduct its operations with is available from the Company Secretary.
honesty, integrity and openness and with respect for the rights Overall management of corporate social responsibility and interests of its employees.
It will similarly respect the Identification of stakeholders Business and private customers, legitimate interests of those with whom it has relationships.
suppliers, employees, national and local governments and their 2.
Compliance with the law FKI companies and their employees agencies, bankers, insurers, the media, the communities where are required to comply with the laws and regulations of the the Group operates and sells its products and services, as well countries in which they operate.
as investors and the financial markets, all take an interest in the Groups activities and may be considered as stakeholders.
Employees, labour rights and conventions FKI is committed to maintaining working environments where there is mutual trust Responsibility Responsibility for the social and ethical, and respect and where everyone feels responsible for the environmental, and health and safety policies, their implementation performance and reputation of the Group.
and monitoring rests with the Chief Executive.
This responsibility is delegated to the President or Managing Director of each operating FKI companies will not use any form of child, forced or group, and in turn to the senior management team of each compulsory labour.
However, in practice, all of the Groups employees FKI companies will recruit, employ and promote employees on are responsible for complying with the Groups policies in any area the sole basis of the qualifications and abilities needed to within their control or influence.
Discrimination is forbidden on the grounds of Assurance FKI has established, over three years, clear reporting gender, age, race, national origin, religion and disability.
requirements for all business units to generate, maintain, and FKI respects the dignity of individuals and the legal right of regularly update precise data for all areas of CSR described in this employees to membership in trade unions.
The system collates information from all reporting units into an overall corporate data set, allowing easy comparison of results FKI companies will implement remuneration practices in from one year to the next.
Once collected, the information in this compliance with legal requirements.
report is confirmed internally with management for accuracy and Employees will be encouraged to develop their job skills relevance.
This data is available to the Board and management through specialist training and development programmes throughout the Group for use when making decisions.
Customers and suppliers FKI is committed to providing FKI believes that it has a responsibility to its employees, the customers with products, services, systems and solutions that communities and the environment in which it operates.
offer good value in terms of price and quality.
Consequently it considers it important to take account of these and all other stakeholders with whom it is in contact.
To achieve FKI is committed to establishing mutually beneficial relations this, FKIs social and ethical policy outlines how its employees, as with its suppliers, customers and business partners.
representatives of the company, should act when interacting with 5.
Shareholders FKI will conduct its operations in accordance these stakeholders.
For the second consecutive year, FKI has with accepted principles of good corporate governance.
enhanced its reporting measures of ethical performance.
It will provide timely, regular, reliable and accurate information Social and ethical policy on its activities, financial situation and performance to all FKI aims to be the first choice in its chosen markets for customers, shareholders.
FKI employees in possession of information business partners, investors and employees.
Its reputation is which, if disclosed, could affect the market price of its shares earned every day by the collective efforts of all members of the are prohibited from trading in securities until after public team worldwide.
FKI wants to be known as a Group that: disclosure of such information.
has clear performance targets and takes pride in performing well: 6. Business integrity FKI companies and employees will act in good faith in all business decisions.
continually seeks out better ways of doing things: FKI policy is not to give or receive inducements for business or strives to improve its service to customers and develop financial gain.
No employees may offer, give or receive any gift or innovative products, systems and solutions: and payment which is, or may be construed as being, an represents high standards of trust and integrity.
Any demand for, or offer of, an inducement will be rejected immediately and reported to management.
17 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Corporate social responsibility report FKI accounting records and supporting documentation will 15.
Communication, compliance and reporting FKI has accurately describe and reflect the nature of the underlying communicated these social and ethical policies to all operating transactions.
No undisclosed or unrecorded account, fund, units which, in turn, are required to communicate the content asset, or liability will be established or maintained.
The parties with whom FKI does business are expected to Management of each operation will be required to confirm commit to corresponding levels of business integrity.
compliance with the policies each year.
Conflicts of interest All FKI employees are required to avoid The Board of FKI instructs employees to bring to the attention of personal activities and financial interests which could conflict with appropriate senior officials of the Group, or the Company Secretary, their responsibilities to the Group.
Where conflicts of interest any breach or suspected breach of these policies.
Employees are arise, they will be openly acknowledged and reported to head allowed to communicate breaches anonymously in confidence and office.
FKI employees must not seek personal gain from third no employee will suffer as a consequence of so doing.
parties nor should they abuse their power within the Group for Management systems and accountability personal gain.
There are currently no formal criteria against which to measure 8.
Community involvement FKI tries to be a trusted corporate and assess ethical performance in business.
Consequently setting citizen and to fulfil its responsibilities to the societies and ethical standards is, in many respects, more difficult than setting communities where it carries out its operations consistent with its standards for health and safety or environmental matters.
business objectives and legal obligations.
Modest donations to The Groups social and ethical reporting is based upon internal local charities are permitted in accordance with Group guidelines.
reviews of the relevant issues and with reference to the guidelines 9.
Public activities FKI companies are encouraged to promote of organisations such as the Ethical Trading Initiative, ABI, and and defend their legitimate business interests.
The results of these investigations provide a basis with governments and other organisations, both directly and from which to assess current ethical performance, to update the indirectly, in the development of regulations which may affect policy and to set targets.
FKI neither supports political Social and ethical measurements parties nor contributes to the funds of groups whose activities Of Group operations, 60% have their own locally tailored formal are calculated to promote party interests.
Any political statements policies, based on FKI social and ethical policy.
The remaining 40% made by employees are made in their personal capacity.
generally comply with stated policies.
These units are mostly small 10.
The environment FKI is committed to making continuous with comparatively few employees.
This provides reassurance that improvements in the management of its environmental impact the social and ethical policies of the Group are reaching a large and further details are given in the environmental policy.
Health and safety FKI is committed to full compliance with There has been an improvement on last years performance, health and safety regulations in the workplace for all employees with over 82% 2002: 66% of FKI companies having reported and further details are laid down in the health and safety policy.
that their existing policy on social and ethical matters affords the appropriate safeguards to employees.
Group property FKI employees are expected to properly 64% 2002: 40% also provide appropriate safeguards for preserve Group property including inventories, fixed assets and job applicants and 45% 2002: 33% for sub-contractors intellectual property and properly utilise employee time as far as and other business associates.
is reasonable and practicable, only for the legitimate business interests of FKI.
Property will not be loaned or disposed of except Training in ethical issues and social conduct has also been in accordance with established Group policy.
improved from last year, with 63% 2002: 50% of companies giving some form of training in these matters.
Confidentiality FKI employees have a duty to protect practice is also promoted through bulletins, posted on notice confidential information and ensure that it is not communicated boards, and discussed in employee handbooks.
In addition 83% to the public or external parties.
Authority for disclosures of such 2002: 50% of the Group companies have clear channels for information will only be granted with the approval of appropriate employee comment and contribution and for reporting unethical senior Group officials.
or anti-social acts that can result in formal grievance procedures.
Competition FKI companies and their employees will comply with all competition laws and promote the conduct of Group operations in accordance with those laws and regulations.
18 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Corporate social responsibility report Compliance The Groups environmental policy, which is reviewed regularly, Any allegations of misconduct are treated seriously and are involves the implementation of an Operational Management promptly and fully investigated before any appropriate action is System within each business unit, enforcing standards in line with taken.
Where employees are dissatisfied with the outcome, formal legal responsibilities and obligations, and includes a commitment to grievance procedures may allow further examination of the issues.
environmental management systems and standards, such as ISO 14001.
These standards will be achieved by increasing focus on The existence of formal reporting channels throughout the Group environmental stewardship leading to reduced environmental has helped ensure that allegations of misconduct have been impact of its products and industrial processes.
During the year ended 31 March 2003, there have been 13 allegations of antisocial or unethical actions across To achieve these objectives, FKI targets the following.
Four of these have resulted in an employee being 1.
Develop, install and maintain appropriate documented dismissed, in two cases no evidence of wrongdoing was found Environmental Management Systems compliant with ISO 14001 and the cases rejected, one identified that the units policy was at or equivalent standard to demonstrate the Groups commitment fault, and six are still under active investigation.
to the improvement of its environmental performance through its FKI aims to uphold high standards of business practice and to monitoring procedures.
The systems will identify areas of eradicate misconduct.
The prompt and full investigation of responsibility for which appropriate individuals will be appointed, allegations reflects the Groups commitment to high standards.
and will communicate those responsibilities to all employees to encourage compliance and continual improvement.
Community support Over 40% of our units have been involved in community work 2.
Meet or exceed current environmental legal requirements and a wide variety of charities have been supported during the in all countries of operation and use this as a basis for further year, including: development of environmental programmes.
For all products, focus on product stewardship and identify American Cancer Association Medisch Centrum Rijnmond-Zuid ways of improving efficiency throughout the supply chain and manufacturing process to reduce consumption of materials, American Heart Association National Deaf Childrens Society energy and other resources and to minimise waste and harmful Aplastic Anaemia Trust Radar emissions.
Sensitivity to environmental issues should be incorporated in the planning, design and operation of facilities Army Benevolent Fund Red Cross and services, including the recycling and re-use of materials Brainwave Right to Read and reduction in the use, or replacement where possible, of substances which may be harmful to the environment.
Use environmentally responsible suppliers and Habitat for Humanity United Way subcontractors.
Consider the use of alternatives to scarce and Research Foundation Variety Club of Great Britain non-renewable resources and give them preference Mdcins sans Frontires wherever economically viable.
In addition, several companies allow or encourage staff to support 6.
Develop and market products and services to meet current and work with local schools, universities and community groups, environmental legal requirements.
Promote the environmental depending on the needs of the local community.
credentials of the Group and its products to customers and the public at large.
Each successive product should be targeted to Environmental responsibility be produced more efficiently than its predecessors and, where Managing FKIs impact on the environment continues to be appropriate, should be capable of being re-used, recycled or a main priority.
As a major engineering company it is important safely disposed of.
to measure, monitor, and constantly improve the effect on the environment.
The Group identifies its main target areas as the 7.
Maintain control on discharges and emissions to comply with reduction in the use of energy and water, and the reduction legal limits and endeavour to reduce the impact of discharges of solid and liquid waste.
This section outlines how FKI and emissions by using less hazardous material.
managed its relationship with the environment in the year 8.
Raise the level of employee awareness of environmental ended 31 March 2003. issues and promote a responsible, accountable and Environmental policy environmentally aware culture throughout the Group.
Provide FKI is committed to the protection and conservation of the training and instruction to help employees perform their work environment wherever it operates.
It recognises that all of its efficiently so as to reduce detrimental impacts on the business businesses may have some impact on the environment and is or the environment.
Train employees to manage the committed to giving due consideration to adverse impacts on the environmental impacts of their work.
Encourage employee environment and local communities.
The Group is also committed reporting of non-compliant practices to senior management to the conservation of natural resources and raw materials.
wherever they believe it is appropriate.
Communicate environmental ideas from each company in the Group to all other companies.
Set and revise environmental targets and policies annually incorporating continuous improvement.
Measure performance against these targets and report annually.
19 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Corporate social responsibility report Management systems The target for last years consumption of energy was to reduce In order to promote good practice and to raise awareness and consumption by 1% in terms of mass of CO produced per unit 2 understanding, the Group has identified senior managers turnover.
As can be seen from the chart, energy usage has responsible for environmental issues at each of its operating units increased when compared with last year per unit turnover.
and all have completed environmental questionnaires.
The data The reason for this is threefold.
Firstly, many units are now including collected enables local and Group management to monitor more sources of energy consumption in their records than in the aspects of performance at all major sites around the world and past, such as those resulting from more accurate measurement, to set targets.
particularly of motor vehicle fuel.
FKIs proactive approach to environmental issues is reflected in the Secondly, energy consumption consists of two elements, fixed and fact that one-third of the reporting companies, which contribute variable.
The same quantity of electricity and gas is required to over 90% of total turnover, are either accredited to or are heat and light an office, warehouse or facility within the standard following the guidelines of ISO 14001 or an equivalent standard.
workday regardless of the level of production.
Most vehicle fuel is An environmentally responsible culture is promoted throughout also independent of turnover.
Remaining consumption is largely FKI and the formal environmental training received by proportional to operating levels but also varies due to climate factors approximately 1,500 FKI employees during the last year will such as unusually cold winters or hotter and more humid summers.
The third factor is that as a result of the economic downturn some Energy usage companies, particularly in Energy Technology, have been bringing Greenhouse gases, so called as a result of their insulating manufacturing work in house that was previously subcontracted.
properties, reduce the rate of heat loss from the earths atmosphere In absolute terms there was a reduction of 6.2% in total mass of and contribute to global climate change.
Out of six greenhouse CO produced by the Group.
2 gases it is believed CO accounts for over 80% of global warming 2 Energy initiatives pollution and nearly all of it is produced by the combustion of coal, Over 41% of the Groups reporting companies have energy oil and gas for energy.
The majority of programmes FKI continues to respond positively to the UK and global climate undertaken involve: change programme introduced following the Kyoto Protocol by closer monitoring of usage and leak detection investigations: quantifying its environmental impact and investigating means of reducing energy consumption.
testing, mapping and certification of all electrical circuits: Information has been collected from all companies within the Group an increased use of natural light and heat through new concerning the use of grid electricity, natural gas, fuel oil, and LPG, environmental management systems: as well as other company specific fuels used to create power.
the more efficient use of site space allowing relocation of staff Calorific conversion factors have then been applied to translate the to more focused areas: and amount of fuel used into the equivalent mass of CO produced as 2 a measure of impact upon the environment.
introduction of more efficient air compressors and boilers.
Equivalent usage of CO for energy consumption 2 Total CO Energy 2 Grid electricity Equivalent Other fuels produced consumption consumption tonnes CO tonnes CO tonnes tonnes CO 2 2 2 GWh 000s 000s 000s m turnover 2000 01 324 181 103 284 163 2001 02 330 179 97 276 170 2002 03 297 168 91 259 178 Reduction increase 10.0% 6.1% 6.2% 6.2% 4.7% Energy consumption Tonnes CO 000s Energy usage Tonnes CO m turnover 2 2 284 178 276 170 259 163 2000 01 2001 02 2002 03 2000 01 2001 02 2002 03 20 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Corporate social responsibility report Water consumption Cost of liquid waste disposal Although water is often viewed as a renewable resource, the Liquid availability of fresh water is limited and it is not possible to increase Absolute liquid waste disposal waste disposal cost per supply levels indefinitely without degrading the environment.
Water cost 000s 000 turnover costs can be significant and savings of 20% are regarded as achievable with little extra cost.
2000 01 totals 1,095 0.63 Water consumption is another measure that FKI considers 2001 02 totals 872 0.54 important as an impact upon the environment.
This year the strict 2002 03 totals 792 0.54 monitoring of water usage, and corresponding actions to reduce the amount of water use has resulted in a reduction of 1.3% in terms of volume of water used per unit turnover, ahead of the 1% Solid waste management reduction target.
In real terms this represents a reduction of 11.5% The cost of disposal of industrial solid waste has risen due to in total volume of water used.
increased US state imposed fees for users and for waste disposal permits, charges by registered removal companies, the reduction Volume of water consumption in available landfill sites, and also the increase in landfill tax by 1 Relative water per tonne each year until 2004 in the UK and similar increases in 3 Absolute water consumption m other countries.
3 consumption m per 000 turnover All of FKIs operating units segregate their solid waste and sell or 2000 01 totals 2,917,310 1.67 recycle scrap metals.
The more waste that is segregated, especially into individual metals or types of material, the more it can 2001 02 totals 2,431,005 1.50 be sold for and the easier the recycling.
Many operations re-use 2002 03 totals 2,152,499 1.48 packaging, particularly that used for internal transportation, and re-cycle office paper where possible.
Liquid waste management The solid waste disposal cost per unit turnover has increased and FKI uses water mainly for cooling purposes, surface treatments, the target of 1% reduction has not been achieved, mainly due to washing down products during the production process and for more production being done in-house at the expense of sanitary purposes.
Some units which produce relatively large outsourcing.
However, due to the reduction in turnover of the quantities of waste water and liquid as a result of the manufacturing Group there was an overall reduction of 3.4% in total waste processes have water treatment plants that are monitored regularly disposal costs.
Provided the water meets strict standards stipulated by the water authorities or government agencies, some Cost of solid waste disposal operations are allowed to discharge wastewater into rivers.
Absolute solid Solid waste Otherwise, where permitted, they are allowed to discharge into the waste disposal disposal cost per sewer system or are removed by registered disposal companies.
cost 000s 000 turnover Waste results from the inefficient use of resources and the Group 2000 01 totals 739 0.42 constantly strives to minimise it.
FKI measures its effectiveness 2001 02 totals 668 0.41 in this area by reference to the cost of waste material disposal.
The target was to reduce the cost of disposal by 1% but, in fact, 2002 03 totals 645 0.44 the cost of liquid waste disposal per unit turnover remained the same, largely as a result of increased rates of charge by waste removal contractors.
The absolute cost of disposing of liquid waste dropped by 9.2%.
3 Liquid waste disposal cost 000 turnover Water usage m 000 turnover 0.63 1.67 1.50 1.48 0.54 0.54 2000 01 2001 02 2002 03 2000 01 2001 02 2002 03 21 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Corporate social responsibility report Other environmental initiatives 4.
Develop effective health and safety procedures, identifying During the year a number of reporting units undertook a risk areas of responsibility and assigning these responsibilities to assessment to identify major environmental threats posed by their appropriate individuals in each organisation.
operations and a significant number carried out soil investigations 5.
Encourage Group employees to be aware of potential hazards to determine whether any historical contamination on site had and safe systems of work and operating procedures on all sites occurred.
No significant environmental threats were identified as a in order to avoid unnecessary risks.
Assist all employees to result of these assessments.
understand their responsibilities and statutory obligations, in Reducing emissions to air For most FKI companies, levels of particular to take reasonable care of themselves, those around contaminated emissions into the air are minimal.
For operating units them and those affected by their actions.
where this is not the case the onus is placed on local management 6.
Provide ongoing and up-to-date employee training reflecting to make adequate provision to monitor levels to ensure legal legislative changes and relevant health and safety developments compliance and, where practical, work towards eliminating to enable all employees to do their work in compliance with such emissions.
Implement a system of recording, reporting and analysing Over the last 12 months FKI units received two fines totalling health and safety incidents in order to promote compliance with 17,565, for failure to file complete and correct environmental local laws and prevailing regulations and to provide information information and for a small discharge into a river.
and accountability for the Group as a whole.
All permits required for Group operations have been received and 8.
Set and publish Group health and safety objectives and adhered to over the last year.
Monitor and assess performance in order to assist Health and safety in formulating appropriate actions in an effort to achieve FKI considers the health and safety of its employees, customers, continuous improvement.
contractors and other stakeholders that operate at or visit any FKI Management systems site a key priority.
It is with this priority in mind that FKI implements FKI seeks to promote the adoption of good practices and to raise Health and Safety management systems.
awareness and understanding of health and safety matters and, to Health and safety policy assist with this, the Group has identified senior managers FKI is committed to full compliance with health and safety responsible for health and safety issues at each of its operating regulations in the workplace for all of its employees worldwide units.
All units worldwide completed a health and safety and to continually keep the potential for workplace accidents to questionnaire and data collected enables local and Group an absolute minimum.
In order to provide fully compliant working management to monitor performance at all sites around the world environments FKI is committed to do the following.
Meet or exceed current health and safety legislation in countries where the Group operates.
Introduce and maintain good working practices.
Make health and safety a key consideration of all business affairs across the Group.
Solid waste disposal cost 000 turnover 0.44 0.42 0.41 2000 01 2001 02 2002 03 22 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Corporate social responsibility report Health and safety measurements Compliance Throughout the year, management is charged with reporting During the last 12 months there was one violation of health incidents within a month of their occurrence, and at the year end and safety regulations in New Zealand, two incidents under each operation reports all incidents for the previous 12 months.
investigation in the Netherlands, and one charge for 45,000 in As there is currently no standard for reporting health and safety Canada for an accident that occurred in 2001 after the unit failed matters, FKI has decided to follow the UK guidelines on the to ensure a safety mechanism was maintained in good condition.
classification of incidents in all operations worldwide, and has used Health and occupational health issues Health and occupational these classifications for the purposes of Group reporting.
health issues vary according to the type of work carried out in each FKI is pleased to report that for the third year of reporting there operation.
For example, all operations that have presses and other have been no fatalities at any operation within the Group.
noisy machinery provide hearing protection that all people entering Regrettably, there were three amputations 2002: nine, 2001: four the premises are required to use.
Regular hearing checks are all involving the loss or partial loss of a finger.
There were also 23 carried out on all high-risk employees.
other major injuries 2002: 29, 2001: 38 including 17 fractures.
Corporate social responsibility targets Other injuries with three or more days lost time totalled 326 Through analysis of risk assessment of corporate social 2002: 324, 2001: 336.
Records are kept of minor injuries, defined responsibility issues, FKI has established next years targets for as those needing attention beyond first aid, typically a visit to the environmental and health and safety actions.
The majority of such injuries relate to cuts, bruises, minor outlined below.
As it is an evolving process, however, these targets burns, lower back and other muscular strains.
will continue to change as business risk changes.
This is the second year that data was collected for dangerous FKIs targets are as follows: occurrences during the year, which totalled 24 2002: 26.
In all cases, full investigations were carried out which included checking 1% reduction in energy and water consumption per unit of similar equipment located elsewhere and further training was turnover for 2003 04 compared with 2002 03: provided where necessary.
In addition, there were 68 work-related 1% reduction in liquid and solid waste disposal costs for illnesses recorded 2002: 77, 34 of which were repetitive strain 2003 04 compared with 2002 03: injuries affecting factory and office workers.
5% decrease in reportable injuries for 2003 04 compared with The accident incidence frequency rate shows an increase over the 2002 03: and last year although there was a 5% fall in total reported injuries from 465 to 444.
This is short of the 10% target set last year, and the to ensure that all operating units have developed a local policy on lessons learned will be used to help achieve next years reduction social and ethical issues by the end of 2003 04. target, shown below.
There is also an increased commitment to achieving ISO 14001 Intrinsic health and safety built into our products The products accreditation, or equivalent standard, by the end of 2005. made by FKI, examples of which are given in the Operating review on pages 6 to 15 of this Annual report, are designed with safety in mind.
Many of the Groups products incorporate a range of safety features and, in accordance with legislation, where appropriate, details of safe working limits.
23 FKI plc Annual report 2003 Corporate social responsibility report Number of incidents by type Dangerous Dangerous Work related Work related Major Major Other reportable Other reportable occurrences occurrences illnesses illnesses Incidents by type 2002 03 2001 02 2002 03 2001 02 2002 03 2001 02 2002 03 2001 02 FKI Logistex 6 10 26 21 6 1 12 13 Lifting Products and Services 11 11 145 137 7 9 6 30 Hardware 4 4 26 47 7 1 31 33 Energy Technology 5 13 129 119 4 15 19 1 Group totals 26 38 326 324 24 26 68 77 Accident frequency rate Total reportable Total reportable Accident Accident incidents incidents frequency rate frequency rate Average hours accidents accidents 100,000 hours 100,000 hours worked month 2002 03 2001 02 2002 03 2001 02 FKI Logistex 554,000 50 45 0.75 0.64 Lifting Products and Services 644,000 169 187 2.19 2.20 Hardware 483,000 68 85 1.17 1.32 Energy Technology 653,000 157 148 2.01 1.66 Group totals 2,334,000 444 465 1.59 1.50
