ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 21 Kempen SNS Smaller Europe SRI Index Membership in the SRI Index underpins our continued improvements throughout the Group.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate Social Responsibility the European Commission, UK Government compared with other locations in the SouthWithin the Group there are varied and and the Scottish Executive.
East which are further from London.
The activities depend believe this saves, on average, 30 miles Coastal shipping, facilitated by the existence upon the use of the natural environment per container per annum equating to over of ports such as those owned and operated i. e. water for shipping and land for port 3 million road miles per annum.
by the Group, allows large quantities of activities and development and interaction goods to be carried by uncongested sea The new ferry link from Rosyth to Zeebrugge with the adjacent communities and routes, taking large volumes of freight off is another way in which the Group is facilitating businesses.
The Group aims to promote the congested roads within the UK.
As an the use of the sea to move cargo which would sustainability and benefit for wider social example, one coastal shipment carrying otherwise be blocking the road network.
and environmental groups in conducting its 3,000 tonnes of grain from the Port of activities, in balance with the creation of Trailers and cars now have a direct link Dundee to the Port of Tilbury removes long-term returns for its shareholders.
between the Continent and Scotland.
Without 120 lorries from the road network.
this link vehicles would have to take an Economic Benefits The Group, with both its Scottish Ports existing ferry or rail link in England e. g. New Sustainability Acknowledgement division and the Port of Tilbury on the Dover, Hull.
The Company has been selected for Thames, already helps to generate this more The existing ships on the route can take 100 membership into the new Kempen SNS environmentally friendly way of transporting trucks and 120 cars each sailing.
Even Smaller Europe SRI Index, which was cargo by providing a service for coastal considering the ferry link at Hull, the use of the launched on 1st October 2003. shipping.
There is also much more potential direct Scotland Zeebrugge link represents a for the future as sea routes are uncongested, Membership is available only to those savings potential of around 70,000 truck while the road network is at full capacity.
companies with the very highest standards movements by road, equating to approximately Furthermore, the rail network is currently and practice in the three areas of business 14 million road miles per annum.
unable to accommodate extra capacity due ethics, human resources and the to the lack of infrastructure and investment As well as using marine routes between environment.
Following extensive analysis, required to deliver the level of service that Scotland and England and the Continent, the Company is pleased to announce that it the freight industry requires.
the Group is investigating the use of barges has passed the exacting standards imposed.
Our objective is to make The Group is working hard to be a Over the past ten years we have handled much more use of the Firth of Forth as a responsible citizen in the communities in almost three quarters of a million containers Maritime Motorway to provide more reliable which it operates and is pleased that its in total at Grangemouth.
This represents supply chain solutions for our customers.
three quarters of a million movements of goods between Scotland and the South of Within the Central Belt of Scotland we are Ports and Shipping England, which would otherwise be carried investigating the movement of cargo from The Group has an extensive involvement in by road or rail.
We estimate that this equates Alloa, Grangemouth and Methil, which, in facilitating coastal and short-sea shipping.
to approximately 30 million road miles.
In itself, would take over 27,000 lorry journeys This is a method of transport recognised as addition, our short-sea container business off the road, a total of over 1 million lorry environmentally friendly and encouraged by at Tilbury facilitates road miles savings miles.
This would involve using barges on 22 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Leith before regeneration...... after the River Forth to transport raw materials responsibility for the control and monitoring of important, given that each of the estuaries and finished products to and from a major this risk is delegated to the officers and senior we operate in have areas designated as production facility.
managers of the Group including, in particular, NATURA 2000 conservation sites.
the Harbour Masters and Port Managers.
The To put this into perspective, the average Each of our ports has a number of different Group has an environment manager who motorist would generally expect to drive plans certified by a range of bodies to advises senior management on environmental between 10,000 and 13,000 miles a year.
ensure that our staff are properly trained issues and strategies as required.
Therefore, the average motorist would need and aware of regulations, policies and between 76 and 100 years of motoring to cover Shipping is considered to be generally four management systems in relation to the same mileage.
The benefits to the times more fuel efficient than road transport.
emergency issues, oil spills and waste environment of this type of reduction in lorry A key target of the Group is to move more management.
We are continually striving use extend beyond congestion and vehicle freight from the roads to sea transport to reduce fuel and water costs, particularly emissions.
Such a reduction in lorry use should through our ports.
All of our ports have rail through the identification of wastage and or increase the longevity of our road surfaces, links: on a per tonnage basis, rail is twice leakage.
The Finnish Terminal at Tilbury is reducing the frequency of and need for road as fuel efficient as road travel.
Therefore, the first in the Group to achieve certification works with the resultant cost to the taxpayer.
where possible, we encourage the onward under ISO 14001 for its environmental movement of freight from our ports via the management system.
At Tilbury the The Royal Yacht Britannia rail network.
Recently a daily rail service has purchasing department ask all suppliers to Since opening to the public in October 1998, been initiated between Grangemouth and provide a copy of their environmental policy.
Britannia has welcomed over 1.6 million Aberdeen: this removes on average 16 lorry This approach has been used to identify visitors and is one of the few five star journeys each day approximately 2,500 lorry more environmentally friendly products, one visitor attractions in Scotland.
A further service is proposed example being the use of a biodegradable that will run between Glasgow and degreasing agent for washing decks.
At Environmental Policy Grangemouth: when established this will Leith, the towage department has recently The aim of the Group in all its activities, equate to a reduction of approximately 30 been through an environmental audit whether it be port operations or property lorry journeys per day.
internally following an external audit by one development, is to ensure that any adverse of our customers.
These audits raised a The Group is highly committed to its effects on the environment are reduced to number of issues that have been or are involvement in the Forth Estuary Forum, the best practicable minimum.
As part of the Tay Estuary Forum and Thames Marine our activities are carried out in a manner that response to the audits, and the ongoing Consultative Committee.
These bodies complies with all relevant regulations.
As part wish to improve the standard of service, the are seen by the Group as an essential of its risk management policy the Board, Company is introducing ISM International communication route to the local communities, each year, prepares and reviews a Risk Maritime Organisation, International Safety statutory regulators and local businesses, Control and Monitoring Analysis Matrix.
The Management system to the tug operation participating in environmental initiatives and Matrix includes the assessment, control and and uses an organic culture to clean the identifying future climate change scenarios monitoring of the impact to the business of bilge areas in the tugs.
This is particularly perceived environmental risks.
Day-to-day CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 23 The Scottish Executive building was constructed on a brownfield site previously used for pipe storage.
Where possible port facilities aim to minimise The exercise was considered a success, years.
Ocean Terminal, the centrepiece of waste through reusing and recycling material with the participants identifying areas for this regeneration process, has on its own that may be considered waste or byimprovement and adjustments to their created over 2,000 jobs in construction and products.
When handling grain, the chafe is respective emergency response approaches.
It has become a focal often considered as waste and sent to In October of 2002 a major Tier 3 exercise point for the community including providing landfill.
In Leith this by-product is sent to a was held which also involved activating the accommodation for a Waterfront Recruitment local company who reprocesses it for use as National Oil Spill Contingency Plan.
Almost Centre and for local bodies such as the Leith animal feed.
Furthermore, the dust generated twelve months of planning went into the Council of Churches, the Leith Citizens from handling maize which is usually exercise, which involved Local Authorities, Advice Bureau and many local schools.
considered as waste, is collected using Government Departments, Maritime The Port of Tilbury is working in partnership dust suppression equipment and sold for Organisations, the oil industry and the with Thurrock Council and the community use as animal feed.
In Dundee the recycle media.
The Companys personnel staff at the to regenerate the town of Tilbury under and reuse approach has been applied to Marine Emergency Centre are responsible auspices of the PORT Scheme Partnership all waste oils and engine filters.
The oil for overseeing and coordinating the Opportunities for the Regeneration of and filters used to be disposed of by an response, the Command Team Leader being Tilbury.
The Scheme is designed to reappropriate company, now the company that the Chief Harbour Master Firth of Forth.
create the towns previous economic removes the oil and engine filters recycles All of the commercial property developments strengths and to generate benefits for and reprocesses the oil.
Furthermore, all undertaken by the Group are based on the people of Tilbury in terms of training, batteries in the port are stockpiled for sustainable designs whether renovation or job search and developing community recycling.
All printer consumables from the new build projects.
Where possible, the aim businesses.
The road, rail and river links add central administrative buildings are recycled.
is to utilise passive heating and cooling as value to the concept of improving Tilbury A good example of these policies in action opposed to air conditioning.
This is the allowing for investment in the local area.
is Clearwater Forth, which is the name for second year that we have produced an The construction of the Riverside Promenade the Companys oil spill contingency plan.
annual Environmental Report as Competent for the benefit of the local community is an The plan provides details of the response Harbour Authority that is publicly available.
example of the port working with the local management structure that will be activated Our environment and corporate social council and regeneration scheme.
to co-ordinate the available resources to deal responsibility statements are also available Staff involvement in community projects with oil pollution incidents in the Firth of Forth.
such as local education governing bodies, The plan is exercised every year in industry groups and charities is encouraged.
Community Initiatives conjunction with local authorities, BP and Tilbury is also a Corporate Partner of St.
The process of developing and regenerating Shell.
In October 2003 a Tier 2 exercise was Lukes Hospice.
This scheme is designed Edinburghs waterfront has had a positive initiated.
Unlike previous years, this exercise to raise staff awareness of the work of the effect on the community of Leith, making did not involve an oil tanker: instead the hospice as well as assisting with their a significant contribution to reducing scenario was a container ship leaking fuel oil.
The Academy of unemployment by more than 50% within five 24 ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2003 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Logistics and Transport, an initiative to northern periphery of the port estate to assist overcome the shortage of skilled employees in providing a safe route for cyclists isolated in this category, has been launched with the from the port traffic and the adjacent busy Port of Tilbury as a major partner, an main road.
example of the port working with the wider Beyond the Clearwater Forth initiative, some community and a scheme destined to of the tenants of the Port of Grangemouth sustain this important sector of business.
are part of an industrial group of chemical In our Scottish operations, over three and oil companies that have regular quarters of the cargo handling staff have meetings with statutory authorities on achieved their Level 2 Stevedore SVQ safety and security.
As part of this grouping, Scottish Vocational Qualification, which industrial safety plans are issued to is far higher than our competitors.
residents, schools and other public bodies The Group also appreciates the role of the in the area to advise in accessible language Forth and Tay Estuarine Fora in engaging what to do in the event of a major incident communities and stakeholders in issues and which radio station will carry information regarding the management of the estuarine in relation to any event.
environments of the Tay and the Forth.
These organisations play a vital role in bringing Conclusion together the relevant stakeholders in their The Group plays an active role in its relations areas and in raising the awareness of the with the wider community and stakeholders local populations.
The Forth Estuary Forum and seeks to manage these relations and project manager often attends the annual its business activities to create real levels of Clearwater Forth exercise: after his first benefit at an economic, environmental and exercise as an observer he wrote an article social level both for the Group and the in Forthsight the Forth Estuary Forum communities in which it operates.
This helps to emphasise the role that the Forth and Tay Fora have in making communities aware of the Group activities.
In the Port of Dundee, Forth Ports and Dundee City Council have agreed a route for a cycle path around the
