Corporate social responsibility Securicor is committed to being a socially responsible corporate citizen Environment We have pledged a 3% improvement each year over four years on carbon dioxide emissions by our businesses in the UK.
In the first year we declared a total of 259,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions, an efficiency ratio of 13.8 tonnes per employee.
In the year to 31 December 2001 emissions had risen to 260,000 tonnes and the efficiency ratio showed an apparent deterioration Securicor Canada, ofcial to 14.2 tonnes per employee, although we believed that this was due to an under-declaration of sponsor of Kids Help Phone gas and electricity usage in the first years total.
Kids Help Phone operate 24-hour, toll-free, professional and anonymous phone Our carbon dioxide emissions for the year to 31 December 2002 fell to 250,000 tonnes, producing counselling, referral and an efficiency ratio of 13.4 tonnes per employee, a 5.6% improvement against the previous year and Internet services to help troubled and abused putting us back on track for our four-year commitment.
Canadian children, teenagers and their families.
As a Kids The absolute level of carbon dioxide emissions has fallen dramatically since the sale of our remaining Help Phone sponsor, Securicor provides both financial and stake in the Distribution business as Securicors UK vehicle eet has reduced by a factor of two-thirds, marketing support.
An appropriate adjustment will be made to the calculation of emissions for helping to raise awareness of the charity by displaying the year to 31 December 2003. its logo on 400 Securicor vehicles across Canada.
Nigel Grifths is the director with responsibility for environmental matters.
Health and Safety We require our operating companies to take due and proper care of any risks to health, safety or welfare to which the workforce is exposed, although in an international organisation the precise legal requirements depend upon individual national provisions.
For this reason, a global policy statement has been approved by the board, dening certain minimum standards.
In adopting these standards, we will seek to create a workplace and work systems which enable staff to feel safe and secure and where management is seen to take a proactive interest in staff welfare.
The director responsible for health and safety matters is Irene Cowden.
Responsibility is devolved and delegated through regional managing directors to the managing director of each group company, who in turn must nominate a director to report on health and safety.
Each company must appoint a person qualied and able to develop the companys own policies and procedures and to undertake management and employee training.
Risk assessment policies will be developed with special consideration for vulnerable groups, a process will be introduced for monitoring compliance with policies and procedures, and accident reporting and analysis will be undertaken at both company and group level.
20 Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Ethics Cognisa proud to support Donate a Phone The groups Statement of Business Ethics has been supplied to all managers throughout the group Donate a Phone is a national worldwide.
The statement contains 21 sections and includes guidance on, for example, business programme started by the practice and entertainment, equal opportunities, use of the internet and whistleblowing.
The group Wireless Foundation, Motorola and the National statement is treated as a minimum standard, with all business units required to adopt the statement Coalition Against Domestic as it stands or to incorporate additions to reect the local business or country environment.
Cognisa has donated more than 200 surplus wireless phones to the programme Securicor is a member of Transparency International, a non profit-making, independent, which supports victims of non-governmental organisation, dedicated to increasing government accountability and to curbing domestic violence.
With a large number of unused both national and international corruption.
phones on hand, Cognisa was extremely pleased to be able Employment to put them to good use by participating in the Donate The group employs over 100,000 employees in some 50 different countries.
Our success depends on a Phone programme said the commitment and competence of our employees and our human resource strategies are therefore Cognisa CEO Keith Badham.
aimed at ensuring that employees are trained to be totally competent in their roles and have the opportunity to develop to their full potential.
Formal career and succession management processes help support the movement of managers within and between the various group businesses as part of their career paths.
They also enable us to share knowledge and expertise across the businesses.
We believe it is important for employees to be treated fairly and with dignity and respect.
Such treatment is the basis for an environment which engenders team spirit and a commitment to the group which in turn helps to maintain good staff retention levels.
Securicor Justice Services working in partnership with The Princes Trust Communication and consultation with employees takes place on a range of issues.
There are a wide Securicor is working with The variety of channels for communication including newsletters, team briengs and intranets, as well Princes Trust in the Kirklees as formal representational relationships with staff associations, trades unions and works councils.
area of West Yorkshire to increase the support available to ex-offenders to assist them Our policy of equal opportunity ensures that decisions relating to the recruitment, development, entering education, training promotion and training of individual employees are based solely on job requirements.
and employment through Development Awards.
Development Awards are Community involvement grants of between 50 and 500 which, combined with The Securicor Charitable Trust receives a substantial annual payment from the group for distribution advice and support, help predominantly within the UK.
The trustees make over 200 donations a year to a range of charities 14-25 year olds access in elds as widespread as disability, medical research, children and youth projects, drug abuse, education, training and work.
Securicor and The Princes Trust homelessness and hospices.
are now in the process of expanding the scheme to the whole of West Yorkshires In addition, Securicor companies around the world give direct support to various community projects, Youth Offending Teams.
three examples of which are shown on these pages.
Securicor Annual Report and Accounts 2003 21
