Our customers We need to understand our customers corporate needs as well as the needs of their own customers.
Our structure has been set up to assist this understanding.
In addition, we have appointed Customer Champions.
Our Customer Champions all sit on the Management Board our operational executive team and it is their responsibility to manage customer relationships.
Geest Customer Champions from left to right: Gordon Pates, Brian Walton, Stephen Draisey, Tim Sutton, Keith Foreman, Jane Scriven, Chris Thomas Our UK customers different layers of the organisations and In the fresh prepared foods market The UK retail food market is highly we are in contact with each other daily.
sectors in which we operate, the top concentrated.
The top five retailers have It is a partnership approach.
five retailers hold over 80% share nearly 70% share and the top three over 1 Tesco 50%.
In the fresh prepared foods sectors To dedicate or not to dedicate?
1 2 J Sainsbury in which we operate, this is even more Around one third of our business units 6 3 Marks & Spencer concentrated.
The top five retailers have are dedicated to specific retailers.
There is 4 Asda 5 over 80% and the top three over 60% share.
no hard and fast rule about this.
It depends 5 Safeway 2 6 Others on the economics, the retailer and also on Source: Taylor Nelson Sofrs, Our sales reflect these market positions the types of products involved.
For example, 4 fifty two weeks ended with our top three customers in UK fresh in our dips business, we supply seven UK 4 January 2004 3 prepared foods representing over two thirds customers.
We are able to make good use of our sales and the top five over 90%.
of economies of scale and obtain better With such a concentrated market place value for our customers by sharing facilities we need to trade with all key UK retailers in this relatively small market sector.
In other and, more importantly, meet both their areas, where volumes are larger or where approach: in practice, it would probably take and our expectations.
there may be competitive sensitivities, we too long to draw up meaningful contracts may pursue the option of dedicated sites.
and, notwithstanding their strength, retailers How we work Sometimes sites start out as dedicated but, are relatively loyal to suppliers in the area Our decentralised structure plays a very as market dynamics change, move to being of fresh prepared foods and are so broadly important role in the way we manage shared or vice versa.
It is in everybodys for the following reasons: our relationship with our customers.
We interest to maintain a pragmatic approach.
food safety have teams on the ground often specific service levels to a market sector who are responsible No contracts?
quality for running the day-to-day business Some people are surprised when they learn innovation and brand differentiation and looking at the longer term strategic that we very rarely have written contracts investment for growth development for their customers.
Romantically, we would value for money.
from both parties work together across like to think this is symbolic of our partnership 35 Fresh prepared foods provide fast stock rotation our customers with: competitive differentiation strong growth quality image high cash margins per unit At present, we are experiencing the most and correspond to their corporate strategy.
we can always walk away we will not competitive era in UK retailing.
Despite this, Our record of innovation should persuade pursue business at any cost.
in 2003, we estimate that only around 5% our customers to continue to develop of our sales turnover moved to and from other business with us.
Conversely, we are in a relatively young suppliers or, put another way, at this rate business and have the opportunity to become it would take 20 years for our current sales Investment for growth more efficient Gareth and Mark talk about mix to be changed completely.
The fresh prepared foods market is this on pages 8 to 11 and to co-operate ever the fastest-growing part of the food market more closely with our customers to identify Food safety see page 25.
In addition to growth, fresh areas where we can work together more We have no significant brands of our own, prepared foods provide retailers with far cost-effectively.
but we do make products for some of the higher stock turns compared to ambient largest and most heavily advertised brands or frozen equivalents, for example and A power struggle?
Consequently we are an extension higher cash margins not to mention We do not pretend that the balance of of the retailers brand and corporate reputation.
the vital role that fresh prepared foods power is equal.
If we were to lose a major Food safety is one of our top five priorities have played in building consumers trust customer this would pose a huge risk to and our risk management in this area gives in the retailers brands.
However, it makes us more our customers the assurance they need.
determined to continue to focus on service, On their part, our customers continue to quality, innovation and value for money and Service levels invest in more refrigerated shelf space and to structure ourselves in a way to best meet Enough of the right product should be logistics and even new types of stores see our customer needs.
on the supermarket shelf at the right time.
page 16, all to the advantage of the fresh The planning and scheduling required to prepared foods market.
Other channels achieve this is complicated in our just-in-time We are focused on the mainstream UK environment.
We aim to achieve a service On the supply side, our customers need retail market but continue to explore other level into retailer depot of better than 99% us to continue to invest in order to ensure growth opportunities.
We have a growing every day.
We must work closely with our adequate capacity for future growth.
foodservice business and have partnerships customers in terms of information exchange Historically, there has been little excess with companies committed to using and forecasting.
capacity in the market place.
Firstly, this fresh prepared foods and ingredients makes it less easy for supply to be moved in their menus.
Innovation and brand differentiation around quickly.
Secondly, our customers Fresh prepared foods is a high profile know that we need a healthy, profitable Sales in continental Europe account sector in supermarkets.
As the sector business in order to re-invest in our Company for around 10% of Group turnover and is predominantly retailer branded for their growth.
If our customers were suddenly we have chosen customers, product areas we estimate this to be 94% in our market to start to shift business around or push very and countries carefully to allow us to gain sectors, our customers use this area hard for price decreases this could damage experience in areas where consumer, in particular to differentiate themselves any suppliers ability to invest behind them cultural and business differences abound.
Through our acquisitions we have inherited excellent employees and local knowledge Innovation is important to stimulate market Value for money and gained a foothold in some exciting growth.
We have culinary expertise at Of course we talk about price and, of course, markets with strong growth potential.
business unit level and also at the Geest it can be a sticking point.
In the current Culinary Academy.
It is our job to be economic environment, in particular, True to our vision, we will continue to work at the forefront of food trends and arm customers are looking for better value for with current and potential customer partners our customers with suitable development money.
However, it is rare that price is the to grow wherever consumer demand for ideas which fit their customer needs only agenda point.
And, in such instances fresh prepared foods can be developed.
