Our people As a growth company, our scarce resource is people.
We have reported previously that the recruitment and retention of quality people is a high priority for us and this remains the case.
Mark Martin, Group Human Resources Director Development graduates Marie McGarry, Matt Casey and Christina Drake watching a demonstration by Chris Philips at the Geest Culinary Academy Training is an important way of providing well developed in our Finance and Produce our employees with skills to do their jobs teams and their success provided the better.
However, as we run a devolved impetus to introduce the concept to other structure at Geest we do not impose training functions.
We have since inaugurated similar regimes from the centre.
Each business unit schemes in three key areas of our business: has a training budget and the autonomy to Manufacturing, Development and Technical choose appropriate courses.
Peter Dow, New Business does not stop us as a Company from Development Director, talks about the identifying training needs and creating success of the Development AMS.
If we want them to be successful, however, we The second initiative focuses on another have to make sure that these programmes important area for the Group manufacturing are of high quality and bring appropriate and also on one of our Geest values, benefits to the businesses.
In theory, our Doing it right.
In our fast-moving environment General Managers can decide not to we are sometimes guilty of being too busy participate but we know we have done our to reflect on our actions for improvement.
job well when they are enthusiastic about our The Manufacturing Excellence Programme initiatives.
I believe that this approach sets us launched in 2003 not only gives people apart from other companies our businesses this opportunity but also provides them with are run autonomously yet we allow them continuous improvement tools.
The aim is for to take advantage of functional synergies them to take these back to their business, they really have the best of both worlds!
challenge and change the way in which things are done and reinforce the Doing it I have chosen two initiatives which illustrate right culture.
David Long, Divisional Human our long term commitment to attract and Resources Manager, talks about the retain excellent people by giving them evolution of this programme.
responsibility and tools to succeed, in environments which they find stimulating.
Both examples reflect our commitment The first initiative is our Accelerated to invest behind our people for the longer Management Scheme AMS.
This is term benefit of the Group.
39 In 2003, we ran a total of nearly 1,300 Excellence Programme, 15 Geest training days on the Manufacturing employees are now members of the ILM.
Silver and Gold modules are also part of The idea for an excellence programme the programme which centre on in-depth came out of our Manufacturing Conscience manufacturing techniques, target-setting Group.
We were looking at the provision and measurement, and advanced people of training across the Group and identified management skills based on the Geest a development need for shift managers systems.
On the back of the success and team leaders who had the ability to of these three modules we have just progress to supervisory level.
The training launched a Platinum four-day course Innovation, enthusiasm, passion, already in place tended to be off the shelf on continuous improvement.
We are also determination, drive essential qualities and so was not always relevant to our launching in May 2004 a Foundation Level needed to be on the Geest Development specific business requirements.
module aimed at new and existing Team Accelerated Management Scheme.
This will focus on eight core My aim was to create a course to improve subjects, delivered over eight half days, Peter Dow, general leadership skills at this important to improve basic leadership effectiveness New Business Development Director supervisory level, combining manufacturing and efficiency.
We ran a series of road shows at the The feedback has been very positive and end of 2002 to introduce the programme encouraging and we have received some There are many aspects to my role that to Human Resource HR Managers great examples of how the training has I enjoy but having Group responsibility for and Factory Manufacturing Managers already been put into action.
the recruitment of Development graduates the result of which was the launch of the to the Accelerated Management Scheme Manufacturing Excellence Programme We have already beaten our attendance AMS is probably the most satisfying.
in January 2003. targets in 2003, which is proof that the course is meeting business needs The scheme was started with the specific The first module from the programme is and bringing benefits to the Group.
aim of recruiting the most dynamic young Bronze which lasts for five days and is quite We are also attracting a number of people available into the Geest Development intensive.
We look to improve behavioural delegates from other functions not just function.
Candidates must have real creative practice so, as you can imagine, it is a very manufacturing.
The number of training flair, with the ability to think outside the practical and interactive programme with days on the Bronze module alone totalled box.
I also look for ambitious, dedicated lots of team exercises, video recording 825.
We will be resetting targets this year and highly motivated people with a strong and feedback.
The course was set up and already have a good take up from desire to strive for continuous perfection.
in conjunction with the Food and Drink employees in 2004.
The recruitment process is very thorough, Forum and Targeted Training Solutions Ltd ensuring that only the most talented and has been nationally accredited by the David Long, and creative individuals who have a real Institute of Leadership and Management Divisional Human Resources Manager passion for food are offered a placement.
Through participation in the There are now ten graduates in the scheme, seven of whom were recruited in 2003.
All of them have been given real positions I cant believe Geest is with on-the-job management and culinary paying me to do my hobby.
training, providing them with the opportunity to develop the products of tomorrow.
Alison Johnson, graduate My vision for the scheme is to create a sound on the Development AMS development and succession plan to provide us with Development Managers of the future that have been trained in the unique Geest style.
Terry Cheese Targeted Training Solutions Ltd, Kevin Massam The Pizzeria, David Long, Paul Randell For more information, please visit English Village Salads and Eleanor www.
co. uk gst ourjobs Horner Isleport Foods on the development amds Manufacturing Excellence Programme 40
