Corporate social responsibility makes sound business sense environmental management.
dialogue and highlighting Part of this initiative included significant social, environmental training 100% of relevant Laing and ethical risks and opportunities to the Board.
Homes staff on these issues.
Each section of the 2003 report A key focus for 2004 is to includes at least two case develop a framework for studies on how our policies deepening our understanding work in practice across the UK of what it means to be and the US.
These range from a responsible housebuilder.
on-site accident prevention We will also investigate how and school safety initiatives to strengthen assurance CHRISTINE CROSS around our CSR related to building sustainable CHAIR, CSR COMMITTEE communities and enhancing processes and review our procedures in the light of biodiversity on our sites.
We remain committed to practical approach to CSR, third party criteria.
Highlights of the 2003 transparent CSR reporting and balancing stakeholder CSR Report Health and Safety to monitoring, reviewing and perspectives with commercial Governance In the UK, we engaged with improving our performance.
CSR can and must In June 2003, we set up a key stakeholders on health We believe we have built on make business sense.
CSR Committee of the Board and safety risks, ran national last years achievements but Like our first report, Making which I am delighted to safety workshops for designers understand that sustainability Progress describes our policies, chair.
Committee members and saw an 11% reduction in will not be achieved quickly procedures and performance included Keith Cushen, Chief reportable accidents since and we still have many in terms of governance, health Executive of George Wimpey 2002.
and safety, environment, UK, Stu Cline, President of workers on a new fall arrest Corporate Social Responsibility employees, community and Morrison Homes and Non system, 900 on the use of CSR makes sound business customer care.
Executive Director Baroness safety nets and provided sense.
The key to the George Brenda Dean.
This Committee health and safety induction In our first report, we identied Wimpey approach is an for 100% of contractors.
will strengthen and inform a series of Key Performance integrated business plan the Groups approach to George Wimpey UK also Indicators KPIs to provide where environmental, social received a prestigious UK corporate responsibility an annual snapshot of our and technical performance is issues.
The CSR Committee Construction Health and progress over time.
This aligned with financial security Safety Group award for will meet at least twice per years report includes 20 KPI and returns.
year and is responsible for the Contribution to Health and measurements and highlights Safety Training and Improved This year, we have produced Groups CSR strategy, policies, several additional KPIs for our second annual CSR report.
In the US, we inclusion in our 2004 report.
improved weekly safety Entitled Making Progress, the monitoring.
The Committees We also integrated Laing report sets out in detail our responsibilities include aligning reports, introduced a Scored Homes into our CSR practices Safety Audit programme on approach to environmental, CSR strategy to the needs of and procedures, with particular social and ethical issues in the the business, developing 100% of sites and introduced UK and the US.
We take a focus on health, safety and monthly safety reporting.
appropriate stakeholder 30 George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 Corporate Social Responsibility In 2004, George Wimpey UK satisfaction ratings placed will seek British Safety Council Morrison Homes in the top We remain committed to transparent CSR health and safety accreditation.
quartile of all US builders and reporting and to monitoring, reviewing and We will continue to focus on 84.7% of customers would reducing accidents in the areas recommend the company.
improving our performance Homeowner referrals accounted in which our workers are most at risk.
Morrison Homes will for 22% of US business.
continue to focus primarily on In 2004, we will introduce reducing the risk of falls from a new Customer Charter for height and will aim to provide Morrison Homes will focus on time new recruits stay with the UK and re-evaluate our 100% of our new builders with fully converting to Freon-free the company.
health and safety certication HVAC systems within the next Community Morrison Homes will implement within 90 days of employment.
In the UK and the US, we a customer communication Environment supported a range of Employees management system and focus community and charitable In 2003 in the UK, we trained Our first UK employee survey on further improving customer initiatives either linked to 100% of site management and showed that 65% of staff rate communication channels and our local businesses or support staff on environmental George Wimpey above average points of contact.
employees or with a particular management, as well as 389 of or one of the best companies focus on housebuilding our contractors.
In addition, 67% they know or have worked for.
Initiatives of our homes were built on We also introduced a new included creating a temporary browneld sites, exceeding the human resources strategy winter shelter for homeless UK Governments 2008 target of and drew up action plans to people in the UK, as well as 60%.
In the US, we continued address issues highlighted by redecorating a local womens and extended our involvement the employee survey.
In the US, shelter and refurbishing with environmental initiatives we increased the annual hours childrens bathrooms on and engaged with suppliers of training per employee by behalf of charities in the US.
to introduce environmentally- 16.6% and the seventh annual preferable heating, ventilating employee survey indicated that In 2004, we will analyse the and air-conditioning 83% of staff think that Morrison mix of our charitable activities HVAC systems.
Homes is a great place to work.
and investigate ways to improve the effectiveness of our In 2004, we will focus on Future targets include charitable donations policy.
George Wimpey UK taking completing our sustainability survey of suppliers and action on areas of concern Customer Care highlighted by the employee George Wimpey UK won more undertake a full gap and cost benefit analysis of seeking survey.
Morrison Homes will than twice as many NHBC Pride focus on co-ordinating in the Job Quality Awards as accreditation to ISO14001.
We will also explore CSR and monitoring a new series any other housebuilder in 2003 of training initiatives, tracking and 83% of our customers said related supply chain issues and focus on increasing waste recruitment success and they would recommend us increasing the length of to friends and family.
George Wimpey Plc Annual Report 2003 31
