32 GKN plc 2003 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW BUILDING A BUSINESS FOR FUTURE GENERATIONS safe environment which will not damage their health.
They expect GKN can trace its roots back almost 250 years and has been their rights, dignity and equality of opportunity to be respected incorporated in its present form originally as Guest, Keen by a company which upholds high ethical standards.
They expect and Nettlefolds for over 100 years.
This longevity has not been to be rewarded fairly for their efforts and to know how they and the achieved without recognising the need, in pursuing its objectives, company they work for are performing.
GKN values the contribution to take account of the interests of a range of stakeholders, including of all its employees and works hard to meet their expectations.
customers, employees, shareholders and communities.
As long These also include freedom of association and collective bargaining ago as the mid 19th century, the Guest business in Dowlais in South where requested by a majority of employees, fair systems to deal Wales was instrumental in bringing fresh water and sanitation to the with grievance and discipline, and the absence of any form of town of Merthyr Tydfil and the village of Dowlais.
GKN is committed to providing long-term, sustainable value to its Those 35,000 people live in communities of which their employing shareholders by delivering outstanding products and services to its company is a member.
Those communities also have expectations.
When it does so successfully GKN can reward its people They expect GKN to minimise the impact of its operations on the and help support the communities of which it is a part.
They expect GKN to make a contribution to community life and well-being.
In less developed countries, GKN aims to Every working day some 35,000 people come to work in GKN plants ensure that community activities are sensitive to the local social and offices located in more than 30 countries around the world.
All and physical environment and will have positive long-term impact.
of those people have expectations of GKN.
They expect to work in a 33 GKN plc 2003 Building team spirit.
A group of operators, design engineers and maintenance technicians of GKN Driveline and its joint venture with Toyoda Machine Works at Rayong in Thailand in training for the annual Tako tournament.
Tako is a popular Thai sport which combines the rules of volleyball and soccer and the tournament is used to develop team spirit among operators and managers across the businesses.
Behind the net, from left to right: Khun Jarun, Khun Pichet and Khun Wanachai.
Foreground, from left to right: Khun Jittipong, Khun Yuttasart and Khun Anuchit.
Referees, left to right: Khun Thonchai and Khun Anu.
Scope of the review joint venture companies through an open exchange of information In this years social responsibility review GKN has again used, as and ideas: where practicable performance data is collected from a framework to present the information, the Reporting Guidelines those companies.
Joint ventures may also participate in our global produced by the Global Reporting Initiative GRI, an international Safety and Green Scheme Award programmes.
The GRI Guidelines, last published in The performance data presented in this review has been the June 2002, are based on the triple bottom line reporting concept subject of self-certification by Group companies together with covering economic, social and environmental performance.
The some independent verification of data or data collection processes financial aspects of the economic performance of the Group in as described below.
2003 are reported on elsewhere in this annual report.
We have again used sales as a measure for key environmental GKN supports the terms of the Universal Declaration of Human indicators.
As referred to in last years review this has a number Rights and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises of disadvantages, including distortions caused by price reductions, and continues to work towards ensuring that there is no breach intra-Group trading and widely varying consumption levels in of these within its businesses.
Our ultimate aim is to ensure that differing manufacturing processes.
The development of alternative similar standards operate throughout our supply chains.
These will vary from division to division due to The review covers all of our subsidiary companies.
The Group the differing nature of their business processes.
We will report on operates globally and it is therefore appropriate that our approach them once adequate comparative data is available.
to social responsibility is global.
To this end it also embraces our 34 GKN plc 2003 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED GOVERNANCE Health, safety and environmental performance is reported to the Management systems Executive Committee on a quarterly basis and at least annually to The principles of good corporate social responsibility are embedded the Board.
Significant incidents are reported to executive Directors within GKNs values which are embraced throughout the Group.
within 24 hours and to the next meeting of the Executive Committee.
They can be viewed on our website at www.
The Business Excellence Programme is our primary route to The Board views very seriously its responsibility for ensuring that achieving best-in-class standards in all aspects of managing the all the Groups businesses act as good corporate citizens.
A working business which, going forward, will incorporate our corporate group chaired by Ian Griffiths, Managing Director GKN Driveline, social responsibilities.
The programme uses Business Excellence has responsibility for guiding the adoption of the principles of models and Six Sigma tools to identify opportunities for continuous sustainable development throughout all the Groups businesses: improvement across a wide range of activities including leadership, Dick Etches, Human Resources Director, has responsibility for empowerment, organisational processes, customer relationship Health, Safety and Environment programmes: and Grey Denham, management, and community contributions.
Company Secretary, together with the Corporate Audit Department The most significant risks in relation to social responsibility issues and the Audit Committee, oversees compliance with Group policies.
are loss of reputation resulting from the manner of operation of our The management of social responsibility issues is an integral businesses and safety issues arising from quality or design of our part of the Groups overall corporate governance procedures products.
Both of these could, potentially, impact shareholder value and therefore this review should be read in conjunction with the significantly as well as our employees and the communities in which corporate governance section on pages 74 to 79.
In environmental terms, our manufacturing processes the management of social, environmental and ethical risks is are not inherently high risk, however greatcare is taken to prevent encompassed within the internal control procedures described any adverse impact arising.
Group governance policies The internal control procedures are supplemented by arrangements A series of governance policies, which are applied throughout under GKNs Integrated Loss Prevention Policy which is designed to the Group, underpin our vision on corporate social responsibility.
protect assets, prevent accidents and losses, contribute to a safer Our internal control procedures described in the corporate working environment for all GKN employees as well as achieving and governance section on pages 78 and 79 are designed to confirm demonstrating sound environmental performance.
The policy, which proper implementation and identify material breaches of these can be viewed on GKNs website, sets out the Groups systematic policies.
No such breaches have been identified in respect of 2003. approach to loss prevention and covers all accidental risk areas.
In support of its governance procedures, our Aerospace business, Operational management, supported by a network of specialists, which operates in the highly regulated world of government advisers, Divisional Loss Prevention Committees DLPCs and the contracting, has established an external Ethics Hotline.
This provides Group Loss Prevention Council GLPC, has primary responsibility employees with a means of voicing concerns on compliance and for implementing the policy, for integrating loss prevention into regulatory issues to a third party provider, on an anonymous basis the business process and for performance delivery.
The GLPC assists this process by providing direction and promoting best practice, whilst the DLPCs are responsible for co-ordinating loss prevention activity within each division, investigating serious accidents and losses and reporting on performance to the GLPC.
35 GKN plc 2003 Ethical standards policy all forms of discrimination and from any form of conduct, physical or The ethical standards policy sets high standards of integrity, honesty verbal, which could be considered to be harassing including sexual and fair dealing for all employees.
As part of the overall Group ethical harassment, coercive or disruptive.
Working conditions must be standards policy, individual divisional and company policies require safe and healthy and there are specific requirements in relation to that all business should be conducted with respect to human dignity substance abuse and dangerous weapons.
and rights, and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, Policies are designed to encourage employees to report and discuss and that corrupt practices and the acceptance or making of bribes be problems on a confidential basis and to provide expeditious and prohibited.
All commercial transactions must be properly recorded, confidential grievance procedures.
and assets and confidential information must be fully protected and used only for the purpose for which they were provided.
Employee disclosure procedures policy Group companies are required to establish appropriate procedures Employees are also required to avoid conflicts of interest between to enable employees to disclose in good faith, at local company or their business relationships and personal activities.
All employees if appropriate at divisional level, instances of wrongdoing by other have access to appropriate nominated executives or groups of employees at any level, including any substantial breach of the executives for the purposes of advice and assistance and, where Groups policies.
Employees must be able to do so in the knowledge necessary, rulings on ethical issues which may arise.
that their concerns will be investigated and dealt with properly and Competition policy sensitively and without fear of reprisal or disciplinary action.
The To ensure that Group companies comply with the laws relating to process must also provide for employees, should they so wish, to competition and fair trading, the Group has a policy that relevant make disclosures in writing directly to the Company Secretary or the employees are trained in competition laws applicable to their Head of the Corporate Audit Department at the Corporate Centre.
Employees are trained by way of attendance Defence industry involvement at courses or by use of interactive CD-ROM training packages We are aware that there are some investment organisations and developed by the Group.
individuals who are concerned by companies involvement in the Data protection policy defence industry.
GKNs primary interest in defence equipment The Groups data protection policy is designed to ensure that is through its helicopter joint venture, AgustaWestland.
All sales personal information held throughout the Group is treated with outside domestic markets are in strict accordance with UK and due respect for the privacy of the individual.
The policy is applied Italian Government export approval procedures, as appropriate.
worldwide even where it is more exacting than local legislation.
As well as having applications in defence, in many parts of the world AgustaWestland helicopters playa vitalrole in rescue, relief Employment policies and humanitarian aid.
GKN Aerospace Services is also a first tier The Groups employment law and practices policy requires every supplier of aerospace structures for US and European military business in the Group to adopt employment policies and procedures aircraft programmes, the export of which is in accordance with ensuring that employees and prospective employees are given government export approval procedures.
equal opportunities irrespective of sex, race, sexual orientation, disability, religion or ethnic origin.
Wherever it operates, the Group complies with local employment law and practices.
All businesses are required to ensure that employment decisions are based on qualifications and merit.
The working environment must respect employees human dignity and rights and be free from 36 GKN plc 2003 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED EMPLOYEES by business EMPLOYEES by region as at 31 December 2003 as at 31 December 2003 Automotive Subsidiaries 29,400 UK 10,400 Joint ventures 3,400 Continental Europe 20,300 Aerospace Americas 12,600 Subsidiaries 5,800 Rest of the World 4,600 Joint ventures 9,300 including subsidiaries and joint ventures FOCUS ON OUR EMPLOYEES health, safety and environmental performance.
Employee At GKN we are committed to creating an environment in which involvement is also encouraged and recognised through the employees are able to realise their full potential.
Training and GKN Safety Awards and the GKN Green Scheme.
These schemes, development programmes at all levels within the organisation now in their sixth year, recognise success and highlight best aim to ensure that employees have the skills and knowledge to practice which is then shared across the Group.
In 2003, a total perform their roles as effectively as possible and that they are of 72 applications were received.
Details of the award winners able to maximise their potential and contribution.
are given later in this review.
Communication Training GKN recognises the importance of communication as a two-way At operating company level, training and development activities process and the substantial contribution employees can make continue to be an integral part of our business strategy, focused to improving business performance.
During 2003 we completed on equipping employees with the skills and knowledge needed a programme of surveys of over 30,000 employees across the to support their effective contribution to the Groups business Group 85% of subsidiary company employees.
New employees receive induction training to covered a wide range of topics including product quality, health, introduce them to the Group as well as to the company at safety and the environment, career development, communication which they are based, and ongoing training is available through and leadership, and company reputation.
Key points which emerged on-the-job experience, in-house training programmes and external from the surveys recognised as an important strength the ability educational providers.
to set clear objectives and the routes to their attainment.
Whilst Within GKN Driveline, the International College of Engineering employees regard GKN as positive in its approach to change, provides a wide range of product-based teaching programmes communication was identified as an area for improvement across which focus on technology as well as product development, and the businesses.
There is also an opportunity to broaden our are for support staff as well as for engineers.
The development development activities across a wider population in order to help of the IT infrastructure will support an e-learning facility which, realise the potential of employees.
The responses will help focus in the course of the next 12 months, will be available to a wide improvement initiatives and provide a benchmark against which range of employees.
GKNs International Leadership Development Programme Effective consultation mechanisms exist throughout the Group recruits high calibre graduates from many of the worlds leading to provide open communication between management and universities and exposes them to diverse business situations representatives of union and non-unionised employees.
During through challenging assignments and project work.
It instils 2003, GKN Driveline Mosel received an award from the German confidence and self-sufficiency through international placements Institute for Business Studies for its employee suggestion scheme and develops proficiency in a new language.
The Emerging Leaders which was judged to be the best in Germany.
Group companies programme targets individuals with the potential to progress quickly encourage employee participation in the process for improving 37 GKN plc 2003 WORKING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS We define stakeholder as any person or organisation who is affected by, or whose actions impact upon, our business.
These include local communities, shareholders, customers, suppliers, employees, business partners, local authorities, government agencies and non-governmental organisations NGOs.
We engage with these stakeholders in a variety of ways.
Under the guidance of the working group on sustainable development, chaired by Ian Griffiths, the GKN Driveline Leadership Programme involved young managers in a significant project to promote understanding of how sustainable development applies throughout to a key role within the Group.
Together these programmes were the operations.
They presented their work to the Group Loss Prevention recognised as the Best Executive Development Programme for Council and in January 2004 to the Executive Committee.
2003 in the prestigious Hays Group Awards organised by Human As part of our aim to contribute positively to the communities in Resources magazine, a leading UK business publication.
which we operate, wherever possible we employ local labour in Diversity and inclusion our businesses.
We invest in local community projects both by One of our key strengths lies in the individuals who work for wayof financial donations and through the volunteer work of our GKN as part of one global team.
In order to ensure that we have employees, particularly in less developed countries.
Examples of the appropriate balance of skill, nationality and gender throughout local initiatives are given on page 38. the businesses, review processes which address issues of diversity A number of meetings have been held with major shareholders and were further developed during 2003.
The aim of this ongoing NGOs to discuss the Groups performance with regard to corporate analysis of our employee base is to gather relevant information social responsibility and it is our intention to continue to seek which will help us progress our business strategy whilst maintaining dialogue with major stakeholders.
operating principles in accordance with our core values.
Whilst the engineering industry around the world is still largely populated In addition to the impact of our own activities, the impact of our by male professionals, recruitment processes aim to identify supply partners and the products we manufacture both during the best candidate for any given job, without regard to gender their life and in their end of life phase are of increasing importance.
We continue to seek to identify ways in which we can support our keysuppliers in this regard to our mutual benefit.
As a component In developing our approach to diversity going forward we are supplier, the impact of our products has to be addressed in mindful of the need to review our internal data in the context partnership with our customers aswell as our suppliers.
This of the population of the local communities in which we operate.
continues to be an important focus of attention.
Our data in the US, for example, shows that 79% of GKN employees are white, 13% are black and the remaining 8% are of other ethnic GKN plays a substantive role in a number of key industrial origin, compared with an overall population where 75% are white, organisations.
We are founder members of the Industry and 12% are black and the rest are of other ethnic origin.
Across the Parliament Trust, the UK Per Cent Club and the UK Emission Trading 20 states in which GKN operates, the match between employee Scheme.
We are members of the Engineering Employers Federation and local population profiles isbroadly similar.
and Confederation of British Industry in the UK and the German Employers Federation.
We are also members of The Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders SMMT in the UK, The Society of British Aerospace Companies, the US Organisation for International Investment and the British Occupational Health Research Foundation.
In 2000, GKN Driveline was one of 11 founding signatories to the SMMTs sustainability strategy Towards Sustainability which outlines the automotive industrys commitment to balance economic progress with environmental care and social responsibility.
38 GKN plc 2003 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED OUR COMMITMENT TO THE COMMUNITY GKN is committed to enhancing the welfare of the communities in which it operates.
In 2003, charity and community contributions by Group companies amounted to some 840,000.
Those organisations to which cash contributions were made during 2003 are listed on GKNs website at www.
Community support is widespread across GKNs worldwide operations.
The following are just a few examples: Ukraine A team of graduates from GKN Driveline refurbished a home for mentally handicapped children in the Ukraine.
The childrens home, in Liwtschyzi in the small district of Shydachiwsky in western Ukraine, provides a refuge for over 100 children.
The HEALTH AND SAFETY graduates erected a greenhouse to enable the home to grow its Health and safety are well established as an integral part of a own vegetables and also renovated parts of the main dining room strong company culture based on shared values which are reflected and kitchen.
Another priority was to replace equipment at the in the behaviour of employees at all levels of the organisation.
We home which was outdated and had fallen into disrepair.
continue to believe that strong, committed, visible and supportive Brazil During 2003 a team of GKN Driveline employees revisited leadership is the main driver for health and safety improvement and the Lar Carolina childrens orphanage in Brazil where they helped to it remains a strong focus of attention.
For 2003, we introduced an provide facilities on two previousoccasions.
During their stay, the element of executive bonus based on safety performance.
team constructed a building which will contain a library, needlework Performance room and workshop.
On the first visit by GKN Driveline employees Our performance in 2003 again shows an improvement against in 1999, a bakery was built at the home to provide it with the means the key performance indicators of accident frequency rate AFR to raise money by selling bread to the local community.
The second and accident severity rate ASR.
Group results are shown in the visit in 2001 resulted in an upgraded playground for the children as charts opposite.
Over the past five years AFR performance has improved by 67% UK GKN Aerospace Services Structures in Yeovil works with and ASR by 51%.
In addition to a reduction in the total number of the Fiveways Resource Centre to provide workplace opportunities accidents we have maintained a particular focus on the causes and for adults with varying degreesoflearning difficulties.
Through a prevention of serious accidents.
All serious accidents are reported carefully structured programme the business provides meaningful to and reviewed by the Executive Committee.
Our serious injury employment bringing with it a sense of belonging and the rewards rate which is specifically designed to track and maintain visibility of most people take for granted from a working life.
In 2003, Kyle serious accidents has shown a 70% reduction over the past five years.
Yunnie, one of five such employees at Yeovil, travelled with his parents to San Diego in the US to receive an Aerospace Services In 2003, 17 enforcement actions occurred at plants in the UK, US Excellence Award.
One action in the UK involved prosecution as a result of an accident in 2002 when an employee suffered serious injury Germany Employees at GKN Driveline Deutschland in Mosel have whilst attempting an unauthorised and unsafe but well intentioned responsibility for a project in which constant velocity joint assembly repair on a piece of equipment.
Total fines for all actions of 17,414 is subcontracted to a local workshop for people with mental and reflect the generally minor nature of the issues raised.
The employees ensure appropriate health and every one points to an improvement need and opportunity which is safety and provide training.
Quality levels and customer satisfaction used to support our focus on prevention.
Targets Our ultimate goal is zero preventable accidents and, to drive continuous performance improvement towards this goal, objectives and targets are set, primarily at plant level where they can best reflect the particular needs, risks, priorities and opportunities for each site.
The targets aim to ensure that GKN achieves an overall, clear and positive improvement trend leading to consistent achievement by every business of sustained performance at a world class level.
Where considerable improvement is needed aggressive targets are set.
In 2003, 66% of plants achieved their AFR targets and 81% maintained or improved AFR performance.
For ASR, 70% of plants achieved their targets and 83% maintained or improved performance.
All divisions improved their AFR and ASR performance 39 GKN plc 2003 with 75% achievement of both AFR and ASR targets.
On an annual working environment which minimises the risk to employee health basis, plants that are considered to be underperforming are required from the physical factors which can impact on workers, including to present their improvement plansto the Executive Committee.
noise, working practices and substances in the workplace.
Concurrent health surveillance programmes revealextremely low levels of adverse In addition to performance targets for AFR and ASR we also apply health effects among our staff and this reassuring combination targets and performance measures to key enablers including is confirmed by very low levels of staff turnover or retirement on health and safety training, the application of internal self audit health grounds.
Data on occupational ill health is collated centrally and the establishment of health and safety objectives and plans.
and, where cases occur, focused examination of the circumstances The enablers and targets are subject to change as part of a dynamic enables action to be taken to identify cause and prevent recurrence.
approach to matching needs and priorities.
Other arrangements that Occupational health issues are reviewed and regularly discussed, contribute to performance improvements are safety review visits by along with safety matters, by the Executive Committee.
senior executives, safety workshops, high severity risk workshops, best practice guidelines, the GKN Safety Awards and internal and GKN Safety Awards external benchmarking of practices and performance.
Benchmarking From a total of 37 applications, five teams received awards from results show our performance as significantly better than industry Kevin Smith, Chief Executive, at the GKN Safety Awards presentation averages in the UK, Germany and the US, and against peer in November 2003.
The overall winner was GKN Driveline Utsunomiya, companies in the UK our performance compares very favourably.
Japan, for its commitment to continuous improvement and innovative Many GKN businesses now incorporate in their operations features approaches to communication, risk reduction and employee from the Health and Safety Management System OHSAS 18001.
In participation, as well as for its sustained excellent safety performance.
2003 six Group companies achieved certification to this standard.
Other award winners were GKN Driveline Alamance, USA, GKN Sinter Metals Conover, USA, GKN Aerospace St Louis, USA, and GKN Driveline Verification Bruneck, Italy.
A focused external review of the processes and procedures used in the collection and reporting of health and safety data has recently Three special safety awards were also presented to sites that been completed.
This review, which involved a sample of ten sites, had shown a clear commitment to safety and a significant effort will act as the base for a more detailed exercise in 2004 and whilst to achieve improvement.
GKN Aerospace Services Cowes and no significant deficiencies have been identified, minor improvement GKN Sinter Metals Lichfield, both in the UK, had demonstrated opportunities are being pursued.
commitment to continuous improvement while undergoing major change and challenges within their organisation.
GKN Sinter Metals Occupational health Emporium, USA, was recognised for its consistent demonstration GKNs concern goes beyond the employees physical safety and the of best practice and achievement of three million aggregate working prevention of accidents at work to focus heavily on the avoidance hours without a lost time accident.
of work related ill health.
Occupational health practitioners work closely with safety and environmental advisers to help create a ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE AFR ACCIDENT SEVERITY RATE ASR lost time accidents per 1,000 employees days shifts lost per 1,000 employees 03 8.3 03 181 02 13.4 02 297 01 19.7 01 350 00 21.4 00 359 99 24.8 99 372 40 GKN plc 2003 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REVIEW CONTINUED ENVIRONMENT GROUP PERFORMANCE: ENERGY The Groups environmental management system EMS, originally index is normalised to 1,000 sales with 1999 as 100 introduced in 1994, is part of the integrated loss prevention approach and is broadly based on the international management standard, ISO 14001.
The EMS, like ISO 14001, imposes on 03 96 companies a requirement to achieve continuous improvement in 02 97 performance: ISO 14001 also requires companies to demonstrate 01 95 that improvement to the certifying body.
00 103 Targets 99 100 GKN is committed to achieving accreditation to ISO 14001 at all its manufacturing sites throughout the world.
59 sites, representing 75% of Group subsidiary sales, are currently accredited and a GROUP PERFORMANCE: WASTE further 26 have plans to achieve accreditation in 2004. index is normalised to 1,000 sales with 1999 as 100 GKN maintains its commitment to reducing carbon dioxide CO 2 emissions relative to sales by 5% in 2005 starting from a 1999 baseline.
The target, if achieved, will bring GKNs reduction in 03 89 emissions broadly in line with the targets set in the Kyoto Protocol.
02 96 01 86 Performance 00 100 We continue to concentrate on the key performance indicators of 99 100 energy use and associated CO emissions, waste generation and 2 water use.
As indicated in last years report, we are no longer reporting externally on VOC Volatile Organic Compounds usage as the use GROUP PERFORMANCE: WATER of such substances has now reduced to very low levels.
However, index is normalised to 1,000 sales with 1999 as 100 we continue to monitor our performance internally in this regard.
Reference is made on page 33 to our reasons for using sales as a measure of Group environmental performance and also to the 03 88 disadvantages of doing so.
These disadvantages have the effect 02 94 of understating the actual level of activity in terms of the number 01 87 of products sold and thus also any performance improvement.
The 00 93 operating divisions are developing more relevant activity-based 99 100 measures to monitor their individual performance.
Energy consumption Energy consumption relative to sales showed a small decrease in 2003 compared with 2002.
Variations in sales from division to division were not as marked as in 2002 and the reduction, although small, represents a real improvement in underlying performance.
However, the potential for future savings in energy usage remains and we will strive to ensure that this potential is realised wherever it is economically viable.
We do not consider there to be significant scope for major energy saving projects, but improvements will be made by the implementation of large numbers of relatively minor projects which cumulatively should deliver real reductions in energy consumption.
We are currently ahead of target in meeting the reduction of 10,000 tonnes of CO required by 2006 under the UK Emission Trading 2 Scheme this represents an ambitious target of around 10% reduction in our absolute emissions over a five-year period and, as a result, we now have a surplus of allowances.
The current low price of these allowances has discouraged trading and we are maintaining stocks of allowances against a potential future shortfall.
On a global scale our reported CO emissions have increased but that is principally due 2 to increased emissions of CO by energy generators from which we 2 source energy in the UK and US, two of our major areas of operation.
41 GKN plc 2003 Waste generation GKN Green Scheme Awards 2003 saw a reversal of the increase in waste generation relative 35 submissions were made for the Green Scheme Awards with the to sales experienced in 2002.
The significant change in product overall winner being Hoeganaes Gallatin in the US.
The company was mix between 2001 and 2002, which was largely the cause for the chosen for its development of an entirely new method of recycling 2002 increase, was not repeated in 2003.
The proportion of our oversize metal powder into the arcfurnace.
This development has waste which consists of recyclable metal scrap continues to be increased the efficiency of the process and has significantly increased high at 67%.
The removal of a stockpile of steelmaking slag at our the efficiency of energy utilisation.
The other award winners were Hoeganaes plant at Gallatin, USA, during 2002 also contributed to GKN Sinter Metals Emporium, USA, GKN Freight Services, UK, GKN the amount of waste generated that year.
We are currently trying Wheels Nagbl, Denmark, and GKN Sinter Metals Bonn, Germany.
The to gain approval from the US state authorities for the re-use of this winners received their award from Kevin Smith, Chief Executive, who material as an aggregate in the manufacture of road paving.
also presented a special award to Gunner Kjr-Hansen, Environment and Safety Manager at GKN Wheels Nagbl, for his contribution over Water consumption 34 years to reducing energy consumption at the plant.
In our 2002 review we stated that water consumption would be a keyfocus of attention.
As a result there has been a reduction of 5% Special achievements in the absolute volume of water consumed despite an increase in We would like to take the opportunity of congratulating the employees production.
GKN operates in a wide variety of locations, in some of of GKN do Brasil GKN Driveline for the part they have played in the which water is plentiful and in others where it is not.
There is still companys achievement of certification to OHSAS 18001 Health potential for significant savings in water consumption but these and Safety Management, ISO 14001 Environmental Management involve capital expenditure and can be hindered by poor rates of and ISO TS 16949 Quality Management.
GKN do Brasil is believed return where water supply is plentiful and cheap.
to be one of only three automotive companies worldwide to have achieved the Quality, Environmental, Health and Safety, and Social Five GKN companies, all in the US, had enforcement action taken Accountability Integrated Management System certificate.
against them by regulatory authorities.
Currently, total fines of US$5,000 have been imposed and in some cases the level of CONCLUSION the fine is still under negotiation.
The offences related to violations Overall, GKN continues to strive to be a good corporate citizen.
of air permits 3, exceeding wastewater discharge permits 1 and We recognise that, viewed against the GRI Guidelines, we have waste operations 1.
There were a further six minor offences, again opportunities for further development.
In the area of corporate all in North America, which resulted in notices of violations being social responsibility, as in other areas, we know our stakeholders served although in these cases no punitive action is being taken by will over time expect more.
In addition a fine of US$50,000 was paid in respect of a violation of an air permit which occurred in a prior year.
Whilst the size of the fines indicate the relatively minor nature of the offences, nevertheless they all provide evidence of improvement needs which are being addressed.
Verification The suitability of systems in place to gather and report data is assessed by external independent certifying bodies as part of the certification to ISO 14001.
Group companiesare required to confirm the accuracy of the data.
In addition, as part of its obligations as a member of the UK Emission Trading Scheme, GKN has employed external verifiers to check the accuracy of emission data collected during 19982000, the baseline years of the scheme.
This will continue during the five-year life of the scheme and has already been completed for 2002 and 2003 data.
