36128 CR 2003 Annual Report A4 4 22 04 9:50 AM Page 43 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Greggs plc believes that, as a major employer, a provider of food products to the public, In addition to the Company schemes listed above, our staff throughout the country participate and a public company with obligations to its shareholders, the Company has a responsibility voluntarily in a wide range of charity fund raising, which makes an additional meaningful to conduct its business with integrity, to act responsibly, to address the impacts of the business contribution to the wider communities in which we operate.
By their dedication and devotion, our employees are a true credit to the Company name, and the real benefits of what they on the environment, and to seek to make a positive difference to the wider communities in achieve are inestimable.
It is thanks to these employees and their efforts that as a Company we which it operates.
are able to make a contribution to the communities in which we operate.
This responsibility is delivered through the following: The Environment Customers, People and Suppliers The Company recognises the importance of protecting our environment for future generations Our Values are embraced by the Board and expected of all colleagues: and is committed to carrying out its activities with due consideration for the environmental impacts of its operations and in line with Our Values.
We will be enthusiastic and supportive in all that we do, open, honest and appreciative, treating everyone with fairness, consideration and respect.
Environmental Management System EMS Our Values are a basis for all of our activities.
Our people are expected to use them in their Greggs plc has identified the key environmental impacts of its activities.
We are committed to an relationships with each other and with customers and suppliers.
Our Values are our code of ongoing programme of continual reduction of any adverse impacts and prevention of pollution conduct and are the framework within which the business manages its activities and operates.
consistent with our long term business objectives.
To manage this, the Company is progressively introducing an Environmental Management System EMS which will seek to: Food Safety and Health & Safety are also at the forefront of how we operate.
We insist on providing our customers with good quality food products and assurances of food safety.
Comply with all relevant environmental legislation, regulation and other requirements Our robust systems also seek to protect the health & safety of Greggs customers and its application to the Company or to which the Company subscribes people.
Greggs plc won a national award and two regional awards in the National 2003 Reduce waste at source via the efficient use of resources and encourage re-use European Week for Safety & Health Campaign, a testimony to the hard work and commitment and recycling of waste of our employees in improving work environments.
Work towards increasing efficiency at all its sites Wider Communities Monitor and improve the performance of vehicles owned by Greggs plc In 2003, Greggs plc directly donated over 1% of pre-tax profit to charity.
Work towards ensuring that policies and procedures are in place so that accidents incidents On a nationwide basis, Greggs is a member of the Per Cent Club and made charitable with potential adverse environmental impact are controlled as far as is reasonably practicable donations of 420,000 in 2003, the bulk of which was directed through the Greggs Trust.
Progressively make employees aware of the environmental issues relevant to their role The Greggs Trust is a registered charity, founded by Ian Gregg in 1987.
Its main objective is the within Greggs plc alleviation of the effects of poverty and social deprivation in the areas where the Company trades.
Its income in 2003 was 699,000, derived from the Greggs plc donation, from employees under Take into account the adverse impact on the environment of any capital expenditure project.
the Give As You Earn Scheme 8% of employees donated through this scheme in 2003, In 2003, the first stages of developing the EMS have been completed.
Environmental audits and staff fund raising activities.
The balance was received in the form of donations from major of each Division of Greggs plc have established a baseline position for future environmental shareholders and income from investments including shares in Greggs plc held by the Trust.
The Company has implemented a number of improvements, including the following: Funds are distributed by the Trustees and via the 13 staff Charity Committees operating across the country, offering support to good causes within our trading areas.
Switching to increased capacity delivery vehicles to reduce the number of delivery journeys made and hence reduce vehicle emissions: The Greggs Breakfast Club scheme is designed to get children in selected primary schools off to a better start by providing them with free breakfasts.
Greggs funds all of the food, A switch to APET plastic for sandwich packaging, an environmentally friendlier alternative including provision of fresh bread from local Greggs shops, together with the necessary to standard plastic: equipment.
Greggs staff work with school teachers to establish the clubs and stay in contact Launch of the SEBA Save Energy Be Aware scheme in all shops and factories to reduce to further the partnership.
Essential to the model is the role of parents, grandparents and energy consumption by the company.
other volunteers to run the clubs, including serving the breakfasts, thereby helping them to help others in their own communities.
The concept has been validated by external In 2003, the Company has taken steps towards meeting its environmental commitments independent research which has shown that Breakfast Club attendance encourages children and will continue to grow this commitment during 2004. to get to school on time and increases attentiveness in class.
In 2003, the number of Breakfast Club schemes increased from 50 to 60 and the scheme was runner-up Business in the Communitys national Awards for Excellence.
The Greggs Cancer Run, sponsored by Greggs North East division, is an annual event which has raised over 2 million since its inception in 1983.
The event is organised by a group of dedicated Greggs staff.
In 2003, a similar event took place in Manchester, sponsored by Greggs North West Division.
2003 was Year 3 of the Companys investment of 500,000 in the 5-year Newcastle Employment Bond, which is secured as to repayment by Northern Rock plc.
The investment is at zero rate interest, with the interest foregone to be used to help tackle long term unemployment in the Newcastle upon Tyne area.
