Corporate and social responsibility At the heart of Alliance UniChems business The Groups management team, at every future that none of the raw materials used is a commitment to work to improve the level, includes a significant number of in the preparation of own brand products well-being of the communities that we qualied pharmacists who are bound have been tested on animals.
We believe that to achieve this fully, by these professional standards, and we we have a moral obligation and commercial measure our activities against them.
As a wholesaler of pharmaceutical products imperative to treat the development, To underline this, we encourage our and operator of pharmacies, we implementation and monitoring of the pharmacists to report dispensing errors, acknowledge that many products that Groups corporate and social responsibility so that we can constantly learn from them we stock will have been tested on animals policies and initiatives as core to our and improve our systems and procedures.
as part of their product licensing procedures.
We also use mystery shopper surveys We have an obligation professionally to monitor the levels of customer service and legislatively to ensure the provision Recognising the importance of this area and the quality of advice provided in of licensed medicines to patients, and to the Groups business we have allocated our pharmacies.
therefore must stock and supply all direct responsibility for this area at Board required licensed pharmaceutical products.
level to Ornella Barra in her role as Group Our wholesale businesses strive vigorously Where we have a choice as to which Services Director.
Within her portfolio of to operate on a completely transparent products can be used, we consider the management responsibilities, Ornella basis with customers, providing them methods of testing in deciding on which has a number of functions with direct with a clear basis for our commercial products to stock, but have an ethical accountability for a number of areas relationships.
In a number of markets and legal obligation to do so only as a recognised as core to a structured corporate these are laid out in a documented secondary factor to patient well-being.
Customer Charter, providing commitments These include Human Resources, which on the service levels and professional Health and safety encompasses health and safety, training standards that they can expect from us.
The Group conducts its business with the and employee welfare issues, and Corporate highest concern for the health and safety Communications, which monitors a number Non-resale products and services are of its employees, contractors, customers, of areas contributing to our corporate sourced under the coordination of our neighbours and the general public.
procurement function, which operates Board is committed to improving health a strict ethical code utilising industry and safety management continuously.
Customers requirements, employees needs, best practice to ensure fairness and the social and community conditions in transparency with our suppliers whilst In September 2003, the Board approved which we operate and the regulatory achieving best commercial terms.
a new health and safety policy aimed at demands upon us vary considerably across promoting health and safety best practice Europe.
We believe that it is in the interests Product testing across the Group.
of all our stakeholders to tailor activities The Group operates a policy under which to match the needs of the local markets we ourselves do not participate in product Our aim is to offer our employees a safe in which we operate, while adhering to animal testing.
No testing is undertaken and comfortable work environment, common principles.
These principles are on our behalf, and none of our non which meets or exceeds all legal health supported by our core ethos of partnership, prescription own brand products has and safety requirements in every country service, excellence and innovation, which been tested on animals.
Suppliers of our in which we operate.
Accordingly, it is the form the foundation from which we exclusive generic pharmaceutical products Groups policy to manage its activities so deliver the highest quality of service to may, however, have been compelled to as to avoid causing any unnecessary or our customers.
undertake testing in order to obtain their unacceptable risks to health and safety.
original product licences, and many of the To support the practical implementation Ethical trading formulations will have been licensed by and monitoring of this policy, the Human In all activities, we strive vigorously to ensure their initial developer using animal testing Resources department has been working transparent and ethical trading.
We believe to support their licensing application.
with external advisers on a benchmarking this is our moral responsibility and that it exercise to identify the most effective and is essential for the long-term success of As far as possible, we extend our policy suitable points of measurement of health our business.
of not using products tested on animals and safety performance within the Group to suppliers of the raw materials that are and set targets that will improve the In retail pharmacy, we operate within strict used in the production of our own brand well-being of our employees.
This exercise moral and ethical parameters laid down by products.
We are, however, unable to is already at an advanced stage and during professional and regulatory bodies in every guarantee that all raw material suppliers 2004 will begin to generate meaningful market in which we operate.
All these do not use, or have not in the past used, and auditable information on our parameters have the same basis: that we animal testing.
When selecting suppliers performance in this area.
must operate to provide the best level of of own brand product, we review their care available to the patient and ensure policy on animal testing as a factor in the that we always act in the patients interests.
selection process and in doing so we are We have enshrined this as the core moving towards a position where we aim principle of our retail business.
to be able to provide a commitment in 30 Alliance UniChem Plc The Groups accident frequency rate number We continually look at the most appropriate A fair appraisal package has been of reportable accidents per 100,000 hours way of limiting the fuel consumption of our introduced and developed involving worked was 1.42 in 2003, compared to vehicle eet.
A number of studies have been 500 top managers in the Group.
When looking specically at conducted on the practicality of using assessment can be conducted through three day lost time accidents, the accident fuels other than petrol or diesel, taking the internet in several languages and frequency rate was 1.13, down from 1.26 into account the combined requirements gives managers a clearer and more for 2002.
In all cases, we work closely with of urban, suburban and rural delivery comprehensive picture of their skills.
relevant health and safety authorities to schedules.
At present we do not believe We have established a structure which address any issues that are identied.
that there is a viable alternative to these allows us to share best practice experience traditional fuels.
and skills across the Group.
We were an Environment early adopter of the European Directives Our businesses have an impact on the We are in the process of working with on Works Councils and have been operating environment in three main areas: the external consultants to prepare an an active and successful European workers operation of warehouses, the operation environment policy that can be applied council for some time.
Within our UK of retail pharmacies and the operation of across the Group effectively.
This policy wholesale and retail businesses we have a eet of vehicles, largely for the distribution will be put to the Board for consideration also obtained the coveted Investors in of pharmaceuticals.
during 2004, and work will start during People award.
the year to identify appropriate measures Our wholesale depots are secure and wellto be used to monitor our performance Our aim is that we should be regarded as maintained facilities with climate control against this policy.
a professional organisation which values systems required for certain products.
employees highly and provides them with When implementing processes and Employees a work environment within which they technology in our operations, we seek The Group operates a strict policy against can continuously grow their skills and to limit energy use in each depot, both discrimination on the grounds of sex, age, abilities and develop excellent long-term to help contain energy costs and to limit religion, nationality, marital status, disability careers to be an employer that people our impact on the environment.
or sexual preference and promotes diversity aspire to work for.
throughout our workforce to the greatest We also operate programmes to collect possible extent.
Community and safely dispose of unwanted Our business is the provision of community pharmaceuticals.
It is essential to dispose We strive to reect the diversity of the healthcare, either as a primary provider safely of out of date products or partly markets and communities in which we through our retail pharmacies or as a used products where safety seals have do business.
The Groups people operate secondary provider working with been broken.
Where products require on a European scale.
Whether this results independent pharmacist customers.
disposal, we ensure controlled and in a career within or beyond national As part of this, the fostering of community licensed neutralisation and disposal of the borders, we put in place programmes to well-being and the promotion of healthcare product in collaboration with regulators.
support individual development in line with initiatives are both a commercial necessity We also work, where possible, with our needs.
We look to recruit, develop and a core corporate responsibility.
regulators and the pharmaceutical industry and promote employees to achieve We work closely with local healthcare to recycle suitable pharmaceutical products their maximum potential and we are a providers to advise and inform the for charitable use.
Across the Group, we also operate We value the experience of our employees Initiatives to promote community wellprogrammes, where commercially viable, and aim to provide training, development being are operated at a local and national to ensure the responsible disposal of and secondment opportunities to enable level in each country where we operate, packaging, including the re-use and them to meet or exceed individual in many cases in partnership with local or recycling of all packaging types and, where objectives.
Our commitment to training national authorities, local healthcare teams possible, the use of licensed contractors has led us to develop a continuing or charitable organisations.
We support to dispose of non-recyclable waste professional training programme for our localised community charitable projects packaging safely.
pharmacists that exceeds the requirements and aim to establish a more structured of their professional bodies.
This helps us approach towards our centralised charitable Our retail pharmacies operate the same achieve signicantly above average activities to ensure that we focus our general principles and systems as our recruitment and retention levels for activities in areas or with organisations wholesale businesses for the collection qualied employees.
where we can offer more than simply and disposal of unused pharmaceuticals, a source of funding, but can offer the and for the safe storage of stock.
Similarly, benefit of our employees skills and where possible, we use appropriate ttings experience as well.
and equipment, for example, low consumption energy efficient lighting and environmentally friendly materials.
