Corporate social responsibility Buildinga sustainable business Allied Domecq builds brands people found in the environment section There is no doubt that our continued want in order to deliver maximum return to of our website www.
com, drinks sector leadership position in the its shareholders.
But we can only maintain and our full Environmental, Health and BiE index reflects the consistent hard and optimise this return if we recognise Safety Report will be updated in early 2004. work of all the Global Operations team the impact that our products and our actions to ensure that our policy objective of Social As one of the worlds largest have on society, on the environment, our beyond compliance is implemented.
producers of beverage alcohol we recognise consumers and our employees.
There is no room for complacency and our social responsibilities.
Alcohol can every operating unit has its plan to deliver We need to plan to build a long-term, be a source of pleasure, positive social continual improvements in environmental sustainable business.
And we do interaction and can be life enhancing.
and health and safety performance.
committing ourselves to delivering However, if abused it can cause considerable Richard Turner, President, sustainability in three critical areas: economic, damage to the individual and to society.
Global Operations environmental and social.
Within Allied We take enormous care when marketing Domecq we call this our triple bottom line.
our products to ensure that we do not Allied Domecq and the Economic While we clearly exist to make encourage excessive consumption or Texas Package Store a profitable return on the money invested inadvertently target those under the legal Association TPSA in our business, our performance partnering together to drinking age.
By being proactive in combat underage access measurements take as much account developing a Global Marketing Code we to beverage alcohol by of the way in which we achieve results have helped to raise industry standards.
Last year we announced that we were Corporate Social Responsibility is not Sustainability criteria run right through leading the industry by including responsible a response to a changing environment.
our business planning processes, and drinking messages in all of our new brand It is a belief that either exists in the employees are expected to carry out their communications, thereby helping to management of a corporation or doesnt.
every day activities to maximise the positive promote beneficial patterns of consumption.
The management of Allied Domecq has impact on the triple bottom line.
This year we have another industry first such a belief and has undertaken some Environmental We are an acknowledged with the creation of a third party review board significant initiatives during 2003 to make sector leader in environmental policy.
which advises the Company on compliance the belief a tangible reality.
This was again recognised in two important with our own standards for marketing, Kim Manley, Chief Marketing Officer benchmarking surveys: the Business in the and identifies any external risks that we Environment index where we lead the drinks need to take into account when executing sector as we have in each of the seven years new campaigns.
The review board will that the BiE index has been established: operate transparently with regular meeting and in our continued inclusion in the reports on our corporate website.
Allied Domecq is a member of a number of The adoption of ISO 14001as the global national bodies established with our industry production standard has committed the partners to develop programmes to reduce business to making continual improvements the abuse of alcohol by young people, in our production processes to minimise encourage sensible alcohol consumption their environmental impact.
Over 80% of the and discourage drinking and driving.
We will Group has plans and targets for water use also work with any organisation that seeks improvements, waste reduction and energy to reduce the harm that can result from efficiency.
Some examples of the practical inappropriate consumption of our products effect of our environmental policy can be by targeting potentially risky occasions.
36 36 UK Scotland As part of the Bristol We support a local mosaic we have funded theatre company a new interactive exhibit that is conveying in the award winning the message of USA science and discovery the dangers of drug Allied Domecq Spirits centre @Bristol.
North America has targeted at teenagers, Senior managers formed a partnership the exhibit allows of Allied Distillers are with the Texas Package visitors to explore how involved in mentoring Store Association alcohol affects our projects for the TPSA in a joint social health and behaviour.
unemployed and responsibility initiative by offering business to combat underage expertise to small local drinking.
Allied represents retailers Each year employees Distillers has its own in Texas, and Allied New Zealand choose three projects recycling compound Domecq will be Montana has used to support based on site, which working with retailers cause-related on what they perceive processes 3,000 tonnes to launch a Point marketing to support as the real needs of of waste of which 2,750 of Sale programme projects researching Mexico local people needs tonnes are recycled.
to educate parents threats to dolphins and Effluent from the spent such as disability on the risks of illegal the marine environment, wash at our tequila plant or homelessness.
The under age access to and won the Australian in Mexico equalled Solidarity Dominican beverage alcohol.
Financial Reviews the waste from a town Republic project is Commercial Bravery of 180,000 inhabitants.
setting up a library in Award for its Legal alternatives, an impoverished area involvement with the such as using the wash of Punta Cana, with Aids Trust of Australia.
to irrigate crops, were employees donating not considered to be the books and Allied a sustainable solution, Domecq providing so we chose to install furniture and the only wastewater other equipment.
treatment plant in the whole of the tequila industry.
We seek to play a positive and involving Our employees are at the heart of Allied The ideas behind the building of a role in the communities in which we work.
Domecq and we have made great strides sustainable business are now becoming We do not believe in top down corporate during this year in the overall management real for people in Allied Domecq.
Teams donations but rather encourage our of our talent.
throughout the business are increasingly operating companies and sites to donate, more aware of the importance of our In 2002 we introduced our 6 core values: contribute and play active roles in their local relationships with all our stakeholders.
Performance with Passion, Diversity, communities based on the real needs of We are now making significant progress Celebration, Learning, Unity and Integrity.
We call this the Allied Domecq towards the cultivation of a socially These values have now been built into our Mosaic Approach and our various activities responsible way of working rather than talent management.
We have significantly include involvement in homelessness just responding to the governance needs developed our talent base both from projects, literacy programmes and for ticks in certain boxes.
We will be known the marketplace and by improving our employee volunteering.
We have David Scotland, President, Wines Social report It is possible to assess introduced a global leadership programme, an organisations social performance by ATLAS, which is improving the quality of our analysing its effect on stakeholders at the workforce and will guarantee our leadership local, national and global levels.
In order capability for the future.
Within our reward to obtain the information needed to make programmes, employees are assessed this assessment, we have conducted on both what they have achieved and how Corporate Responsibility Index 2002 this year an internal audit of our social it has been achieved, with equal weighting impact at the local level, covering every given to both.
This is a clear indication that business unit within the Group worldwide.
our performance-led culture is growing Business in the Community Beverages We have identified key performance even stronger.
Company Rating Ranking indicators such as labour practices and 1 Allied Domecq ABAAA 2nd Quintile 71.8% 82% We continue to listen to our employees human rights, and broader issues affecting 2 Diageo AAABB 3rd Quintile 65.8%71.8% through employee opinion global surveys.
consumers, communities and other 3 Scottish This year, we have achieved even higher & Newcastle BBABB 4th Quintile 52%65.8% stakeholders in society.
The findings will levels of participation in the survey, be published in early 2004 as our first Social which is further evidence of our employees Report, and in addition to community and commitment to the success ofAlliedDomecq.
marketplace issues will also elaborate on the workplace policies and practices that All businesses within Allied Domecq have are in place.
This ensures that employees are given balanced information Workplace In the same way that we have Included in the Dow about the impact of misusing alcohol promoted global environmental standards, Jones Sustainability on their own health and the potential the externally certified occupational Indexes, the World consequences for them and their families.
Index and STOXX health and safety management system They also have confidential access to OHSAS18001is being implemented treatment if they have difficulty controlling as the common health and safety standard their own drinking.
Providing information across the Group.
on sensible, enjoyable drinking is part of We have endorsed the United Nations the complete range of employment policies Declaration on Human Rights and our policy that have been developed by Allied Domecq on non-discrimination, respect for diversity to equip us for business in the 21st century.
Included in the and equal opportunities is given full in the FTSE4 Good Corporate Social Report on our website.
