com Corporate and social responsibility HMV Group maintains a strong commitment to its customers, shareholders and employees and recognises that financial terms should no longer be the sole measurement of business success.
Social, environmental and economic responsibilities have an important part to play in the performance of our operating businesses, and HMV and Waterstones are committed to developing ways of integrating these into the fabric of their business activities in order to create long-term benets for all stakeholders.
The Group continues to monitor stringently the economic, social and environmental issues that may affect the business in the future, and has developed strategies to minimise any threat.
The Group complies with best practice ethical codes of conduct, promising to retain its corporate integrity by remaining free from corruption and not subject to other inuences, such as political parties, to which the Group gives no funding.
The Company has a strong commitment to communicating openly and honestly all shareholder and stakeholder information, both internal and external.
During the year, a range of initiatives were undertaken to enhance the Groups corporate and social responsibilities, the highlights of which are described in this report.
Social responsibility The Group is proud of the focal positions held by its two retail brands in the local communities in which they operate.
In Waterstones, it is the aim of local branches to position themselves at the heart of the local community through a range of programmes, and these have included author events, literary festivals, local schools and family days.
During the year, Waterstones held a number of family days for children to meet with authors and childrens characters and to participate in story telling and other activities.
For World Book Day, local schools were invited to Waterstones branches to participate in programmes to promote reading and raise wider awareness of the educational value of books.
HMV continued its support for The Ark Cultural Centre for Children in Temple Bar, Dublin.
Dedicated to cultural work for, by and with children aged between three and 14 years, the Ark is an award-winning, custom-designed centre which features a 150 seat theatre, a gallery, and a workshop studio.
It develops and presents programmes designed to offer encounters with art and artists of all disciplines, including music, and HMV supported the Centre by funding the production of its admission tickets.
The Company was an active participant in the Times 100 Case Studies student pack, which aims to raise standards in education by bringing business theory to life.
The pack was sent free of charge to all 5,600 secondary schools and colleges in the UK.
The Company also supported the BRIT school performing arts college, and the Groups Chief Operating officer, Brian McLaughlin, served as a Governor.
HMV maintained its strong commitment to developing new music in local communities in the UK, and launched the HMV New Music Search to bring to the attention of the wider music industry new and aspiring artists.
The scheme attracted over 600 entries in its first eight weeks, and offered the opportunity for a recording contract with db records, a live appearance at a Bary concert venue and the chance to have a music track featured on an HMV Playlist CD sampler of new music.
Charities HMV continued its long-standing support for Nordoff-Robbins Music Therapy.
The charity aims to bring hope and healing into the lives of disabled and traumatised children and adults by using music as therapy for a varied range of needs, including learning and physical disabilities and trauma.
The Centre helps a number of adults with chronic illnesses, learning disabilities, and emotional or neurological problems.
HMV has supported Nordoff-Robbins through various fundraising activities, including sponsorship of a Silver Clef Award and, since 1996, the annual HMV Football Extravaganza, which has raised approximately 2 million.
In 2003, HMV raised 400,000 for Nordoff-Robbins.
Health and safety The Groups retail chains have created and implemented systems and procedures for the management of health and safety in its stores and the workplace.
These initiatives are designed to comply with the statutory requirements of each country in which the Group operates, and in some cases may exceed those requirements.
A comprehensive health and safety audit was carried out in all Waterstones branches.
Compliance levels exceeded the Waterstones Boards target for the year.
Employees HMV UK launched an Academy programme with the aim of optimising the potential of its sales assistants.
140 employees completed the programme in the period.
In the first few months of the new financial year, the HMV Management Diploma was launched in conjunction with Ashridge Management College, a European leader in management development.
Run over a three-year period, the programme, which leads to a formal qualication, aims to recognise and further develop key HMV store managers and high potential non-store managers.
The Groups businesses also conduct, at regular intervals, attitude surveys of their employees.
Environment Although retailing operations are perceived to have had low environmental impact, HMV Group recognises the fundamental environmental issues facing the business world and the importance of working to reduce such impacts and endeavours to comply with all relevant environmental legislation in each of the territories in which it operates.
The Group seeks to uphold and implement best practice and works to promote effective resource management, including recycling and responsible waste disposal.
