26 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Corporate and social responsibility Introduction In addition, the Groups purchasing is governed by an Ethical and Social Responsibility Policy when The Group recognises its actual and potential making purchasing decisions.
With an expansion corporate and social responsibilities to society and into overseas markets, we recognise the need for acts in a strategic way to implement them.
Relevant greater vigilance of social and environmental issues laws and regulations are considered a starting point within our supply chain.
from which responsible behaviour can build.
Our areas of responsibility are organised and Distribution described under four headings: The Group has a complex distribution system.
Marketplace We endeavour to operate our 150 HGVs and 250 Environment vans as efficiently as possible.
We have developed Workplace a sophisticated routing system that allows us to Community identify the most efficient distribution routes for our products and to minimise fuel use.
i Marketplace Customers Wood Our aim is to help people live better lives in Approximately 80% of the Groups raw materials are their own homes by striving to deliver quality wood or wood fibres.
In total we use 407,500 cubic merchandise on time and in full, notwithstanding metres of wood in the form of chipboard 350,000 the challenges in delivering the hundreds of cubic metres, MDF 55,000 cubic metres and solid individual components required in our products.
To ensure a sustainable We are a member of Qualitas, the independent future for the business it is important that we source arbitrator, and also participate in an Office of Fair our wood in an environmentally and socially Trading OFT payment protection scheme.
Approximately 95% of the woods used in the Supply chain Groups own-manufactured products come from It is important for the Group to manage both Forest Stewardship Council FSC certified or its own internal supply chain as well as the equivalent sources.
The Group will work towards relationships with our many external suppliers.
FSC-certification as the standard for ownA global sourcing questionnaire has been developed manufactured products and develop a sustainable to assess the corporate and social responsibility wood policy that reflects our commitment to this performance of external suppliers on the basis certification.
of labour standards, human rights and the environment.
This has been completed by 82% of our suppliers with no real issues warranting further investigation.
27 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 ii Environment Electricity, gas and fuel consumption result in the emission of CO2, a greenhouse gas that research We are committed to preserving the natural indicates contributes to climate change.
CO2 environment and our key objectives in this emissions in 2003 totalled 140,800 tonnes regard are to: representing a drop per 1 million turnover rate reduce consumption from 110 to 100 tonnes over the last 12 months.
re-use or re-cycle wherever possible The principal source of emissions is from the use measure progress by setting key of electricity: performance indicators continue working towards achieving the CO2 emissions Tonnes per 1m turnover environmental management systems accreditation ISO 14001 in the manufacturing division 120 work closely with our suppliers to ensure that items we purchase come from sustainable 100 renewable resources and are produced in a 80 socially responsible way 60 ensure that our policy is communicated to our 40 colleagues and any necessary training provided 20 Energy 0 We have been active in measuring and reducing our 2003 2002 energy use.
Our retail stores in the UK have been Electricity Gas Fuel awarded the Institute of Energys prestigious Energy Efficiency Accreditation, having first been accredited The Group has made considerable efforts to reduce in 1996 and again in 1999 and 2002. energy consumption over the past ten years, an We saw a slight increase in energy use in 2003, which was largely the result of an increased effort that has been recognised by the Carbon Trust in recent publicity.
In addition, 35 stores last year property portfolio accompanying the Groups growth.
However, when measured against turnover, purchased electricity from renewable sources.
We an increase in efficiency can be seen: will continue to use such sources where available and commercially viable.
Energy use k Wh per 1,000 turnover 250 225 200 175 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 2003 2002 28 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Corporate and social responsibility continued Waste Service excellence The Group aims to reduce, re-use or recycle Our colleagues are fundamental to providing wherever possible.
It is our aim that manufacturing customer service.
As part of our efforts to achieve waste and unsold products are disposed of in one this we have launched a programme entitled of four ways broken down into chipboard, made Environment of Service whereby everyone in into animal bedding, made into compost or used the Group is valued for their contribution and: as fuel in the Groups wood combustion boilers.
have a say in the future of MFI As a last resort waste is disposed of in landfill.
have the skills and freedom to be effective, efficient and innovative in their work Environmental management receive a share in the financial success of the Currently five out of our nine manufacturing and organisation distribution facilities are certified to the have clarity about their role and how they environmental standard ISO14001.
We aim to certify contribute to the overall plan all manufacturing facilities to the same standard.
have the trust and respect of their colleagues iii Workplace Diversity In 2003 we began a programme called Respect for Currently around 14,000 people work for the Group across areas including retail, logistics and All, to gain a better understanding of the make up of our people and how we might better reflect the manufacturing and we expect this number to rise UK population as a whole and the communities in as we continue to grow the Group.
We recognise that the level of service we provide to our customers which we work.
We believe that our colleagues ability and can only be as good as the level of service we provide to each other.
achievements should solely determine their recruitment, career success and progression.
This applies to all colleagues regardless of age, race, gender, disability, sexual orientation, religious belief, lifestyle, class or other method of discrimination.
Learning and development Learning and development is a critical part of creating an environment of service inside our Company.
We believe in investing in our people, so that they have the skills and freedom to be effective, efficient and innovative in their work.
We spend over 5 million annually on colleague training and development.
This includes 1.5 million on operational health & safety training and mechanical training.
29 MFI ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Health & safety iv Community Our principal objective is to develop the safety It is our aim to contribute to the well-being of the culture of the business such that each individual communities within which we trade and where our understands their responsibilities regarding health & colleagues live.
Our policy is to support local safety.
This year has seen major developments in the charitable causes, colleagues who pursue good Occupational Health & Safety system within works within their local communities and, generally, manufacturing: and this has resulted in reduced risk education and the Arts.
of injury to our colleagues.
In 2003, we continued our sponsorship of the Three of the manufacturing sites have achieved London Chamber Orchestras A Chance to Play the Occupational Health & Safety Standard scheme which enables school children to start learning OHSAS 18001 and it is our aim to extend this to all to play musical instruments.
We are also sponsoring the remaining sites.
We took part in the European the English National Operas The Ring Cycle, which Week of Safety again this year and were awarded a will be performed during 2004 and 2005. prize by the Health & Safety Commission in In 2003 the Group made cash and product recognition of our contribution.
donations to over 200 individual community In terms of our performance this year we have organisations and charities totalling 329,000, up had 250 reportable incidents, we have had no from 149,000 in 2002. improvement notices, no prohibition notices and no prosecutions by the Health & Safety Executive.
Products Total charitable contributions A summary of the top six types of accidents is Cash given in the pie chart below: 400,000 Accident types 300,000 200,000 Manual handling Slips, trips and falls 100,000 Struck by object Struck against object Contact with moving machinery 2002 2003 Stress
