FINANCIAL REVIEW Financial review continued No major refinancing was required during the year apart from the The impact on the published results of fully adopting FRS17 in 2003 Foreign exchange and cash management extension of some shorter term banking facilities.
There are no material would be as follows: It is the Groups policy to minimise risk to exchange rates by hedging funds outside the UK where repatriation is restricted.
currency exposures at the time of commitment or when there is a There are over 230m of undrawn committed funding lines available to high probability of future commitment using currency instruments Published FRS17 help meet the growth strategy of the Group.
Good relationships are primarily forward exchange contracts.
The Groups wide geographic m m maintained with the Groups core bankers consolidated by regular spread both in terms of cost base and customer locations helps to meetings and trading updates.
The year end debt: EBITDA of 0.6:1 reduce the impact on profitability of swings in exchange rates as well is a reflection of the strength of the balance sheet supported by Balance sheet as creating opportunities for central netting of exposures.
EBITDA: net interest cover of 20:1.
The Group anticipates little difficulty Net assets 543 467 Currency loans and foreign exchange contracts are used to reduce the in renewing existing facilities or increasing borrowing capacity should translation risks associated with holding currency based net assets.
Shareholder funds 539 463 the need arise.
The core of the Groups debt is funded through US The Group reduces its exposure to short term swings in interest rates Gearing 25% 29% Loan Notes 20072022 totalling $245m 137m with an average through a combination of fixed rate debt and derivative contracts maturity of over 7 years.
The weighted average funding rate in 2003 was Profit & loss account 5.0% 2002: 4.9%.
Given the debt profile of the Group at the balance Taxation Pension cost 15 16 sheet date, the effect of a global rise in short term interest rates would The effective tax rate for the year is 33%, an increase from 32% last year Finance income -2 be minimal.
Analysis of this hedging is shown in note 18 to the as a result of a change in the geographical distribution of profit.
expected that the rate will increase in 2004 to around 34% reflecting Net cost 15 14 the current mix of businesses and assuming no significant changes to Return on invested capital tax legislation.
Return on capital employed of continuing operations, defined as Profit before interest 153.5 152.5 operating profit before goodwill amortisation and rationalisation as a Earnings per share Finance costs 10.9 8.9 percentage of the average operating assets plus all goodwill at cost Earnings per share have, since 2001, been adjusted to exclude the including the amount deducted from reserves, was 12.7%.
This significant rationalisation costs, reflecting the nature and unusual size of Profit before tax 142.6 143.6 equates to a post tax return of 8.5% at the underlying tax rate of 33%.
Goodwill amortisation has also been excluded.
Adjusted earnings per share increased by 7% to 26.8p.
Basic FRS14 Before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and rationalisation costs Going concern earnings per share increased by 28% to 20.1p.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational Dividend Treasury management existence for the foreseeable future and therefore the financial The Board is recommending an unchanged final dividend giving a statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The dividend is covered 1.7 times before Policy goodwill amortisation 2002: 1.3 times.
The Groups centralised treasury function works within Board Share price and shareholder return approved guidelines encompassing funding liquidity, foreign The share price at 31 December 2003 was 337.25p 2002: 262.5p an Pensions exchange and interest rate risk.
The objective is to minimise increase of 28.5%.
Based on the year end share price, the total For the year ended 31 December 2003, the Group has continued to the major financial risks to the Group and provide a stable dividend of 15.5p gives a yield of 4.6%.
account for pension costs under SSAP24:Pension Costs.
The use of financial instruments including The Companys share price performance is measured against the FTSE FRS17:Retirement Benefits would have required the inclusion of an derivatives is permitted where the effect is to minimise risk to Engineering and Machinery Sector Index for incentive purposes see additional net pension liability of 108m 2002: 121m which after tax the Group.
Compliance with approved policies is monitored page 44.
Over the past three years the IMI share price has of 32m 2002: 37m would result in a decrease in net assets of 76m through a control and reporting system.
There have been no outperformed this index by 57.4%.
Over the same period total 2002: 84m.
The pension cost disclosures under FRS17 show that the changes during the year or since the year end to the major shareholder return has outperformed this index by 62.2% and the deficit in the Groups pension arrangements has reduced over the year financial risks to the Group or to the way in which they are FTSE All Share Index by 108.7%.
Although the strong performance of stock markets increased managed.
the market values of the funds assets over the year, the impact of this International Financial Reporting Standards on the financial position of the funds for FRS17 purposes was offset to European Union listed groups are required to adopt International some extent by the increase in the value placed on the accrued Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for their financial statements from liabilities.
This was due to a combination of a fall in bond yields and 2005, including comparative information for 2004.
The Group is current expectations of future price inflation.
Full details are shown in assessing the impact of IFRS on its published financial statements on note 24 to the financial statements.
an ongoing basis, as the standards are themselves evolving.
22 Financial review IMI plc Annual Report 2003 23 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ENGINEERING AD ENGINEERING ADV VANT ANTA AG GE E DEVEL DEVELOPING THE OPING THE UNDERST UNDERSTANDING THA ANDING THAT BUSINES T BUSINESSES MUST BE SES MUST BE SUST SUSTAINABLE T AINABLE TO O BE SUCCES BE SUCCESSFUL AND THA SFUL AND THAT THEY MUST T THEY MUST RELA RELATE T TE TO O THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH THEY OPERA THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH THEY OPERATE IS TE IS AN ES AN ESSENTIAL P SENTIAL PART OF OUR GRADUA ART OF OUR GRADUATE PROGRAMME.
Sue Hall, Sue Hall, Manager Manager Gl Global Gr obal Graduate fide aduate Dev five el lopment opment Responsible business is good business Health, Safety and Environment Policy Amongst many other c Amongst many other co ommunit mmunity y projec projects in 2003, ts in 2003, IMI emplo IMI employ yees ees We believe that working in ways that are sustainable and have Our Health, Safety and Environment HS&E Policy influences key pro prov vided pr ided prac actic tica al assistanc l assistance e to the to the regard for the needs of tomorrow as well as those of today makes investment decisions relating to new plant and equipment and the Ac Acke ker rs s T Tr rust in Birmingham, ust in Birmingham, h helping elping good business sense.
Caring for the environment and being a way in which we manage our processes and business practices.
to tr to transform a neglec ansform a neglected urban ted urban responsible corporate citizen often referred to as Corporate and It also supports our Environmental Management System which helps landsc landscape into an educ ape into an educational ational wildlife area.
Social Responsibility or CSR add value to a business, impacting the business units formulate appropriate strategies for identifying positively on profitability, reputation and growth.
and controlling environmental risk, comply with current and future In practical terms this translates into programmes and policies that legislation and provide information and training for employees.
take care of the people working inside our organisation, interacting Monitoring and management with and living around it, as well as minimising the impact on the Our performance, progress and planning in HS&E are given very high wider environment.
We take our responsibilities seriously and good priority by managers at all levels and are monitored regularly.
In health, safety and sustainable environmental practice are addition, the Groups health, safety and environmental performances fundamental to the way that we do business.
Our website are subjected to a detailed annual audit.
The results are reviewed in www.
com carries further information about how we do this, detail by the Executive Committee and its conclusions form the basis including our code of business principles, our health, safety and of any necessary actions by the presidents of the operating units, who environmental policy, our environmental report and monitoring are responsible for implementing policies in the units under their procedures as well as information about and links to some of the control.
In addition, a Health, Safety and Environment Forum is held charitable, community and social programmes supported by annually in order to establish, share and promote best practice.
24 Responsible business IMI plc Annual Report 2003 25 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS ENGINEERING AD ENGINEERING ADV VANT ANTA AG GE E DEVEL DEVELOPING THE OPING THE UNDERST UNDERSTANDING THA ANDING THAT BUSINES T BUSINESSES MUST BE SES MUST BE SUST SUSTAINABLE T AINABLE TO O BE SUCCES BE SUCCESSFUL AND THA SFUL AND THAT THEY MUST T THEY MUST RELA RELATE T TE TO O THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH THEY OPERA THE COMMUNITIES IN WHICH THEY OPERATE IS TE IS AN ES AN ESSENTIAL P SENTIAL PART OF OUR GRADUA ART OF OUR GRADUATE PROGRAMME.
24 Responsible business IMI plc Annual Report 2003 25 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Responsible business continued Some highlights The efficient use of energy in buildings is a major driver for our Examples of IMI community involvement: Indoor Climate business, where our unique service proposition IMI plc was this year selected for inclusion in both the FTSE4Good All IMI global graduates are required during the UK placement delivers substantial energy savings while improving personal Index and the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
of their training period to undertake a six-month community comfort in hotels, public buildings and offices.
In the past year projects have included business During 2003 we expanded the role of the HQ environmental recycling and biodiversity assignments, work with young An important element of Cornelius retail drinks-dispense advisor to include health and safety - further strengthening the offenders at a secure unit, and the UK Imagineering initiative equipment is the refrigeration system.
All the refrigerants we use resource which supports those working on health, safety and promoting engineering in schools.
Graduates also raised money are CFC free and have minimal environmental impact both in use environment within IMI Group companies worldwide.
for Birmingham Focus on Blindness.
In addition, Cornelius is working closely with IMIs risk control advisors conducted visits to the vast majority of customers to develop alternative refrigeration techniques.
For the sixth year in a row Display Technologies contributed significant IMI sites worldwide, where they addressed a variety of money and services to Queens Child Guidance Centre in New CCIs expert knowledge of valve design technology provides topics including health, safety and environment.
York, a non-profit community organisation promoting the well reliable and environmentally safe operation in petrochemical, being of children, adolescents and their families.
The 2003 Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement survey power generation, oil and gas and other sectors where the conducted by Business in the Environment amongst the FTSE 350 control of hazardous fluids is vital.
Our Norgren business partnered with Detroits International companies, gave us an excellent overall rating with an average Academy, sponsoring and assisting its winning team at a national Norgren supplies clients with pneumatic products score of 87% and ranked us as second in the general industrial robotics competition, encouraging the young engineers of the characterised by the efficient management of leakage, sector.
which simultaneously minimises noise pollution and We are deploying innovative  energy maximises energy efficiency.
CCI continued its contribution to the education of saving technologies in our facilities and operations.
To reduce employees families, offering scholarships for their university Our development of an innovative scheme for the treatment of energy consumption our Norgren plant in Connecticut in the US, education and summer internships to provide insight and foundry gases has led to the use of a biological filtration system for example, retrofitted lighting fixtures with reflectors and energy practical experience of the workplace.
at Heimeier, resulting in odourless and dust free emissions.
efficient lamps significantly reducing energy consumption.
In Germany at another Norgren facility old air compressors were TA, part of our Indoor Climate business, is participating in a major Corporate governance replaced to save energy and reduce maintenance costs.
The project to improve health, employment, and quality of life in its The Companys commitment to best practice in all aspects of expected return on investment through reduced energy local community in the Herrljunga district of Sweden.
corporate governance and details of the standards it adheres to consumption is less than two years.
Information is also available on the These examples demonstrate how, throughout IMI, our businesses Companys website www.
New plants in China and Mexico have been built with are working to make a positive contribution to their local Community involvement technologically advanced water treatment facilities.
The mutual benefits and rewards Community involvement takes place at many levels across all IMI programmes not only reduce the water utilised but also enable are appreciated wherever IMI has a permanent presence.
businesses, ranging from IMI plcs role as a founder patron of the plants to meet increasingly rigorous international regulations on City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra and Symphony Hall to a the discharge limits in waste process water.
large number of local charitable, health, educational and other Bulk product-dispensing systems from our Cannon business initiatives at our facilities around the world.
help to preserve increasingly scarce resources by encouraging consumers to buy in bulk and to avoid wasteful packaging.
26 Responsible business IMI plc Annual Report 2003 27
