18 Corporate social responsibility continued Environment, health and safety Inchcape is committed to pursuing sound environment, health and Implementation of the Policy is the responsibility of the safety EHS management policies and practices throughout our management within each Group business and is supported and businesses worldwide.
monitored by the Group Board.
Common standards are applied We recognise that by providing customers with access to to a wide range of EHS matters and compliance with local leading products and services, we can support the drive to improve statutory requirements is the minimum standard we will accept.
We are also continuously looking to increase the Where local standards are below international good practice, levels of health and safety standards in the workplace.
it is our policy to follow UK good practice.
A key element of our approach is the operation of It is therefore Inchcapes policy to: Environment, Health and Safety Focus Groups at business unit consider EHS issues within existing and future business level.
These Groups are responsible for improving the EHS activities, through the implementation of appropriate policies performance through the development of local standards and and procedures: staff training.
They are also responsible for monitoring EHS performance.
monitor and manage the EHS impacts, risks and Our businesses carry out detailed half yearly inspections.
opportunities for our businesses in order to benefit our Copies of these inspection reports, and related action plans, are colleagues, customers, principals and the local communities in forwarded to the Group Risk Manager who reports significant which we operate: issues to the Groups Risk Committee.
promote the awareness of the Environment, Health and In addition, the Group Risk Manager visited over half our sites Safety Policy amongst our colleagues, customers and principals: in 2003 carrying out EHS awareness training, meeting with the Focus Groups and performing site inspections.
Each visit is regularly review the implementation of the Environment, concluded with a meeting with the Chief Executive of that Health and Safety Policy across our businesses in order to assess business, and action plans are then agreed and reported upon.
its performance, and set practical targets for improvement: and report, as appropriate, on the status of the EHS performance within each of our businesses.
The Green Apple Awards 2003 Above: Right: Managing CO emissions 2 Hybrid technology at work In 2003 Inchcape Fleet Solutions once Our Greek business, Toyota Hellas, has again received a Green Apple Award from provided financial assistance to a local the Green Organisation for its CO Driver 2 ongoing project in Athens, which unites online tool.
After winning the award in young people with the environment.
2002, the tool was enhanced further in The programme, which began in 2003 to better manage CO emissions 2 September 2003, has joined together ten from fleets.
municipalities of the greater Athens area.
Recent analysis of replacement cars Three teams, consisting of four pupils purchased by Inchcape Fleet Solutions for from each of the eleven participating their customers indicate that, assuming schools, study a specific local the same mileage, the replacement environmental issue and then design, vehicles have significantly lower emissions.
develop and present eco-friendly solutions to combat the issue.
This information is then presented to various business partners in Greece, including the Ministry of Education, for discussion.
In total the funding for the programme, which has been provided by Toyota Hellas, amounts to c. 24,000.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2003 19 Inchcape is committed to pursuing sound environment, health and safety EHS management policies and practices throughout our businesses worldwide.
Initiatives and investments Commitment to a safe working environment In 2003 In 2003 we made investments in a number of our businesses, Inchcape Motors Australia IMA developed a strategic plan for across our core markets, to improve and promote EHS initiatives.
an enhanced occupational health and safety OHS management programme.
IMA wanted this plan to include a national compliance Online control Our UK Retail business uses a web based scheme for its businesses, determining key OHS benchmarks.
EHS management system, which is designed to enhance the Good progress has already been made with the design of an control of EHS standards.
The software provides checklists, risk enhanced OHS policy, with key areas of exposure across the assessments, bulletins and links to EHS websites and also helps different businesses being identified as a result.
us monitor and manage EHS impacts, risks and opportunities.
Further investment in OHS has been made through the This process is supplemented by site reviews, which were appointment and training of health and safety representatives, undertaken by the UK Retail Risk Manager.
In 2003 sixty five such the standardisation of OHS noticeboards and workplace reviews were completed, providing an independent insight into assessments, which were undertaken by external professionals.
the way individual sites manage their EHS standards with the In addition, IMA senior management have attended OHS Retail Risk Manager offering advice for further improvement, awareness briefings throughout the year.
if necessary, and helping spread best practice.
Further development of the OHS policy is expected in 2004 with a particular focus on enhanced procedures for safe working Investing in the latest technology Inchcape Automotive, our and a standardisation of injury management processes.
Business Services operation, made a significant investment in 2003 in the latest car transporter equipment, spending c. 4.0m on forty five new transporters.
The tractor units for this fleet are equipped with automatic engine shutdown, during standing times, and new engine and gearbox technology, leading to reduced fuel consumption per vehicle transported.
In addition, Inchcape Automotive have introduced monitors for each of the transporters, which record all vehicle activity and therefore enable us to identify, manage and improve fuel economy further.
Continued investment in the transporter fleet is planned for 2004 and should provide further efficiencies and associated environmental benefits.
Left: Improving air quality Crown Motors, our business in Hong Kong, has now replaced the entire Toyota fleet of some 18,000 taxis to Liquid Petroleum Gas LPG vehicles.
This will help improve the air quality in Hong Kong, for its inhabitants.
Crown Motors has a very high share of both the taxi and minibus market in Hong Kong and, having completed the taxi conversion process, are now involved in a similar, but longer term, programme for mini buses.
This will have a further positive impact on the environment.
