16 Corporate social responsibility Inchcape in the community Corporate social responsibility UK Inchcape in the UK has been a firm supporter of BEN, Inchcape established a Corporate Social Responsibility CSR the motor industry benevolent fund, for many years and in 2003 Committee in 2002.
This Committee is chaired by the Group pledged c. 47,000 to the charity.
This money was raised through Chief Executive, who has responsibility for CSR at Board level, a series of staff initiatives.
and includes the Group Finance Director, the Group Company Other fundraising activities included the events arranged by Secretary, the Director of Audit and Risk Management, the Group staff at our Jaguar and Land Rover dealerships in Guildford.
Human Resources Director and the Investor Relations Manager.
They raised 6,250 for the Macmillan Breast Cancer Care charity by The Company is conscious of the importance of CSR and organising five-a-side football, a charity auction and a day of intense committed to looking at further ways in which it may take its CSR driving activities at the Millbrook racing circuit in Bedfordshire.
Elsewhere within our UK businesses a group of employees This section outlines what CSR is to Inchcape: fundraising took part in an extraordinary fundraising event, the Three Peaks and sponsorship, environment, health and safety issues, and our Challenge.
This event was in support of the charity, Care employment policy and values.
International, which works with poor communities around the world enabling people to overcome poverty.
The aim of the Inchcape in the community Three Peaks Challenge was to raise funds through sponsorship to Inchcape is proud to be associated with a number of markets climb the three highest mountains in England, Scotland and Wales and famous brands around the world, and is dedicated to Scafell Pike, Ben Nevis and Snowdon respectively in just twenty putting something back into the countries in which we operate.
The Inchcape team took on the challenge and raised Our international spread brings with it a mix of cultures and over 5,000 for the global charity, an astonishing amount for such nationalities, which enrich our Company as a whole and we a small team.
encourage our businesses to get involved with community Our Head Office, based in the UK, selects a charity for projects and initiatives at a local level.
sponsorship on an annual basis, through nominations received Inchcapes involvement in good causes is not merely a financial from staff.
In 2003 we chose St Clares Hospice, a small commitment.
Our staff around the world pledge their own time non-religious charity, which cares for people and their families and efforts to many worthy organisations in order to make a who are affected by life threatening illnesses such as cancer.
difference to the community they live and work in.
Over the twelve month period a number of fundraising events were arranged including a staff quiz night, and Easter and Christmas raffles.
Colleagues are also asked to contribute to the charity if participating in dress down Fridays, when they can come to work in casual wear.
In total the office managed to raise almost Below: A cheque for the final amount, which totalled almost 10,000, was presented Pocket money for all!
to Peter Khoo, Chairman of the School Staff in Singapore organised the Pocket Money Fund, by William Tsui, Toyota Camry charity golf challenge in Chairman and Chief Executive of Inchcape August 2003.
Asia Pacific, and Mark Choong, Managing The event was arranged to raise funds Director of Inchcape Borneo Motors.
for The School Pocket Money Fund.
From left to right: Mark Choong, William Tsui and Peter Khoo Above: Three Peaks Challenge Inchcape employees from the UK took part in the Three Peaks Challenge, in support of Care International.
Inchcape plc Annual report 2003 17 Inchcape is proud to be associated with a number of markets and famous brands around the world, and is dedicated to putting something back into the countries in which we operate.
This amount is sure to make a Hong Kong For our colleagues in Hong Kong and Singapore, difference to an organisation, which has to rely on the support of 2003 was a particularly difficult year due to the devastating effects local people and businesses for three quarters of their funding.
of the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome SARS virus.
Times of crisis, such as this, bring home the importance of community Greece Toyota Hellas, our business in Greece, has contributed support and assistance.
In response to SARS, Crown Motors, to a number of local initiatives in 2003.
Events organised include our business in Hong Kong supported a local initiative called The Love Fair, at which a Toyota Yaris was donated to the auction.
This initiative provided protective medical wear for The Fair is held to raise funds for the construction of workshops employees in hospitals and clinics, and in total Crown Motors for local children with special needs.
They also arranged a series of donated c. 7,500. social events, in partnership with the Municipality of Elefsis, which were designed to promote and support the cultural development Singapore Borneo Motors, our business in Singapore, of citizens in the local area providing c. 2,500 in sponsorship money.
organised a fundraising campaign to collect donations for healthcare workers affected by SARS.
The fund was appropriately named Courage Belgium Our colleagues continued their support for the and provided encouragement and support to the healthcare United Fund for Belgium.
This local charity aims to improve the workers who suffered in the battle against SARS.
Altogether, quality of life for underprivileged children and handicapped people.
our colleagues in Singapore raised c. 12,000 for this appeal.
To assist the organisation with their transport requirements, our In addition to the Courage campaign fundraising our staff also Toyota business subsidised their purchase of twenty nine cars.
organised the first Toyota Camry charity golf challenge, which was held in August 2003 to help raise funds for The School Pocket Australia Inchcape Motors Australia IMA continued to raise Money Fund.
This fund aims to alleviate the financial burden of funds for the Starlight Foundation, a charity that enhances the lives educational costs.
The event was attended by 140 local Toyota of critically ill children in Australia.
IMA has been supporting the Camry owners and raised almost 10,000.
Foundation since July 2000 and to date has donated c. 37,000.
A major event in their fundraising calendar is the annual Subaru Charitable and political donations In the UK, Inchcape and golf day, which is attended by guests and staff.
In 2003, IMA staff its subsidiaries have donated funds throughout the year totaling were delighted when they managed to raise c. 10,000 from this 0.1m 2002 0.1m.
Total charitable donations made by the event alone.
Group worldwide during the year were 0.2m 2002 0.2m.
These figures exclude any personal contributions from our colleagues.
No political donations were made in 2003 2002 nil.
Below right: The Great Ethiopian Run of 2003 In November 2003 our colleagues, from Moenco S. C. our Toyota Distribution business in Ethiopia took part in the Great Ethiopian Run.
The event attracted a total of 18,000 participants who ran the 10.0km course around the countrys capital, Addis Ababa.
There was a separate competition in the Run for elite athletes from Kenya and Ethiopia, which was branded the Toyota Team Challenge.
As well as engaging in employee participation, Moenco S. C. was also one of the main sponsors of Africas biggest road race.
In total, 128 of our colleagues participated in the Run with many of our colleagues providing assistance by distributing race packs before the event and handing out medals at the end.
The trophies for the winners of the Toyota Team Challenge competition were also presented by our business.
Above: Further Starlight success Inchcape Motors Australia have been supporting the Starlight Foundation since July 2000, and to date have donated c. 37,000.
