Employees INTERNATIONAL POWER OPERATES IN AN INCREASINGLY COMPLEX BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT.
WE PLACE A HIGH PRIORITY ON THE RECRUITMENT, RETENTION AND TRAINING OF STAFF AT ALL LEVELS, WHETHER EMPLOYED BY US DIRECTLY OR BY ANY OF OUR SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES OR ASSOCIATES.
We operate an incentive-weighted compensation scheme Equal opportunities which we believe rewards and develops staff on the The Group is committed to equal opportunities, both following bases: from a sense of social responsibility and also because it makes sound business sense to benefit from the wideAchievement of tangible personal objectives: ranging knowledge and experience of individuals in all annual targets are set for all personnel, calibrated at sectors of society.
This commitment to equal levels designed to ensure that individuals are able to opportunities means that decisions to appoint, reward, contribute to the attainment of these objectives.
train, develop and promote are taken purely on the basis Professional and educational advancement: of skills and abilities, as matched against the requirements we promote and facilitate mid-career training, internal of the job.
The Group values its reputation as a caring and external seminars, personal development plans and employer and seeks to attract and retain high calibre other educational programmes.
Opportunities for training are given a encourage our employees to participate actively high priority to ensure that all individuals can contribute in their personal development and in relevant to their own career development.
This approach extends professional organisations.
itself to the fair treatment of people with disabilities in relation to their recruitment, training and development.
Leadership: we expect our employees to exercise leadership in their dealings with colleagues, partners, Employee share plans customers and other contract parties.
International Power has in place a number of share-based This all relies on a foundation of personal integrity.
plans under which employees of the Group and its We endeavour to ensure that all of our staff conduct subsidiary companies may acquire Ordinary Shares in themselves, internally and externally, in a manner International Power plc.
These plans form an integral part of the highest integrity.
of the Groups strategy to provide appropriate reward Clear communication links are critical to enhance and retention strategies for employees, to align employee business and commercial awareness throughout our and shareholder interests through incentive targets based business.
Corporate publications, the International Power on clear operational and financial criteria and to recruit, website and intranet, employee awareness briefings from motivate and retain employees.
executive management and team briefings are all used to promote communications and an understanding of the development and application of policies and strategy.
We use the latest technology to aid rapid communication with all staff around the world, as well as regularly holding Global Employee Forums.
We value our reputation as a caring employer and seek to attract and retain high calibre employees.
44 International Power These employee share plans are: Executive Share Options have been granted to executives in four countries outside the UK and the Global the Demerger Long-Term Incentive Plan a one-off plan Sharesave Plan is now in operation in four countries established at Demerger which is open to Executive outside the UK.
As the Group continues to grow and Directors and a small number of senior managers, employee numbers continue to increase, we anticipate which ceased operation on 2 October 2003: that the extension of share plans to overseas jurisdictions the 2002 Performance Share Plan an annual plan will continue apace.
open to Executive Directors and a small number of Whilst Executive Directors are eligible to participate senior managers : in all of the listed Plans, David Crane and Philip Cox only the International Power Approved Executive Share participated in the Demerger Long-Term Incentive Plan, Option Scheme a discretionary plan open to selected the 2002 Performance Share Plan, the Approved and UK resident employees : Unapproved Executive Share Option Plans and the International Power Sharesave Plan.
Tony Concannon, the International Power Unapproved Executive Share Steve Riley and Mark Williamson participate in the 2002 Option Plan a discretionary plan for selected Performance Share Plan, the Approved and Unapproved UK-based employees : Executive Share Option Plans and the International Power the Global Executive Share Option Plan a discretionary Sharesave Plan.
They also participated in the Demerger plan for executives resident outside of the UK : Share Plan.
the International Power Sharesave Plan open to all The vesting of any awards made under each of the UK resident employees : Demerger Long-Term Incentive Plan and the 2002 Performance Share Plan and the ability to exercise the International Power Global Sharesave Plan open to options granted under the Approved and Unapproved employees in certain jurisdictions outside of the UK : Executive Share Option Plans and the Global Executive the Demerger Share Plan open to UK employees Share Option Plan are all subject to the satisfaction of employed by the Group as at Demerger, which ceased performance conditions.
Information on the relevant operation on 2 October 2003. performance conditions for each award or option grant under each plan is given in the Directors remuneration All of the listed plans are currently in operation, except report.
The exercise of options under the Sharesave for the Demerger Long-Term Incentive Plan and the Plan is not subject to any performance condition.
The Demerger Share Plan which ceased operation on release of shares under the Demerger Share Plan, being 2 October 2003. an all employee share plan, was also not subject to any performance condition.
Left: EOP, Czech Republic annual report 2003 45
