Corporate social responsibility OUR COMMITMENT ELECTRICITY IS A UNIQUE PRODUCT THAT HAS THE POWER TO ENHANCE THE QUALITY OF LIFE FOR PEOPLE THROUGHOUT THE WORLD.
WITH THIS POWER COMES RESPONSIBILITY.
FOR A WHOLESALE ELECTRICITY GENERATING COMPANY, IT MEANS PROTECTING OUR EMPLOYEES, THE ENVIRONMENT AND THE HOST COMMUNITIES WHO TRUST US TO DO OUR JOB SAFELY, COMPETENTLY AND EFFICIENTLY.
Corporate social responsibility CSR is not a new concept.
achievements as a sharper, sleeker, well-organised Each one of our power stations and business units has, in Company to be benchmarked against other industries the past, been empowered to work in line with their own and other players in the power sector.
Such increased business plans and targets, local and national regulatory transparency will, in turn, increase stakeholder confidence systems for the welfare of their employees and in in everything that we do.
harmony with the communities in which they operate.
They were given the freedom to be entrepreneurial and Translating words into action dynamic, which we believed vital in growing a new and In 2003, the International Power Board of Directors vibrant business like International Power.
approved a new set of principles for the Company, which we call FIRST: Now we have taken stock and analysed what is best within the Company.
We are sharing the knowledge F Fiscal discipline residing in our assets, much of it acquired from our I Integrity of communication heritage in the power sector.
We are drawing together R Respect for the individual many different initiatives and individual examples of good S Substance with style practice into a cohesive process.
This is a significant T Team-first culture.
task in a Company with a range of assets spanning FIRST is translated into direct action through a Code 12 different countries.
However, through this process of Business Conduct.
This covers the environment, health we expect to improve our CSR performance.
and safety, equal opportunities, procurement, ethical As well as taking a new, hard look at the way we operate, business practices, conduct in the community and we are also conscious that we have to satisfy the outside charitable contributions our website www.
com worlds increasing interest in our affairs.
sets these policies out in detail.
Line managers will put the policies into practice and monitor performance.
CSR provides a coherent, coordinated and convenient The Board will, in turn, review the effectiveness of matrix for appraising our values, policies, strategies and these arrangements each year.
It helps us assess how we are performing.
It highlights where we need to align our approach.
It shows us where we need to give extra support.
In time, it will deliver our commitment through measurable improvements.
And it will progressively allow our Left: Children from Loughborough Primary School and their mentors on the London Eye 36 International Power A target was set in 2002 to incorporate CSR into A management system approach our internal audit programmes.
Health, safety and All of our power stations have formal health, safety and environmental issues are now fully integrated into environmental HSE management systems, operating the scope of our audits.
In 2003, we developed a to the principles of recognised international or national methodology for including community and employee standards.
These systems ensure that our stations not issues which will be implemented in 2004. only operate in line with official regulations, International Power policies and Company standards, but also that Integrating CSR issues into our day-to-day business they continue to improve their CSR performance practice is part of the story.
In 2003, we demonstrated wherever practicable.
our commitment to raise standards by taking part, with other leading companies, in the following initiatives: In order that these systems are developed and maintained to the highest standards we encourage our For the second year we are participating in the UKstations to implement management systems which are based Business in the Community BITC Corporate certified to international or recognised national standards.
For 2003 we set a corporate target to promote this process As a member of the London Accord, we took part in and our progress can be seen in the table opposite.
the Right to Read campaign in conjunction with local In 2003, a Health, Safety and Environment Committee education authorities.
HSEC was established to strengthen the management As a member of the UK Emissions Trading Group, we of HSE risks.
The Committee is chaired by the head of are advising the UK Department of Environment, Food Operations and Engineering and includes representatives and Rural Affairs on the implementation of the EU from all the regions in which we operate.
The Committee Emissions Trading Directive.
met on three occasions in 2003 and provided reports to the Board.
The HSEC has already proved to be an It is satisfying when our efforts are recognised.
In 2003, effective mechanism for promoting best practice our Pego plant in Portugal was acknowledged by Exame across the Company.
magazine as one of the most socially responsible in the country.
Our Hays plant in the US won the 2003 Water Efficiency Achievement Award from the City of San Marcos.
Our HUBCO plant in Pakistan won an award for the most Environmentally Friendly Organisation 2002 from a panel of non-government organisations and regulatory bodies.
Both Rugeley and Deeside, in the UK, have retained their Investors in People accreditation to the year 2005.
Back to school Thirty of International Powers head office staff in London have gone back to the classroom.
Each week, they help children at a local primary school to improve their reading.
Through regular contact with an individual mentor, the children aged 7 to 8 years have steadily become more confident and fluent with this essential skill.
Their efforts were rewarded when a recent government education inspection officially up-rated the progress of Loughborough Primary School.
To further boost the Companys reading improvement initiatives, UK staff have raised money by raffle matched by International Powers Charities and Donations Committee.
Half of the 2,830 total has been earmarked for books for Loughborough Primary School.
The remainder will benefit the Citizens Foundations sponsored school in Pakistan.
annual report 2003 37 2003 Targets 2003 Progress Encourage all assets to operate to ISO 14001 All of our assets worldwide operate formal HSE the international environmental management management systems.
To date, nine have been certified system standard.
The remainder have formal targets in their 2004 business plans to achieve certification.
Encourage all assets to operate certified health and In addition, four of our assets have health and safety safety and quality management systems.
management systems certified to recognised international or national standards i. e. OHSAS 18001.
A further three have formal targets in their 2004 business plans to achieve certification.
Three of our assets have quality management systems certified to ISO 9000 the international quality management system standard.
measures are implemented to prevent re-occurrence.
Minimising environmental impact Because of their minor nature none of these incidents When generating electricity, the key environmental resulted in regulatory action.
impacts are emissions to air, water and land.
These are subject to strictly defined official limits which may vary We recognise climate change as a major issue, where from country to country, or by region.
International Power has an important part to play in reducing its emissions of carbon dioxide CO. Our 2 Wherever possible we try to improve our performance strategy has two main elements: our drive to operate by going beyond regulatory requirements.
However, assets more efficiently in order to minimise emissions when generating electricity in bulk, as with any other of CO, and to seek viable opportunities for the use 2 industrial process, there is always a small risk of an of renewables in our generation portfolio.
During 2003, across all of our stations, we reported three occasions where we did not A key measure of our performance is the amount comply with permit levels.
Such incidents are investigated of CO emitted for each kilowatt-hour of electricity 2 fully in conjunction with regulatory authorities and generated.
In 2003 the figure fell from 0.82 kilograms Putting road safety first In a continuing effort to improve safety on the roads, Hazelwood Power in Australia sponsors the local Childrens Traffic School.
The school is the only one of its type in the area.
Local schools use it for their bike education and road safety programmes.
It provides a safe learning environment for children of all ages.
Parents are encouraged to learn the same skills as the children use of safety equipment and respect for all road users to reinforce road safety messages.
The school has become a popular venue for childrens birthday parties, making learning fun.
38 International Power of CO per kilowatt-hour in 2002 to 0.81 kilograms Our Renewables Group is actively seeking viable 2 of CO per kilowatt-hour last year see Figure 1. opportunities for a range of renewable energy options 2 The performance data also shows a reduction in the for future development.
Our strategy includes the total CO emitted across our assets of approximately development of both wind power and biomass fuels.
During 2004 we intend to build the 46 MW Canunda wind farm in South Australia.
Once operational, the wind 1.0 farm will represent a significant contribution to reducing CO and other emissions associated with fossil fuel based 0.82 0.81 2 0.79 0.8 electricity generation.
We are also actively progressing several other wind power initiatives in Australia, Italy, the 0.6 Czech Republic and the UK.
The second component of our renewable strategy is 0.4 the use of biomass fuels.
These include residues from agriculture, such as straw and olive cake, and those from 0.2 wood and paper production.
Our Rugeley power station is using these products, through a process of blending 0.0 with our traditional coal supply.
The majority of biomass 2001 2002 2003 is currently moved by road.
However, we are trialling the Figure 1: CO emissions from International 2 transportation of biomass on the Grand Union Canal.
Powers power stations In Europe, the revised Large Combustion Plant Directive and the Emissions Trading Directive will impact the Improving the energy efficiency of the generating process power-generating sector.
We are currently discussing reduces CO emissions.
Ongoing initiatives to cut CO 2 2 the implementation of these directives with the UK emissions from our assets include: government to ensure that industry concerns are increasing thermal efficiency by improving boiler air considered in terms of their impact on the sector.
heater performance: We have strategies in place to ensure the eventual requirements of this legislation are included in our upgrading and refurbishing turbines: business planning process.
increasing combustion efficiency by reducing excess air in boilers: reducing in-house energy consumption: increasing the operational efficiency at our mine in Hazelwood, Australia.
Left: The Childrens Traffic School in Australia annual report 2003 39 kgC02 kWH In addition to providing a safe place of work for our Health and safety H&S employees, we have health programmes in place at the Last year David Crane, our then Chief Executive Officer, majority of our assets.
These programmes provide pledged the best possible health and safety environment regular health checks and encourage healthy lifestyles at all locations for the benefit not only of the personnel through a combination of training, health monitoring of International Power but also for the benefit of our and subsidised gymnasium membership.
In 2003 we undertook a review of the H&S performance Our employees for each of our assets.
This has been driven by a desire Electricity is the same wherever in the world it is for open dialogue with our employees and to move produced.
But the people who produce it for towards a more proactive stance on the management of International Power vary in race, colour, religion, marital H&S issues.
As a result of this review we have developed a status, sexual orientation and age.
We believe in fairness set of more comprehensive targets to be achieved in and equal opportunities for all our employees or 2004, including a number designed to encourage the applicants and support the Universal Declaration of prevention of H&S incidents and near misses.
We will always appoint on the basis of the skills and experience required in a role.
The continued Figures 2a and 2b track our performance in terms of the application of this policy will ensure that International number of Lost Time Incidents LTIs over the last three years.
Power is staffed by those of the highest competence Four of our power stations have implemented certified to lead the business forward.
H&S management systems to OHSAS 18001 or the equivalent national standard.
30 0.6 25 0.5 0.4 20 0.3 15 0.2 10 0.1 5 0 0 2001 2002 2003 2001 2002 2003 Figure 2a: Our performance in terms of the number Figure 2b: Our performance in terms of the of Lost Time Incidents LTIs Lost Time Incident rate Above: HUBCOs mobile medical unit visits a local village school 40 International Power Lost Time incidents LTIs LTI rate No.
of LTIs per 100,000 operational hours During 2003, in response to a 2002 target, we collected local employment: support the local economy: act as a and analysed data from the main geographical regions responsible neighbour and employer and contribute towards where we operate to gain a better understanding of our the improvement of local health and education services.
employee population and their gender split and ethnicity.
Many of our employees demonstrate personal Our analysis concluded that, at our operational assets, we commitment to local community initiatives through have a mainly male employee population recruited from voluntary work.
Where fundraising forms part of these the local available workforce.
However, at our corporate initiatives, International Power considers match funding offices we have a relatively higher female representation, through our Corporate Charities Committee.
again recruited from the local available workforce.
We will During 2003, International Power and its subsidiaries continue to ensure that our local recruitment policies contributed 570,303 to charitable causes and other enable us to benefit from the wide ranging knowledge community projects.
Companies in which we have a and experience of individuals in all sectors of society.
minority shareholding associates, joint ventures and trade investments contributed a further 157,375.
Community involvement Electricity touches every area of modern life.
We, in turn, The annual variation in the level of contribution shown accept a responsibility to conduct our business with a in figure 3 below, reflects our policy on conduct in the proper concern for the world around us.
Community community and charitable contributions where causes are support is a major focus of International Powers carefully targeted to ensure that we improve economic, corporate activities.
We play a positive role in the environmental, educational or social well being in communities in which we operate, not because we have demonstrable ways.
Our strategy is to provide 800 700 603 600 570 500 455 400 300 215 194 Total community investment 200 157 by subsidiaries 100 Total community investment by associates, joint ventures and trade investments 0 2001 2002 2003 Figure 3: Charitable donations Working to keep children healthy HUBCO in Pakistan is at the centre of an on-going sponsorship programme to improve health care in the local community.
Last year, around 300 children from four primary schools were vaccinated against Hepatitis B.
Throughout 2003, a mobile clinic provided 45,000 patients with the health care and free medicines they needed.
Staffed by a qualified local doctor, health visitors and a nursing assistant, the clinic visited 25 villages in the vicinity of the power station.
HUBCOs continuing involvement in these and other preventative and curative services are recognised and have been commended by the regions government officials.
annual report 2003 41 Total 000s Further details on our policy and case studies of our 2004 targets community involvement projects can be found on our Support assets towards their environment, website www.
health and safety or quality management system objectives certification targets for December 2004.
Suppliers Improve employee awareness of our CSR policies International Powers major areas of procurement cover and initiatives.
power generation and desalination equipment, fuel supplies and maintenance services.
Our supplier relationships are Review the CSR credentials of our key fuel suppliers.
covered by the International Power Code of Business Implement the integration of community involvement Conduct, which sets codes of conduct and ethics.
and employee management into our existing internal When constructing new power stations, our projects audit programme.
are often arranged as Engineer, Procure and Construct Review our H&S induction processes at all of our contracts, where direct responsibility for main equipment construction and operational sites to confirm that supplies is written into formal contract agreements.
We these processes are appropriate.
prefer to limit our dealings to a small number of worldrenowned manufacturers of power generation and Ensure that as a minimum each asset undertakes at desalination equipment.
We expect these companies least 4 safety walks for each specified area per year.
to work to high CSR standards.
Ensure that as a minimum each asset undertakes at least 4 H&S toolbox talks per workgroup per year.
For our maintenance contracts, where we have more direct control, we also use major international Continue working to reduce the number of LTIs and equipment suppliers.
our LTI rate towards our goal of zero.
Many of our assets have an existing fuel supplier Continue to reduce the number of incidents requiring agreement which means that we have little or no first-aid treatment.
ability to influence the CSR credentials of our fuel suppliers.
However, where we do contract directly with fuel suppliers we seek to ensure that their social, environmental and health and safety performance meets International Power, European or World Bank standards.
During the contract negotiation phase our suppliers provide us with general details of their environmental, health and safety and community performance.
In 2004 we will seek detailed CSR performance information for all of our key fuel suppliers.
As an electricity generator, we see corporate social responsibility as being an integrated approach to managing environmental, health and safety, employee, community and ethical issues completely and transparently.
Above and right: Bellingham, US We see our corporate social responsibility as an integrated approach to managing environmental, health and safety, employee, community and ethical issues completely and transparently.
