Left to right BP, Hull Brian Bevan, Interserve Operations Manager received the Outstanding Health and Safety Performance award from the National Joint Council for the Engineering Construction Industry on behalf of Interserve Industrial Services Boccia David Smith, a partially-sighted boccia player, recipient of a SportsAid grant, has been selected to take part in the Paralympics in Beijing in 2008 Ice hockey Brothers Shaun and Carl Thompson received SportsAid grants from the Slough contract run by the Facilities Services division The Group will set targets and In the 2002 report and accounts Environment objectives for the improvement of we reported that we were working Interserves activities have an impact environmental management and will towards ISO 14001 registration in on the environment both directly publish details of its environmental Interserve Defence Ltd, which is and in the services we provide to performance.
part of the Facilities Services clients when building, maintaining division, and in the various area and managing their facilities.
To help All employees have a role to play offices of the Regional Services us focus on reducing this impact we in care of the environment.
The section of Project Services Building have adopted the following policy: Group has appointed a director to group.
Interserve Defence achieved be responsible for environmental accreditation in 2003 as did the Group Environmental Policy issues, and environmental first of Building groups regional Statement responsibilities are allocated offices, South Wales.
Our approach The policy of the Group is to to line management throughout with these offices is to progress conduct its operations in an the organisation.
in a sequential programme and the environmentally sustainable manner remaining locations aim to receive in order to protect the environment This policy will be subject to accreditation during 2004. for future generations.
periodic review to ensure it continues to meet the Groups We continue to hold ISO 14001 In implementing its policy the Group environmental requirements.
registration in: will seek, through its operating companies, to ensure: our contracts with the Office Environmental Management for National Statistics and Compliance with relevant Standard ISO 14001 the Cumberland Infirmary environmental legislation and Operating companies are responsible in Facilities Services regulation for developing arrangements to the Industrial Services office manage their environmental impact.
Prevention of pollution with responsibility for Safety, This is generally achieved through The efficient use of natural Health and the Environment, adopting an Environmental resources where the EMS was successfully Management System EMS that audited for re-registration and is The minimisation of waste and meets the requirements of ISO 14001. implemented company-wide emissions to air and water ISO 14001 is the internationally the Infrastructure group Civils Environmental awareness of all recognised standard for EMSs.
It and Water within Project Services employees specifies a process for controlling and the Strategic Projects group Effective monitoring of improving a companys environmental within Project Services environmental performance performance and consists of: Continual improvement in General requirements environmental performance Environmental policy Planning Implementation and operation Checking and corrective action Management review Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003 25 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Environmental impact Waste generation and disposal also minimises wastage of the An overall assessment of the While policies and systems are paint being used environmental effect of the Groups generated at Group, divisional or All Project Services construction operations identifies the following business unit level, implementing sites are required to address main impacts: these is generally the responsibility waste-handling issues through of individual offices or sites.
The Carbon dioxide emissions from their site management plan.
following are examples of how we direct and indirect energy For instance: are doing this.
consumption a mobile crusher was brought Industrial Services Liverpool site Waste generation and disposal in at Ashford, Middlesex, where introduced aluminium can and from offices and sites the new prison is being built, so mobile phone recycling and that waste building blocks could Natural resource usage recorded increases in the amount be crushed and used as fill on site of paper 46 per cent, ink Potential for pollution incidents cartridges 48 per cent, laser the material arising from the cartridges 67 per cent and demolition of the buildings on Carbon dioxide emissions photocopier cartridges 61 per the Peterborough Prison contract Carbon dioxide emissions represent cent recycled.
was processed and the hard core the Groups main environmental used for site preparation and impact.
The key elements are: Facilities Services liaised with landscaping wildlife consultants and advised Fuel diesel and petrol the MOD on amendments to the Site Services, part of the Project consumption in company cars, planned maintenance regime at Services division, provides a vans and commercial vehicles its RNAS Yeovilton site in order to waste-handling service and Gas, oil and electricity allow a colony of crested newts operates a waste transfer station.
consumption for office and discovered in the ditches on the Waste is collected from site heating camp to thrive.
Interserves and other clients sites and is segregated and Other transport used by employees Innovative solutions have been consolidated.
In 2003 the station on company business planes, applied to minimising the recovered a total of 4,148 tonnes trains etc.
and transportation of environmental impact in which would otherwise have material to and from sites Industrial Services contract to gone to landfill an increase of paint the Avonmouth Bridge: over 170 per cent.
Recovered Interserve is increasing its data specially-designed dust materials include timber, metals collection activities to help monitor extraction units allow the shotand hardcore.
Our estimate of carbon blasting medium to be reused while dioxide emissions in 2003 is 30.9 When Equipment Services minimising the emissions of lead tonnes per million of turnover products need to be repainted, paint dust into the atmosphere 37,440 tonnes in total, apportioned water-based rather than solventas shown in the diagram below.
an estimated 8,250 drums based paints are used.
There is would normally have been used also a programme of installing to provide the paint.
A paint filtration in all the branches system has been designed that carrying out this activity to allows paint to be delivered in remove particulates from the Company vehicles 70% bulk, with only a neoprene liner atmosphere.
In the longer term, Heating 27% to be disposed of.
This removes products are progressively being Other transport 3% the requirement to dispose of the galvanised to avoid repainting.
Estimate of apportioned carbon dioxide paint tins as special waste and emissions in 2003 26 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003
