Left to right Harmondsworth Detention Centre Elaine Reynolds represented the British Kidney Patient Association to receive a cheque for over 5,000 raised by Project Services staff working at the Detention Centre Trampolining Fourteen-year-old Michael Wood, a recipient of a SportsAid grant, has been included in the British Youth Squad Cancer Research UK A team from the Groups head office completed the 5km Race for Life walk to raise over 1,300 Natural resource usage environment, Interserve has a Social and ethical There is little use of water as a process whistleblowing policy and procedure component and most consumption is which is available to all employees.
Diversity and equal opportunities in an office or site environment to Interserve is committed to a policy provide welfare facilities.
of diversity and equal opportunities Our ethical policy includes guidance in its employment practices.
Our for managing our relationships with We use aggregates and timber in policy supports the fundamental customers, suppliers and competitors construction and shop-fitting belief that all our employees, and addresses the specific issues activities.
The materials used are including potential recruits, are associated with international often specified by the client but equal regardless of gender, race, business.
We consider harassment of wherever possible we look at using disability, sexual orientation, age, any employee for any reason to be recycled aggregates and timber from religion, religious belief or any other unacceptable.
reason that might be assumed to Equipment Services equipment is limit their contribution or potential.
Investors in People made mainly from metals such as Investors in People IiP is the steel and aluminium and is designed As far as possible the structure of national standard which sets a level to have a long life.
Products which the workforce should reflect the of good practice for training and are damaged are either repaired and diversity of Interserves external development of people to achieve placed back in the fleet or are stakeholders.
Those products which are framework for improving business made of wood are from sustainable performance and competitiveness sources.
All employees have a personal through a planned approach to responsibility for the practical setting and communicating business Potential pollution application of equal opportunities, objectives and developing people to demonstrated by respect for the One of the key objectives of meet these objectives.
individual, in their everyday the environmental management dealings and working relationships arrangements implemented is with colleagues, customers, Interserve has achieved accreditation to avoid pollution incidents.
at its head office and at locations During 2003 there were: within all of its principal operating no cases of enforcement action divisions.
We shall continue to be Ethics taken against the Group by the reviewed regularly against the It is important that individuals Environment Agency standard in order to gain the benefits throughout all of Interserves of ongoing improvement, both for no incidents of pollution operations retain a set of core values our people and for the business.
reportable to the Environment and approaches to the process of Agency doing business.
The reputation of the Group and the trust and confidence During 2003 we increased our of those with whom it deals are investment in training and among its most vital resources, and development across the Group to the protection of these is of 1.8 million 2002: 1.4 million.
We demand and maintain high ethical standards in carrying out our business activities and tolerate no form of corrupt practice.
To support an open and honest operating Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003 27 Corporate Social Responsibility continued Charitable giving Among the recipients of grants in Interserve has now chosen another 2003 were: charity with which to work over the Interserve believes in contributing next two years: Macmillan Cancer to the well-being of the communities David Smith, a partially-sighted Relief.
Macmillan provides expert in which it operates.
We have a boccia player who became care and practical support to programme which operates at national champion in 2003 and improve the quality of life for different levels: at Group level we has been selected to take part in people living with cancer.
Its have a chosen charity and make an the Paralympics in Beijing in 2008. activities include funding specialist annual donation 25,000 in 2003 : The grants for David and for Macmillan nurses and doctors, we encourage business units to run Michael Wood see below were building cancer care centres and charitable events, either for the made possible by combining providing a range of information chosen Group charity or for another funds raised in a range of and support services.
We are cause that is important to the area activities across the Group.
forming committees in each of or the people involved: and we offer Trampolinist Michael Wood, 14, our divisions that will help organise support for employees to undertake who has consistently come in the fund-raising events and assist sponsored activities.
top 10 in the under-18 category individuals in sponsored activities.
and has been included in the Over the last two years we have British Youth Squad.
worked with SportsAid, a charity set up to assist young athletes and Shaun Thompson, a Slough ice sportspeople between the ages of 12 hockey player who has played for and 18 by helping cover the costs of the England under-16s and is hopetheir training and travelling.
During ful of places in the under-17s and our association with SportsAid the Great Britain under-18s.
His Interserve staff have made a great grant came from the Facilities difference to the lives of many Services office managing the Slough young people, raising grants through council contract.
Shauns younger a wide variety of events.
In all, some brother Carl is also a recipient.
7,000 raised by staff has been Cross-country runner India Lee donated to 28 young athletes in from Hampshire, who came addition to the 50,000 donated by eighth overall in the 2003 the Company.
We are hopeful that national cross country under-15s some of these may one day be as competition.
Her grant, the final successful in their chosen sports as one made in conjunction with SportsAid alumni such as Sir Steve SportsAid, resulted from a raffle Redgrave, Matthew Pinsent, Paula organised by the staff and Radcliffe and Tanni Grey-Thompson.
contractors at DHE 2, Warminster a Facilities Services contract for the MOD.
As this raised over 1,000 there was also enough to enable a substantial donation to the local rugby club.
28 Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003 INSPIRE Teams competed at this charity polo match, an event supported by Facilities Services and visited by HRH The Prince of Wales Group companies, business units and Facilities Services gave 2,500 to employees also raised money for a INSPIRE in sponsorship of a wide range of other causes during charity polo match between the year too many to be included National Hunt Jockeys and Three here.
Among the activities and the Day Eventers.
It also designed and beneficiaries were: produced the official invitations.
The INSPIRE Foundation funds All Interserve divisions took part medical research into the in the Financial Times Crisis at recovery of mobility following Christmas Card Challenge, where spinal cord injury.
money is donated to charity instead of being spent on Following a donation of 5,000 Christmas cards.
7,800 was by Interserve to Project Compass raised in 2003 of which 2,000 in 2003, a representative of was donated to the appeal with Facilities Services is now a the remainder being distributed member of the steering group among four other charities: the alongside a number of leading Anthony Nolan Trust, Riding for charities, businesses and the the Disabled, Samaritans and government.
Each received 1,450. an initiative to address homelessness among ex-service Jo Colvill, an accounts assistant men and women.
It seeks to at the Groups head office, establish a support structure to undertook a sponsored bike ride enable these vulnerable people to in Cuba in which she raised move into and sustain 2,800 for the Camden Society, a employment by taking personal day-care centre for the mentally responsibility for their own and physically handicapped.
Project Services staff and We are the principal sponsor contractors at Harmondsworth in the bid by Ecclesfield School Detention Centre undertook a one of the six schools built and variety of activities to raise over operated by Interserve under 5,000 for the British Kidney its PFI project in Sheffield to Patient Association.
gain specialist status for the Staff at the Groups head office performing arts and have also took part in the Race for Life for sponsored the school hockey team.
Cancer Research UK raising over 1,300 for the charity.
Interserve Plc Annual Report 2003 29 Ian Burns
