Sustainable development Governance structure and management systems Environment Health and safety Our employees Community relations Index.
For the first time, this Index offers Sustainable development companies a means of benchmarking their We are committed to delivering long-term social responsibility performance against others in their sector.
growth for our investors in a manner compatible with the interests of our Governance structure and management systems employees, customers, business partners, The Board is responsible for the Groups governments and local communities.
overall environmental, health and safety and social policies and procedures and holds the Chief Executive accountable for Invensys is committed to acting in a socially During the year, we have reviewed the their implementation.
The risks associated responsible manner.
In last years report, options for future reporting on our with these areas are identified, considered we said we were developing a set of guiding environmental and social performance and and managed through the Audit Committee principles, the Invensys Intent, on those impacts.
We believe it is important to have and Risk Committee, which report regularly issues that affect all our stakeholders.
an objective framework, against which we to the Board.
Our purpose this year has been to create and others can measure our progress.
Based a greater understanding of, and a higher on emerging best practice in this field, we In the environment, health and safety level of engagement with, these issues have decided to work towards compliance EH&S arena, a new EH&S Council has throughout the Group, as the foundation for with the requirements of the Global been established to provide leadership our business, financial and social relations.
While the Groups and direction to the Groups programme.
risk profile will change over the next The newly-appointed Vice President, Significant advances have been made 18 to 24 months, as we divest the Environment, Health & Safety is responsible over the last twelve months in fulfilling the businesses in the expanded Development for implementing this programme, for commitments embodied in the Invensys Division, the GRI will provide a consistent establishing best practice standards and Intent, despite the difficult trading reporting framework for our environmental for the monitoring and reporting of conditions and turnaround pressure: and social performance and a roadmap performance.
Invensys has well-developed advances in governance structure and for improvement.
environmental management and reporting management systems: improvements systems, which are described in the new in environmental, health and safety: delivery As a measure of our progress, we were EH&S area on our website launched during of new resource productivity solutions to pleased to be placed in the third quintile of the year.
For further details please visit customers: and specific initiatives to take companies participating in the 1st Business www.
html forward our dialogue with key stakeholders.
in the Community Corporate Responsibility In this Sustainable development section, we report on these advances against each of Corporate Responsibility Index the commitments in the Invensys Intent.
This year, we made a detailed Although we have now decided to narrow submission to Business in the our focus to our Production Management Communitys 1st Corporate and Rail Systems businesses, our Responsibility Index.
The results of the commitment to sustainable development Index, published in March 2003, placed is unaltered.
In current trading conditions, Invensys towards the top of the third it would be tempting to give these issues quintile of 122 participating companies.
We think this would be The Index is a valuable benchmark of short-sighted and we have made selective the Groups achievements to date, as investments in health and safety and well as an indicator of areas for further training and development and will continue focus in the coming year.
13 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 Sustainable development Governance structure and management systems Environment Health and safety Our employees Community relations Environment We aim to make the optimal use During the year, we have continued to work of natural resources and minimise hard to minimise any detrimental impact environmental impact, through both from our operations on the environment or the solutions we provide to our public health.
Detailed performance data for customers and the management 2002 03 is currently being collected and of our own facilities.
verified and will be published on the EH&S page of invensys.
In China, a fine of RMB153,600 11,743 By adopting a uniform approach worldwide, For three years now, we have benchmarked resulted from noise levels at the boundary a strong signal is being sent that EH&S is just our performance using the annual Business of the site exceeding those set for a as important as our other financial and in the Environment BiE Index of Corporate residential area.
An acceptable solution has operational key performance initiatives and Environmental Engagement.
In this years been found and will shortly be completed.
This best in class reporting system seventh Index, we again improved our will help us create a safer workplace by overall score from 90% to 93%.
We have made good progress towards our targeting specific reductions in the number commitment to achieve Industria Limpia of accidents and days lost on the basis of We have also continued to work closely with certification at all our Mexican facilities by better information.
our customers, to help them minimise the 2005.
Five sites in Mexico have started the use of materials and natural resources and process and one has already completed all There were two employee fatalities during reduce their production of waste and the actions identified during the audit phase the year.
The first involved a truck driver harmful emissions.
Enabling customers to and is awaiting its certificate.
One site in in Canada, killed whilst unloading railway achieve more output with fewer resources Brazil has also decided to follow the same sleepers: the second was a supervisor in the remains central to our offering.
process and in February received an award US, killed in a car accident whilst returning for their progress so far from a representative from a customers site.
Both deaths are There were two instances of environmental of the Mexican Federal Enforcement Agency deeply regrettable, and we continue to non-compliance during the year.
In Long for the Environment PROFEPA.
review our health and safety procedures.
Beach, California, an inspection by the local Air Quality Management authority found Health and safety In the US, the Occupational Safety and degreasers utilising percholorethylene to As part of our commitment to excellence in Health Authority OSHA carried out four be non-compliant, resulting in a fine of health and safety, a new Incident Reporting inspections, two of which resulted in fines US$2,500 1,582.
An alternative cleaning System is now in operation.
In simple terms, of US$1,120 709 and US$750 475. process that does not use percholorethylene the system uses an intranet based system Elsewhere, no reports have been received was found and production resumed.
to enable employees to report all incidents of any fines or other action from breaches near misses as well as injuries in a of health and safety regulations.
The objective is to achieve a major shift in our health and safety culture, encouraging openness in reporting unsafe conditions, promoting a thorough investigation, and tracking resulting actions through to completion.
We regard the health and safety of our employees in the workplace and the protection of all visitors to our facilities as vital and we allow no compromise on safety standards.
14 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 Sustainable development Governance structure and management systems Environment Health and safety Our employees Community relations Our employees Group-wide employee survey We stated last year that our strategy depends on building a strong customerThe first ever Group-wide employee focused culture and on developing the skills survey, Invensys Direct, achieved a of our people.
Considerable progress has response rate of approaching 70%, been made on both counts during the an excellent result, which confirmed employees desire to give their views on how past year.
The survey covered areas such as how employees felt about working for Invensys, whether they understood the company strategy, and whether In January 2003, we conducted our first they felt they were being properly rewarded for their work.
The survey underlined Group-wide employee survey, which the Groups commitment to dialogue with employees, made in the Invensys Intent, prompted nearly 32,000 replies a response and has established a baseline of employee attitudes from which we will develop rate of approaching 70%.
Overall programmes to address the problems identified.
satisfaction, based on answers to all questions, was 69%, with Environmental and Social Responsibility 80% and Job We ensure that employees are recruited Satisfaction 76% attracting the highest and assessed on the basis of their skills scores.
Less encouraging were the results for and suitability for the work performed.
Training and Career Development 62% and No employee receives less favourable Pay, Benefits and Working Conditions 58%.
treatment on grounds of colour, religion, ethnic origin, gender, marital status, One of the most significant developments during the year was the rationalisation of disability, age or sexual orientation.
our disparate, fragmented training and development programme under the auspices of the Invensys University.
The The INVEST performance improvement We made further enhancements to our ultimate aim of the University is to offer a programme provided a focus for employee Group-wide employee communications full range of training tools, from instructorengagement during the year, with a range of programme, including the creation of a led training sessions to e-learning courses, training courses, ideas generation workshops Site Communicators Network to ensure giving our employees the opportunity to and other communications tools employees at our 400 sites are kept fully expand their skills, whatever their role in the encouraging and supporting employees to informed about the Groups progress.
Initially there are four colleges play their part in our drive for Group-wide Research among employees has shown, covering Sales, Leadership, Lean Supply productivity improvements.
in particular, that there is a great desire Chain Management and Change for more information about progress and Management, and the first 200 students One in three of our employees has been development at a local site level.
Further colleges, including involved in either an INVEST project or an a network of Communications Co-ordinators Project Management and EH&S, are being INVEST ideas generation workshop so far at all sites, we aim to ensure that the planned.
To be a successful Group, it is vital and we plan to increase this level of differing information needs of our that we share knowledge and ensure that participation as INVEST continues to be a employees in different locations are met.
everyone has the necessary skills to grow key part of our Group performance This network has also been a valuable and deliver high performance.
feedback mechanism, enabling us to gauge employee response to and concerns We continue to give strong support to the resulting from major Group announcements.
Invensys European Employees Forum, which is now in its fourth year.
It remains an important channel for debating major issues that affect the well-being of our European employees.
15 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003 Sustainable development Governance structure and management systems Environment Health and safety Our employees Community relations In 2001 Invensys signed up to the United As a global Group, we are committed Nations Global Compact.
To collect data that to universal principles of human rights, is relevant to implementation of Principles respect local laws and customs wherever 3,5, 6,7 and 8, our annual environmental we operate and expect our employees questionnaire was extended to include to operate on this basis.
questions on health and safety and social responsibility.
This has helped to raise awareness of the issues at site level as well the answers to the questionnaire as well as Community relations as providing valuable information at the overall management of human rights We made donations of 1.0 million to a the centre as a means of identifying and labour issues, as embraced in Principles range of charitable causes during the year, potential issues.
As well as identifying some specific the majority being made by our operating items to be addressed at each site, the results businesses to support their local Additionally, a high level risk assessment was of the audits have been used to modify the communities.
undertaken by independent consultants to questionnaire to provide improved data.
identify specific countries and critical social In addition to the donations we make as a responsibility issues so as to prioritise areas As an example of our response to Principles Group, we actively encourage and support for further attention.
As a result, audits were 7 and 8, a case study was submitted to the employees to become involved in charitable commissioned by independent experts of UN Global Compact in October 2002 and is activities.
For example, in August 2002, a two sites in China and one each in India and published on their website: group of 20 Safetran employees entered a Mexico.
These focused on the accuracy of www.
org charity fund-raiser benefiting the Special Olympics.
The objective was to pull a 100 ton UPS Boeing 757 a distance of Mexicali environmental workbook twelve feet.
The Safetran Team finished in To spread environmental awareness and engender a sense first place for the second consecutive year, of responsibility among local children, Invensys Climate covering the distance in 6.51 seconds.
The Controls Mexicali plant in Mexico sponsored the funds raised have been used to support production and distribution of an environmental sports training and competition for athletes workbook which employees then used in local primary in Kentucky with mental disabilities.
The workbook helps educate children in different In November 2002, two Climate Control aspects of environmental concern, such as water pollution employees from Plymouth, England trekked and recycling, and demonstrates the Groups commitment across Cuba in a fundraising event for the to engaging local communities in dialogue about subjects NCH childrens charity, which was sponsored of mutual importance.
by a major Invensys customer, Plumb Centre, part of Wolseley plc, the worlds largest specialist trade distributor of plumbing and heating products.
We recognise our responsibilities towards the communities in which we work.
We support the development and well-being of these communities through charitable donations to a wide range of health, educational and social causes.
16 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2003
