Amec Front Wace 4 1 04 7:38 AM Page 20 People, planet and prosperity Sustainability is not just about protecting the environment and using natural Sustainable resources in a prudent way, it is about ensuring stable social and economic growth for all.
For this reason, sustainability Development is often defined as having three pillars: people, planet and prosperity.
In the corporate world, this translates into triple bottom line reporting: considering not just our obligation to create financial value for shareholders but our obligation to create or protect We look to the long term, value in a wider sense for all our stakeholders.
with clients, employees As a responsible company, we believe a sustainable approach to be right and of value in itself.
It also provides us and all our stakeholders with a more secure franchise for future operation.
Good employment policies lead to more successful recruitment 33 AMEC launched its sustainability programme three years ago 20 AMEC plc Annual Report 2003 Amec Front Wace 3 31 04 4:03 PM Page 21 and retention of staff.
Better community More generally, we aim to work in a Introducing a formal sustainability planning relations lead to more successful and professional way, using systems and process in our businesses, using an appropriate development.
Overall, a processes that minimise environmental Agenda 21 template for the first time.
sustainable approach is one that fosters and community impact.
Where possible, Agenda 21 is a United Nations UN good risk management.
This in turn we benchmark and seek third party blueprint for sustainability providing underpins the sustainability of our earnings endorsement of our approach.
We take care guidelines for tracking pollution, to the benefit of all stakeholders.
to work with clients we view as responsible.
overpopulation, energy consumption and efficiency and bio-diversity.
AMECs Sustainability programme moving forward We have also made some specific Agenda 21 is modelled on the UN Our main vehicle for improving performance investments in the sustainability area, programme to make sure our sustainability in this area is our sustainability programme, notably our renewable energy business.
principles are taken forward by our set up three years ago, which produces We want to see renewable energy taken businesses and turned into action.
seriously and to play our part in achieving this in the UK.
Achieving improved performance This programme covers our policies against our sustainability metrics.
in all the main sustainability areas: We took some important steps forward ethics, employment, community during 2003: Moving sharply up the Business in the relations, environment and corporate Community Corporate Responsibility governance.
We still have far to go, but Appointing ethics officers in the US and Index improving our score on a range have made some important changes and, in Europe and enhancing our ethics policy.
of sustainability measures from 70 to more importantly, we are measuring our 85 per cent.
progress against agreed metrics and Establishing Chief Executives awards benchmarking it externally.
