Social responsibility & environment Throughout 2003 Amersham continued to develop its management of Corporate Responsibility.
Guided by its CR Steering Committee, a position statement, Managing Corporate Responsibility in Amersham outlining the work ongoing in different parts of the company was developed and published on our website.
We participated in the comprehensive assessment process for the second 2004 Corporate Responsibility Index the principal benchmarking tool for a companys global performance in this increasingly important area.
While the result is still awaited, we are confident that our performance will have improved considerably.
Our rating in the influential Dow Jones Sustainability Index improved and we maintained our inclusion in the UKs FTSE4Good Index of environmentally socially responsible businesses.
A new Charity and Community Engagement Policy was introduced and implemented throughout our global operations.
The Policy defines the scope of charitable giving by Amersham and encourages staff volunteering in the community.
In the UK, financial donations of 279,238 were made to charities and good causes.
Donations were made to charities and good causes elsewhere, principally in Norway, Sweden and the USA.
This, together with gifts in kind and staff volunteering enabled Amersham to remain a Member of Business in the Communitys Percent Club.
No political donations were made.
Amendments were made to the Code of Business Conduct and a review of our Position Statement on the use of Stem Cells was undertaken for implementation in 2004.
There were no prosecutions of the company under Environmental or Health and Safety legislation though in December 2003, Amersham Health accepted a civil penalty of $27,000 from the New York Environment Department in respect of permit and waste management violations at a radiopharmacy in the city.
An update of our performance in this field was published on our internet site in July.
Investment continued at several sites to improve environmental, health and safety control measures and we were delighted to receive a second State Governors Award for Pollution Control at our manufacturing facility in North Arlington, Illinois.
