Corporate social responsibility report Corporate social responsibilityThe companys commitment to glass-recycling, instead The company recognises the importance of corporate of sending to landfill, is illustrated by an extension of the social responsibility CSR : as such, the board has Valpak glass-recycling scheme which reduced waste by 2%.
established a CSR steering group chaired by theThe company, over the last year, has successfully commercial director.
introduced a trial scheme under which cardboard is collected from the pubs for onward recycling.
Details of the companys employment policies can beThe company has introduced grease-removal equipment found in the directors report on page 10. to reduce the amount of grease going into the public sewers from our kitchens waste water.
The company recognises the importance of environmental and social issues and, throughout its commercial activities Each of these initiatives will be extended across our estate and operations, is committed to fostering the preservation over future months.
and protection of the environment, while recognising its wider social responsibility.
The company is also committed The company is committed to energy conservation and to improving its environmental policy continuously, in has focused, in the year under review, on several design respect of the commercial activity of owning and managing initiatives such as sensors to turn taps on and off.
Our public houses across the United Kingdom.
The company strategy in this area will evolve more fully in the next continuously reviews any significant risks to which it may twelve months.
be exposed and the policies which it adopts to address them.
The company acknowledges that the role which suppliers play in helping us to achieve our business goals and It is the policy of the company to: objectives extends to our social and environmental responsibilities.
By regularly communicating our approach minimise the extent of the environmental impact of its and expectations, through meetings and our partners operations, as far as is reasonably practicable.
conference, we believe that a shared approach to strive to minimise any emissions or effluents which may addressing the issues will ensure rapid identification of cause environmental damage.
the risks and opportunities in our supply chain.
conserve energy through minimising consumption and maximising efficiency.
The environmental policy is reviewed at least annually by minimise the use of materials which may be harmful to the board of directors, so as to ensure that it reflects the the environment.
businesss needs and addresses all current and relevant promote efficient purchasing which will both minimise environmental issues.
waste and allow materials to be recycled, where appropriate.
The company once again participated in the annual adopt efficient waste-management strategies which survey by EIRIS Ethical Investment Research Service reduce the amount of waste going to landfill or to other and, for the third consecutive year, was included in the disposal sites.
FTSE4Good index, designed to identify those companies embrace the use of recycled materials and ensure that with good records in corporate social responsibility.
materials or waste generated by the business are recycled, where appropriate.
The main selection criteria cover three areas: raise awareness of environmental issues among all of its employees and suppliers partners.
working towards environmental sustainability ensure appropriate training, in environmental issues, developing positive relationships with stakeholders of all employees.
upholding and supporting universal human rights These aims are incorporated and developed within the companys Environmental Management System which is implemented throughout the business.
Following the introduction of the above system, significant progress has been made by the company on waste management, with successful initiatives in three areas: 16 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
