Equipo achieved continued high standards for HS&E at BP's Cupiagua, Cuisiana, Recetor and Florea fields in Colombia.
Quality, Health, Safety and the Environment The Group recognises that identification and exchange of best practice is key to successful international growth.
The Board views achievement of high standards of Health & Safety and the Environment HS&E performance in relation to quality, health, safety, Our current Group HS&E policies were adopted in environmental and ethical matters as fundamental to December 1999 and were revised and updated during Wood Group's reputation and success and ranks the year.
They are applied across the Group through achievement of these goals equally with achievement of locally adapted policies and management systems.
our other major business objectives.
Accordingly, the HS&E performance and continuous improvement are key Board promotes initiatives throughout the Group in factors in our reputation and credibility with our relation to these areas.
John Wood Group PLC 21 Pictured opposite: Employees in Wood Group companies worldwide contributed to the overall objective of achieving continuous improvement in HS&E performance during 2003.
1 Wood Group Engineering North Sea won a contract with Talisman to upgrade a production vessel to enhance the rate of hydrocarbon recovery and achieve Talismans environmental targets for reducing oil in water discharges.
2 Annual safety days are proving very popular with the children of employees working for SIMCO in Venezuela.
3 J P Kenny is expanding its existing capabilities to deliver innovative technological solutions for generating renewable energy.
4 Wood Group is working with BP on their Clair project where safety and protection of the environment is a top priority.
5 J P Kenny is working with BP on a major project to stop the disposal of gas via venting and flaring.
6 Full workforce involvement and total management commitment enabled SIMCO to deliver high HS&E performance to client PDVSA.
7 A new waterjet application is improving environmental performance at Wood Group Component Repair.
8 Commitment to safety enabled Wood Group Light Industrial Turbines to achieve more than 1.5 million manhours without a recordable injury.
9 The Gas Plant Services project was awarded the Chairmans safety award for overall HSE performance for fully integrating its HS&E plan with client Shell.
A Group Director is responsible for overseeing HS&E Safety and in 2003 we appointed a Group Head of Health, Safety It is a stated aim of the Group to achieve the highest & Environment HS&E to co-ordinate the experience standards of safety for employees and those affected by and good practice among our company safety managers.
our activities, including sub-contractors, customers and Companies report quarterly on their performance and a members of the public.
While there have been many summary report is submitted to the Group Board who successful safety initiatives during the year, these have been overshadowed by three fatal accidents one review progress against annual targets.
involving a helicopter in Louisiana, a second following a HS&E Conferences held in Houston and Aberdeen gas escape offshore in the North Sea, and a third during a enabled over 150 of the Group's senior management to high pressure valve test in Venezuela.
These fatal review HS&E performance and contribute to next years accidents have been fully investigated and the lessons improvement programme.
Employees, in all parts of the learnt are being used to improve our processes, Group, are encouraged to put forward suggestions about procedures and behaviour to maximise our safety HS&E matters.
In 2003, many of these suggestions were performance.
adopted into business operations to help enhance The Groups commitment to improved health and safety performance.
was recognized during the year by the presentation of The Group runs a number of initiatives to encourage Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents Gold improved HS&E performance and reward excellence Awards to seven group companies and a second among individuals and companies, including the Presidents Award to the Group.
Around the world Group Chairmans awards, training programmes and incentive companies have also achieved recognition for their plans.
individual contributions to improving workplace safety.
22 John Wood Group PLC 2 3 4 1 7 5 68 7 9 available individual company management systems across Environment Group companies.
An example of the success of this Our policy is to minimise the effects of discharges, approach in action is the triple certification achieved emissions and waste disposal from our operations and to ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 by Equipo, a control working practices which are harmful to the Wood Group led Colombian joint venture.
Audit and Verification Our environmental management programme is based around the ISO 14001: 1996 international standard.
For We are subject to extensive audits and reviews by example, Wood Group Engineering North Sea now customers on an ongoing basis together with external operates an externally verified and audited Environmental reviews from certifying authorities, regulatory bodies and Management System EMS following its certification to independent consultants.
In addition Wood Group carries ISO 14001 by BSI Management Services.
The target is to out its own internal audit and verification reviews including Internal Audit, Quality, HS&E and Legal.
reduce the impact of company activities on the environment through better procurement, enhanced facilities management, and innovative engineering design - where the environment is considered in all stages of project completion.
Quality The Group recognises that identification and exchange of best practice is key to successful international growth.
To promote best practice transfer, the Group intranet makes John Wood Group PLC 23 12 345 6 7891011 12 13 14 15 Community and Employees Across the Group, our companies and employees are involved in many different activities aimed at enhancing 16 the communities in which we operate worldwide.
The Group human resources department is responsible Employees for promoting group-wide best practices.
A new human The Group places a strong emphasis on employee resources section on the Group intranet has been set up communication and involvement.
A quarterly employee to provide relevant, interesting and timely information.
magazine - Wood News - is published in-house and The Group endorses and supports the principles of equal circulated to all employees.
Many Group companies also employment opportunity.
produce newsletters to inform employees specifically about their companies.
An employee review is produced To ensure these are adhered to, HR has set down a annually and briefings are held on a regular basis to number of policies, including: update employees on the Groups progress.
Senior equal employment opportunities to all appropriately managers participate in roadshows to discuss progress and talk with employees about their part of the business.
qualified individuals 24 John Wood Group PLC Pictured opposite: In 2003 Wood Group companies and employees were involved in a number of activities aimed at enhancing the communities in which we operate.
1 & 16 Homeless children in Indonesia spent a day with Wood Group in Jakarta.
2 & 5 Wood Group's donation of 45,000 to the ARCHIE Foundation was used to fund the alternative senses room in the therapy centre of the newly opened Royal Aberdeen Children's Hospital.
3 Wood Group employees tackled the Trinidad Energy Challenge for charity.
4 Wood Group supported the engineering challenge F1 Team in Schools Challenge 2003.
6 Alliance Engineering staffed the Jerry Lewis Muscular Dystrophy Association Telethon.
7 Staff completed a 4-mile walk in aid of the US National Multiple Sclerosis Society.
8 Staff in Australia took part in a backyard blitz on behalf of Active Foundation.
9 A donation to the Volunteer Aid Group was used to improve drug awareness in Indonesia.
10 Employees in Aberdeen ran an after school science club for local school children.
11 & 15 Staff participating in the annual Aberdeen 10K Road Race raised funds for a number of charities.
12 The Katy, Texas Youth Soccer team received support from Wood Groups charitable donation program.
13 Wood Group employee, Paul Kefford, completed the Marathon des Sables to raise funds for Diabetes UK.
14 Wood Group supports children in India through the Bethesda Life Centre.
disabled persons receive full and fair consideration for of Life which works for the underprivileged in society employment and subsequent training, career and assists in providing people with their basic needs development and promotion on the basis of their Wood Group's donation of 45,000 to the ARCHIE aptitudes and abilities Foundation was used to fund the alternative senses all employment decisions are made on a nonroom in the therapy centre of the newly opened Royal discriminatory basis.
The ARCHIE Foundation The group invests in training programmes across its was set up to raise funds to create a world class employee groups and in particular operates a successful Children's Hospital in Aberdeen for children and graduate training programme to help train the next generation of engineers.
families in the North and North East of Scotland.
Communities in Which We Operate Ethical Conduct of Our Businesses Across the Group, our companies and employees are The Groups Ethics Policy sets minimum standards of involved in many different activities aimed at enhancing conduct, promotes best practice and provides resolution the communities in which we operate worldwide.
The policy is available Examples of some of the diverse local initiatives include: on the Groups intranet and is distributed to all our Wood Group made a donation to improve drug businesses.
Group Finance Director Alan Semple chairs awareness in Indonesia through the distribution of our Business Ethics Committee, which monitors the over 10,000 leaflets highlighting the dangers of operation of the Policy and works to promote addictive drugs compliance and resolve issues.
Employees are able to Wood Group joined 24 other teams in the first Energy report any concerns to their business management or Challenge in Trinidad.
The teams raised TTUS$750,000 for the Foundation for the Enrichment & Enhancement anonymously to the Advice Line.
