22 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY JOHNSON MATTHEY MAKES A SIGNIFICANT CONTRIBUTION TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT through the application of its leading science and technology, the ingenuity of its people and the generation of profits.
The board has always ensured that the group operates autocatalyst technologies, which improve air quality around the world.
according to well established ethical, social and environmental In addition, our fuel cell products are poised to make a significant policies.
This year Johnson Matthey is publishing its first corporate contribution to the generation of clean energy and security of supply.
social responsibility CSR review, which is presented here in Whilst Johnson Mattheys main contribution to sustainable summary.
The full report, covering policies, environmental development will be through our products we also seek to contribute performance and our social and economic contribution to sustainable through the management of the business and in the quality of our development, is available on our website at www.
Our expertise in processing precious metal The statements on corporate social responsibility disclosure materials provides us with a core competence in the conservation, follow the guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers and reuse and recycling of natural resources, principles which are now the detailed analysis in the full report is based on the format applied throughout our business.
recommended by the Global Reporting Initiative.
As outlined in the Johnson Matthey has a culture of continuous improvement in all Corporate Governance section on page 31 the board has embedded aspects of performance.
In this area improvement is driven through corporate social responsibility into its risk management process.
corporate policies, a comprehensive management system and the Corporate social responsibility is championed at the highest level at commitment of our staff.
There are three key policy areas, which Johnson Matthey and the board has reviewed and fully endorsed the provide the framework for the management of corporate social CSR review.
responsibility the Environment, Health and Safety policies, the Many of our products have a particularly positive social and Employment policies and the Business Integrity and Ethics policy.
They range from anticancer compounds to our ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY Our investment in plant and equipment has continued over the Johnson Matthey is firmly committed to last year.
In addition to environmental improvements this enables us to managing its activities throughout the group so design and operate processes that are inherently safer and more as to provide the highest level of protection to resource efficient than previous designs.
Resource efficiency is second nature to managers in the business who are charged with the the environment and to safeguard the health responsibility of handling materials and products of high intrinsic and safety of its employees, customers and the value, many of which are recyclable.
Environmental Management Systems The companys Environment, Health and Safety EHS policies Our operating units are moving towards ISO 14001 certification.
provide the guiding principles that help ensure high standards are At present 11 sites are certified with a further six sites in the final achieved at our sites around the world whilst promoting continuous stages of assessment.
Some 2,300 people or 29% of our staff work at improvement based on careful risk assessment and comprehensive ISO 14001 locations.
Over the past year four ISO 14001 certified sites EHS management systems.
These policies, summarised in the have joined Johnson Matthey through the acquisition of Synetix, companys policy statement see box on page 24 are regularly Clitheroe and Chilton in the UK and Oberhausen and Emmerich in reviewed.
Corporate policies provide a framework for all Johnson Germany.
Matthey businesses to formulate site specific policies to meet local requirements.
Training Internal EHS audits are an integral part of Johnson Mattheys Training is vital to ensuring continuous improvements in EHS corporate EHS management system.
68 facilities from our operations performance.
Over the past year staff of all grades have received worldwide are included in the audit programme.
87 audits have been training with a wide range of courses available to employees.
Our carried out over the last three years, with 32 in 2002.
Audit reports are major sites employ health and safety training specialists.
Expert reviewed by the Environment, Health and Safety Committee.
Further external trainers supplement in house capabilities where necessary.
site visits were made to oversee health surveillance programmes by the Group Occupational Physician.
23 Johnson Matthey Target Setting Supply Chain Issues One of the key aims of Johnson Mattheys EHS policy is to As shown in our Business Integrity and Ethics Policy Statement, we achieve continuous improvement in performance through target support the principles set out within the United Nations Universal setting.
Targets which have been set by our business units are Declaration of Human Rights and International Labour Organisation reviewed on a group wide basis.
Such targets typically include: Core Conventions.
Whilst we are confident of the performance of our own operations, we recognise that business practices in the supply Reductions in waste and emissions to air or water.
chain are not always transparent and represent a risk that must be Reduction in energy and commodity use.
Training of employees in EHS issues.
Community Involvement Over the past year we have set corporate health and safety The CSR review gives examples of the way Johnson Matthey targets in line with the UK Health and Safety Executive HSE supports its local communities.
In South Africa, for instance, we have Revitalising Health and Safety initiative.
We have adopted the provided support for underprivileged students at the University of following HSE targets with a baseline year of 2000 for our worldwide Cape Town, through which at least nine students a year are given a operations.
bursary and also work experience at Johnson Matthey operations in the country.
We have just concluded a successful charity of the year 1 Reduction of working days lost by 15% by 2004 and by 30% by programme in support of the NSPCC.
Johnson Mattheys charity of the 2010. year for 2003 is Diabetes UK.
The company also supports many other 2 Reduction in the incidence rate of major injuries by 5% by 2004 charities locally and nationally.
As noted in the Directors Report, total and 10% by 2010. charitable giving in 2002 03 was 323,000.
A group wide review of environmental performance is undertaken annually, focusing on our key impacts including global warming, Verification waste generation and water consumption.
The following graphs highlight our environmental performance indexed to turnover and our The board reviews CSR issues as part of its risk management health and safety performance in absolute terms.
The board believes that the measures taken to review the provided in our full CSR review as published on our website.
CSR information provide a suitable level of confidence without external audit.
Johnson Matthey would utilise external specialists where specific CSR issues were identified.
Total Acid Gas Emissions Total Global Warming Potential Total Water Supply Days Lost per 1,000 Employees 100% 100% 100% 419 92% 94% 91% 89% 90% 87% 86% 337 79% 319 66% 220 1999 2000 2001 2002 1999 2000 2001 2002 1999 2000 2001 2002 1999 2000 2001 2002 Adjusted for sales 1999 100% The Contribution of Johnson Matthey UK Emissions Savings due to Autocatalysts Autocatalysts to Clean Air in the UK 12,000 The growth in international markets for autocatalysts has been 10,000 driven by efforts to legislate for cleaner air.
Johnson Matthey has 'Engine-out' Emission played a vital role in the improvement of air quality through the manufacture of autocatalysts for cleaning vehicle exhaust emissions 8,000 from petrol and diesel fuelled cars and continuously regenerating traps CRTs for treating emissions from heavy duty diesel vehicles.
Emission Saving Johnson Matthey autocatalysts dramatically reduce emissions of 6,000 carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen, volatile organic compounds and particulates from a wide range of road vehicles.
4,000 As part of our commitment to improving the environment Johnson Actual Emissions Matthey is active in monitoring the impact of its products.
A recent company study has shown that Johnson Matthey autocatalysts have 2,000 saved millions of tonnes of pollutants from entering the environment.
More details of this study are available in the corporate social 0 responsibility report at www.
1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 Total emissions kT Year 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2003 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY STATEMENT Johnson Matthey is firmly committed to managing its activities Provide the financial and human resources to allow EHS issues to throughout the group so as to provide the highest level of protection be given an appropriate level of priority.
to the environment and to safeguard the health and safety of its Provide good communication internally and externally and employees, customers and the community.
encourage employee involvement and cooperation at all levels in The companys Environment, Health and Safety policies have the organisation in meeting EHS objectives.
been widely disseminated and provide the guiding principles Ensure competence on EHS matters through education, training necessary to ensure that high standards are achieved at all sites and awareness at all levels in the organisation, including creating around the world.
They also afford a means of promoting continuous an understanding of individual responsibilities for health and improvement based on careful risk assessment and comprehensive safety and the environment.
EHS management systems, against which all sites are audited.
Undertake assessments to identify the risks to health, safety and This policy and its associated procedures are designed to the environment from company operations and ensure that achieve the following corporate objectives: appropriate control measures are implemented.
Ensure that new investments are designed and operated to the That all locations meet legal and group environment, health and latest standards so as to eliminate or minimise risks to health, safety requirements.
That the design, manufacture and supply of products is Investigate incidents to identify the root cause and take action to undertaken so as to satisfy the highest standards of health, prevent recurrence.
safety, environmental protection and resource efficiency.
Promote programmes to achieve energy and resource efficiency.
That management systems are effective in maintaining standards Set key corporate objectives and performance targets that can and fulfilling the challenge of securing continuous improvement be measured and assessed, reporting results in a meaningful in environmental, health and safety performance.
and transparent way both internally and externally.
In order to achieve these objectives we will: Undertake regular EHS inspections and audits of operations, and Provide leadership and commitment as an expression of the review performance to ensure continuous improvement in EHS importance that the board and the senior management team management.
The group EHS management system will be reviewed regularly to Ensure accountability by holding corporate management and ensure that it reflects international best practice and our growing senior executives within each operating division and business understanding of the practical application of sustainable unit responsible for EHS performance.
EMPLOYMENT POLICIES Equal Opportunities Training and Development of People Policy It is the policy of the group to recruit, train and manage Ensure highest standards in the recruitment of staff.
employees who meet the requirements of the job, regardless of Assess training needs in the light of job requirements.
gender, ethnic origin, age or religion.
Employees who become Ensure relevance of training and link with business goals.
disabled and disabled people are offered employment consistent with Employ and evaluate effective and efficient training methods.
Promote from within, from high potential pools of talent.
Training and Development of People Understand employees aspirations.
Johnson Matthey recognises the importance of recruiting the Provide development opportunities to meet employees potential very highest calibre of employees, training them to achieve and aspirations.
challenging standards in the performance of their jobs, and developing them to their maximum potential.
Employee Communications Our policy requires careful review of organisation structure, succession and the development of high potential people to meet our Johnson Matthey recognises the importance of effective employee business goals.
The Management Development and Remuneration communications.
Information and comment is exchanged with Committee of the board takes a special interest in ensuring employees through the companys in-house magazine, regular news compliance with the Training and Development of People Policy.
bulletins, presentations to staff and team briefings.
25 Johnson Matthey BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND ETHICS POLICY STATEMENT A reputation for integrity has been a cornerstone of Johnson Reporting of business performance should be undertaken in Mattheys business since it was founded by Percival Norton Johnson such a way that senior management is fully and properly in 1817.
It gives customers the confidence that the companys informed concerning the business true performance, risks and products meet the standards claimed for them and that they may opportunities in a timely manner.
safely entrust their own precious metals to Johnson Matthey for Ethical issues must be dealt with in an efficient and transparent processing and safe keeping.
Employees at all levels are required to manner.
protect Johnson Mattheys reputation for integrity.
A positive contribution to society as a whole, and specifically the The company strives to maintain the highest standards of ethical communities in which we operate, must be ensured.
conduct and corporate responsibility worldwide through the We must seek to influence our suppliers to operate to similar high application of the following principles: standards as ourselves.
Compliance with national and international laws and regulations We support the principles set out within the United Nations is required as a minimum standard.
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and International Labour Organisation Core Conventions.
Reputable business practices must be applied worldwide.
It is the responsibility of directors and senior management to Conflicts of interest must be declared and appropriate ensure that all employees who directly or indirectly report to them are arrangements made to ensure that those with a material interest fully aware of Johnson Mattheys policies and values in the conduct of are not involved in the decision making process.
It is also the responsibility of directors and senior management to lead by example and to demonstrate the Improper payments of any kind are prohibited, similarly no gift highest standards of integrity in carrying out their duties on behalf of whose value is material or which may be interpreted as a form of the company.
These issues are further safeguarded through corporate inducement should be accepted or offered by Johnson Matthey governance processes and monitoring by the board and subemployees.
AQUACAT A STEP CHANGE IN EFFICIENCY AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Up to now the recovery of precious metals used as catalysts in The AquaCat technology also allows processing equipment to chemical processes has involved the use of incineration.
The new be installed at customer sites.
This may be particularly important to AquaCat technology being commissioned at Johnson Mattheys the pharmaceutical or petrochemical industries where the residue is Brimsdown, UK facility uses a process based on supercritical water either highly bioactive or high in volume making handling and oxidation which provides many environmental and economic transport difficult.
The AquaCat technology was developed in partnership Precious metals are used extensively in catalysts which improve between Johnson Matthey and Chematur Engineering AB.
the efficiency of a wide range of industrial chemical processes.
The After the completion of the commissioning process it is metals used, platinum, palladium and rhodium, represent a huge anticipated that AquaCat will make a major impact to the services investment and the rapid and economical recovery of the metal from provided by our Brimsdown site.
spent catalyst is a vital part of their use.
Typically spent process catalysts are contaminated with organic materials from the reaction mixture as well as the material used to support the catalyst, often carbon.
These organic materials can be very hazardous and traditionally have to be removed before the exact quantity of metal present can be established.
The AquaCat process offers vast environmental improvements on incineration since it requires almost no external source of thermal energy, eliminates the need for expensive exhaust gas treatment, reduces the amount of physical handling of the material and makes containment easier.
Direct sampling of the customer material is the first stage of the AquaCat process.
This means that the amount of metal is predetermined before any processing takes place.
Johnson Matthey has put great emphasis on ensuring the integrity of the new sampling process.
We have consulted with customers to ensure that they are satisfied with the accuracy achieved and are comfortable that the new techniques do not compromise our commitment to ethical business conduct.
