Part of Life 36 Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Social RESPONSIBILITY Business Ethics Employee Involvement The Board of Johnston Press has made It is the policy of the Group to encourage with the publication of the Annual Report a clear commitment to operating all of and develop all members of staff to realise and Accounts.
The Company operates a the Groups business activities to the their maximum potential.
The Groups number of share schemes as outlined in highest standards of business ethics and policy is that wherever possible all jobs are the Directors Remuneration Report on integrity.
These principles are not only advertised on the Group Intranet and pages 39 to 43. contained in the Groups Corporate internal notice boards so that we maximise Social Responsibility Statement but it is the number of vacancies filled from within Community Involvement also policy to include these in the Group and create adequate For local newspapers, Corporate Social employment contracts.
The code of opportunities for internal promotion.
Responsibility is nothing new it is the ethics specifically requires adherence very essence of their being.
The local with all legal requirements.
The Group supports the principle of equal newspaper is an integral part of the local opportunities in employment and community in which it publishes and is The Group has the absolute objective of opposes all forms of unlawful or unfair passionately concerned with those issues always acting as a fair and reasonable discrimination on the grounds of race, which are at the very heart of the employer.
We also acknowledge and are nationality, religion, ethnic or national community.
Throughout our portfolio of keenly aware of our responsibilities to the origin, sexual orientation, gender or local and regional newspapers and the many communities we serve, our gender reassignment, marital status or communities which they serve, we are customers, suppliers, shareholders, and disability.
The Ethical Code of Conduct intimately involved in community issues to the environment.
Because of our key incorporated in all new employee and in playing an active part in making role in the community, a separate section contracts reflects this principle.
those communities better places to live, has been added to this report detailing work and play.
some of the related activities in which the It is also the policy of the Group, to give full Groups companies are involved.
and fair consideration to the recruitment of Concerns about health are often disabled persons.
Where disabled persons uppermost on the agenda of local Board Responsibility are employed, their training, including communities.
In that regard, our The Board has delegated the day-to-day training for alternative work of employees newspapers have been actively involved in responsibility for all matters related to that become disabled, and development challenging decisions to close health units Corporate Social Responsibility and social for promotion are encouraged and and hospitals, giving voice to community issues to the Executive Directors.
Expert advice is taken on the concerns.
Such campaigns have included are assisted by the Company Secretary needs of disabled employees and special those run by the Kirkintilloch Herald to who is the first point of contact for the equipment is provided where appropriate.
retain the Stobhill General Hospital, the majority of these issues.
Whitby Gazette to oppose the closure of The Group is committed to a their local maternity ward, the Worksop Specific responsibility for environmental comprehensive training and development Guardian to fight the closure of their issues has been delegated to the programme, creating the opportunity for Accident & Emergency Department and Finance Director.
employees to maintain and improve their the Hemel Gazette to highlight community performance and to develop their potential anger at a decision to downgrade the Whilst recognising that the practices of to a maximum level of attainment.
This local hospitals acute services unit.
recruitment, employment and training are includes a senior management the responsibility of all managers within development programme to identify and Our newspapers have been instrumental in the Group, responsibility for formulating, coach individuals who may have the numerous health-related campaigns, often updating and ensuring adherence to potential to lead the future direction of the initiating them.
Many relate to cancer Group policies has been delegated to the Group.
In 2003, the Group also instigated facilities or charities such as appeals run Director of Human Resources who is a commercial leadership training by the Fife Free Press to fund a Maggies responsible to the Chief Executive.
programme to guarantee the highest Cancer Care Centre in Kirkcaldy, the calibre candidates from internal and Blackpool Gazette for a new cancer unit at Relationships with customers, suppliers external sources are identified, to ensure the local hospital and by the Milton Keynes and the community are determined at that the business is not constrained in the Citizen which successfully raised 1.5 local level by the managing director of future by a lack of new talent.
In this way, million for a specialist cancer day each operating company and are subject staff will make their best possible treatment centre.
Newspapers such as the to review by the Director of Operations contribution to the organisations success.
Sunderland Echo, Shields Gazette and who is responsible to the Chief Executive.
Hartlepool Mail ran appeals in support of Group personnel policies ensure that all local hospices and they were amongst As part of the main Boards review of employees are made aware on a regular many.
An appeal for dialysis machines was Corporate Governance at the January basis of the Groups policies, programmes run by the Mansfield Chad and, to support 2004 meeting, the directors also and progress.
Extensive use is made of their local renal unit, by the Peterborough reviewed the Corporate Social the Group Intranet, notice boards and a Evening Telegraph.
The Yorkshire Post Responsibility Policy.
newsletter will be published to coincide gave a high profile to a campaign to Part of Life Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 37 address hidden disabilities especially troops in Iraq, donated by local readers.
to play an active and constructive part in autism.
The Harborough Mail played a The Carluke and Lanark Gazette has their communities.
Our commitment to central role in addressing an NHS dental provided support at Christmas for children this is central to our role as local and care crisis in the area.
And these are just a in Romania and the Harrogate Advertiser regional newspaper publishers.
few of numerous such initiatives.
raised 25,000 to support an orphanage in Malawi run by a couple from the town.
Customer Services Individual and sometimes heart-rending It is Group policy to provide the highest cases of illness are also given high Other initiatives, too numerous to mention standard of service to all of our prominence by our newspapers in an in detail, have addressed a huge range of customers.
Each operating company has effort to gather support from local issues of concern to local communities staff appointed to respond to all customer communities.
The Sunderland Echo around the country.
There are strict procedures for appealed for a bone marrow donor for a Times & Citizen campaign to improve the resolving customer complaints or queries local woman: a Blackpool Gazette appeal behaviour of amateur footballers has since regarding service and these are carefully raised 10,000 in a fortnight to fund been widely adopted: the Luton Herald & monitored by management.
specialist surgery in America to correct a Post played a leading role in the towns growth deficiency in a young boy: a initiatives on ethnic diversity: the East Fife Local management in each operation are successful Lancaster Guardian campaign Mail campaigned on solvent abuse: the responsible for ensuring that their identified a donor to save a woman dying Southern Reporter addressed the issue of companies and all their employees comply from leukaemia.
And, on a more general aggressive behaviour towards school with the requirements of all customer and front, the Lancashire Evening Posts highly crossing patrol staff: the News Post competition-related legislation.
It is Group acclaimed Have a Heart campaign Leader and Northumberland Gazette policy that the interests of Johnston Press attracted almost 2,000 new potential distributed Christmas presents to only ever require strict compliance and no organ donors in just two months.
disadvantaged children: the Selby Times one in the Group has authority to give any tackled the problem of bullying: the order or direction that would result in a Road safety is another critical concern for Derbyshire Times was instrumental in violation of this policy.
To monitor this and local communities.
A long running saving an animal shelter: various of our for training purposes, the Group Kirkintilloch Herald campaign to tackle the newspapers campaigned for undertakes mystery shopping exercises.
problem of boy racers often fuelled by improvements to local buildings in places excess alcohol has received considerable such as Batley, Pontefract, Morecambe Environmental Policy support and has involved local police and and Harrogate: the Whitby Gazette played The Group acknowledges that the schools.
A similar campaign has been run a leading role in bringing about an protection of the environment is one of our successfully by the Sheffield Star.
Road improvement in drinking water quality: the key corporate responsibilities.
We aim to improvements in accident black spots Rugby Advertiser campaigned vigorously comply with all relevant regulations and have resulted from campaigns run by the against a possible major airport see the identification, management and Bury Free Press and the Bexhill Observer.
development in the area: school closures control of environmental risks as being an Drink drive campaigns are also a regular have been opposed by the Wigan implicit requirement for adherence to the feature in our newspapers.
Observer and the Haywards Heath-based Corporate Governance Combined Code.
Mid Sussex Times: the Blackpool Gazette Local newspapers also have a key role to declared war on the carrying of knives: the Further to the work started in 2002 by play in leading campaigns to make their Lancashire Evening Post ran an extended independent environmental risk communities better places to live.
Again campaign against drink and violence: a consultants, which identified that the only these are run by many of our titles with number of our newspapers ran schemes significant environmental risks lay within examples including the Clean Up Our to assist reading levels, such as the the printing operations of the Group, Towns campaign by the Falkirk Herald, Doncaster Free Press reading passport environmental impact registers have been the Pride in Mann initiative on the Island campaign: we also have wide-ranging completed at each one of these locations.
and the Pride in Padiham campaign by links with schools in respect of related the Padiham Express.
The long running educational campaigns: in Sudbury and The Group has worked with consultants campaigns Pride in Peterborough and Chichester we campaigned for to develop a scoring methodology and We Can Do It in Portsmouth also improvements in local refuse collection.
audit programme to facilitate the ongoing continue to generate great good in their But, perhaps the most unusual appeal monitoring and control of our policies and communities.
It was particularly pleasing was by the Fenland Citizen to raise money procedures.
Audits by the external for the Northampton Chronicle and Echo to enable the March Air Training Corps to consultants have commenced and will to receive a Regional Green Apple Award replace their instruments which were continue on a rolling basis.
Detailed for their Greener, Cleaner campaign.
stolen or destroyed in a raid on their HQ.
reports are produced after each visit and the implementation of these is monitored Where we have overseas links, our The above gives a flavour of the extensive by management.
newspapers look well beyond their local power for good which local and regional communities in support of good causes.
Johnston Press strongly Many of our titles sent out parcels to our encourages its managers, editors and staff Part of Life 38 Johnston Press Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Corporate Social RESPONSIBILITY During 2003, the Group benefited from our energy costs.
On a full-year basis, the the Johnston Press Group tariffs, the the more energy-efficient press equipment Groups energy costs reduced by 3.7% closure of the old inefficient press at installed in 2002 as well as the energy between 2002 and 2003, despite the Harrogate with the titles displaced being monitoring and control equipment which newsprint tonnage processed through the printed at more efficient Group presses has been introduced.
This has allowed the Groups printing centres increasing by and the ongoing investment by the Group Group to claim rebates against the 5.1%.
There have been a number of in more efficient energy usage.
Climate Change Levy Tax and has reasons for this decrease, including the Consumption of energy in 2003, on a likeenabled more effective management of movement of the ex-RIM companies onto for-like basis, was as follows: 2003 2002 % Electricity - kWh 47,558,773 48,195,619 -1.3 - print centres kWh tonne 274.6 289.0 -5.0 Gas - kWh 33,974,515 33,970,873 - print centres kWh tonne 201.9 210.4 -4.0 Water 3 - m 118,751 125,309 -5.2 3 - print centres m tonne 0.66 0.75 -12.0 As can be seen from the above, as well Newsprint paper based waste is now handled by a as reducing its costs, the Group has Part of the industrys agreement with the nationwide company which specialises in made reductions in its energy Government, through its representative this field.
This company has 25-years consumption during 2003.
The absolute body the Newspaper Society, is a experience of our industry, has a proven reductions were made despite increased commitment to increase the target for ability to remove, recycle and make safe volumes.
However, the reductions in recycled newsprint.
In 2002, the most all of our waste products, has a consumption per tonne are more recently available figures, recycled paper transparent audit trail, and is ISO 14001 significant and demonstrate the energy made up 65.1% 2001 - 63.5% of the accredited.
efficiency of the new printing equipment.
raw material used in the production of The large reduction in water consumption UK newspapers.
"The target is for this All paper-based waste products are is as a result of the Groups investment in percentage to increase to 70% in 2006. removed and recycled through a Group- ""Computer to Plate Technology""."
This Newspapers cannot be recycled wide arrangement with one of our removes the need for the imaging indefinitely as the recycling process newsprint suppliers.
Companies with no process which was a significant user of breaks down the papers fibres until the printing facility are only required to water.
The Group has made significant paper finally loses its strength.
Therefore, account for any repackaging done prior progress towards achieving the target in a continuing supply of virgin fibre will to delivery to the customer.
its Energy Management Policy, which was always be needed.
This virgin fibre comes adopted in 2003, of a 7% reduction over from renewable managed softwood Systems are in operation, including an the next seven years and budgets have coniferous forests.
independent audit, to ensure that been set for 2004 encompassing a verification takes place on a random further 1% reduction.
Waste Packaging basis each year.
The Group adheres to the requirements of The Group also has a rolling programme the Producer Responsibility Obligations Shareholders of independent audit visits covering Packaging Waste Regulations 1997.
In Members of the Board Executive and property and health and safety risks.
2003, as part of the Groups continuing Non-Executive have met a number of These visits are targeted on the locations efforts to meet its environmental shareholders during the past year to which have the highest risk profile along obligations, a project was initiated to discuss Corporate Social Responsibility with a sample of other sites.
Detailed streamline and formalise the collection, matters and to address any questions reports and recommendations are recycling and disposal of its waste raised by shareholders.
produced after each visit which require products.
In January 2003 twelve follow-up and implementation by local companies were employed to remove management.
This process is monitored process waste and by December 2003 by the Group Management Committee.
this had been reduced to two.
