Operating and financial review Corporate & social responsibility Kelda Group plc plays a key role in the social, economic and environmental development of the communities in which it operates.
As the 24 hour provider of societys most precious natural We are committed to developing new strategies, policies resource we make a significant contribution to society through and procedures that will help us meet the demands and future the provision of safe and sustainable drinking water supplies.
expectations of all our stakeholders - shareholders, customers, The processes we use to undertake that role - collecting employees, suppliers and local communities - while at the the water, treating it and disposing of the waste water generated same time continuing to deliver maximum social and in homes and businesses - is leading to marked improvements environmental benefits.
in the quality of rivers and bathing waters.
These activities are externally assessed using the To help deliver these essential services, we employ more Winning With Integrity framework developed by Business than 3,000 people in the UK and the US, with a further 15,000 in The Community.
This enables us to benchmark clearly our people employed by the contract partners and suppliers with progress against other companies committed to managing, whom we work.
measuring and reporting their overall impact on society.
In addition to the services and products we provide to our Our intention is to use this external framework whilst domestic and business customers, Kelda is also making a positive developing our own internal agenda for action to ensure we difference to local communities through its involvement with can not only meet, but also surpass the expectations of our a wide range of community partnerships and initiatives.
various stakeholders in the future.
We have well established community programmes in place The following few pages are designed to give some which provide financial support and help in kind to a wide variety insight into the work we currently have underway.
of different individuals and organisations.
These partnerships are very important to Kelda in terms Further details can be obtained from the following websites: of building a greater understanding of and forging stronger links with our stakeholders, a concept commonly referred to today www.
com as corporate and social responsibility.
com At Kelda, corporate and social responsibility is already well www.
com embedded in the companys decision making processes.
co. uk In simple terms it is about the continuing adoption and implementation of sound and sustainable policies - be they of a financial, social or environmental nature - which is an integral part of our day to day business activities.
20 Environment We aim to deliver service excellence to our customers and to meet the requirements of our shareholders, whilst recognising that the greatest commitment we can make to the environment is through the efficient, effective and proper conduct of our business.
Business in The Environments BiTE Index of Corporate Seek to use materials efficiently, and promote the application Environmental Engagement of the waste hierarchy.
In March 2003 this independent external agency confirmed Encourage and facilitate the interchange of environmental Kelda as the water industrys leading performer in its highly technology throughout the group and promote good practice.
regarded Index of Corporate Environmental Engagement.
Conserve and enhance biodiversity wherever practicable A score of 97% made Kelda eligible for a place in BiTEs or required, through efficient and effective business practices.
new Premier League, an accolade shared by only 17 other Manage our land holdings in a responsible manner and FTSE 250 companies.
to provide and encourage sustainable access.
The survey measured the extent to which companies Develop our employees awareness of environmental issues understood and managed their impacts on the environment including this policy.
and examined whether environmental issues were an integral Foster productive partnerships with our stakeholder groups.
part of their business strategy.
Kelda scored full marks in Take an active and positive role in the community.
The report also pointed to the significant improvements The policy applies to Kelda and its subsidiaries.
We will also made by the company over the past few years in all areas encourage all other companies in which we have an interest as of its environmental performance.
either a shareholder or through our supply chain to implement this policy, or an equivalent.
Environmental policy The policy will be regularly reviewed in light of new Kelda recognises that the long term viability of our water and knowledge, changing legislation, public concerns and the waste water business is dependent on environmentally sustainable views of our advisory panels.
We will report our environmental operations.
We believe sustainable operations are those that performance via our website on a regular basis.
drive efficient resource use and provide a healthy environment, As part of our environmental policy we have refocused which in turn facilitates social progress and economic growth.
and increased the extent of internal reporting on our water As a company we therefore act as responsible stewards of the and waste water services, including regular reporting on relevant environment as part of our normal business practices.
environmental indicators such as energy, CO2 emissions and To balance these challenging needs we are committed biodiversity issues.
Such measures are used to continuously to efficient and effective business practices.
We recognise that set and review internal targets, in addition to our annual sustainability is the collective responsibilities of governments, regulatory targets officially set by Ofwat and the Environment businesses, individuals and communities and so work in Agency.
These environmental indicators are published in our partnership with our stakeholders to pursue this goal.
on-line Environment & Community Report available at www.
com environment Corporate commitments In pursuit of this policy, Kelda has committed itself to the following: Environmental management systems Achieve and maintain compliance with the environmental Environmental matters remain part of the fabric of our operations legislation in the country of operation of each of our and most elements required for a formal environmental subsidiaries and associated companies.
Where no regulations management system EMS represent business as usual for the exist, implement challenging company standards.
To this end, we have considered in detail the costs and Continue to reduce and where practicable prevent pollutant benefits of gaining an externally certified EMS to ISO14001 loads entering the environment.
standard with a view to obtaining certification by March 2004.
Kelda Group plc Annual report & accounts 2003 21 Corporate & social responsibility Environmental advisory panel Our environmental advisory panel includes Environment Environment representatives from both the voluntary and statutory sectors in Yorkshire.
Case study: Case study: Meeting quarterly in parallel with the board environment and community Loop green Yorkshire Water committee, the aim of the panel is to transport plan walking for health provide advice and input to Yorkshire Water to ensure all future environmental improvements represent real value for A green transport plan was recently Disadvantaged groups in Keighley, West money to customers.
The panel also helps produced and implemented by Loop to Yorkshire, are being prescribed a dose us ensure that sustainability remains at minimise the adverse impact of travel of the great outdoors as part of a unique the heart of our activities.
pilot project aimed at improving Kelda is grateful to the following The aim was to reduce emissions peoples health.
organisations for providing their of greenhouse gases, improve local Yorkshire Water has joined forces representation and support: air quality, minimise health risks to with a local organisation called Walking The Government Office for Yorkshire employees and reduce congestion, for All in Keighley WALK to encourage and the Humber, the Ramblers Association, noise, dirt and fumes.
To produce people with health and social the Environment Agency, Business In a green transport policy successfully disadvantages to make more use of the The Community, the Forestry Commission, it was essential to understand existing companys reservoirs, moorland and English Nature, Sheffield City Council, transport links and facilities serving Mid woodland for recreation.
British Waterways, the Council for the Point as well as the amount and types A special fund has been set up Protection of Rural England, the Yorkshire of travel generated by Loop employees.
which will be used to fund organised Wildlife Trust, the Regional Assembly for To do this, an assessment of the site and trips to Yorkshire Waters local reservoirs Yorkshire and Humberside, English Heritage, its surroundings was completed and where groups will be given the the RSPB, the Countryside Agency, the a survey of staff journeys to and from opportunity to explore the stunning Yorkshire Dales National Park Authority, work undertaken.
scenery, wildlife and architecture on North Yorkshire County Council and Eye On analysing the findings of the offer there.
survey and site assessment the following Walking is an ideal form of exercise - initiative was introduced: research shows that someone who does The panel has the following terms Discounted bus and train passes 30 minutes of moderate exercise five of reference: were made available to Loop employees, times a week can significantly reduce the To offer advice both proactively and encouraging the use of public transport.
risk of coronary heart disease, diabetes reactively to the Kelda board environment Loop now offers to pay in advance for and obesity and improve their sense of and community committee and the a 12 month bus train pass for its staff, well being.
executive management team of in the form of an interest free loan.
As well as improving peoples health, Yorkshire Water.
Deductions are then made direct the scheme is also designed to promote To form a communication link between from employees salaries each month.
a greater public awareness of Yorkshire key environmental stakeholders and Waters many roles and responsibilities groupings in the Yorkshire region as the regions largest landowner.
To assist the company in prioritising and realising its efforts with respect to environmental matters.
To support the company in developing its understanding of environmental issues.
To raise the awareness by the company of the importance of local environmental issues.
To provide a platform for areas of mutual interest regarding the environment to be progressed.
To make public as much information as practicable.
Green transport plan Reducing car congestion Walking for health Members of Keighleys Further information on Keldas on the regions roads.
Loops employees are being community enjoy a stroll round Ogden Reservoir encouraged to look at alternative methods of near Bradford.
environmental performance is available at travelling to and from work.
com environment 22 Leakage reduction Yorkshire Water Environment Environment 400 ml day Case study: Case study: Yorkshire Water Yorkshire Water red kites Scarborough The Yorkshire red kite restoration In January 2003, the companys new project began in 1999 with the release 30m waste water treatment works 200 ml day of 20 young birds.
in Scarborough won a national award Since that date the first time from the Institute of Civil Engineering 97 98 98 99 99 00 00 01 01 02 377 342 317 304 297 red kites had been seen in the skies of for its substantial contribution to Yorkshire for more than 150 years sustainable development.
the population is, thanks to subsequent The new works, built as part of Sludge disposal releases and three breeding seasons, Yorkshire Waters 120m CoastCare Yorkshire Water steadily increasing.
programme, is situated within the 1.
Disposal to By the end of July 2003, some Heritage Coast and near to the North 1 agriculture 19.8% 80 young birds will have been released Yorkshire Moors National Park.
Disposal to land redemption into the wild.
An innovative approach was needed 2 recycling 27.3% Yorkshire Water is one of three main therefore to ensure it would blend in 3.
Disposal to landfill 0.6% partners in this important wildlife project with its scenic surroundings.
Disposal to and its role has been to fund it over the To achieve this, the plant was composting 2.6% 5.
Disposal to last four years.
The two other key designed to resemble a range of incineration partners are the RSPB and English Nature, traditional farm buildings.
49.7% 3 5 4 while the Harewood Estate has thrown its A number of different construction 4 weight and support to the initiative by techniques and buildings materials were allowing the young birds to be released used in the construction of the external Number of Category 1 and 2 pollution incidents from its land.
buildings in order to create the illusion Yorkshire Water Yorkshire Waters involvement isnt of a farm development that had grown one of simply handing over the money over time, with all the treatment 40 and standing well back.
Its quite the processes either contained within the opposite.
Yorkshire Water employees sit buildings or situated out of sight within on the projects steering committee and a central courtyard.
The local environmental pressure The companys Eccup reservoir, on group, the Sons of Neptune, is delighted the outskirts of Leeds, is one of the best not only with the sympathetic design places to view red kites and Yorkshire of the works but that it also uses ultra-violet Water has constructed a viewing platform disinfection the ultimate in terms of 0 from where visitors can see the kites.
current waste water treatment technology ensuring the companys discharges go 97 98 98 99 99 00 00 01 01 02 37 37 26 14 10 beyond the standards required under current EU and UK legislation.
Source of abstraction Yorkshire Water 1.
Reservoirs 39.6% 3 2 Red kites Members of the public get a glimpse Waste water treatment works This attractive of the red kites from the newly constructed farm style building houses Scarboroughs new, viewing platform at Eccup reservoir, Leeds.
state of the art waste water treatment works.
During construction over 30 quarries were investigated to obtain stone typical to that used in the surrounding area.
Kelda Group plc Annual report & accounts 2003 23 Corporate & social responsibility Community We are as reliant on the support, prosperity and well being of the communities in which we operate as they are on the products and services we provide.
Kelda challenges itself to make a difference to the quality of peoples lives over and above the provision of high Community quality water and waste water services.
In the UK and the US we have well established Case study: community programmes in place which provide financial support and help in kind to a wide variety of different Yorkshire Water individuals and organisations.
These partnerships are of real importance to Kelda Cool Schools in terms of building a greater understanding of and forging stronger links with the communities in which we operate.
Yorkshire Waters Cool Schools campaign was named community initiative of the year 2002 at the prestigious Utility Industry Our community programmes have the following themes: Achievement Awards, beating off stiff competition from some of the biggest names in the water, gas, electricity and Education It is our role to educate people about water, telecommunications industries.
natures most precious resource and build a greater awareness Cool Schools was launched in June 2002 and is the biggest of our activities and environmental achievements.
community initiative ever undertaken by the company.
The aim of the campaign is to combat the problem of Environment The environment is at the heart of almost dehydration in local primary schools by making chilled drinking everything we do.
As well as being stewards of the land and water more readily available to pupils.
providing sustainable water supplies, through the efficient Over the next three years Yorkshire Water plans to install operation and upgrading of our sewers and waste water mains fed water coolers in every primary school in the region.
treatment works, we also play a significant role in terms of To encourage children to make maximum use of the coolers, preventing pollution and promoting improvements in river a special water bottle has also been designed aimed specifically and bathing water quality.
The campaign was launched in response to claims by local Empowerment As well as helping communities to help health experts that dehydration in schools is having a damaging themselves, we believe there are benefits to empowering effect on childrens health and education.
our employees by giving them the opportunity to get Research shows that children are suffering from headaches, involved in a wide range of initiatives.
fatigue, irritability and poor concentration because some schools are failing to provide pupils with adequate access to drinking water.
It is To make the partnerships we forge as strong and productive also causing short and long term kidney and urinary tract infections.
as possible, all our employees are actively encouraged to Under the terms of the scheme, Yorkshire Water is offering become involved in community initiatives and act as schools free water coolers, with schools only being asked to pay ambassadors for the company.
Encouraging employees to take a wider role and more ownership of our community programmes has given greater recognition and pride of achievement in the business.
It has generated greater personal development opportunities for individuals and delivered important benefits for the communities we serve.
Cool Schools School children are being given ready access to a safe and refreshing supply of tap water to help boost their well being.
24 Community Community Community Case study: Case study: Case study: Aquarion Yorkshire Water Yorkshire Water Water For People helping schools Community Catalyst Fund Aquarion has joined forces with Water Yorkshire Water and HSBC are joint lead For People, a US based charity that helps sponsors of the North East Sheffield improve the availability of quality drinking Education Action Zone EAZ.
Yorkshire Water operates a Community water in impoverished countries.
The zone is one of 73 created by Catalyst Fund which is administered by Every year Aquarion supports the government to improve performance a panel of 12 employees drawn from community based and charitable events in schools in challenging circumstances.
all levels of the business.
by donating bottles of water.
It embraces three secondary and These volunteers are responsible not During 2003 however, the company 17 primary schools and one special only for considering requests for financial has also agreed that for every bottle it needs school.
assistance but also proactively identifying donates, it will give 10 cents to Water For During the past year Yorkshire Water community based initiatives which align People to help fund its ongoing work in has invested more than 45,000 in cash with the companys business objectives.
Donations are predominantly given Aquarions bottles will also carry labels As well as funding the EAZs award as a catalyst to help kick start new that explain Water For Peoples aims and winning newsletter, Yorkshire Water initiatives and help community groups objectives and how people can obtain provides office accommodation, facilities help themselves.
even more information by visiting the support and training and development Members of the panel conduct charitys website.
Several employees also donate a regular site visits to see for themselves Aquarion Waters President and Chief considerable amount of time and energy the work carried out by potential Executive Janet Hansen said: Americans have towards helping the EAZ realise its goals.
beneficiaries and ensure the authenticity become so accustomed to drinking water Several other large businesses - and sustainability of the initiatives we that complies with stringent, health related including Cadbury Schweppes, Toshiba, are asked to support.
standards that we often overlook the terribly Corus and Sheffield City Council also During 2002 03, Yorkshire Water unsafe conditions that affect our neighbours support the zones activities.
donated a total of 100,000 to drinking water throughout the world.
Yorkshire Waters Commercial approximately 50 different projects Aquarion is delighted to be able to help Director Paul Wynn, who is also chairman in this way.
Water For People address this very of the EAZ, said: The EAZ has made a important issue.
real difference to the quality of education Water For People executive director Steve provided in local schools and Yorkshire Werner said: This is a wonderful example of Water is proud to have played a pivotal corporate giving that not only provides us with role in delivering these improvements.
a new source of funding but also helps spread the word to a much broader audience.
Water For People has already supported more than 500 community based projects in developing countries, resulting in a dramatic decline in the number of diseases such as cholera, typhoid and hepatitis A.
Water For People Aquarions initiative will help Helping schools Prime Minister Tony Blair and Community Catalyst Fund Bradford Amateur Rowing provide improved water supplies in developing Home Secretary David Blunkett jamming with Club was one of the many organisations to benefit from countries.
young musicians during a fact finding visit to Firth the fund.
A 4,000 donation from Yorkshire Water helped Park Community Arts College in February 2003. the club purchase a vitally needed new boat suitable for junior rowers.
The water companys donation was match funded through the Sportsmatch scheme which enables the advancement of sport at a grass roots level.
Kelda Group plc Annual report & accounts 2003 25 Corporate & social responsibility Workplace We recognise that the morale and motivation of our staff directly links with how they value the company and how well the business performs.
Our aim therefore is to continually improve all aspects of the workplace.
Working at Kelda Kelda employs over 3,000 people, of Workplace Workplace which around 500 are based in the US.
We strive to improve our reputation Case study: Case study: as a good employer.
This helps and encourages people to stay with us Loop Yorkshire Water and act as community ambassadors great place to work employee volunteering for the business.
We recognise that work life balance is important to many of our employees Loop is officially a great place to work.
Yorkshire Waters commitment to employee and this year we launched a new suite During 2002 03, the company picked volunteering is well established.
of family friendly policies to supplement up two prestigious accolades which clearly The company was singled out for praise our existing range of part time working demonstrates how its positive approach in a discussion document published recently opportunities, flexible working and to people is appreciated by employees.
by HM Treasury and the Home Office.
Loop was featured as one of the Entitled Next Steps On Volunteering A lot of emphasis is placed on 100 best companies to work for in the & Giving In The UK, the document set helping employees to understand how well respected Sunday Times awards.
out how the government proposed to continue their objectives relate to the companys Loop competed against an encouraging businesses to forge stronger links business plan, how they are performing international list of companies and was with the communities in which they operate.
against their objectives, and how their placed at number 70 ahead of much Yorkshire Water, which has approximately performance related pay is determined.
larger organisations such as Marks and 20% of its workforce actively engaged in We monitor employee satisfaction Spencer, American Express and Avon volunteering schemes, was highlighted as on a regular basis.
an organisation that offers great flexibility, Regular communications include It was also featured in the Financial opportunities and encouragement to its face to face sessions between employees Times Top 50 Best Workplaces in the UK employees to get involved in community initiatives.
and the senior management team, survey, at number 42.
Again this was a The strategy is entrenched in the our Were Listening database where considerable achievement as more than companys business plan.
The focus is on all issues raised are replied to within 1,000 companies entered.
a programme of employee volunteering seven days and our bi-monthly house Managing Director of Loop Alastair this helps build close links with community magazine, Connections.
Employees are Thomson said: One of the most groups and the business itself benefits as its encouraged to seek out the information important ways we ensure high levels of people see community engagement as a part needed to carry out their role to its service on behalf of our clients is to ensure of their personal development, said the report.
full potential, to share learning, expertise that the people who work for us are happy The company is involved in a range and information with colleagues, to and fulfilled in their working life.
To receive of volunteering schemes, such as Right To give feedback which helps the company such positive endorsement of our Read, the national science and engineering to improve and to ensure that they approach in these nationally recognised ambassadors initiative and through Bradfords understand issues.
awards is an important measure of how Shipley and A Education Action Zones.
Through our annual business much we try to get our approach to Employees also donate more than excellence awards, we also seek to people right, he added.
30,000 a year to charity through the celebrate and reward the innovation, companys payroll giving scheme.
creativity and achievements of our employees.
During 2002 03, almost 200 team and individual entries were received, giving a clear indication of the ongoing popularity and success of the event.
Great place to work Alastair Thomson right Employee volunteering Yorkshire Water filter is pictured receiving one of the awards from management technician Gerald Leach helps pupils at the Sunday Times Editor John Witherow.
Salt Grammar School in Bradford with their work.
26 Marketplace Our interface with customers, suppliers and contractors is important to the success of our business.
We continually seek to improve our relationships with our stakeholders and share our expertise and success.
Kelda proactively engages with a wide range of stakeholder groups and has Marketplace Marketplace forged numerous partnerships aimed at building a greater understanding of Case study: Case study: their diverse needs and aspirations.
This meaningful two way dialogue Yorkshire Water Yorkshire Water helps us to shape our policies and contractor awards business customer survey procedures to ensure that, wherever practicable, we can tailor our activities For the second year running, Yorkshire Yorkshire Water recently took a major step to meet market expectations.
Water has topped a business customer forward in being recognised as a contract Through regular research we gauge satisfaction survey commissioned by the centre of excellence when it staged its the views of our customers and their independent Energy Information Centre.
levels of satisfaction with the products 150 businesses nationally were asked Over 180 employees from key and services we provide.
This has already to rate how their local water and sewerage contractors attended the event along led to the development of a range of company performed in a number of key areas.
with representatives from the industrys added value services.
Yorkshire Water was ranked joint first regulatory bodies, the Environment For example, domestic customers for water supply and was top performer for Agency, Drinking Water Inspectorate, Ofwat are provided with free water saving the removal of industrial waste and effluent.
and the Health and Safety Executive.
devices to install in their homes, free The report said: When compared in The aim of the event was to recognise drinking water bottles, a wide range detail against other individual water and reward the achievements of Yorkshire of flexible payment options and special suppliers, Yorkshire Water comes top for Waters contractors who play a crucial tariffs for vulnerable customers.
water pressure, reducing water usage, role in the delivery of services and Yorkshire Water was also one of the ease of contact, listening to needs, solving improvements to the companys 4.7 first UK companies to introduce service problems, explaining the industry and million customers.
plans for its key business customers and knowing the customers company.
Many Morrison Utility Services was named voluntarily commit to enhanced levels of these arise from good account best overall performing partner, with AMEC of service over and above regulatory management.
Utilities taking the title of best overall requirements.
Yorkshire Water recently launched safety provider.
We recognise however that our a major customer care initiative believed Steve Ryan, contract support manager reputation for financial efficiency, to be a first for the UK water industry.
for AMEC, said: Winning the award was service excellence and environmental Each of the companys top 30 business great because weve worked so hard to improvements is not based solely on our customers now have their own dedicated strengthen our safety record over the past own efforts but those of our suppliers customer care teams responsible for 12 months.
As a business we place a lot of and contractors as well.
emphasis on employee and public safety.
We have developed contract Following the launch of the new key Yorkshire Water has also developed partner criteria which balance cost account teams, customer satisfaction rose a Service Charter which has been rolled out and financial efficiency with their desire from 91% to 95% and when compared against to contractors to ensure they understand and commitment to deliver the same other leading suppliers, from 86% to 89%.
the companys policies and procedures and high standards of customer care as we are able to deliver a consistently high as a company strive to achieve and standard of service to customers.
Business customer survey Yorkshire Water provides its Contractor awards The successful Morrison Utilities team business customers with a range of products and services pictured with Keldas Chief Executive Kevin Whiteman.
to help improve their own performance and profitability.
Kelda Group plc Annual report & accounts 2003 27
