corporate social responsibility At Hilton Group we strive for high standards of performance and advocate socially and environmentally responsible business practice throughout our global operations.
Our aim is to bring a positive benefit to Ladbrokes has gained national energy Ladbrokes employees raised over the societies in which we operate, through efficiency accreditation, a UK scheme 750,000 for the NSPCC, the chosen high quality services, economic growth, run by the National Energy Foundation charity for 2003. environmental protection, community and endorsed by the CBI.
involvement and, of course, employment.
We have developed and launched a Benchmarking and Indices worldwide environmental reporting To benchmark our performance we actively We value our business, our people and tool to be used by all hotels to provide engage with several key global corporate the communities we serve and are proud environmental data on a monthly basis.
of our performance to date.
Here are some highlights of our activity from Marketplace Hilton Group has been a member of across the Group A minimum set of corporate social the FTSE4Good index series since its responsibility CSR standards for inception and is now included in the Workplace business partners and suppliers have Dow Jones Sustainability Index DJSI Ladbrokes is the only bookmaker with been agreed and are currently being series.
Both of these schemes identify full Investor in People accreditation rolled out across the Group.
companies who exceed certain global and in 2003 was re-accredited by Not only has Ladbrokes been involved standards in CSR and identify bestGoodCorporation.
in developing the UK industrys approach practice across a range of economic, There has been a worldwide roll out of to Responsible Gambling, in December social and environmental issues.
Hilton University, with over 2,500 Hilton 2003, it was the first bookmaker to gain Hilton Group has also participated in the people around the world completing accreditation against the industrys new UK Business in the Environment survey more than 30,000 programmes.
Social Responsibility and Good Practice BiE Index for the last three years.
In 2002 Ladbrokes has launched the Works for Code for betting shops.
You initiative in order to give something In October 2003, Hilton was named The 2003 results are to be announced back to its employees.
The scheme the Leading Choice Hotel Brand in Asia in March 2004. provides discounts on a range of products Pacific outperforming all other brands In 2002 Business in the Community and services.
in the most extensive BDRC business introduced a new Corporate Responsibility LivingWell has launched the SPiiCE traveller survey ever conducted in the Survey which covers the whole programme, whose values encapsulate Asia Pacific region.
the importance of how employees Hilton Group participated for the behave with customers and with Community first time in 2003.
The results will each other.
Hilton in the Community Foundation also be announced in March 2004.
The Hilton UK and Ireland Health and raised approximately 950,000 Safety Programme achieved a Royal in charitable funds during 2003 Website Society for the Prevention of Accidents 230,000 of which came from For full details on our CSR policies and Gold Award for occupational health the Group.
to read our 2003 CSR Report please visit and safety the only hotel company The Scandic in Society programme the Group website www.
com in the UK to achieve this status.
continues to flourish with community under Responsible Business.
action programmes being rolled out Environment across the whole portfolio.
Further information on CSR is included There was worldwide involvement in In 2003 Ladbrokes established its own in the Directors Report on page 53 of the Hotels Environment Action Month charity, Ladbrokes in the Community the Annual Report 2003. in September 2003.
Over 400 hotels Charitable Trust, which will focus participated with 66 reporting their on supporting projects which are actions through the Hilton Group website.
centred in local communities where Ladbrokes operates.
12 Hilton Group plc Annual Report 2003
