THE LAIRD GROUP PLC 29 Group operating rules are issued each year to the directors of subsidiary companies setting out their responsibilities and the procedures to be followed to agree their commercial and financial objectives.
These rules require approval for specific transactions and call for accurate and relevant financial information to be delivered on a timely basis.
The ability to identify risk is enhanced by the timely reporting of management information and the short lines of communication with operating managers.
Subsidiaries submit their budgets annually to the Groups executive directors.
As part of this process they are required to identify the key risks and opportunities that their businesses face and set out the strategies they will employ to manage the risks and exploit the opportunities.
The issues raised by the subsidiaries are reviewed by the Board.
This process is supplemented by papers submitted to the Board by the executive directors throughout the year and by meetings from time to time between the Board and the management of the subsidiaries, some of which take place at the premises of the operating companies.
The Chief Executive presents the Groups business objectives which are approved by the Board, and the Board also addresses those risks which affect The Laird Group as a whole.
The Board instigates further reports and investigations, as it considers necessary.
The Laird Risk Management Group RMG, chaired by an executive director, currently Mr Drabble, and with members drawn from the Groups businesses examines all aspects of operational risk within the Group.
The RMG which met four times during 2003 reported to the Audit Committee but now reports to the Board.
The principal objectives of the RMG are to identify potential risks, physical exposure and business interruption issues associated with each operating companys business and their wider implications for the Group as a whole: to review business continuity planning and emergency response procedures: to develop contingency plans and to oversee the implementation of remedial actions where appropriate, and to continue to develop and ensure the implementation of best risk management practice throughout the Group.
The RMG also oversees Health, Safety and Environmental issues using external advisers to assist where appropriate.
Further details on the RMG are set out in the Corporate social responsibility report set out below.
The Audit Committee reviews The Laird Group PLCs published financial statements.
It also has responsibility for reviewing the internal financial controls and considers the scope and planning of internal and external audits.
It reviews reports on internal control including the overall management of financial risk within the Group.
These include reports by the Finance Director, the results from internal audits and comprehensive self-assessment control reviews by subsidiary management.
As part of their audit, the external auditors, to the extent they consider necessary to support their audit opinion, review and test the systems of internal control and the data contained in the accounts, including an independent and objective review of the approach of management to the reporting of the operating results and financial condition.
The auditors have confirmed that in their opinion the subsidiaries, and the Group, are complying with the Companies Act 1985 requirement to keep proper books and records.
Corporate social responsibility for the year to 31 December 2003 The Groups businesses and its activities involve a wide community of stakeholders, including investors, employees, customers, suppliers and local communities.
Business Ethics During the year a new Ethics Policy statement was approved by the Board.
The Laird Group PLC believes that high standards of business ethics are critical in todays business world and therefore places high priority on compliance with all legislative and regulatory requirements, and on the maintenance of high ethical standards, within each of the territories and jurisdictions in which it conducts its business.
The Laird Group PLC, its Divisions and businesses the Group commits to conducting itself, and expects all employees to conduct themselves, in an honest, ethical manner in all dealings on its behalf and to behave professionally and with integrity and fairness.
The Group applies these same standards to all business dealings with customers, suppliers and stakeholders.
The Groups policy is that businesses should compete enthusiastically and fairly in the marketplace and must comply with the relevant competition laws of each country in which it operates.
A copy of the Ethics Policy statement is available on the Companys website or from the Company on request.
Health, Safety and Environmental The Group is committed to providing a safe working environment for its employees and the Group maintains a proactive communications strategy between all employees to stimulate continuous improvement and promote and develop good health, safety and environmental practices.
The Laird Risk Management Group RMG, chaired by an executive director, currently Mr Drabble, and with members drawn from the Groups businesses examines risks within the operations and in particular oversees Health, Safety and Environmental matters.
The RMG, which met four times during 2003, reported to the Audit Committee during that period but now reports to the Board as a consequence of the reorganisation of the Board and its Committees.
30 THE LAIRD GROUP PLC Corporate social responsibility continued for the year to 31 December 2003 During the year comprehensive Health, Safety and Environmental audits were carried out at all the UK and the majority of the North American sites.
The results of the Health, Safety and Environmental audits and their follow up are monitored by the RMG.
Audits of the Groups facilities in China will be carried out in 2004.
During 2003 a representative from each UK business qualified with an IOSH certificate in Working Safely and an EEF certificate in Environmental Awareness.
Although each business has its own Health and Safety committee which has representatives from management and employees it is recognised that there are benefits of sharing knowledge within the Group and in the UK a Health and Safety Forum which has representatives from each business meets twice yearly.
Issues discussed during the year included work related safety and accident statistics.
Across the Group, Health and Safety training is provided focusing on perceived risk within each business.
Environmental Policy The Group is committed to pursuing high standards of environmental performance including the maintenance of safe and healthy working environments.
Detailed policies are developed and implemented by the operating divisions and their subsidiary businesses to reflect their specific trading activities and the associated risks.
The Groups minimum requirements are for its businesses to comply with local legislation and to operate continuous improvement programmes, to ensure that efficient use is made of all resources, including energy, water and raw materials, and that emissions are restricted to within best practice levels, waste is minimised and accidents prevented through comprehensive training.
The goal is to achieve the requirements of ISO 14001 where appropriate by integrating environmental understanding and control into systems and procedures under the direction of senior management, with the full support of employees and the involvement of suppliers and customers.
The majority of the Groups main manufacturing facilities are ISO 9001 or ISO 9000 compliant.
The Group undertakes a rolling programme of environmental audits covering all of the Groups manufacturing sites with external environmental consultants.
A number of specific environmental initiatives have been carried out, for example: One of Laird Security Systems UK businesses reduced its solid waste disposal to landfill by 23%: this was achieved through root cause analysis of scrap at source resulting in preventative action.
The same business, as a member of Target 2010 and in line with the UK Governments commitment to the Kyoto agreement for reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, committed to a year-on-year reduction in CO emissions from their sites.
As a result of a number of initiatives, this business met the 2010 target within just two years.
2 Initiatives at a second site resulted in 23 tonnes of polythene card and 38 tonnes of foam scrap being recycled, while waste recycling initiatives introduced during the year at a third business should result in a 30,000 saving in 2004.
Laird Technologies in St Louis, USA installed a new highly cost-effective waste treatment system during the year to process the silver and tin waste generated by the conductive foam manufacturing process.
The new system allows the accumulation, precipitation and clarification of the hazardous waste and precludes the need to have the waste shipped and treated offsite at a licensed facility.
Using the new system solid metals are recycled in industry rather than being placed in a landfill.
A copy of the Groups Health, Safety and Environmental Policy statement is available on the Companys website or from the Company on request.
Charitable Donations and Community Affairs The well-being of the communities in which the Group operates is important to its long term development and success.
During the year the Group gave 83,000 to charity.
The Group supported a number of large charities for example, Marie Curie, Age Concern and Save the Children Fund.
The subsidiaries of the Group, many of which are long-established in their communities, support local initiatives particularly working with schools and sports teams.
Examples are: Donations of waste paper and aluminium cans to a local hospice to enable it to get cash from recycling, and also the collection of aluminium cans for donation to Habitat for Humanity in the USA.
Sponsorship of local schools, for example in fire-awareness training.
A subsidiary raising money for a charity for terminally ill children by arranging a football match and other events with its transport company.
Support of the Cardinal Wiseman School in Birmingham, England and through financial assistance Laird helped it achieve its Technology application under the Technology Colleges Trust Initiative.
In addition to financial assistance, a director of Laird Security Hardware has been appointed as a School Governor.
There are many other instances of support to charity including participation in Jeans for Genes and Red Nose Days in the UK.
Some of these initiatives are on a small scale but the ideas often come from employees, supported by management and are indicative of the desire of employees to become involved.
