Corporate social responsibility statement 34 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 Corporate social LogicaCMG believes that all businesses improvement and internal communications senior management succession planning should be socially and environmentally programmes are devised to address programme, to develop the leadership and responsible and considers this any issues.
management talent needed at executive approach to be an inherent aspect of committee and board level to support our our business principles.
Although this is The LogicaCMG European Works Council global ambitions.
the first corporate social responsibility the Council, with elected employee CSR statement we have published, representatives, exists with the aim of We recognise that, in a year of consolidation most of the policies below have for establishing a means of social dialogue for and change, some of our staff have been many years been an integral part of information and communications with the concerned about their future and we have how we run our company.
employees of the group in Europe.
The worked hard to address these concerns.
Council promotes the exchange of views Our employees and information with the aim of extending During the necessary rationalisation Our mission is to help leading organisations understanding and facilitating the programme following the merger, we worldwide achieve their business objectives introduction of policy changes to the group.
worked closely with representative bodies through the innovative delivery of and works councils within each country to information technology and business The group is an equal opportunities ensure a fair process.
By helping our customers employer and our ethos emphasises services were offered to affected staff to succeed we, in turn, enable our company fairness and respect for the individual.
assist them in their career transition.
It is to and our people to succeed.
During 2004, we will be continuing a groupour peoples credit that we have achieved wide programme to roll out best practice so much and we appreciate their significant While delivering solutions for our customers across all relevant human resource areas.
We believe that, as is our central objective, as a professional a result, we have created a strong services company we recognise that our Our company ethics policy is published and foundation for profitable growth that will people are our principal asset and a incorporated into Cortex, our processprovide the career development and fundamental part of our value proposition.
oriented methodology of how we manage opportunities for advancement for those Our culture and values, reflected in and our customers and our business.
While we who deserve them.
through our people, are therefore critical to are confident that its use will rarely be our success.
necessary, we have nonetheless introduced Health and safety a whistle blowing procedure as the The group is mindful of the health and Immediately following the merger, we company recognises the potential need to safety of its people and others we are in published our company ethos The provide access to an anonymous and contact with worldwide.
This emphasises our core confidential helpline.
compliance with relevant statutory principles of openness, communication and requirements and best practice guidelines involvement: equality, fairness and Following both Logica and CMGs support issued by national health and safety meritocracy: professionalism and quality: of employee share ownership, which we authorities: implement and promote personal development and loyalty, and believe encourages employee participation appropriate safe working practices customer focus.
The objective of the ethos in the progress and profitability of the group, throughout the group, and inform and liaise is to support our business goals through the we were pleased to launch the first with staff about the companys policies and attraction, retention and realisation of the full LogicaCMG employee sharesave option and practices to achieve a healthy and safe potential of high-quality people.
employee share participation schemes in working environment.
In the light of most of our global locations during 2003. increasing global security concerns, we All employees are recognised and rewarded Most employees within the group have have upgraded our policies to ensure our for their effort and contribution to the options or shares in the company.
In people operate safely in all countries.
To company not on the basis of grade, status addition, share options have been awarded this end, we use guidance from or favour.
We believe in being open at all to senior managers across the group, organisations such as the UK Foreign & times, subject to respecting customer, through the executive share option scheme.
Commonwealth Office, and other relevant company and personal confidentiality.
Our sources, together with an expert security managers are required to be accessible to At the end of the 2003, we introduced a company that vets our arrangements and people at all levels: communicating with, common performance management system safeguards as appropriate.
and involving them, in the development of for all employees.
This embraces a number the business so that they can be informed, of important principles, including the motivated, committed and better able to establishment of clear and agreed personal contribute to the success of the company.
objectives: the use of career pathways that identify key capabilities and behaviours at a Communications and human resources variety of competency levels across core teams conduct a global staff survey at least career paths: personal development and once a year.
All employees are emailed the succession planning, to support training and survey, which is translated into several personal growth: and annual appraisals, to languages.
Feedback received from review progress and determine remuneration employees is used to identify areas for and advancement.
We also introduced a Corporate social responsibility statement 35 LogicaCMG plc annual report and accounts 2003 responsibility statement Our business our customers better products, solutions redundant assets such as computer Ethical conduct and services.
The components which our systems to good causes: assist staff in In all the groups operations, it is important partners can bring to the table help us to identifying and supporting local charities to retain a set of core values and deliver the solutions the market wants.
through give-as-you-earn schemes, and approaches to the process of doing support participation in corporate events business.
The group demands and Research and development that share charitable objectives.
maintains the highest ethical standards in The group believes that research and carrying out its business activities.
development is more effective when done in Political contributions We recognise the obligations we have close cooperation with its clients and so The companys policy is not to make any towards those with whom we interact, continues to undertake research and donations to political parties.
However, the including staff, shareholders, customers, development work on a funded basis, UK Political Parties, Elections and suppliers, competitors and the community ensuring that real market needs are being Referendums Act 2000 the Act, which as a whole.
The companys reputation, directly addressed.
came into force in February 2001, defines together with the trust and confidence of all political donations and political expenditure those with whom it interacts, is one of our Directors so broadly that some of our activities may most vital assets and its protection is of The directors are listed on pages 30 and fall within the definitions in the legislation.
Details of directors remuneration, These include seminars and other functions shareholdings and contracts are given on to which politicians are invited or Customers pages 36 to 43. expenditure incurred whilst taking part in The group operates a highly effective and industry forums.
In addition, the cost to the efficient organisation, focused on meeting Internal controls and risks company of giving staff time off to customer objectives.
To cater for the wide Details of the groups internal control participate in municipal political activities variety of work we undertake, we aim for a and risk management systems are given may be covered under this legislation.
The balance between flexibility in the way we in the corporate governance report on new legislation requires companies to seek operate and the application of tight control pages 44 to 46. shareholder approval before making any to meet customer expectations predictably donations or incurring expenditure to political and repeatedly.
We set up clear lines of Community organisations within the EU in excess of internal communication that help us Environment 5,000 in each year.
While we do not intend respond quickly to customer and market We are concerned with the conservation of to alter our normal activities, we will, when requirements.
We provide our customers the environment in its broadest sense and and if appropriate, seek shareholder with a consistent service across recognise that certain resources are finite authority for such expenditure to ensure that geographies, industries and technology and must be used responsibly.
In that the the requirements of the Act are met.
This is underpinned by a consistent groups operations are by their nature of approach to the way we conduct our work.
minimal environmental impact, our policy is The groups approach, embodied in our to meet the relevant statutory requirements Cortex business management system, is and apply good environmental practice in based on nearly 40 years experience in the both our business operations and in the IT industry.
Further details on Cortex can be development of systems and products for found on page 8. our customers.
We aim to recycle as much of our waste products as is environmentally We recognise that every member of staff practicable and to dispose of nonhas a part to play in creating customer recyclable items in an environmentally satisfaction.
We expect and encourage friendly way.
We also endeavour to limit our individual employees to contribute to impact on the environment by the use of organisational advancement.
We operate a electronic communication methods such as policy of continual improvement, of both email and video conference facilities rather processes and the skills of our people, to than unnecessary travel.
It is the take best advantage of advances in responsibility of the chief executive of each technology.
This safeguards our operations subsidiary to respond to, and comply with, for the future, ensuring that we will continue legislation within their countries of operation.
An open, meritocratic and to add value to our customers businesses.
Charitable donations performance-oriented Business partners and suppliers The company considers that the choice of One of LogicaCMGs strengths is its charitable activities is a matter of company which the best excellent approach to alliances and conscience for individual members of staff partnerships with customers.
Many of our and shareholders.
We support staff who people want to join and new contracts come through alliances volunteer their services to the local where we provide an offering in partnership community and to charitable activities: build their careers in.
with another company, enabling us to offer provide, where permissible, commercially
