"Environmental Statement sympathetic restoration and after use of quarry sites Board Responsibility and considers the character of the local The Deputy Chairman, Mr J D Marshall, is the Board environment and the concerns of the community Director responsible for the Environmental when planning such matters""."
Environmental Management Environmental Policy During the year, the focus has been on the The Groups Environmental Policy was revised in introduction of Integrated Management Systems July 2003.
The policy is displayed throughout the IMS, combining BS EN ISO 14001 Environment, Group and on the Groups Website.
The policy is:- OHSAS 18001 Health & Safety, and BS EN ISO 9001 2000 Quality.
"""Marshalls is committed to achieving the highest standards of environmental performance and Six sites in the Landscape Products Division and one continually aims to prevent pollution and minimise site in the Natural Stone Division received the impact of its operations."
The Groups aim is that accreditation to the Standards forming an IMS no lasting environmental damage occurs as a result through BSI during 2003.
The roll-out programme of its activities, and policies are being implemented for the introduction of IMS at all thirty-three of the to ensure that all of its operations meet or exceed Group sites will continue during 2004 with seven the requirements of legislation and applicable best Landscape Products Division sites, one Clay practice.
Products Division site and four Natural Stone Division sites programmed to receive accreditation Marshalls regards compliance with relevant during the year.
It is also intended to put in place an environmental laws, and the adoption of IMS at the Group Laboratory.
The roll-out responsible standards where no legislation exists, as programme extends to the second quarter of 2006. an integral part of its business strategy and is committed to considering the environmental The Group has identified the significant impacts associated with its products throughout environmental impact of its operations, which are their life-cycle.
summarised below:- Marshalls has committed to monitor its environmental performance in line with Energy Construction Products Association requirements, The Group has now monitored its energy and to set objectives and targets to improve its consumption for its main operations since impacts in key areas.
These will be reviewed on at January 2000. least an annual basis to ensure continual improvement.
The environmental impact of energy consumption within the Group is monitored by two KPIs which Marshalls will continue to raise environmental are: Kilowatt hours consumed per production tonne awareness within the Group through the and Kilograms of CO2 produced per production development and training of its employees and will tonne.
The number of Kilowatt hours consumed per communicate openly and consult with customers, production tonne has reduced slightly since suppliers and other stakeholders on relevant January 2002, and is sensitive to levels of environmental matters.
More efficient production has emphasised the importance of investigation into Marshalls strives to conserve natural habitats and the base load at each of the manufacturing units create additional areas of wildlife value wherever and further energy monitoring is being introduced.
The Group also recognises the need for 20 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2003 Kilograms of CO2 per tonne produced also reflects Agency.
There was a short period of time when the cyclical variations due to production levels, but water being discharged exceeded the revised limit since 2002 the volume of CO2 produced per set by the Environment Agency and action was production tonne has shown improvement, taken by the Group to address the problem.
although again further energy monitoring and Confirmation has now been received from the improvement measures are being introduced.
Environment Agency that both Production Units are fully compliant with the revised limits and in fact are exceeding the Environment Agency requirements.
Climate Change Levy The majority of process water used by both sites is The second target period for the Climate Change now treated and recycled back into production.
Levy for the Clay Products Division commenced on 1 October 2003.
The Group is confident that the Transport target set will be met.
"The Clay Products Division is also preparing for the implementation of the During the year the Group has invested heavily in European Emissions Trading Scheme, due to start on new vehicles for its transport fleet and now all heavy 1 January 2005. goods vehicles are compliant to ""Euro three"" Enhanced Environmental Performance."
The new vehicles allow a further five tonne pay load reducing Water Use the number of journeys required.
New computer Considerable progress was made during 2003 in software will allow more efficient planning and introducing improved drainage and better water reduce empty vehicle running by up to 50%.
recycling facilities throughout the Group.
Not only has this reduced the amount of water being The Group continues to develop alternative discharged from the sites, but has reduced the overall transportation links for incoming aggregates in coconsumption of water from mains supply and bore operation with its suppliers.
A major rail project is holes.
Particular improvements have been made at under review and transportation by waterways the West Lane and Brookfoot sites and further work could still prove a viable option for two of the is continuing at the Llay, Cannock and Maltby sites.
The recycling of fresh waste concrete has been introduced at the West Lane Production Unit.
Waste Reduction The Group KPI for annual water usage measures the Further progress has been made in reducing waste cubic metres of water obtained from either the from the manufacturing process.
Recycling of waste mains supply or from bore holes.
During 2003, product is now the norm at all sites, with the increased recycling of water led to a reduction of recycled material being incorporated back into the over 15% in the amount of mains supply and bore production process.
The introduction of new hole water purchased by the Group.
European Standards for the majority of Group products allows greater flexibility in the use of the The Group monitors discharged water on a monthly recycled materials for aggregates.
basis at all the sites producing precast concrete products, and on a quarterly basis at the Clay In the Landscape Products Division, waste material Products Division sites.
The monitoring from other industries is being recycled as an demonstrated that discharges at our West Lane and aggregate replacement where it does not affect Brookfoot sites were likely to exceed the revised product quality.
Materials utilised include increased discharge consents proposed by the Environment quantities of china clay waste and steel slag waste.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2003 21 Environmental Statement continued A new manufacturing unit for concrete paving blocks was built at the Maltby site within the confines of the existing site boundary and at the Sandy site a new Concrete Block Paving Plant was installed after purchase of the adjoining industrial site.
At Stonemarket an adjoining office block was refurbished for use by the Company.
No development took place on any greenfield site.
One of our subsidiary companies is currently applying to re-work a quarry in Derbyshire to secure dimensional stone for restoration, heritage and new build projects.
The development programme, which is being undertaken in consultation with the relevant authorities, is currently addressing some local issues which have been raised.
Careful Sustainable Urban Drainage Systems consideration is always given to the environmental impact of all our quarry development and site Packaging restoration projects.
During 2003 there has been a rationalisation in the use of timber pallets that has reduced the number of An existing Natural Stone Quarry at Cross Platts was designs by 39%.
The designs have been modified to restored by the use of quarry waste taken from an reduce timber content.
Where possible pallets adjoining manufacturing site and once the fill has returned by customers are repaired.
Those beyond settled the land will be restored for agricultural use.
The landfill site at Howley Park has now been sealed and restored for agricultural use.
There have been further reductions in the use of polyethylene for packaging, with all polyethylene Environmental Impact of Product being removed from kerb product during 2003.
Trials with thinner film gauges are ongoing.
Improved The bulk of the Group products are intended for facilities for the recycling of polyethylene, including long-life with low maintenance with many products dirty polyethylene have been introduced.
having a life in excess of a 100 years.
The use of stretch film to replace polyethylene has Over such a life span the initial environmental continued during 2003.
This has the benefit of no heat impact created during the manufacture and being required to shrink the packaging to the product.
The majority of products produced by the Group can be easily Packaging waste obligations are met through recycled at the end of their useful life, either in new Valpaks compliance scheme.
An audit by the construction in the case of dry laid product or can Environment Agency in 2004 confirmed that be crushed as a secondary aggregate.
Marshalls data capture was satisfactory.
The Group has made application to the Building Research Establishment to develop environmental Land Management profiles for products in each of its main The Group continues to develop Brownfield sites.
During 2003 a new Head Office for the Landscape Products Division was completed on a former coal fired power station site.
22 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2003 Sustainability Environmental Key Performance Indicators The Group continues to have a major input into the sustainable strategies being developed by trade The Group has aligned its Environmental Key organisations.
Following the publication of the Brick Performance Indicators with those being developed Industry Sustainability Strategy in 2002, the British by the Construction Products Association.
Databases Precast Concrete Federation is developing its own have been established for the following areas: strategy with a strong contribution from Marshalls.
Energy consumption: Identifying energy from renewable and Suppliers and Contractors alternative sources: The Group has increased its supplier audits, which Water usage: includes the environmental aspects of their Identifying the percentage of recyclable water: operations.
The Groups major suppliers have all Transport movements: developed, or are developing Environmental Waste reduction: Management Systems and many of the smaller Re-use of waste by recycling in-house and suppliers have followed this lead.
Environmental externally: and Management is one of the criteria considered Packaging management and the use of when examining a suppliers qualifications for recycled material in packaging.
Pollution, Prevention and Control Wildlife Trust The Group has completed the A2 applications Marshalls strives to conserve natural habitats and required under PPC legislation for its four Clay create additional areas of wildlife value where Products Division sites.
There has been close possible.
co-operation with the relevant Local Authorities during the preparation of these applications.
The Group encourages its manufacturing sites to join local Wildlife Trusts as part of its conservation In the Landscape Products and Natural Stone policy.
Such links also improve relationships with Divisions, the majority of sites will fall into the local communities.
Category B Classification, although there are ongoing discussions regarding sites where the increasing recycling of water could lead to a requirement for Environmental Awareness and Training applications to be upgraded to A1 Classification.
As part of its ongoing commitment to environmental improvement, the Group is Awards introducing further training for its regional employees to ensure greater development of local During the year, the Sandy Works of the Landscape initiatives.
Products Division received a Green Apple Award for the development and promotion of Environmental Environmental Awareness continues to be Best Practice.
The Award is presented by the Royal improved within the Group with continued Society of Arts.
The Group also received a highly emphasis on developing dialogue on commended recommendation in the British Precast environmental matters, with its customers, suppliers Environmental Award for 2003 for the development and other stakeholders.
of water recycling and fresh waste concrete recycling at its West Lane Works.
