Corporate Social Responsibility The Board takes regular account of the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters to the business of the Group and thus its comprehensive risk management and internal control process identifies and assesses the significant risks to the Companys short and long term value arising from such matters.
Marshalls recognises its corporate social responsibilities to its shareholders, customers and suppliers and is committed to good practice.
Statement of Values and Principles The Groups statement of Values & Principles sets out the high standards to which all Marshalls employees are encouraged and expected to Hazard Warning Paving, City Stadium, Manchester adhere.
"The statement includes guidance on from repetitive manual handling processes and it is business practice and entertainment, the Groups policy to eliminate manual handling ""whistleblowing"" and equal opportunities."
The Group is committed to high standards of Health and Safety health and safety for all of its employees.
However, The continuing improvement of health and safety from time to time, the operating subsidiaries have performance is a key priority.
We are now into the received Improvement Notices from the Health and seventh year of formal Health and Safety Safety Executive HSE related to their activities.
Over the course of the last two Over the years the conditions of these notices have years over 90% of our employees have received always been satisfied within the timescale agreed training in health and safety awareness and with the HSE.
An exception concerns a recent incident prevention.
As a minimum, they have Improvement Notice issued by the HSE at one of attended a one day Health and Safety Awareness the factories in the Clay Products Division.
Due to Course with a large number taking formal the failure to meet the deadline agreed between qualifications in Health and Safety Management.
the HSE and the Clay Products Division the HSE The courses are supported by the Groups commenced a personal prosecution against the Employee Health and Safety Handbook.
Health Group Chairman, Mr C. T. Burnett.
He has denied and Safety improvement remains a key area of liability and the matter is on-going.
The conditions attention for 2004 and this is reflected in the of the Improvement Notice, which are related to priorities of all our Managing Directors and the installation of dust extraction equipment, have employees.
At factory level, health and safety is promoted by The Board monitors the Groups accident statistics Safety, Health and Incident Prevention Teams which on a monthly basis.
The overall rate of workplace consist of employees and managers.
We have injuries within the Company continues to fall.
The identified our major health and safety risk as being number of accidents legally reportable under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations RIDDOR has fallen from 18 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2003 38.8 per 1,000 employees in 2002 to 34.6 per 1,000 employees in 2003.
Our target is to reduce further RIDDOR injuries by 10 per cent in 2004.
Accidents and Incidents 2003 2002 rate per 1,000 employees Major injury 3.8 4.5 Injury resulting in over 3 days absence from work 30.8 34.3 All RIDDORS 34.6 38.8 Total UK headcount 3,088 3,369 Employees It is Marshalls policy to treat all its employees fairly and specifically to prohibit discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, sex, nationality or ethnic Natural Granite Paving origin.
Disabled people are given equal Arrangements exist to keep all employees consideration for all job vacancies for which they informed of matters of concern to them through a are suitable.
If employees become disabled the variety of media including the Groups intranet, Group continues employment wherever possible newsletters and meetings.
Employees are encouraged to become The Group recognises that its reputation is very shareholders in the Company and the Group dependent on the quality, effectiveness and skill operates a Save As You Earn Scheme.
There is a commitment at Board level to ensure that Community its employees and management are properly The Group is keen to contribute to the inducted into the Company and given the communities in which it operates particularly necessary training to fulfil their roles and to those neighbouring its sites.
This is achieved develop their full capabilities.
With ever increasing through charitable donations and other initiatives customer demands, particular emphasis is placed that help the community.
on customer service and interpersonal skills.
The Groups investment in management development During the year, the Group made charitable continued to increase during the year and donations of 15,098 2002 : 26,410.
It is the programmes are in place with the principal aims of Groups policy not to make political donations and ensuring consistent standards of management no political donations were made in the year practice across the Group, nurturing new potential 2002 : Nil.
and ensuring succession to senior appointments.
Electronic communication in general has resulted in a massive reduction in internal paperwork throughout the Group.
