ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY The Board determines the Groupprovide appropriate training so that Solid waste.
Agreements are in place with Refrigerants.
We give particular priority, environmental policy.
A sub committee employees are able to: suppliers and contractors to dispose of with defined timescales, to the replacement of the Board, chaired by the Finance waste in the most responsible manner of CFCs and hydrogenated CFCs, such Director, meets twice a year to review exercise personal responsibility in commercially available.
Many sites across as HCFC R22.
All newly installed plant and the performance of the Group against preventing harm to the the Group have recycling containers for equipment meets existing control that policy.
We aim to reduce the amount of standards.
contribute to every aspect of waste destined for landfill by the use of Group statement of intent environmental protection: and reclamation recycling and other means.
Preparations are well advanced We will: provide facilities for environmental to comply with the Control of Asbestos auditing.
We continue to improve grease at Work Regulations 2004.
Detailed comply with all relevant environmental management.
Contracts are in place surveys have been undertaken at over legislation in order to minimise the risk Environmental management to ensure regular equipment maintenance, 300 sites across the Group.
All sites across the Group and responsible waste disposal.
display appropriate signage in accordance Biotechnology trials at a number of sites New building programme.
New building be environmentally responsible with the Clean Air Charter.
will be monitored with the aim of programmes require compliance with towards employees, brands and the extending these across the estate, thus Part L2 of the Building Regulations local communities.
Energy consumption levels are reducing the amount of waste produced.
low-energy lighting being installed in monitored across the Group and ways to all back-of-house areas, condensing boilers be committed to sustaining the reduce consumption are actively sought.
Used cooking oil is collected used, thermostatic radiators provided and environment.
We aim to minimise energy consumption: by waste contractors who dispose of water heating via separate direct-fired employ a system of energy and resource it in the most responsible manner boilers.
We require suppliers to be able encourage our business partners, management based on monitoring and commercially available.
to demonstrate sound environmental suppliers and contractors to adopt targeting: and set realistic targets, and practices.
measure progress against those targets, Sewage treatment.
A number of sites to ensure continuous improvement in across the Group have treatment plants employ structured environmental environmental performance.
contractors ensure the performance of Water use.
Water consumption levels are these plants and compliance with We will continue to: monitored across the Group and ways to discharge consent limits.
reduce consumption are actively sought.
adopt economic production processes We aim to minimise the use of natural Radon.
We employ specialist contractors having minimal environmental impact.
to monitor Radon levels in sensitive areas.
aim for prevention of pollution at source.
