CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY W&DB is committed to contributing Advertising and marketing of WDB Brands has raised over 15,000 involved in an ongoing programme of positively to the success of the alcoholic products from a number of initiatives across our back to the floor exercises, allowing communities it serves, and where its We support the guidelines of The Portman trading estate.
them to make substantial improvements employees often reside, in a way which Group, an industry body set up to monitor from the direct feedback of employees will make them proud to be associated and advise on the responsible marketing Our employees also run their own charity at all levels within the business.
and selling of alcoholic products.
Both fund which has raised over 120,000 for Pathfinder Pubs and The Union Pub local causes.
Employee consultation A responsible attitude towards Company have recently become associate As well as Group-led activities we also alcohol members of this group.
Working with The Princes Trust have an excellent relationship with a We are convinced that the provision of We are pleased to be involved with number of trade unions.
In many areas quality products served in well-maintained Support for community Education The Princes Trust.
Placements with this employee representatives play an pubs, with industry leading standards Action Zones Trust form an integral part of our important and positive part in developing of customer service, creates a favourable We also support a wide range of Graduate Training Programme, offering our business, and we intend to continue experience for customers and contributes community activities, including Education our managers of the future a chance to with and improve these relationships.
to the overall quality of life within local Action Zones, in the Wolverhampton contribute to their wider community and communities.
However we are also and Mansfield areas.
This has provided to develop vital people and project Acting on employee feedback aware that public attitudes towards the additional speech therapy resources, management skills.
The overall results and trends revealed consumption of alcohol are changing, and opportunities for local unemployed by the confidential employee attitude and therefore we seek to avoid any kind people to train for a career in education.
Listening to our employees surveys which we run are fed back to of promotional or marketing activity W&DB is a people-focused business and our employees.
Significant positive designed to encourage consumption Charitable donations it is vital that we keep our employees changes to both employee benefits and of excessive amounts of alcohol.
Each year our licensed retail managers, informed of what our aims are, and how communication processes have been pub staff and tenants raise very large we intend to achieve them.
More made, demonstrating our commitment Our ongoing training programmes include amounts of money for a wide variety importantly, we listen to what our to listen.
The most significant this year has significant elements designed to help pub of charitable causes.
employees have to say, and respond in been the introduction of an Employee staff to recognise circumstances when it a positive and timely manner.
Assistance Programme: this provides would be inappropriate to serve a Pathfinder Pubs has raised over 250,000 confidential support 24 hours a day, customer, and to handle difficult situations through locally run pub-based activities, In addition to regular briefing sessions, 365 days a year for employees.
in a calm, safe and considerate manner.
and almost 40,000 from employees within we publish a range of in-house magazines its central support functions, all of which will designed to keep employees updated We continue to explore opportunities to We aim to provide all our customers be used to support local charitable events.
on Group events, and also to record and improve current practices and, where with a high quality experience, where celebrate employee achievements.
Well appropriate, to introduce new initiatives.
food and drink can be consumed in a well In addition to providing support for the attended roadshows and conference maintained, safe and friendly environment.
charitable activities of their tenants and presentations are increasingly seen as lessees, The Union Pub Company an integral part of how each of our supports the Queens Hospital, Burton trading divisions operate.
Many of the Cancer Appeal and other similar charities.
management and support teams are also W&DB Annual Report 2003 19 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Diversity and the work life balance We have achieved the prestigious Investor under the co-ordination of the Group Having predominantly community-based in People standard, and have been Health and Safety Manager.
These pubs means that the vast majority of continuously accredited since 1995.
We committees include members of the employees are recruited from the were re-accredited earlier this year using management team and trained employee communities around them.
The majority the most rigorous of assessment representatives who review local of our pub staff are also part-time, methods.
health and safety issues and make and work hours to suit their personal recommendations for improvement.
As part of our development The Board and health and safety programmes, we offer recruitment and The health and safety of our employees Within Pathfinder Pubs, all pubs undergo selection modules which identify the and members of the communities we health and safety audits by external benefits of having a diverse workforce.
The measures by which a a Health and Safety Policy which is satisfactory outcome is determined are We are aware of our responsibilities endorsed by the Board and used regularly reviewed.
Each pub has its own in respect of the provisions of the throughout the Group.
A bi-annual report copy of a comprehensive health and forthcoming Disability Discrimination is prepared for the Board which gives safety manual for use as a source of Act and, as well as setting up audit detailed statistics relating to health and information, guidance and training.
In programmes, Pathfinder Pubs has become safety issues and progress made in addition a health and safety committee a member of the Employers Forum on improving health and safety matters.
These has recently been established in order Disability.
reports are actively discussed, debated to increase the profile of health and and challenged at all management levels.
We recruit locally and offer a working environment and benefits package which Health and safety practical Tenants and lessees within The Union promotes employee retention.
This year application and employee Pub Company are provided with the has seen significant improvements in involvement opportunity to receive health and safety maternity and paternity arrangements Relevant health and safety information training, and can also obtain examples of well above the new legal statutory and guidance forms a part of every best practice for use within their pubs.
employees induction process, and many managers have been trained in risk Developing all our employees assessment techniques.
The health and Structured and focused training and safety issues in the workplace are development programmes are available reviewed regularly.
to all employees, and everyone with the desire and enthusiasm to progress within All our production and head office W&DB has the opportunity to do so.
locations have active health and safety committees which meet regularly 20 W&DB Annual Report 2003
