McCarthy & Stone plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report Communication This is the Groups first Corporate Social The Company regards communication with employees, who Responsibility Report.
It incorporates the are spread throughout the UK, to be of prime importance.
Environmental Report produced in previous Methods of communication range from individual appraisals years and reflects the Groups awareness of conducted annually by Line Managers, team briefings, department meetings, a staff magazine Signpost, regional the need to align its interests with those of rallies and presentations.
The Group undertakes a regular its key stakeholder groups its shareholders, Employee Satisfaction Survey and in the survey carried out customers, employees, suppliers and the during the financial year 88% of employees reported that they were happy working at McCarthy & Stone.
The Group is also The Group ensures regular meetings across disciplines are conscious of the need to ensure that any held within Regions and meetings for all those in specific particular initiative will be cost effective.
disciplines Group-wide are held at least once a year.
These meetings seek to ensure everyone in the business is aware of For a number of years the Group has operated a structured and can benefit from current best practice, new ideas, planning process linking its strategic and operational methods and solutions to problems.
Senior Management initiatives together in a single document called Our Future Conferences are also held regularly to develop and motivate Plan.
This plan identifies five key goals of the Group: the senior teams to take the business forward.
The Groups business plan is an agenda item at all Regional Board 1.
Shareholders: To increase shareholder value with sound meetings, with relevant critical action steps being discussed financing.
at departmental meetings, to ensure the Plan is 2.
Employees: To create an environment in which all communicated throughout the business.
contribute to, and benefit from the Groups success.
Operations: To deliver growth through cost effective Employment and Equal Opportunities quality processes.
We aim to recruit and retain the best people and to promote 4.
Customers: To be the natural choice for a happy from within where possible.
We recognise that there are retirement.
severe skills shortages in certain building professions as well as in the building trades, so it is particularly important to 5.
Reputation in the Wider Community: To be regarded as ensure equal opportunity for all and to retain the flexibility to the UKs premier retirement housebuilder.
accommodate the changing needs of employees.
Equal The Group has established its approach to business in a opportunities are regarded as vital to the continued success of Corporate Principles Policy that covers relations with each of the business and we follow a policy that ensures we attract the key stakeholder groups referred to above.
Through the and retain the right people on the basis of ability and application of this Policy, the Group strives for sound ethical experience, regardless of sex, race, religious beliefs, creed, standards in carrying out its business activities and, together colour, nationality, ethnic or national origins, membership or with its whistle blowing procedure, endeavours to create the non-membership of a trade union, marital or parental status, climate in which employees may voice genuinely held disability, age or contractual status e. g. part time and fixed concerns about behaviour or decisions which they perceive to contract workers.
Should any employee become disabled it is be contrary to the terms or the spirit of the Policy.
the Groups policy to continue where possible the employment of that person and to provide equal opportunities Employees for the career development of employees with disabilities.
The Groups ability to achieve its commercial objectives and Training and Development to meet the needs of its customers in a profitable and competitive manner depends on the contribution of all The Group makes a major investment in training and is proud employees.
The Groups approach is encapsulated in its of its success in promoting internally with more than 70% of Personnel, Equal Opportunities and Staff Welfare Policies.
the senior management team having been promoted from within.
We have established a Graduate Committee to promote and oversee our efforts to attract students.
In June Page 16 McCarthy & Stone plc Training courses are attended regularly at Homelife House.
The annual staff turnover for the year ending 31 August 2003 was 17.7%, which we believe to be one of the lowest in the industry.
Amongst senior managers of the Group the turnover rate for the year was 7.17%.
These figures are a reflection of the employment policies implemented and the opportunities and rewards available.
At the 31st August 2003 the Group employed 905 people, an increase during the year of 110.
In addition the Groups construction programme provides increasing employment opportunities via its subcontracted labour as the number of sites increases.
The Group places great emphasis on the experience of its long serving employees and rewards employees who have achieved 10 and 20 years service with an additional weeks holiday and a cash bonus.
The average length of service is 8 years.
this year the Group employed 14 placement students and 8 Community new graduates.
In addition to induction training we undertake a comprehensive range of IT and Health and Safety The Well-being of Older People training for all employees.
A programme of Customer front The Group supports the Governments policy objective to line training courses is also provided with Construction and ensure that everyone has the opportunity of a decent home, Customer Care staff attending.
The Group has a including those in need of affordable and special needs comprehensive range of courses for Sales staff to progress housing such as the elderly.
Appropriate and good quality through various guilds to enable them to deliver high housing, allied to the right care, support and wider services, performance.
This is the first such sales scheme to achieve can be the springboard that enables older people to remain CITB status within the construction sector.
The Group has a involved and to lead independent lives to the full.
We are steady flow of employees completing the NHBC Site Manager keen, therefore, to ensure genuine housing choice for older Accreditation programme and courses in management skills people, across all tenures, which is responsive to both needs are also provided.
In addition, many employees are supported and preferences.
through the attainment of professional qualifications and We are working with the Government and others to help professionally qualified employees are encouraged to maintain establish a better appreciation of the housing implications of the Continuous Professional Development requirements of the ageing of the population.
Gary Day, our Land and Planning their professional institute.
The Group reimburses the cost of Director, is a member of the ODPM DoH Housing and Older Professional memberships.
People Development Group which is charged with taking forward the priorities and objectives set out in the Reward Governments Quality and Choice for Older Peoples Housing: All staff participate in bonus and award schemes designed to A Strategic Framework, published in January 2001.
Gary Day reward employees for their contribution and loyalty, quality also sits on one of the task groups of the 50 50 Vision North and over-achievement.
Incentive schemes include a Company West Forum on Ageing set up by the Government Office for Profit share scheme and rewards for the achievement of the North West, and is a member of the Royal Town Planning NHBC quality awards and sales performance.
In addition, the Institutes Ageing Population Working Group.
During the year, Company has now introduced a prize for the Region that has we have participated in numerous seminars and workshops the best achievement in delivering the Customer Charter.
relating to the housing needs of older people, given a A total of 3.6m 2.4m will be paid in bonuses and profit presentation at the Annual Conference of the Chartered share to senior managers and employees excluding PLC Institute of Housing, and sponsored and given a presentation Directors as a result of the Groups exceptional at the Institutes Annual Sheltered Housing Conference.
performance against objectives set at the start of the year.
This year we realised that we could do more to communicate The cost of remuneration for all employees including directors the needs and preferences of our own Customers and the for the year to 31 August 2003 amounted to 30.0 million wider benefits of sheltered housing.
McCarthy & Stone plc Page 17 Corporate Social Responsibility Report largest independent study of its kind, providing an in-depth agreed to 2.1m in off site contributions towards the delivery analysis of our particular form of housing the impact it has of affordable housing.
In addition 44 units of affordable on the quality of life of our residents and the wider social, housing will be provided on sites developed by the Group.
The Report on this Where the provision is on-site we seek to ensure it is research A Better Life: Private Sheltered Housing and compatible with our sheltered housing schemes.
In Independent Living for Older People was launched in the particular through a Joint Venture the Group has pioneered House of Commons on 4 November and will hopefully on-site key worker affordable housing without the need for contribute to the wider debate on the needs and well-being of any public subsidiary.
older people and, in particular, the importance of housing in Charitable And Political Contributions delivering a good quality life.
The Groups policy is to consider requests for support of We will continue to work alongside the Government, at all registered charities or special events that are directly related levels, and other stakeholders to promote the provision of to the retired elderly and which are likely to generate genuine housing choice for older people.
goodwill towards the Company, against a predetermined annual budget.
During the year, contributions within the UK to charities or equivalent organisations through corporate giving or as part of the activity of UK operating companies amounted to 5,835 2,800.
In addition, the involvement of staff in local charitable events is encouraged.
The Group operates a Give as you Earn scheme enabling staff to make charitable donations direct from their pay.
There were no political contributions during the year.
Examples of charitable & fundraising activities include Red Nose Day collections organised by the employee Sports & Social Club, a Sportsmans Dinner held by Midlands Region which raised 6,800 and the use of the Groups sites for Derek Field, Regional Managing Director, South West Region, Macmillan Cancer Relief worlds biggest coffee morning judging float designs based on one of McCarthy & Stones lorries.
Work in the Community Health & Safety The Group provides work experience opportunities for 14-15 The Group takes all matters concerning health and safety year-olds to help with the requirements of the school seriously: our Health and Safety Policy ensures that issues are curriculum and we work with schools and colleges to assist addressed on a regular basis at all levels of the organisation.
with other schools projects wherever possible.
The Group The Group employs a full time Health & Safety Professional played an active part in this years Construction Week, who works in liaison with Health & Safety representatives encouraging schoolchildren to visit our sites to learn more appointed by each of the Groups operational units, and in about construction and encourage some of them into a future liaison with the Groups external safety advisers, Hurst Setter.
career in the sector to help meet the growing skills shortage Hurst Setter carry out regular inspections of each facing the industry.
Work experience and placement construction site, and our Health & Safety Manager also opportunities are also available for older students and we carries out spot audits, with detailed reporting procedures have a well-established programme for year-out students ensuring that performance can be closely monitored against studying for university degrees or professional qualifications.
The Group is also actively encouraging and supporting its The number of reportable accidents i. e. over three days off sub-contractors to take on apprentices through the provision work occurring on our sites or in our offices in the year of sponsorship and site work experience opportunities.
ending 31st August 2003 was eight, of which six involved the The Group is involved in the provision of affordable and social activities of subcontractors.
The average number of housing as part of the process of securing planning consents employees in the year was 845.
Four HSE Notices were for its retirement developments.
In the last year we have Page 18 McCarthy & Stone plc McCarthy & Stone plc served during a year in which the Group was active on an Director with ultimate responsibility for Environmental average of 59 construction sites.
matters and created an Environmental Committee, with Coordinators in each office, to ensure that cost-effective To promote greater management accountability and year on initiatives are actioned across the Group.
We continue to year improvement in health and safety performance a scheme increase the profile of environmental issues through regular of internal fines has been introduced.
If incurred, such fines articles in Signpost and the setting of action steps in Our could have an impact on the bonuses earned by members of Future Plan.
This is helping establish a strong culture where the relevant operational management.
The fines are triggered we all do our bit to respect the environment and benefit the by poor health and safety performance reported either by the long-term future of the business.
enforcement authorities or the Groups health and safety advisers as part of their regular inspection process.
The Group continues to enjoy an excellent record on environmental issues with no incidents or prosecutions by the Surveys of the Groups older offices throughout the UK have Environment Agency arising from any of its operations.
been carried out in order to ensure compliance with the Control of Asbestos at Work Regulations 2002.
The Group Environmental Impacts will be in a position to comply with the Regulations well The following identifies the main areas of impact the Group before the enforcement date in May 2004. has on the environment and the initiatives put in place to Customers lessen that impact.
Two years ago, after extensive consultations with specialist consultants, the Group implemented a comprehensive Customer Denehurst Court, Church Stretton, before & after.
This strategy is now working, with staff, suppliers, subcontractors and most importantly Customers benefiting from a renewed focus on delivering excellence.
This is a long-term venture and will require constant effort and dedication to ensure that we not only maintain the high standards already achieved, but continue to improve upon this solid foundation.
We regularly seek our Customers feedback on all aspects of the product and service we and our partners provide so that we can strive to improve our business.
The many awards the company has won, as detailed under The McCarthy & Stone Brand in the Operational Review, recognise the Groups commitment to achieving customer satisfaction through the provision of a quality product and service.
The Company is proud that it has an excellent record of acceptance of apartments as complete and ready for sale on Product first time NHBC inspection and is consistently near the top of the NHBC housebuilder perfromance league tables.
The use of brownfield land sites to develop retirement housing.
The Group has long been at the forefront of Environment redeveloping brown-field land in central urban locations as We recognise fully our responsibility towards the protection the basis for its buildings, often bringing contaminated land of the environment for the benefit of current and future back into beneficial use.
We consistently achieve a 100% generations, and that all those with an interest in our brown field ratio, well in excess of the Governments target of activities, including our Customers and Shareholders, will 60%.
Our sheltered housing schemes represent a very prosper through reducing environmental costs of processes, sustainable form of development, indeed, considerably more products and services.
so than general housing schemes.
Our product consists of Over the last two years the Group has taken firm steps to relatively small one and two bedroomed self-contained enhance its Environmental performance.
We have established purpose-built flats for the elderly, built to high densities an Environmental Policy, appointed Gary Day as the PLC commensurate with site constraints and other relevant McCarthy & Stone plc Page 19 McCarthy & Stone plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report planning considerations.
Our developments release existing arises from the demolition and clearance of the previous use under-occupied larger family houses back into the market.
In and from materials and packaging disposed of via skips during providing an independent lifestyle and helping to maintain the building works.
The Group works with sub-contractors health and general well-being for older people, our schemes and suppliers to encourage minimum waste on-site and the reduce demands on health and social services and other care recycling of building materials.
All demolition contracts are facilities hence contributing to a better and more cost awarded on an all risk clear site basis, encouraging effective use of public resources.
All our sites include planned contractors to re-use salvageable materials bricks and blocks landscaping, which will vary depending on the area and being converted to hardcore, roofing material and undamaged constraints of the site.
We seek to retain trees and plant timbers being re-sold for construction and renovation attractive landscaped areas for the benefit of our purchasers purposes.
The Groups sites are always very space and to enhance the visual amenities in the local environment.
constricted as we seek to maximise the development potential Often where we develop sites we will be introducing new of the site in line with Government policy.
This makes it planting to enhance the local ecology.
The Company gained difficult on all but a handful of sites to practise waste HBF Daily Mail sponsored Green Leaf awards for segregation.
Notwithstanding this, the Group has started a developments at Highlands, Leeds: Baden Court, West Kirby: trial of the Building Research Establishments Smartwaste Spalding Court, Chelmsford: and Weldale, Southport.
system to identify the potential for applying the system across the Groups sites.
The use of power and water by purchasers of our homes we aim to specify energy efficient appliances in our homes Noise and disruption arising from building work we aim and install dual flush WCs.
to be a good neighbour during the construction process.
This All our buildings are built in involves minimising noise at unsociable hours and a constant accordance with building focus on the presentation and cleanliness of our sites to regulations including reduce dust and rubbish.
having an excellent level The use of power and water during construction the of insulation to minimise Group tries to arrange for mains power to be installed as soon heat loss.
as possible rather than use generators on its sites as mains Traffic generation by electricity is generated in a more environmentally efficient purchasers of our homes way and this also reduces any noise nuisance to neighbours.
the convenient location of Offices our sites to local shops and The use of power and water in our offices our services reduces the need Environmental Coordinators have undertaken initiatives in for residents to use their their offices to conserve power and water.
In line with installation of non-water flush urinals and lights-off policies.
government policy we look to minimise car use through The use in our offices of stationery and other materials Sir George Young, formerly limited parking on our sites the Coordinators have helped focus efforts to encourage Secretary of State for Transport and have established Green better use of stationery and to recycle office waste such as and now member of Parliament Transport Plans on all new scrap paper, plastic cups, printer cartridges with a donation for North Hampshire.
going to charity in many cases and drink cans.
Travel by staff in the course of their work and commuting Construction to and from work, staff are encouraged to share cars and to The use of materials during construction the Group has use public transport where practicable.
adopted a lifecycle approach to its specification of materials for many years.
This has involved looking at the long-term Objectives for 2004 maintenance implications of items such as windows where The Group intends to work with Business in the Community there are clear benefits in specifying uPVC so as to reduce the to review Our Corporate Social Responsibilities policy and need for painting and replacement.
Included in the Groups Our Future Plan are Waste generated as a by-product of construction waste the following proposals: Page 20 McCarthy & Stone plc McCarthy & Stone plc trade suppliers and sub-contractors at 31 August 2003 Working with Bournemouth University to investigate how represented 28 26 days worth of the amounts invoiced the Group can most cost-effectively obtain useful during the year.
Trade creditors include retentions held information on the types of waste generated by our sites.
against subcontract work that are not contractually due for Instigating a competition in each region to find the best payment until up to 12 months after the completion of the environmentally friendly idea.
Establishing criteria for skip waste removal operators that will encourage recycling.
Risk Management Identifying cost effective, best practice waste management To ensure the Groups long term success in delivering guidelines for our sites.
superior returns to its stakeholders a key element is our ability to manage and mitigate risks.
The Group has reviewed Assessing the opportunity to use re-cycled aggregates on its risk management processes over the last two years and our sites.
sought to embed them even further into ongoing management Establishing a new category at our annual Awards for the routines.
There is an annual cycle of reviewing the major subcontractor, supplier or consultant that has done the risks facing the Group, which ties into the review of Our most to help us enhance our environmental performance.
Future Plan and the budgeting process.
Actions are Seeking to maximise number of Green Leaf Awards achieved.
identified to address the key risks and these are included in Our Future Plan with clear responsibilities and timing.
Suppliers Each month the progress to complete the action is reported The Group recognises the major contribution that its on at the cycle of regional and Group Board meetings.
suppliers by which we mean to include suppliers, Further consideration is given at each meeting to whether the subcontractors and consultants make to the success of its likelihood and impact of any risk has significantly varied.
Within the construction sector the The Group only operates in the UK and the vast majority of Group pioneered partnering arrangements on a national and its supply chain operates in the UK and Europe.
The Group regional basis with its key suppliers.
These long-term does not face some of the social and ethical concerns that agreements are in the mutual interests of all parties as the global businesses do.
The main social, ethical and forward visibility of work helps ensure quality and cost environmental risks that the Group has identified are: effective working arrangements.
This enables suppliers to Risks associated with the former uses of land bought by the plan their workload and generate sustainable employment Group for example, contamination or archaeological issues.
Each year the Group holds a The Group conducts extensive surveys and desktop competition to select the Supplier, the Subcontractor and the research to identify the likelihood and extent of such issues Consultant of the Year and holds an Annual Awards so that it can properly take account of them during the ceremony.
This and other initiatives help endorse the strong development process.
relationships formed with our supplier base.
The Group carries out surveys of its suppliers to seek their feedback on Fraud mismanagement the Groups ethical approach to performance against the Groups declared aims and business set out in our Corporate Principles Policy, backed administrative procedures.
up by a training programme for key staff and proper recruitment procedures are designed to minimise this risk.
Supplier Payment Policy The Group has a culture of sound control based on well The Group believes that the adherence to fair payment terms understood policies and a regular process of Internal Audit.
is important to the maintenance of good relations with Reputation risks from adverse media comments the suppliers and to the ultimate benefit of the Group.
It is Group seeks to run its business on an ethical basis and to Group policy to agree terms of payment in advance, to ensure communicate openly with all stakeholders as set out in our suppliers are made aware of those terms and to abide by such Communication Policy.
Should any issue arise that terms.
Unless other terms have been agreed the Group will generates adverse media interest the Group can activate a usually ensure that all creditors, where the goods or works Crisis Management procedure and key management have have been of a satisfactory quantity and quality, are paid by received relevant media training.
the end of the month following the month in which the invoice is received.
The amounts owed by the Group to its McCarthy & Stone plc Page 21
