RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES 02 Intr 02 Intr Risks and unc o P o Par aragr agr ertainties aff aph aph ecting the Groups civil aerospace, military and other markets could have a material impact on the Groups performance and cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historic performance.
Meggitts risk management programme covers identi cation, impact assessment, likely occurrence and mitigation action.
Some level of risk, however, will always be present.
RISK POTENTIAL MITIGATION DESCRIPTION IMPACT ACTION Military spending and priorities, particularly those of Spreading our activities across the civil PRODUCT the US government, our largest customer, affects our aerospace, military and energy markets.
Conditions in the air travel industry are also Generating revenues from original equipment important to our revenues.
A signi cant or prolonged manufacturers and aftermarket services.
downturn, due to recession, commodity prices, terrorist Operating across different geographical attack or aerospace regulations would decrease demand regions.
Several airlines have, at the Maintaining, where practical, a exible time of publishing, announced plans to park a number cost base.
of aircraft and defer new deliveries.
This and the impact of the current economic climate on our airline customers, Reducing costs to partially mitigate any will adversely affect our revenues.
03 Subhead 1 03 Subhead 1 We compete in a highly competitive global market that Protecting our positions by maintaining COMPETITION 03b Subhead 2 03b Subhead 2 has experienced signi cant consolidation in recent years.
04 Body Copy 04 Body Copy Losing contracts to competitors, many of whom have Maintaining diverse products and greater financial, technological and marketing resources, operations to reduce the effect of action or being forced to accept lower margins, would have an by any single competitor.
adverse effect on the Groups results.
Maintaining a competitive manufacturing The loss of key intellectual property or the failure to base.
enforce its rights could hinder the Groups development Developing proprietary intellectual and provide an advantage to competitors.
property and products in markets that The competitive position of the Group would suffer if it demand high levels of technology, quality were unable to meet future investment requirements: and service and strong, long-term continue research and development: or provide cash relationships with customers.
or equipment incentives to original equipment Maintaining a robust intellectual property manufacturers.
Such investments, which decrease the protection programme.
Groups cash ow in the short term, need to be recovered Maintaining the highest manufacturing and through future revenues.
quality standards and attending to individual customer certi cation requirements.
Ensuring good operational cash ow and available finance.
We are subject to litigation in the ordinary course of business Maintaining a legal and compliance LEGAL AND and provide for such costs.
However, there is a risk that function to oversee the management of REGULATORY successful claims or costs could exceed the provisions made.
For example, a number of asbestos-related claims have been Providing for claims which cannot be made against acquired subsidiary companies.
To date, the recovered from insurers.
amount connected with such claims in any year has not been Introducing a health and safety material and many claims are covered fully or partly by programme across all of our businesses.
Investing signi cant resources in The Group is subject to the laws and regulations of the implementing best practice export countries in which it operates, including health and safety, compliance and ethics programmes which environmental, export compliance and government are reviewed quarterly by the Boards contracting regulations.
In the USA there is a system of Ethics and Export Compliance Committee.
voluntary disclosure to the relevant authorities to deal with any breach of export laws.
Any reported or unreported breach may be investigated and, depending upon its seriousness, result in criminal, civil or administrative penalties, including suspension or debarment.
In 2000, the US Government Business review 15 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008 RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES CONTINUED 02 Intro Paragraph RISK POTENTIAL MITIGATION DESCRIPTION IMPACT ACTION started to investigate the alleged violations of US export LEGAL AND control laws by a US Meggitt subsidiary and is also REGULATORY investigating alleged breaches by three other subsidiaries, CONTINUED one of which is in the UK.
These investigations are likely to lead to financial penalties for which provision has been made.
Criminal charges, suspension or debarment and denial of export privileges are also possible.
The aerospace industry is highly regulated so the Group would be adversely affected if a material certi cation, authorisation or approval were revoked or suspended.
Meggitts operations and facilities are subject to laws Designing processes that minimise the effect ENVIRONMENTAL and regulations that govern the discharge of pollutants of the Groups operations on the environment.
and hazardous substances into air and water as well as Commissioning independent third-party the handling, storage and disposal of such materials and audits of our sites.
Failing to comply with our Carrying out extensive environmental due obligations potentially exposes the Group to serious diligence on potential acquisitions and consequences, including fines, other sanctions and purchasing environmental insurance for limitations on operations.
03 Subhead 1 03 Subhead 1 all new sites.
We are involved in the investigation and remediation 03b Subhead 2 Providing for the expected costs arising from 03b Subhead 2 of current and former sites for which we have been 04 Body Copy these sites based on information currently 04 Body Copy identi ed as a potentially responsible party under US law.
available and establishing a receivable to the extent these costs are recoverable under the Groups environmental insurance policies.
Our products generally operate in extreme environments Designing manufacturing processes that EQUIPMENT where a serious incident arising from failure could result ensure stringent quality and reliability FAULT in liabilities for personal injury or death and damage to standards.
The Group may be subject to Protecting the Group from future product material product warranty obligations to third parties for liability claims subject to coverage limits equipment it manufactures and services.
Multi-year, xed price contracts with original equipment Ensuring estimates of cost are based on CONTRACTS manufacturing customers expose us to the upside and reliable historic data and, where possible, downside of decreases and increases in production costs.
by entry into multi-year, xed price contracts with major suppliers.
The Group is subject to contracting risks with the US government which has a range of sanctions available to it Maintaining guidelines for doing business with in the event of violations.
the US Government as part of the Groups Ethics and Business Conduct Programme.
We operate in, and sell products to, a range of countries Addressing longer-term risk of exposure to EXCHANGE with different currencies, resulting in exchange rate exchange rate uctuations by sourcing goods RATES exposure.
and services in currencies which match the revenue exposure where cost-effective.
Transaction risk arises where revenues are denominated in currencies different from those of the costs of Hedging short-term transaction risk.
Managing translation risk where possible by Translation risk arises on the translation of net assets the partial currency matching of borrowings and income statements of overseas subsidiaries.
with the net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
Credit risk exists in relation to customers, banks and Maintaining rigorous credit control CREDIT insurers.
Monitoring relationships with banks and other counterparty risks through our treasury function.
Selecting insurers with good credit ratings.
16 Business review Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008 02 Intro Paragraph RISK POTENTIAL MITIGATION DESCRIPTION IMPACT ACTION Fluctuations in rates affect the interest the Group is Using the underlying character of the debt INTEREST required to pay on our external borrowings.
instruments and interest rate derivatives RATES such as interest rate swaps.
The funding position of the Groups post-retirement bene t Closing the fide ned bene t schemes in the RETIREMENT UK and USA to new members, with the schemes may be adversely affected by poor investment BENEFITS performance, changes in interest and in ation rates, exception of certain schemes inherited on FUNDING the acquisition of K&F.
improved mortality rates and changes in the regulatory environment.
The income statement and the level of cash Agreeing fide cit recovery plans with the contributions required to be made to the schemes may be trustees based on actuarial advice and the positively or negatively affected by the amounts the Group results of scheme valuations.
is required to record for our retirement bene t obligations.
Changing future service bene ts to See note 35 to the Financial Statements and page 14 of the contain cost.
Business Review.. Meggitt continues to pursue acquisitions as part of our Undertaking due diligence.
Such acquisitions may not realise the Implementing comprehensive business bene ts anticipated.
Obtaining representations, warranties and 03 Subhead 1 indemnities from vendors where possible.
03b Subhead 2 04 Body Copy We rely on our own manufacturing operations and Maintaining signi cant investment in SUPPLY CHAIN independent suppliers for key raw materials and modernising facilities and improving components, some of which may be available only from production processes to develop leading a limited number of suppliers.
Any disruption to the manufacturing operations.
supply chain could have an impact on our ability to Maintaining a supplier risk assessment meet customer requirements and adversely affect the programme.
Subjecting robust business continuity plans to regular testing to manage the risk of a loss of a major facility or supplier.
The Groups long term nancing is provided by Negotiating debt facility extensions.
FINANCING shareholders in the form of equity and by banks and The Group believes it has credit facilities other institutions in the form of debt.
suf cient for our ongoing operations until at least March 2012.
Debt facilities are provided for nite periods of time and need to be renewed periodically, unless repaid out Basing covenant calculations on frozen of cash ow.
Such renewal could be affected by any UK GAAP to reduce volatility arising from structural issues in the credit markets.
certain fair value measurements and future accounting rule changes.
Debt facilities contain covenants which, if breached, could result in the facilities being withdrawn.
Including covenant clauses that enable net debt and EBITDA to be retranslated to sterling at similar exchange rates to reduce exchange movement volatility.
Monitoring our actual and forecast results against covenant ratios regularly.
The success of the Group depends upon the efforts, Maintaining development and succession PEOPLE abilities, experience and expertise of certain senior and programmes, competitive remuneration specialist employees.
Failure to retain them or recruit packages and good communications at alternatives would have an adverse effect.
Work stoppages or slowdowns at the Groups facilities or those of our key customers or suppliers would affect the Group.
Business review 17 Meggitt PLC Report and accounts 2008
