Business review Risk factors Group risk factors Research and development The Group in common with all businesses could be affected The Group has expanded its various R&D facilities through organic by risks not completely within its control which could have growth and through acquisitions.
The success of the R&D function a material effect on its short and longer term financial in enhancing existing products and developing new products, performance.
These risks could cause actual results to differ which are relevant to customer requirements is critical to the materially from forecasts or historic results.
ongoing success of the Group.
If new products or enhancements do not meet customer requirements, or competitors introduce The following are the key risks that are relevant to the Group products which better meet the requirements of customers, as a provider of enterprise application management solutions.
this may have a material impact on revenues and profits.
Please also refer to the section on internal controls within the The successful integration of the R&D functions of acquired corporate governance report on page 33. companies together with the effective management of existing facilities is key to mitigating these risks.
Employees The retention and recruitment of highly skilled and motivated Foreign exchange and treasury employees is critical to the success and future growth of the The Group is not exposed to significant foreign exchange Group in all countries in which it currently operates and in which transactional exposure as generally its subsidiaries trade in their it is likely to expand into in the future.
The Group has policies in own currency.
The Groups principal exposure to foreign currency place to help achieve these objectives and ensure that it is able is the translation of overseas profits into US$.
Due to its limited to attract and retain employees with the required skills.
exposure, the Group does not hold any financial instruments such as derivatives.
Timing of concluding contracts In common with other software companies, the recognition The Group is also exposed to foreign currency translation risk on of revenue is dependent upon obtaining signed contracts from the translation of its net investment overseas into US$ where the customers and delivery of product.
With a high proportion of functional currency of those subsidiaries is not the US$.
This is costs being xed, mainly people related, failure to conclude sales partially mitigated by the overseas subsidiaries incurring costs contracts at the end of the year could result in a material denominated in their local currency.
However, the Group has a growing diverse mix of customers with a high proportion of predictable and Note 3 to the summary of significant accounting policies gives recurring revenue which reduces this exposure.
additional information on additional financial risks that the Group could be exposed to.
Acquisitions As set out in the Chief Executive Ofcers statement, acquisitions could provide profitable revenue growth.
Concluding further acquisitions is dependent on a number of factors such as the global economic position, the availability of finance and suitable target companies.
There are also risks associated with successfully integrating future acquisitions: for example the loss of key personnel, system integration issues and other problems not identied prior to acquisition.
22 Micro Focus International plc Annual report 2008
