415 Overview 1641 Operating and financial review 4264 Reports 65110 Financial statements 111112 Shareholder information 113 Glossary Operating and financial review Risks and uncertainties This section highlights some of the risks which Market-driven factors formats and the evolution of existing offers.
It is not intended to be Consumer expenditure Additionally, the Executive Committee reviews an extensive analysis of all risks which may Changes in the general economic climate, the longer-term consumer appeal and arise in the ordinary course of business or such as those caused by the global credit relevance of the brands and formats quarterly otherwise.
Some risks may be unknown to crunch, can have a detrimental effect and initiates action, where required, to the Group and other risks, currently regarded on consumer expenditure and therefore respond to changing tastes and trends.
as immaterial, could turn out to be material.
More localised economic factors can also have an impact, such as Brand development strategy is incorporated There are certain identifiable potential risks reduced tourist visits to London following into ongoing estate management reviews to and uncertainties which could have a material terrorist activity.
ensure alignment of estate repositioning with impact on Mitchells & Butlers long-term brand deployment.
A recent example of these performance and achievement of its strategy.
However, Mitchells & Butlers has around processes in action has been the evolution These arise as a result of market driven, 2,000 individual businesses across the and expansion of Sizzling Pub Co. which has operational, regulatory or financial factors.
UK and its range of brands and formats target now grown to almost 200 outlets with average Mitchells & Butlers adopts a pro-active different income and consumer groups weekly sales of over 15k.
approach in this area with each member of the mitigating this risk.
This wide range of offers Executive Committee managing the specific provides flexibility to respond to changes in Operational factors risks associated with their areas of responsibility consumer behaviour either through evolving the Supplier dynamics together with a dedicated Group Assurance offer or substituting an alternative operating Food and drink purchases account for the team who report through the General Counsel format or brand at a particular location.
majority of Mitchells & Butlers supply costs.
to the Executive Committee and the Board.
Mitchells & Butlers is exposed to the risk of A sub-committee of the Executive Committee Consumer taste higher food prices depending on world monitors risks to ensure the appropriate action Mitchells & Butlers pubs and Pub Restaurants economic conditions, global availability and plans are put in place.
compete for consumers with a wide variety demand for products.
There are some signs of other branded and non-branded pubs that the level of future price increases will be Despite these processes, extraordinary and restaurants as well as off-licences, at a lower rate than that seen of late though external events may occur very infrequently supermarkets and takeaways.
The social and still subject to volatility.
Despite this, as a which by their nature are out of the remit of demographic changes driving the growth in result of the value and volume strategy that management control.
For example, in July pub food have been contributing to a steady the Group pursues, Mitchells & Butlers has 2007 Mitchells & Butlers and R20 Ltd were in long-term decline in the on-trade beer market.
continued to grow food volumes significantly final negotiations with banks to establish a This decline has been impacted by the pricing mitigating the majority of increases in the food financial package for a property joint venture, policies of the large supermarket groups, cost of goods.
Also, compared to drink, the aimed at maximising shareholder returns.
with the off-trade in total now accounting for larger number of food ingredients and the Establishing hedges on interest rates and 44% of UK beer sales, and by the introduction fragmented nature of food suppliers on the inflation rates was a fundamental requirement of the smoking ban in England on 1 July 2007. world commodity markets mean that Mitchells of the banks to underwrite the junior debt Competition in the eating-out market & Butlers has a greater opportunity to source facility and to achieve the appropriate ratings has increased as pubs have responded food from alternative suppliers.
from the rating agencies on the senior debt.
to the market conditions by introducing food Following receipt of written credit-approved or improving their existing food offers.
In In drinks Mitchells & Butlers relative size debt terms from the banks, Mitchells & Butlers response, Mitchells & Butlers has continued in the pub and Pub Restaurant sector, and R20 Ltd separately entered into debt developing its food offers and focusing its particularly following the purchase of the hedging arrangements intended to contribute drinks retailing on generating significant Original Acquired Sites in July 2006, has to the joint venture, to underpin the delivery market share gains.
During the past five allowed it to renegotiate supplier contracts of a successful transaction.
However the credit years Mitchells & Butlers has made significant successfully thus mitigating the effect of duty crunch occurred at this time and debt market market share gains in both food and drink, increases.
Additionally, as the Groups legacy conditions suddenly deteriorated resulting with its food sales now accounting for 39% tied drinks arrangements have ended, in the credit-approved debt terms from of total revenue, up from 30% in 2003.
Mitchells & Butlers has broadened the choice the banks being unilaterally withdrawn.
available to customers on favourable terms.
This left Mitchells & Butlers and R20 Ltd Changes in consumer tastes and demographic Mitchells & Butlers is no longer contractually with hedge instruments in place but unable trends over time may affect the appeal of bound to source minimum purchase volumes to fund a transaction.
This may be from certain suppliers although there are especially so if the Group does not anticipate, some distribution agreements in place.
As highlighted in last years Operating and identify and respond by evolving its brands, financial review, these hedges remained in formats, offerings and premises adequately Mitchells & Butlers is a large commercial user place as the Board believed that it was highly and sufficiently promptly to reflect changes in of gas and electricity and is subject to likely that they would be used in future consumer requirements and preferences.
fluctuations in utility costs for example, gas property-based refinancing once debt markets and electricity costs rose sharply during the had stabilised.
The risks to the Group Mitchells & Butlers has Sales and Marketing second half of FY 2008 due to global price associated with these hedge instruments were Executives for the Pubs & Bars and increases.
To reduce exposure to short-term monitored in a close and regular manner Restaurants divisions which monitor on a fluctuations in energy prices, Mitchells & consistent with the pro-active and thorough monthly basis, sales trends, all promotional Butlers has a rolling programme of forward approach Mitchells & Butlers adopts to risk and menu development activity, and the purchases.
An energy awareness team management.
In January 2008, following rapid appropriate positioning of Mitchells & Butlers reviews energy usage and works with the deterioration in the mark-to-market deficit brands, formats and offerings.
This analysis is business to find ways to promote further on these hedges and with no prospect of part of a structured programme for the efficiencies in energy consumption.
debt markets permitting any property-based development and trial of new brands or transaction, the Company closed out in cash the hedges no longer required at a cost of 274m post tax.
Mitchells & Butlers 31 Annual report and accounts 2008 Operating and financial review Risks and uncertainties continued Service standards Licensing expenditure.
An example of this is the Service standards are a critical component New licensing laws became effective in flexibility that the Company has to reduce of Mitchells and Butlers brands and formats November 2005.
Licensing matters were its maintenance and capital expenditure to a and are important for the development of transferred to local authorities and greater minimum level for a period of time to conserve the Groups business with the measurement flexibility of opening hours was introduced to cash.
This would not be part of the business of direct guest feedback through surveys allow pub operators to apply to the local long-term strategy but could be effected confirming that the levels of service and authority for permission to change opening over the short term to reduce borrowings.
retailing standards is a key element in the hours, subject to objections from local In the last financial year Mitchells & Butlers consumers choice of pub.
residents, the police and other relevant spent a total of 193m on maintenance agencies.
These groups have the right to ask and expansionary capital which is well Mitchells and Butlers operates ongoing the local authority for the premises licence to above the combined capital and revenue training for its staff focusing on service quality, be reviewed if they believe that the commitments as covenanted within food safety and general health and safety and Governments licensing objectives are being the securitisation financing documents.
supports this through the operation of a compromised.
The local authority now has the Alternatively the business can look to other variety of assurance activities including guest power to attach further conditions to the forms of finance such as sale and leaseback satisfaction surveys and operational audits.
licence, reduce trading hours, call for a or other specific mortgage transactions change in the pub management or ultimately to meet short-term cash requirements.
Regulatory factors suspend or revoke the licence.
Mitchells & Butlers operates in a heavily Pension funding regulated sector.
Changes in regulation can Mitchells & Butlers operates no 24 hour Mitchells & Butlers participates in defined have a significant impact upon Mitchells & licences and invests heavily in the training benefit pension schemes which give rise Butlers business.
Some examples of the of its managers and staff to ensure continued to various funding risks.
The main risk is the regulatory changes which have affected compliance with licensing laws and that its variability of the amount of contributions Mitchells & Butlers include: pubs are operated in a responsible manner.
required to be paid to the schemes by Mitchells & Butlers in order to account for Smoking bans We are currently in detailed preparations past service benefit deficits and future service Approximately 90% of Mitchells & Butlers for the Scottish licensing law changes benefit accruals.
These in turn are impacted at pubs are in England where a ban on smoking from 1 September 2009 to ensure a smooth any point in time by changes in life expectancy in pubs came into force on 1 July 2007.
Our effective transition across our businesses assumptions, the performance of the stock experience of the second year of the smoking and to maintain high standards of retailing.
market, bond yields and inflation expectations.
ban in Scotland which came into force in March 2006 may be a useful indicator Changes in taxation Recent legislation means that it may be of possible future trends in England.
All the Mitchells & Butlers activities are affected appropriate to approach the Pensions indications are that large, well-invested pubs by a number of tax-related matters.
Regulator for pre-clearance of agreements with the capability to serve high volumes These include duty on alcoholic beverages, reached with the Pension Trustees at the of food will continue to perform well property rates, VAT and other business taxes.
time of significant corporate transactions.
by attracting large numbers of non-users Such clearance may include a requirement previously put off by tobacco smoke.
As Mitchells & Butlers ensures it takes to increase the level of funding over a a result, like-for-like food sales in the Groups appropriate action to minimise the risks reduced timescale.
pubs in Scotland have grown a further 7.3% from regulation through a number of in FY 2008, while like-for-like drinks sales have means including: Mitchells & Butlers pension risks have been seen satisfactory growth of 2.1%.
However, active participation with industry mitigated by the closure of the defined benefit smaller pubs with limited food capacity and organisations, such as the British Beer & schemes to new entrants in 2002.
As an a bias towards beer sales and machine income Pub Association and the British Hospitality alternative, a competitive defined contribution are likely to suffer.
Association, ensuring that effective pension scheme is now available to eligible lobbying is carried out: and new employees.
Mitchells & Butlers also National Minimum Wage continual consideration of operating maintains a close dialogue with the pension The National Minimum Wage was introduced procedures to ensure any cost increases schemes Trustees and three of the Trustees in 1999 and has increased by a compound arising from such changes can be mitigated are appointed by the Company.
As a result of annual growth rate of 5.5% per annum over its through productivity increases or other the funding deficits in the schemes, the first eight years, materially above inflation.
Company has made additional contributions However in 2007 the Low Pay Commission of over 150m over and above the regular indicated that any further increase should Financial factors service contributions during the last five remain in line with general wage inflation: Cash flows financial years in order to proactively reduce consequently in October 2008 it rose by 3.8% The Group has financing in place with the deficit.
The pension schemes deficit was to 5.73 up 21p.
In October 2007 new sufficient headroom to support the operational 23m at 27 September 2008 18m at 29 regulatory rules increased the statutory focus of the business whilst maintaining September 2007 on an IAS 19 basis.
holiday entitlement of all employees from 20 an efficient balance sheet.
There is a risk to 24 days, which increased the Groups however that if there were a material The actuarial review undertaken in 2007 employment costs.
change in the economic climate or other showed a deficit as at 31 March 2007 of significant financial impact that the business approximately 250m using the more Mitchells & Butlers has in the past successfully might not be able to fulfil the terms of its conservative discount rate agreed with the mitigated these statutory increases in financial obligations.
The Company has now formally employment costs through productivity agreed the recovery plan to close this deficit improvements.
These measures have allowed This risk can be mitigated to the extent that the by 2017, which calls for pension payments the Group to maintain the ratio of employment business can reduce its cash costs, primarily of 24m per annum until 2017.
The recovery costs at 24% of sales in FY 2008. by reducing operating costs or reducing its plan is subject to reviews at the next actuarial maintenance and expansionary capital valuation as at 31 March 2010.
Mitchells & Butlers 32 Annual report and accounts 2008
