Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties The tables below summarise the material financial and operational risks to the Group and how the Group seeks to mitigate them in the day-to-day running of the business.
Financial risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Significant worsening in credit markets Financial institutions may reduce the The Group has invested heavily in its Smart quantum of lending and tighten their Search technology which matches customers acceptance criteria for customers seeking with providers offering products that are to obtain credit.
This may reduce Group suitable to their particular credit revenue.
Providers may increase their focus circumstances.
This enables the results and on customer retention and not acquisition.
information presented to customers to reflect This may reduce commissions available to price for risk and reflects lenders appetites to price comparison websites.
lend to different customer risk categories, increasing the relevance of the results presented, helping to protect Group revenue.
Significant consolidation of providers Consolidation of providers may continue in The Group will continue to improve its search response to the poor credit markets.
This functionality and deliver new relevant may reduce competition for business with customers to providers at demonstrably lower customers having less choice and may acquisition costs compared with other media.
reduce commissions available to price comparison websites.
Security of cash balances The Group holds significant cash balances.
The Group has diversified its cash holdings A failure of a major financial institution with across a number of institutions.
At the end of whom the Group places significant deposits 2008, the Group held cash balances with five may result in a material loss to the Group.
financial institutions with a maximum balance of 31.5m with any one institution.
Revenue assurance Reduction of or a failure to recognise revenue The Group will continue to perform from contracted providers where the Group is independent reviews using third parties to remunerated on a cost per action basis.
gain assurance that the Group is being correctly remunerated for the sales it introduces to contracted providers.
Investment in new areas Capital invested in new products and services Investments in new areas typically leverage or new geographies fails to make a return.
existing expertise and experience built up over many years.
Capital requirements are relatively low and investment is managed in stages such that it is not finally committed until there is good visibility of a return.
Financial services and other markets The business model in financial services or The Group has a team of regulatory specialists regulation and taxation other lines of business may be compromised who work with the business to ensure that by changes to existing regulation or the it remains compliant with existing regulation introduction of new regulation, or changes and informed of impending regulation.
The to the tax legislation, particularly value Group has embraced regulation to date and added tax.
shares the vision of the regulators generally to make the market more transparent to the end customer.
The Group continues to monitor ongoing European Union developments in respect of the review of the provision of financial intermediary services with regard to value added tax and any relevant case law in this area as it emerges.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008 Operational risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Competitive environment Loss of market share and erosion of margins The Group continues to focus on building from increased competition.
market leading products to improve its proposition to customers.
This includes investment in customer retention tools and technology including CRM initiatives which deliver additional features and functionality to customers.
Brand perception Reduction in customer loyalty with existing Continued investment in television advertising customers and an inability to attract new reinforced through press activity will maintain customers if the business fails to maintain the Group in customers minds.
Rigorous its position as a leading price comparison checking of the website through audit and website.
review will maintain the accuracy of the information displayed.
Additional investment in initiatives increases transparency to the customer helping to protect brand values.
Capacity and functionality of IT Failure to provide adequate service levels to The Group maintains two separate data and systems infrastructure customers or maintain revenue generating centres with n 1 redundancy in relation to its services.
core infrastructure to ensure that service is maintained in the event of a disaster at the primary data centre.
Retention of key management Lack of necessary expertise or continuity to Existing key management and new hires execute strategy.
are tied in through attractive equity incentive packages and rewarding career structures.
In addition succession plans are being developed in 2009 for key members of the management team which will be regularly reviewed.
Reliance on search engine paid Reduction in gross margin through reduction The Group will continue to invest in search and natural listings in revenue derived from search engine sustainable search engine optimisation optimisation or failure to manage search activities which adhere to search engine engine marketing campaigns appropriately.
A new software solution was introduced during the year to assist in managing the profitability of search engine marketing campaigns.
Economic environment Reduction in visitors and revenue from a The Group continues to focus on building a recession as customers seek to reduce levels wide range of market leading products to of discretionary expenditure.
Customers seeking to reduce levels of discretionary expenditure will also be looking to obtain best value from compulsory products and services.
The diversification of the Group both in the number of verticals that it operates in and the range of products and services it provides in each vertical should lessen the impact of a recession upon the Group although it cannot entirely mitigate against it.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2008
