The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 43 Business review Governance Financial statements Risk management Introduction Financial Our risk management processes are Operating in a number of countries, designed to identify, manage and mitigate we are exposed to events in the financial business risks that could impact the Groups environment that impact the Group short and long-term performance and value.
including commodity and energy prices, The processes will not eliminate risks but currency exchange, the current credit crisis rather mitigate them to an acceptable and other financial market incidents, market level within the context of the business volatility, interest rates, liquidity, pension environment in which we operate.
These risks are mitigated through proactive assessment, Management of business risk is an integral contingency planning and the use of part of delivering performance and is the appropriate mitigation.
Our risk management decision-making and reporting Examples of mitigation include: procedures are integrated in our formal 3 Optimising exchange rate exposure business reporting up to the Board.
We through the supply chain by raw benchmark best practices to ensure that our material sourcing, manufacturing and processes are evolving and effective.
Key selling to minimise exchange rate impact.
risks are monitored by the Risk Management 3 Minimising the impact on the Group Committee and effectiveness of risk of a major currency devaluation.
management and internal control is 3 Fixing long-term pricing for the purchase monitored by the Audit Committee.
of energy and other materials.
The risks described below include the main 3 Entering into certain hedging areas of risk that could impact Morgan arrangements to help manage the Crucible.
These cover most areas of known impact of currency uctuations: and emerging business risk.
They include the Groups relevant treasury policies internal risks where we have a greater are summarised in the Financial review degree of control and inuence as well as on page 42. external risks where our ability to completely 3 Managing pension funds using control them may be more limited.
They are independent, competent Trustee nevertheless assessed and managed down Boards and external advisers.
Further details of the Groups pension Strategic planning risks plans and employee benets are included Such risks relate to the appropriateness in note 21 on page 105. of strategy, business model or product portfolio, acquisitions and disposals.
The risks to planning and delivery of the strategy are also included.
External risks Political, economical and social We are exposed to these risks in a number of countries in which we operate as part of realising business opportunities.
We operate within the local conditions while monitoring the political, economic and social changes in these countries and adjusting our business plan and operations accordingly.
The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual report 2008 Overview 44 Business review Governance Financial statements Risk management continued Market dynamics and competition From time to time and in the normal Operational risks Our products tend to be technologically course of business, we are subject to certain Financial, physical property, intellectual advanced and use complex and high added litigation, in particular in the USA.
Provision property and information value manufacturing techniques.
We operate for the expected costs and liabilities are set The Groups financial, physical and intellectual in a business environment where we need out in note 22 to the accounts.
If the property assets are exposed to risks such as to be proactive with respect to market liabilities arising were signicantly to exceed theft, loss, natural catastrophe, accidental dynamics including customer preference, the amounts provided for, there could be disclosure, etc.
Such incidents can also new technology and new competition.
a material financial effect on the value of impact the continuity of the business.
We monitor our current areas of business, These risks are managed through internal working with our customers to ensure that Health, safety and environmental controls, proactive design and protection we continue to satisfy their evolving needs.
Our operations involve the normal of facilities and business continuity measures We adjust our strategies and business plans environmental, health and safety risks to minimise the impact of an incident.
to reect changing conditions, thereby associated with manufacturing operations Audits by experts in their elds including helping to ensure that risks are managed in the countries in which we operate.
financial auditors review and assess the within acceptable limits.
Although we believe that our operations effectiveness of such measures.
are in compliance with current regulations, Compliance and ethics risks In some cases, risks are partially transferred we cannot eliminate the risk of all accidents Legal, regulatory and litigation through insurance programmes.
We are subject to varying laws and Human resources risks regulations around the world.
Changes in Further detail of the programmes in place The Group maintains human resource these could affect the long and short term to manage these risks are included on policies and processes to manage the risks value of the Group.
As a listed company pages 35 to 37. relating to our people.
e. g. reward and we are exposed to the risks of ensuring Business conduct risks recognition, health and safety, talent compliance with listing requirements.
Risks such as a potential breach of our management including succession planning, We cannot predict whether future Core Values Statement in the area of skills assessment and development, developments in laws and regulations ethical behaviour could impact the performance management and employee concerning our businesses will have Groups reputation or image.
an adverse or a positive effect.
Our reputation with our stakeholders is Product development, performance For example, a failure to comply with fundamental to the continued success of the and safety risks export control regulations could have a Group and we mitigate such risks through Our products are used in many industrial negative impact, whilst new environmental various means, including: sectors including medical, aerospace and performance legislation which affects our defence.
These sectors require high quality customers could increase the demand for 3 Our corporate responsibility programme, and conformance to specication as well our energy conserving products and services and our Statement of Core Values.
as consideration of the health and safety which can help our customers to address the 3 Our Ethics Policy and Internal of the end users.
Robust research and development processes, 3 Our systems of internal control and both in house and where undertaken in risk management.
co-operation with our customers minimise The Groups Ethics Policy and Anti-Trust product development risks.
Our design, Compliance Programme are further testing and quality assurance processes, described in the Corporate responsibility including ISO 9001 accreditations, help section.
The programmes address the risk to control manufacturing risks.
of unethical business behaviour and are supported by mandatory training and the Groups Ethics and Compliance Helpline.
