Operating and Financial Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties and aircraft, and with other transport Organisational change operators in the same mode of transport.
To reflect changing economic, market and Principal risks and uncertainties The Group seeks to manage the risks of technological conditions, significant other modal competition through cost organisational change initiatives occur from The operation of a public company involves competitiveness eg bus, service reliability time to time.
These can create uncertainty a series of risks and uncertainties across a eg rail and lower carbon footprint and increase risk of adverse operational and range of strategic, commercial, operational eg versus car.
Transport markets remain financial results.
In 2008 this included UK and financial areas.
National Express has a intensely competitive and the Group seeks integration, Spanish post-acquisition robust internal control and risk management to offset risk of business loss through a integration and North America Business process, as outlined in the Corporate combination of marketing, service quality Transformation.
The Group seeks to mitigate Governance report, which is designed to and price: these risks by structured programme and provide assurance but which cannot avoid project management, including effective Fuel costs all risks.
Outlined below are potential risks planning, quality assurance and external All of our businesses are exposed to fuel that could impact the Groups performance, resourcing: costs: primarily diesel for buses and causing actual results to vary from those coaches, and either gasoil or electricity for Business continuity experienced previously or described in rail.
Fuel prices are subject to significant The Group is at risk of disruption from failure forward looking statements within this volatility due to economic, political and of network infrastructure availability eg rail document.
These risks are monitored on climate circumstances.
The Group cannot access, as well as unavailability of key an ongoing basis through the Groups risk avoid this risk but seeks to reduce systems locations eg to operate effective management processes.
Additional risks it through fuel hedging, which can reduce customer service systems.
In some and uncertainties not identified may also have short term volatility and provide a known cases, the Group has protection in an adverse material effect on the Group.
cost environment for our operations: compensation from infrastructure service Economic conditions providers and also maintains operational Political and regulatory changes Whilst some of the Groups businesses have continuity plans and insurance cover for Some of our businesses are subject to naturally defensive characteristics to the larger losses: significant regulation.
Changes in political immediate economic environment eg and regulatory environments can have Financial school bus, other parts are exposed and significant impact on our public transport The Group has committed financing in place have significant gearing to changes in businesses.
This risk is reduced by but is dependent on maintaining sufficient revenue eg rail revenue has historically been maintaining close relationships with key EBITDA to support banking covenants, and, correlated with GDP and employment and, stakeholders and ensuring that the on access to funding markets when facilities given the high proportion of fixed costs in a economic advantages of our businesses are approach maturity, failure to maintain which rail franchise, deterioration in these can have fully understood and considered.
For could force the Group to seek high cost a significant impact on profitability.
Some example, we have successfully delivered debt funding, disposal of assets or further of this risk can be mitigated through price voluntary partnerships in UK Bus and are equity funding.
The Group also operates a sensitive revenue management systems, aiming to roll out further schemes within the number of defined benefit pension schemes, which adjust ticket pricing to maximise yield, framework of the new Local Transport Act.
the regulatory and funding environment for and through active cost management: which could impact the Group, by requiring Labour Contract risk increases in future cash funding and Our businesses depend on delivering high Much of the Groups business is secured restrictions on certain corporate activities quality, reliable services, cost efficiently.
through new contracts, particularly in UK including disposals and return of equity Service delivery therefore requires access to, Rail, North America school bus and Spain.
The Company has certain tax and retention of, the right calibre of staff at An inherent risk in contract bidding is that exposures, in addition to trading-related an affordable cost given that staff costs are the bid assumptions prove to be tax balances, totalling 41.4 million, which the largest single cost component across undeliverable: for example, in UK Rail, if are provided for but which, in the event of an the Group.
This is managed through underlying economic growth proves to be adverse finding by taxation authorities, could effective recruitment, training and retention lower than anticipated in the bid, passenger result in a substantial payment of cash.
For example, our North American revenue is likely to be negatively impacted.
business had its most successful start up to The Group seeks to mitigate this risk by a school year in 2008, with sufficient drivers sharing revenue risk with the awarding in place across the 16,500 bus fleet: body for example, in rail revenue, risk is usually shared with the DfT after four years: Operational incidents in school bus, revenue risk is generally Safety is at the heart of transporting avoided as demand is fixed and by careful passengers, yet the sheer number of vehicle economic modelling of new contracts: movements creates a risk of safety incidents, potentially impacting the Group Contract scale financially, reputationally and legally.
Some contract-based businesses within the Throughout the business, a strong safety Group need to maintain a minimum number culture prevails, led by the Board Safety of contracts to retain their existing scale of and Environment Committee, which sets operations.
If that scale is not maintained, policy, reviews incidents, considers remedial revenue and profitability could be impacted.
The transport The Group seeks to manage this risk by sector is also exposed to a significant level maintaining a competitive bid process and of third party claims: given its scale, the robust relationships with stakeholders: Group self-insures much of this risk, which Competition can give rise to an adverse financial impact Most of our businesses face competition on settlement: with other modes of transport, such as cars 32 National Express Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008
