Directors Report and Business Review RISKS & UNCERTAINTIES The Board has a policy of continuous identification and review of key business risks and oversees the development of processes to ensure that these risks are managed appropriately.
Executive directors and operational management are delegated with the task of implementing these processes and reporting to the Board on their outcomes.
The key risks identified by the Board are summarised below: Business strategy development & implementation If the Board adopts the wrong business strategy or does not implement its strategies effectively, the business may suffer.
The Board needs to understand and properly manage strategic risk in order to deliver long term growth for the benefit of all Nexts stakeholders.
Key personnel The success of Next depends in part on the continued service of its key management and technical personnel and on its ability to continue to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified employees.
The retail sector is very competitive and Next staff are frequently targeted by other companies for recruitment.
Product design & selection The success of Next depends on providing exciting, beautifully designed, excellent quality clothing and homeware.
Success also depends upon its ability to anticipate and respond to changing consumer preferences and trends.
Many of Nexts products represent discretionary purchases and demand for these products could decline in a recession or other period in which consumer confidence is negatively affected.
Key suppliers & supply chain management Next is dependent on its supplier base to deliver products on time and to the quality standards it specifies.
Failure to develop its supplier base may produce an over-reliance on particular suppliers of product and services and reduce the competitiveness of Nexts product offer.
Non-compliance by suppliers with the Next Code of Practice may increase reputational risk.
Development of retail store network & Directory customer base Growth of Nexts retail business is dependent upon increasing the floor space within its store network and customers spending more.
Next will continue to invest in new stores where its financial criteria are met and refurbish its existing portfolio when appropriate.
Whilst the anticipated effect of sales deflection is factored into new store appraisals, there can be no assurance that the impact of new openings will not result in a greater deflection of sales from existing stores.
Successful development of new stores is dependent upon a number of factors including the identification of suitable properties, obtaining planning permissions and the negotiation of acceptable purchase or lease terms.
There is significant competition for desirable sites in the retail sector, which has resulted in increased rents and costs of operations, a trend which may continue.
Growth of the Next Directory business depends upon the recruitment and retention of its customer base and increasing the average spend per customer.
Next will continue to recruit new customers where they satisfy its credit score requirements.
However, there can be no assurance that new customers will result in higher sales per customer or lower incidence of bad debts, compared with the existing customer base.
Warehousing & distribution Next regularly reviews its warehouses and the related logistics operations that support its businesses.
Risks include business interruption due to physical property damage, access restrictions, breakdowns in warehouse systems, capacity shortages, inefficient processes and delivery service failures.
IT systems & business continuity Next is dependent upon the continued availability and integrity of its computer systems.
Each of its businesses must record and process a substantial volume of data and conduct inventory management accurately and quickly.
The Group expects that its systems will require continuous enhancements and ongoing investment to prevent obsolescence and maintain responsiveness to business needs.
