Section 3 Our performance 27 Principal risks and uncertainties We conduct regular risk reviews to identify risk factors With the rapid deterioration in the global economic which may affect our business and financial environment during 2008, there is an increased risk performance.
Our group internal audit function reviews of a further weakening in trading conditions in 2009 these risks with each business, shared service which could adversely impact the companys financial operations and corporate functions, agreeing upon performance.
The outlook for the company for 2009 measures and controls to mitigate these risks wherever is set out on page 12.
The effect of a continued possible.
It is not possible to identify every risk that deterioration in the global economy will vary across our could affect our businesses, and the actions taken to businesses and will depend on the depth, length and mitigate the risks described below cannot provide severity of any economic downturn.
absolute assurance that a risk will not materialise Our principal risks and uncertainties are outlined below.
and or adversely affect our business or financial performance.
Risk Mitigating factors A significant deterioration in Group profitability and or The Groups approach to funding is described on page cash flow caused by a severe economic depression 24 and the Groups approach to the management of reducing our liquidity and or impairing our financial financial risks is set out in note 19 to the financial ratios, triggering a need to raise additional funds from statements.
the capital markets and or a renegotiation of our banking covenants.
Our US educational textbook and assessment Our customer relationship teams have detailed businesses may be adversely affected by changes in knowledge of each state market.
We are investing in new state and local educational funding resulting from either and innovative ways to expand and combine our product general economic conditions, changes in government and services to provide a superior customer offering educational funding, programmes and legislation both when compared to our competitors, thereby reducing at the federal and state level, and or changes in the our reliance on any particular funding stream in the state procurement process.
Reductions in advertising revenues and or circulation The diversification of the FT Group into other business will adversely affect the profitability of our newspaper models and revenue streams, e. g. subscription based business.
businesses, digital revenues, business to business products, conferences, in addition to its global reach, offsets reliance on newspaper print advertising and circulation revenue streams.
At Penguin, changes in product distribution channels, We develop new distribution channels by adapting increased book returns and or customer bankruptcy may our product offering and investing in new formats.
restrict our ability to grow and affect our profitability.
To minimise returns we are careful about how we supply orders, taking account of expected sell through.
The application of strict credit control policies is used to monitor customer debt and we work with industry groups to minimise exposures e. g through retention of title claims in the event of default.
Our intellectual property and proprietary rights may not We seek to mitigate this type of risk through general be adequately protected under current laws in some vigilance, co-operation with other publishers and trade jurisdictions and that may adversely affect our results associations, advances in technology, as well as and our ability to grow.
recourse to law as necessary.
We operate in a highly competitive environment that is To remain competitive we continue to invest in our subject to rapid change and we must continue to invest authors, products, services, technology and people to and adapt to remain competitive.
take advantage of these opportunities.
There is no guarantee that these investments will generate the anticipated returns or protect us from being placed at a competitive disadvantage with respect to scale, resources and our ability to develop and exploit opportunities.
28 Pearson plc Annual report and accounts 2008 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Risk Mitigating factors A control breakdown or service failure in our school We seek to minimise the risk of a breakdown in our assessment businesses could result in financial loss student marking with the use of robust testing and or reputational damage.
procedures and controls, combined with our investment in technology, project management and skills development of our people.
Our professional services and school assessment In addition to the internal business procedures and businesses involve complex contractual relationships controls implemented to ensure we successfully deliver with both government agencies and commercial on our contractual commitments, we also seek to customers for the provision of various testing services.
develop and maintain good relationships with our Our financial results, growth prospects and or reputation customers to minimise associated risks.
We also look may be adversely affected if these contracts and to diversify our portfolio to minimise reliance on any relationships are poorly managed.
We operate in markets which are dependent on We mitigate these IT risks by instilling strong IT policies Information Technology IT systems and technological and operational controls, employing project change.
management techniques to manage new software developments and or system implementations and have implemented an array of security measures to protect our IT assets from attacks or failures that could impact the confidentiality, availability or integrity of our systems.
Operational disruption to our business caused by a We have developed business continuity arrangements, major disaster and or external threats could restrict our including IT disaster recovery plans and back-up delivery ability to supply products and services to our customers.
systems, to minimise any business disruption in the event of a major disaster.
Insurance coverage may minimise any losses in certain circumstances.
A major data privacy breach may cause reputational We constantly test and re-evaluate our data security damage to our brands and financial loss.
procedures and controls across all our businesses with the aim of ensuring personal data is secured and we comply with relevant legislation and contractual requirements.
We have recently appointed a Chief Security Officer with extensive experience to lead our various data privacy and security programmes.
Investment returns outside our traditional core US and We draw on our experience of developing businesses UK markets may be lower than anticipated.
outside our core markets and our existing international infrastructure to manage specific country risks.
We have strengthened our financial control and managerial resources in these markets to mange expansion.
The diversification of our international portfolio, and relative size of emerging markets in relation to the group, further minimises the effect any one territory could have on the overall group results.
Section 3 Our performance 29 Risk Mitigating factors Failure to generate anticipated revenue growth, We perform pre-acquisition due diligence and closely synergies and or costs savings from acquisitions could monitor the post-integration performance to ensure lead to goodwill and intangible asset impairments.
we are meeting operational and financial targets.
Any divergence from these plans will result in management action to improve performance and minimise the risk of any impairments.
Executive management and the Board receive regular reports on the status of acquisition performance.
Our reported earnings and cash flows may be adversely We review our funding arrangements every three years affected by changes in our pension costs and funding and will take steps to ensure pension funding plans are requirements.
sufficient to meet future liabilities without unduly affecting the development of the company.
We generate a substantial proportion of our revenue in The Groups policy on managing foreign currency risk foreign currencies particularly the US dollar, and foreign is described in note 19 to the financial statements.
exchange rate fluctuations could adversely affect our earnings and the strength of our balance sheet.
Changes in our tax position can significantly affect our We employ internal tax professionals in the UK and reported earnings and cash flows.
the US who review all significant arrangements around the world and respond to changes in tax legislation.
They work closely with local management and external tax advisors.
Social, environmental and ethical risk We consider social, environmental and ethical SEE risks no differently to the way we manage any other business risk.
Our 2008 risk assessment did not identify any significant under-managed SEE risks, nor have any of our most important SEE risks, many concerned with reputational risks, changed year on year.
These are: journalistic author integrity, freedom of speech, ethical business behaviour, compliance with UN Global Compact standards, environmental impact, people and data privacy.
For more information, see the Pearson corporate responsibility report Live and Learn: Our Impact on Society.
The web link is available at: www.
