Directorsreport | Businessreview   RELATIONSHIPS Landfill and many otherfacilities require waste management licencesor environmental andPPCpermits, issuedandmonitored bythe EMPLOYEES EA andSEPA.
Viridor maintainsa positive  working relationshipwith the regulators, andsupervisory, administrative, clerical, .
A good neighbour policyis implementedat all  facilities managed by Viridorwithlocal liaison .
Trainingand groups at most major sites consistingof locally .
Communities Fund, a schemewherebya Viridors reportable accident rate per 1,000 employees is an important KPI and is set out below for proportionof LandfillTax canbe claimedas the five year period 2003 to 2007.
The company was disappointed to note that the rate rose to credits anddistributedto qualifyingcommunity 21.42 in 2007 compared with 18.18 in 2006.
This increase in reportable accidents was due primarily .
Duringthe year to an increase in manual handling type injuries and is attributable to the change in business mix as Viridor provided9.2 millionto ViridorCredits more labour intensive recycling businesses are acquired or developed.
All other accident types have EnvironmentalCompany, an independent fallen slightly.
Despite continuing to compare favourably with industry averages, Viridors focus on distributive environmentalbody.
Fundingis health and safety improvement and performance remains strong and it has re-doubled its efforts to allocated at grassrootslevelby steeringgroups reduce manual handling type accidents.
The company has recruited additional health and safety established to serveareas closeto operational professionals during the year and continues to raise the level of training and support available landfill sites.
 ARRANGEMENTS 27.5  RIDDOR accident and incident rates 25.0 %ofthecompanys 22.5 revenue.
The  and  efficientdisposal : fromits engineering  recycling and recoveryoperations:the capture of methane a greenhousegas 21 times as potent depreciation,  as CO :thegenerationof renewable energy:and therestorationof  2 seebelow, leachatemanagement, landfillgas   materials.
 associatedemissions, methane production wherenotharnessed  for ,   dust, noise,  litter andodour.
 be set and  met  , resulting in currentlyassumed.
Nevertheless, , The amountofwaste  year to 1.4milliontonnes  1.2 million tonnesin2006 07. .
24 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts Incident rate per 1,000 employees 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Viridor , i. e. pertonneinput.
Liquid waste services Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 25 Directorsreport | Businessreview  PennonGroup.
Inline thejointventure, inwhichViridorhas50%  withitscurrentpolicy, Viridorhassoldenergy oftheequity.
Directive, orrequirementsmaybe The plant is a modern conventional   EfW facility.
As a result of a competitive   procurement procedure it is being supplied Landfills and other industrial processes .
Anychangesin by the Japanese consortium Itochu Takuma in the UK are subject to a permitting regime  in accordance with a fixed price contract which pursuant to the Pollution Prevention and  was drawn up with the assistance of specialist Control England and Wales Regulations upforrenewal.
Nevertheless, as with 2000 PPC Regulations, superseded in any major infrastructure project, unforeseen  England and Wales by the Environmental circumstances may arise which may affect energyprices.
 Permitting England and Wales Regulations or delay the construction process.
Existing landfills which opened before significant number of similar plants operating inoilprices, , in July 2001 operated under waste management successfully worldwide.
licences but subsequently required a PPC permit granted under the PPC Regulations.
Efficiencies and output of the plant will be , PPC permits often imposed higher standards affected by the precise calorific value of the  and costs in general.
PPC permits in England waste throughput.
The plant is well proven .
and Wales automatically became Environand it is a robust conventional technology  mental Permits from April 2008.
Any landfills designed to take the currently projected  which fail to obtain a permit will be subject waste mix.
Nevertheless, if the mix of the waste  to a closure plan with the EA or SEPA.
changes significantly over the next 25 years,  there may be some adverse impact on forCO .
2 The net result of this is that it is expected efficiencies and output.
 that, after a transitional period, the average .
technical and operational standards of landfill  Nevertheless,  in the UK will improve and that the number of  .
All but one of Viridors treatmentfacilities .
operational landfills have achieved PPC Achievement of the Governments targets for permits, though in some cases the company  waste management is critically dependent on is appealing against certain of the conditions .
the planning system delivering sufficient proposed, which might have cost or other  waste treatment facilities.
Obtaining planning implications for the landfills.
The operational  permission for any type of waste treatment landfill which has not yet received a permit is .
Iflargeamounts facility is difficult and will represent a major currently due to close in 2009.  challenge for the waste management industry.
 The EA is also considering the implications of  a December 2007 Court of Appeal judgment  decline.
 regarding landfill piggybacking and the   Groundwater Directive, and how this affects  topaythebuy-outprice.
This may affect retentionofstaff  sections of a small number of Viridor sites.
Good quality staff with the required technical  skills and certification are essential in the Under both waste management licences .
Viridor focuses on the best and permits, landfills require expenditure possible employment policies to recruit on restoration when the site is closed and  and retain quality staff in all disciplines.
Viridor seeks to be regarded as an employer supervision, monitoring and management of Ultimately,  of choice in the sector and has embraced gas and leachate levels long after the  many modern employment practices to allow filling activities have ceased.
The EA or SEPA wastelandfilled.
Forexample, astheamountof a flexible approach to employment terms will only grant a full or partial licence or  and conditions.
There is more to be achieved permit surrender once it is satisfied that the  but good progress has been made.
 There may still be a risk of liability arising from obligations,   any residual contamination following the , integratedcontracts includingPFIs surrender of the permit.
andPPPs permits cannot be surrendered during the  aftercare period.
 Any long-term integrated contract has a  range of risks associated with it.
risk transfer is a key part of Government PFI renewableenergy procurement guidelines.
The risks include Renewable energy prices under the current  waste volumes and mix: planning: technology: ROCs scheme are primarily a function of the technicalrisks input costs: and recyclate prices.
A careful underlying brown energy price and the  assessment of the risks and the apportionment premium achieved from the sale of ROCs.
 of them between client: main contractor: .
technology and equipment suppliers: and cantlyin2006  86% subcontractors is a key part of the process of supply .
26 Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts Viridor  trends among manufacturing reprocessors   who wish to use the recyclate, coupled with  , typicallyusinga national and European legislation setting .
 targets for landfill diversion, recovery and  experts, .
use based on polluter pays principles.
pre-settlementlevels basedupontheextentof Reprocessing capacity in the UK is finite theplanningconsent, proposedbaselevels  with limited growth forecast, whilst increasing  permit  amounts of recyclate are being sought by,  determinedby , subcontractors and exported to, the rapidly expanding survey.
Thedegreeitdoesso major manufacturing locations in China   and elsewhere.
However, Viridorisof Non-European export prices and freight costs commercialsituation.
 for recyclate are set in US dollars.
They can be   or expected to vary with the world and regional industry.
 choosesnotto  economic cycles and with the environmental .
, thenitincludes impact and increasing cost of sourcing and  processing competing virgin raw materials.
The gas electricity generating capacity of .
Viridortakesarobust They may also be expected to adjust over time Viridor is defined by the Megawatt capacity of approachonthisissue.
 for movements in the value of the US dollar.
the engines installed on landfill sites through  which the gas passes to generate electricity.
, itspolicy Viridor may mitigate any recyclate price risk Modelling future power generation requires  by sharing downsides upsides with both its consideration of a number of factors including .
Nevertheless recyclates the waste mass and composition already are essentially global commodities and in place and volumes of gas currently  therefore there remains a risk that profits being extracted.
In addition the model androbust,  in recycling may be adversely or positively requires an assessment of how the current  affected by movements in recyclate prices.
position is expected to change throughout each  sites remaining life as an operational landfill beadverse.
 and beyond into the aftercare period.
Any such  assessment requires certain assumptions to be RecyclatePriceRisks The landfillvoidspace figuresquotedin this made including in relation to the amount of Recycling is becoming an increasingly reviewinrelationto Viridorare in respect of waste in the site, its biodegradable content, the importantpartof Viridorsbusiness.
Recyclate consented voidonly voidwithplanning age of the waste and the likelihood of obtaining prices are driven by global supply demand permissionfor landfilling.
a grid connection at an economic cost.
Left: Automated materials recycling Above: Waste transfer station Pennon Group Annual Report and Accounts 27
