Business review continued Managing our risks Risk management The Group has a formal risk management framework in place.
This is designed to manage the risks which may have a material impact on our ability to meet our corporate objectives, rather than fully mitigate all risks.
Some of the risks we face are external and therefore beyond our control.
Some risks may not be known at present or may currently be considered to be immaterial, but could develop into material risks in the future.
The Board is responsible for the Groups risk management framework and formally reviews the risk management report on a quarterly basis as well as receiving more informal and timely information on changing or emerging risks.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that business risks are appropriately managed on an ongoing basis by the executive management team.
Our risk management framework identifies and evaluates risks based on the probability of them occurring and the impact they may have on the business.
It aims to monitor the key internal controls which may mitigate our risks and the progress of any actions required to ensure they are being managed effectively.
An Internal Audit and Risk Management team provide assurance to the Board on the maintenance of the Group Risk Register and the agreed actions by the executive management team.
The Audit Committee is responsible for annually reviewing the overall effectiveness of the risk management framework.
We are exposed to a variety of financial, operational, market, and regulatory risks which we are fully aware may either singularly or collectively affect the companys revenue, costs, the value of our assets, our reputation or our ability to meets our business objectives.
Our main risks and how we manage them are shown in the table below, however this is not an extensive list of all of the risks which we may face.
Some of the Groups current industry and economic risks are shown on pages 5 to 7.
Risk Management processes Liquidity risk The Board continually reviews alternative sources of finance.
The Groups funding strategy is to ensure a mix of financing methods The Groups objective is to smooth the debt maturity profile, to arrange offering flexibility and cost effectiveness to meet the requirements funding ahead of requirements and to maintain a strong credit of the Group.
The Group is primarily financed by secured loan notes, rating so maturing short term debt may be refinanced as it falls due.
with approximately 92% August 2007: 93% of the capital balance Cash balances are invested in short term deposits such that they are on these loan notes being repayable after more than five years, readily available to settle short term liabilities or fund capital additions.
subject to the relevant covenants being met.
Interest rate risk The Group employs derivative financial instruments such as interest The Group is exposed to interest rate risk from our loan notes, rate swaps to generate the desired interest rate profile.
The Group borrows at both fixed and The Group has taken out derivative financial instruments such that floating rates of interest.
99.7% of all loans at 23 August 2008 August 2007: 99.7% were Further information on the Groups financial instruments can either at fixed rate or were converted to fixed rate as a result of swap be found in note 22 to the financial statements.
arrangements thereby largely eliminating the Groups exposure to changes in interest rate.
Further information on how the Group manages its interest rate risk is provided in note 22 to the financial statements.
Capital risk The Group is able to generate sufficient returns to service The Groups capital structure is made up of net debt, issued share the debt.
The Groups debt is divided in to three separate The securitised debt is monitored by a variety of measures securitisations and a convertible bond.
which are reported to debt providers on a quarterly basis.
Pensions All of the Groups defined benefit pension schemes are closed The Group operates three defined benefit pension schemes.
As at the year end date the three schemes together had obligations of 342 million 2007: 373 million and assets of 377 million, 2007: 380 million resulting in a net asset of 34 million, compared to a net asset of 7 million reported at 18 August 2007.
Internal financial control A formal risk management process is in place which is supported The Group is committed to maintaining a sound internal control fully by the Board of Directors.
environment which aims to mitigate the risk of financial fraud or An Internal Audit team review and report on strengths and error and complies with the requirements of the Turnbull Guidance weaknesses in the internal control environment.
The effectiveness of the internal control environment is monitored by the Audit Committee, further details of which are provided on page 32. Credit risk The Groups objective is to minimise credit risk by ensuring that With the exception of cash and short term deposits invested surplus funds are invested with banks and financial institutions with banks and financial institutions, there are no significant with high credit ratings.
concentrations of credit risk within the Group.
The Group deals with third parties that have been subject to credit checks, or that have good credit scores, where appropriate.
There is no currency exposure as all of the Groups material financial transactions and financial instruments are in sterling.
The Group has no exposure to equity securities or significant commodity price risk and it is the Groups policy that no speculative trading in financial instruments is undertaken.
com Financial Risk Management processes Information systems, technology and infrastructure An Information Security Group has been established to consider The Group is reliant upon information systems and technology the security aspects of the information maintained by the business.
for communication, order capture, distribution, accounting and An incident management and business continuity plan has been reporting as well as many of our internal financial controls.
developed for critical business processes to ensure the business is able to continue operating in the event of a major incident affecting our systems or technology.
Product quality Safety measures are in place to ensure that product integrity The Group is aware that we are exposed to product quality is maintained wherever possible and that all food and drink risk in relation to our food and drink, especially within the products purchased by the Group are fully traceable.
The Group has a formal food accreditation process based on a programme of robust supplier audits by an external food assurance company.
An incident management plan exists to ensure that products can be recalled quickly if required.
The Group has a policy of providing high standards of food hygiene and food safety training for our managed estate.
Threats to our concepts Our incident management plan allows us to escalate and quickly An incident may occur which may materially impact or damage respond to any incidents which may occur in our managed estate.
the reputation of one of the managed pub concepts.
This could affect The Group is committed to supporting our managed pub employees the ability of the concept to attract future customers or negatively in all aspects of training, including how to deal with any incidents impact the ability of that concept to generate future income.
which may affect their pub.
Supply chain management The Group has reviewed the disaster recovery and business The Group places reliance on our key suppliers and distributors continuity plans of our key distributors.
to ensure the continuous supply of food, drink and other products The Group closely monitors product quality and considers into our pubs.
The Group is exposed to the risk of interruption action which may be required to provide substitute products or failure of suppliers or distributors resulting in our products not or suppliers if required.
being delivered on time or to our required standards.
Change management The Group ensures that a project team, supported by management, The Group occasionally makes material acquisitions or is put in place to closely manage such organisational changes.
organisational and system changes which may impact on The Group ensures that formal project methodology is followed the delivery of day-to-day business objectives.
The Group ensures that the necessary due diligence, cost benefit and risk assessment is carried out for major projects.
Health and safety The Group aims to comply with all relevant health and Health and safety is of primary importance to the Group and safety legislation.
we aim to maintain a safe environment for all employees, visitors The Group has a formal documented Health and Safety policy.
and our customers, at our head office and in our pubs.
A Health and Safety Committee meets on a periodic basis to consider all aspects of health and safety across the Group and to report to the Board of Directors on the status of health and safety through the risk management framework.
The Group has a policy of carrying out heath and safety, fire safety and food safety audits within the managed estate.
The Group supports our licensees in understanding their own health and safety responsibilities through training and support.
Litigation The Group works closely with local authorities, including The Group may be subject to legal and regulatory court proceedings our lead authority and has in-house and external specialists in relation to our customers, suppliers, employees or regulatory to help manage the risk of litigation.
authorities for breach of any contractual duties or other legal responsibilities.
The risk of this litigation is not likely to be material in value however may impact on our reputation or image.
Licensing and property due diligence A formal due diligence process is in place to ensure that properties The Group is committed to ensuring that our properties meet are compliant with the necessary regulatory requirements.
all required licensing and other property regulatory requirements.
The Group works closely with local Licensing Boards where These include requirements such as gas safety, electrical PAT testing, appropriate to ensure all licensing requirements are met and fire safety requirements.
and any changes are closely monitored.
17 Punch Taverns plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Regulatory Operational and business Financial statements Governance Business review
