QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review Management of principal risks and uncertainties Management of principal risks and uncertainties The Group operates on an international basis with its The regulatory environment may adversely change primary activities derived from the UK and US defence The Groups operations deal with sensitive defence and markets.
As such, the Groups operations are exposed security technologies and revenue generation could to a number of risks and uncertainties which could have be affected by regulatory changes in the geographical an impact on the Groups future performance and markets in which it can operate, or restrictions on cause actual results to differ materially from historic technology transfer.
The majority of revenue is derived and expected performance.
The principal risks and from domestic sales of services and products within the uncertainties are described below, together with UK and US and is therefore largely unaffected by export managements view on how these are assessed, controls and other such restrictions.
QinetiQs ability to managed and mitigated to minimise their potential export outside of these jurisdictions is subject to export impact on the reported performance of the Group.
controls and other regulations, and significant changes in the regulatory environment may limit QinetiQs ability There are high levels of competition in the markets in to expand into other export markets.
The Group has which the Group operates formal procedures in place to ensure that it meets The defence and security markets are highly competitive.
In the US, the Group The Group places great importance on the capabilities undertakes work that is deemed to be of importance for of its employees and their track record for delivering US national security, and arrangements are in place to innovative solutions to complex customer requirements.
insulate these activities from undue foreign influence as QinetiQs expertise and capabilities provide a compelling a result of foreign ownership.
The Group has procedures proposition for customers, which is a significant in place to ensure that these arrangements remain advantage for the Group in competitive bidding.
effective and to respond to any changes that might QinetiQs long-standing relationships with its customers, occur in US attitudes to foreign ownership of such coupled with the investment made to sustain and activities.
enhance its offerings, provides QinetiQ with a deep understanding of its customers needs and how to Policies or attitudes towards Organisational Conflict of respond to them.
QinetiQ North America has improved Interest OCI may change its competitive position by gaining access to a number The Group provides services to its defence customers of Government Wide Acquisition Contracts GWACs.
that meet their needs as part of the defence supply US Government spending on certain activities is chain and also as a technical advisor through restricted to businesses which have been awarded a consultancy services.
To mitigate against the potential position to supply their services under such GWACs.
conflict of interest that could arise, the Group takes proactive steps to manage any potential OCI and to The Group is dependent on governmental defence and maintain its ability to provide independent advice security spending levels through its consulting and systems engineering A reduction in UK and US Government defence and activities.
In the UK, a formal compliance regime security spending could adversely impact the Group.
operates with the MOD to monitor and assess potential Current UK and US defence and security spending conflicts of interest as part of its sales acceptance forecasts do not indicate budget reductions but the process.
Should the attitudes or policies adopted by our focus of spending within the budgets will change to customers change such that greater restrictions are meet emerging needs.
The asymmetric nature of modern placed over the ability to undertake supply and advisory warfare and current high threat level from terrorism contracts by the same organisation, this could materially have resulted in increasing expenditure on capabilities impact the rate of future growth of these businesses.
QinetiQ is positioned in important focus areas of defence and security spending in Significant change in demand from reduced military accordance with the MOD Defence Industrial Strategy, operations in Iraq and Afghanistan MOD Defence Technology Strategy and DoD Quadrennial QinetiQs overall performance in recent years has not Defense Review.
The Group will continue to review been significantly reliant on the current allied operations trends in defence and security expenditure in order to in Iraq and Afghanistan.
While individual operating align the business with those trends.
QinetiQs broad units, such as QNAs Technology Solutions business, have reach across the defence spectrum ensures that any experienced high levels of demand for products such single delay or cancellation of a new or replacement as the TALON robot to help counter the threat of defence platform in the UK or US defence budgets improvised explosive devices IEDs, other parts of the would not materially impact the Group.
As a technology business have been adversely affected by customer specialist, QinetiQ is well positioned to benefit from budgetary pressures reducing demand, such as for any delay or cancellation as this will often lead to the services to improve the efficiency of government requirement for technology insertion and upgrades processes.
In the event of a reduction in the level to extend an existing platforms operational lifespan.
of operations in Iraq and Afghanistan it is expected that such discretionary expenditure will resume.
42 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager BUSiNeSS review QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review Management of principal risks and uncertainties continued Additionally, were financial close not to be reached on A material element of Group revenue is derived from a the DTR contract, the bid costs incurred since preferred single large contract bidder status was achieved would need to be expensed In the current year, the LTPA directly contributed 14% of through the income statement.
It is anticipated that the Group revenue and supported a further 7.2% through Group would be able to recover certain of these costs in tasking services using LTPA managed facilities.
percentages will decrease proportionately as the Group grows.
The Group continues to achieve high customer Volatility in foreign exchange rates impact Group performance and satisfaction ratings, maintain excellent financial performance relations with key customers and anticipates that the The Group is exposed to volatility in foreign exchange contract will continue to run for the full duration of its rates due to its international operations.
The Group initial 25-year term through to 2028.
The first break point has limited transactional foreign exchange exposure as in the contract is 2013.
QinetiQs performance is regularly most of its revenues and related costs arise in the same monitored across a number of key performance indicators.
currencies, principally sterling and US dollars.
The Group QinetiQ achieved a weighted performance rating of hedges all significant transactional foreign exchange 95.1% for the year ended 31 March 2008 and earned a exposure.
Foreign currency income statement and performance bonus on this contract.
The LTPA operates balance sheet translation risks are not fully hedged.
under five-year periods with specific programmes, QinetiQ North America represents more than 39.5% targets and performance measures set for each period.
of Group revenue and profit and a one cent movement On 3 March 2008, the Group signed a five-year pricing in the dollar exchange rate has an approximate 3m agreement with the MOD covering the second period of impact on revenue and 0.3m on operating profit.
the LTPA after a successful first, five-year period.
The loss, US acquisitions have been funded through US dollar cancellation or termination of this contract would have a borrowings, thus partially mitigating the economic material adverse impact on the Groups future reported risk as US dollar earnings are used to service and repay performance.
Acquired businesses could fail to perform as expected Availability of financing and volatility of interest rates QinetiQ continues to supplement its organic growth may impact the Group through selected acquisitions in both its North American The Group is exposed to fluctuations in the credit and EMEA businesses.
Detailed processes exist to markets which could impact the availability and cost conduct appropriate due diligence and integration of financing for the Group.
The Group manages this risk planning to ensure the business is a robust and well by maintaining a sufficient level of committed funding managed concern.
The Group focuses on acquiring wellfacilities, with a phased maturity profile, and by the use established companies where the management and of fixed-rate debt instruments and interest-rate swap business have demonstrated a strong track record of derivatives to provide stability in the ongoing cost of delivery.
There is a risk with any acquisition programme utilising these facilities.
There is a risk that a substantial that an acquired company may not perform as expected expansion of the Groups operations could not be once under new ownership and a significant downturn financed through debt financing if sufficient facilities in the post-acquisition performance of one or more of were not available in the credit markets on economically the acquired businesses could have a material adverse viable terms.
impact on the Groups trading performance.
Defence Training Rationalisation DTR programme Package 1 is not brought to financial close In January 2007, Metrix, the Groups joint venture with Land Securities Trillium, was confirmed as the preferred bidder for Package 1 for the proposed 30-year DTR contract to outsource technical training for the UK Armed Forces.
Currently, the Group is working with MOD to refine the final scope of work as the next stage in moving to financial close.
The Group anticipates that financial close will occur by the end of 2009.
In January 2008, the MOD confirmed negotiations for Package 1 were progressing successfully.
DTR is expected to generate a significant level of revenue and profit once it is operational.
There is a risk that the MOD may materially change the final scope or delay or cancel the implementation of the programme, which would have a significant effect on the future expected growth of the Group.
43 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager QinetiQ Group plc Annual report and Accounts 2008 Business review Management of principal risks and uncertainties continued Defined benefit pension scheme deficit and or cash The realisation of value from intellectual property funding contributions may increase may be delayed The Groups defined benefit pension scheme valuation is The funded research and development work the Group subject to market changes beyond the control of undertakes for defence and other customers creates QinetiQ.
Actual returns achieved on assets may be lower intellectual property that the Group retains and can than expected, inflation could be higher than expected utilise for commercial applications.
Where opportunities and life expectancy may rise faster than expected.
All exist, the Group may seek to realise the value of the these factors could contribute to the reported deficit intellectual property through licence sales, development increasing significantly beyond the current level.
The of new business streams or creation of spin-out Group has made considerable additional contributions ventures.
The uncertainty that exists over new to the scheme in previous years to reduce the funding technologies and markets may result in delays or failure deficit over the long term and scheme member to realise value from intellectual property or in a higher contributions have also been increased.
With effect from level of investment required for the opportunity to be June 2008, QinetiQ is implementing changes to future realised.
The Group only invests in the development benefit accruals and in addition future cost increases will of intellectual property where it believes there is a be dealt with through a risk-sharing agreement between substantial and realistic market opportunity for the the Company and employees.
The Group has taken these technology and it undertakes a portfolio approach, actions in conjunction with the scheme trustees and recognising that not all investments will be successful.
maintains an active dialogue with the trustees, to seek The performance of intellectual property realisation to manage and contain the magnitude and volatility of programmes is actively monitored to increase support the pension scheme deficit, and associated cash funding, for successful prospects and reduce expenditure where and their impact on the performance of the Group.
The Group brings in external experts and funders as partners in a variety The Groups tax liabilities may increase due to changes of structures to enhance the performance of certain in tax legislation intellectual property realisation projects, as evidenced QinetiQ is liable to taxation in the countries in which it by the creation of the Venture fund with Coller Capital.
operates, principally the United Kingdom and the United States.
Changes to the tax legislation in these countries Fixed-price contracts may cost more to complete could have an adverse impact on the quantum of tax than envisaged paid on the profits generated by the Group.
The Group enters into fixed-price contracts with customers.
The Group seeks to minimise the exposure to changes in the cost of completing these contracts by only taking on delivery obligations that it can manage and by regular review of forecast costs throughout contract bidding and delivery stages.
Additionally the nature of much of the services provided under such fixed-price arrangements for contract R&D, advisory and consulting services are often for a defined amount of effort or resource rather than firm product deliverables and as such the risk of cost escalation in such contracts is substantially mitigated.
With the exception of the LTPA, no individual fixed-priced contract is material to the revenue of the Group.
44 salterbaxter 8907 QinetiQ Annual report Front 4 June 2008 account manager cs designer co setting lm ProoF Five final............. proofreader final............. a c manager
