Overview Operating and financial review Our business Governance Financial statements and other information The key risks facing Reed Elsevier include the highly 43 Reed Elsevier competitive and rapidly changing nature of our markets Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Principal risks The key risks facing Reed Elsevier arise from We are investing significant amounts to the highly competitive and rapidly changing develop and promote electronic products nature of our markets, the increasingly and platforms.
The provision of these technological nature of our products and products and services is very competitive services, the international nature of our and is to some extent subject to factors operations, legal and regulatory uncertainties, outside our control such as competition and economic conditions in our markets.
from new technologies and changes in Certain businesses could also be affected regulation.
There is no assurance that by the impact on publicly funded and other this investment will produce satisfactory customers of changes in funding and by long term returns.
cyclical pressures on advertising and promotional spending or through information Reed Elseviers businesses are becoming publicly available for free.
increasingly dependent on electronic platforms and networks, primarily the Reed Elsevier has established risk internet, for delivery of products and management practices that are embedded services.
Although plans and procedures into the operations of the businesses based are in place to reduce such risks, our on the framework in internal control issued businesses could be adversely affected by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations if their electronic delivery platforms and of the Treadway Commission COSO, and are networks experience a significant failure, reviewed by the Audit Committees and Boards.
Important specific risks that have been identified and are being addressed include: Our products and services are largely comprised of intellectual property content Demand for our products and services delivered through a variety of media.
may be impacted by factors beyond our We rely on trademark, copyright, patent control such as the economic downturn and other intellectual property laws to currently being experienced in the United establish and protect our proprietary States and other major economies.
rights in these products and services.
Macroeconomic, political and market However, there is a risk that our conditions may adversely affect the proprietary rights could be challenged, availability of short and long term funding, limited, invalidated or circumvented.
volatility of interest rates, currency exchange rates and inflation.
New organisational and operational structures are being developed with Reed Elseviers businesses are dependent increased focus on outsourcing and on the continued acceptance by our offshoring functions.
The failure of third customers of our products and services parties to whom we have outsourced and the prices which we charge for them.
activities could adversely affect our We cannot predict whether there will be reputation and financial condition.
changes in the future which will effect the acceptability of products, services We operate a number of pension schemes and prices to our customers.
around the world, the largest schemes being of the defined benefit type in the UK, the US and the Netherlands.
The assets and obligations associated with defined benefit pension schemes are particularly sensitive to changes in the market values of assets and the market related assumptions used to value scheme liabilities.
44 Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2008 Principal risks Our businesses operate in over 200 We recognise that Reed Elsevier and its continued locations worldwide and our earnings businesses have a direct impact on the are subject to taxation in many differing environment, principally through the use jurisdictions and at differing rates.
of energy and water and waste generation We seek to organise our affairs in a and in our supply chain through paper use tax efficient manner, taking account and print and production technologies.
of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
We are committed to reducing these impacts, However, tax laws that apply to Reed whenever possible, by limiting resource Elsevier businesses may be amended by use and by efficiently employing sustainable the relevant authorities.
Such amendments, materials and technologies.
We require or their application to Reed Elsevier our suppliers and contractors to meet the businesses, could adversely affect our same objectives.
We seek to ensure that reported results.
Reed Elseviers businesses are compliant with all relevant environmental legislation We often acquire and dispose of and, accordingly, whilst environmental issues businesses to reshape and strengthen are important, we do not consider that they our portfolio and engage in restructuring constitute a significant risk for Reed Elsevier.
If we are unable to generate the anticipated benefits such as revenue In addition to the risks described above, growth, synergies and or cost savings further information on risks and how they associated with these aquisitions and are addressed is provided elsewhere in the restructuring activities this could Annual Reports and Financial Statements: adversely affect our reputation and financial condition.
the Operating and Financial Review and Description of Business contains The Reed Elsevier combined financial discussion of strategic, competitive, statements are expressed in pounds sterling economic, legal and regulatory, and are, therefore, subject to movements technological and customer risks.
in exchange rates on the translation of the financial information of businesses whose the Corporate Responsibility report operational currencies are other than sterling.
contains discussion of risks relating to The United States is our most important people, the environment and customers.
market and, accordingly, significant fluctuations in the US dollar exchange rate could note 6 to the combined financial significantly affect our reported results.
statements contains further information on risks associated with defined benefit pension schemes.
the Chief Financial Officers report contains a discussion of treasury, liquidity, interest rate, foreign currency and credit risks.
the report on Structure and Corporate Governance contains a discussion on risks relating to financial reporting.
