Risk factors demand from the slowing global economy, made a further announcement about its The following describes some of the risks Chinas economy grew at a slower rate in targeted divestments on 12 December 2008. that could affect Rio Tinto.
There may be 2008 than in prior years.
China remains the On 12 February 2009 the Group additional risks unknown to Rio Tinto and worlds largest importer of iron ore but the announced that it had entered into a other risks, currently believed to be reduction in the growth rate of the Chinese transaction with Chinalco to forge a strategic immaterial, which could turn out to be economy and the sharp decline in Chinese partnership through the creation of joint material.
These risks, whether they steel output since October 2008 has ventures and the issuance of convertible materialise individually or simultaneously, contributed to a contraction in Chinese bonds.
The transaction is subject to the could significantly affect the Groups demand.
Although the Groups iron ore is approval by Rio Tinto shareholders, business and financial results.
They predominantly sold to Chinese customers at governments and regulators.
should also be considered in connection with any forward looking statements in fixed prices rather than at spot rates, these The timing and proceeds of divestments this document and the cautionary prices are subject to annual negotiations and and the completion of the transaction with statement on page 2. the Group may not be able to negotiate Chinalco are subject to uncertainty.
The The following highlight the Groups favourable pricing when it renegotiates its Group cannot anticipate when it will be able exposure to risk without explaining how annual iron ore contracts in the first half of to reduce its borrowings through further these exposures are managed and 2009.
In addition, if the Groups Chinese asset divestments, if at all or be certain that mitigated or how some risks are both iron ore customers are successful in sourcing the transaction with Chinalco will receive all threats and potential opportunities.
iron ore domestically or from the Groups requisite approvals or complete in a timely competitors particularly if volatility in the manner.
If the Group is unable to access The recent significant reduction in freight market impacts the competitiveness sufficient funds, to make the repayments commodity prices and global demand for of the Groups supply of iron ore, the Group under its credit facilities, it may not be able the Groups products has had, and are may experience further weakened demand to fulfil its repayment obligations or may expected to continue to have, a material for its iron ore. need to find an alternate source of adverse impact on the Groups business, The slowdown of Chinas economy has financing, which may be on more onerous financial condition and results of also contributed to a contraction in demand terms.
The occurrence of any of these events operations.
and lower pricing for copper and aluminium.
may have a material adverse effect on the Commodity prices, and demand for the If Chinese customers demand for external Groups business, results of operations, Groups products, are cyclical and influenced sources of the Groups products continues to financial condition, prospects and share strongly by world economic growth, weaken or does not recover, or Chinese prices.
particularly in the US and Asia notably customers source such products from the In addition, if the transaction with China.
The Groups normal policy is to sell Groups competitors, the Groups business, Chinalco does not complete it will result in its products at prevailing market prices and results of operations, financial condition and the Group having to consider other strategic not to enter into hedging arrangements prospects could continue to be materially and financing options and under certain relating to changes or fluctuations in such adversely affected.
circumstances may result in the Group prices.
Commodity prices have significantly paying a break fee of US$195 million to declined recently and prices can fluctuate Failure to progress the divestment Chinalco.
Such fluctuations have impacted the programme, complete the strategic Further details of the Groups existing Groups recent trading and could have a partnership with Chinalco or raise credit facilities are set out on page 93. material adverse impact on the Groups additional capital from alternative sources Further details of the strategic partnership revenues, earnings, cash flows, asset values may lead to the renegotiation of the with Chinalco are set out on page 14. and growth in the future.
As a result of Groups US$40 billion syndicated credit difficult market and general economic facilities on more onerous terms.
Adverse economic and credit market conditions which may be long lasting and In July 2007, in connection with its conditions have materially adversely continue to deepen, there has also been acquisition of Alcan, the Group entered into affected, and may continue to materially reduced direct and indirect demand for the syndicated credit facilities of up to US$40 adversely affect, the Groups ability to Groups products and these declines have billion, which have principal repayments raise additional debt or equity.
had, and are expected to continue to have, a falling due in October 2009, October 2010 At the time of the acquisition of Alcan, it material adverse impact on the Groups and October 2012.
Following the acquisition, was the Groups intention to repay a portion revenues, earnings, cash flows, asset values the Group announced its intention to reduce of the US$40 billion Alcan credit facilities and growth.
this debt by divesting some of its existing through the issuance of bonds.
Accordingly, assets as well as the Packaging and the Group issued a series of bonds in June China is an important source of demand Engineered Products units of Rio Tinto 2008, and the aggregate net proceeds were for the Groups products and a reduction Alcan.
In November 2007, the Group applied in partial prepayment of the credit in the imports of the Groups products by announced its intention to achieve at least facilities maturing in October 2009.
Chinese customers has had, and may US$15 billion of divestments and divested Deteriorating conditions in the credit continue to have, a material adverse effect approximately US$2.6 billion at favourable markets since June 2008 have restricted the on the Groups results of operations.
prices in the first half of 2008.
Deteriorating Groups ability to access the credit markets As a result of the increasing importance of market conditions in the second half of 2008 on a commercially acceptable basis.
China as a source of demand for its and continued severe dislocation in global The Groups ability to raise additional products, in particular iron ore, the Group markets, made it increasingly difficult for debt and or equity financing will also has recently been, and may continue to be, buyers to raise finance to purchase Group continue to be significantly influenced by, adversely affected by a reduction in the assets.
In October 2008, the Group among other things, general economic importation of its products by Chinese announced it would review its 2008 targeted conditions, developments in the credit customers.
In part as a result of weak divestments given market conditions and markets, volatility in the equity markets, 24 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Markets and strategy The Groups results of operations could be Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and Euro.
investors desire to maintain cash and to materially adversely affected by the The Groups normal policy is not to enter into assume additional levels of risk and the impairment of assets and goodwill.
hedging arrangements relating to changes or Groups credit rating.
If economic and credit An asset impairment charge may result from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
As a conditions do not improve, the Group may the occurrence of unexpected adverse events result, if there is an appreciation in the value not be able to raise debt and or equity that impact the Groups estimates of of these currencies against the US dollar or finance on attractive terms, or at all, and it expected cash flows generated from its prolonged periods of exchange rate volatility may need to seek further financing from assets.
The Group was recently required and these changes may have a material adverse alternative sources.
Alternative financing may again be required to recognise asset impact on the Groups results of operations.
may also be on unfavourable terms.
As a impairment charges, as a result of result, the Groups business, results of operations, financial condition and prospects impairment indicators which could include a If the Group does not significantly reduce could be materially adversely affected.
weak economic environment, challenging its business and operating costs, its market conditions, fluctuations in long term business and results of operations may The Groups borrowing costs and its commodity prices, changes to long term suffer materially.
access to the debt capital markets depend mine plans, mining properties and to On 10 December 2008, the Group both on its long term credit ratings, characteristics of orebody including the announced that it had undertaken a review which were recently downgraded, and on expected life of the orebody.
The of its controllable operating expenditure and interest rate levels.
deteriorating global economic outlook and intended to reduce operating and functional In December 2008, Moodys downgraded the declines in commodity prices are likely to costs by at least US$2.5 billion per annum by long term ratings of the Group from A3 to reduce the recoverable amount of the the end of 2010 based on 2008 production Baa1 and S&P downgraded its long term Groups cash generating units and therefore rates and constant exchange rates and oil ratings from BBB to BBB and its short term may increase the Groups impairment prices.
To achieve this targeted reduction, corporate credit ratings from A-2 to A-3.
Both charges in the future.
the Group intends to reduce global Moodys and S&P have retained a negative In accordance with IFRS, the Group headcount by approximately 14,000 roles.
outlook in respect of its ratings and may does not amortise goodwill but rather tests However, as a result of continuing market downgrade the ratings of the Group again.
Goodwill conditions, the Group may need to reduce Any current or future downgrades by credit impairments cannot be reversed.
The Group operating expenditure further.
The Group rating agencies may increase the Groups tested goodwill arising from the Alcan also intends to consolidate some of its financing costs and limit or eliminate its acquisition for impairment and recorded a offices, accelerate the outsourcing and offaccess to the debt capital markets.
goodwill impairment charge of US$6.6 billion shoring of IT and procurement and defer Increases in interest rates are likely to for the year ended 31 December 2008. certain exploration and evaluation increase the interest cost associated with the In November 2007, the Group initially expenditure.
If the Group experiences delays Groups debt, 73 per cent of which is floating determined goodwill based on provisional in implementing these measures or if the rate debt, and will increase the cost of future fair values, and finalised the fair value Group does not realise the cost savings or borrowings, which could affect the Groups determinations within 12 months of the operating efficiencies it anticipates, this earnings and financial position.
See also the date it acquired Alcan.
Following this could have a material adverse effect on the risk factors relating to defined benefit determination, the Group adjusted the value Groups results of operations.
pension plans on page 27. of goodwill arising from the Alcan In the event that demand subsequently acquisition to US$20.1 billion.
increases and the Group seeks to raise Failure of the Group to make successful The Group will continue to test goodwill production levels to respond, its ability to acquisitions and to effectively integrate its and may, in the future, record additional take advantage of the increased demand acquisitions could have a material adverse impairment charges.
This could result in the may be constrained and operating costs may impact on the Groups business and recognition of impairment losses which increase significantly, which could have a results of operations.
could be significant and which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups Business combinations entail a number of material adverse effect on the Groups results business and results of operations.
risks, including the ability of management to of operations.
Further details on integrate effectively the businesses acquired impairments are set out on page 100. with its existing operations including the realisation of synergies, significant one time Rio Tinto is exposed to fluctuations in write offs or restructuring charges, difficulties exchange rates that could have a material in achieving optimal tax structures, and adverse impact on the results of its unanticipated costs.
All of these may be operations.
exacerbated by the diversion of The majority of the Groups sales are managements attention away from other denominated in US dollars.
The Group also ongoing business concerns.
The Group may finances its operations and holds surplus also be liable for the past acts, omissions or cash primarily in US dollars.
Given the liabilities of companies or businesses it has dominant role of the US dollar in the Groups acquired, which may be unforeseen or greater operations it is the currency in which its than anticipated at the time of the relevant results are presented both internally and acquisition.
Deterioration or reduced demand externally.
The Group also incurs costs in US for the Groups products could impact the dollars but significant costs are influenced by Groups estimated post tax synergies for the the local currencies of the territories in Alcan acquisition and have a material adverse which its ore reserves and other assets are impact on the Groups results of operations.
These currencies are principally the Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 25 Risk factors continued Political, legal and commercial instability The Groups operations are resource The Groups business and growth or community disputes in the countries intensive and changes in the cost and or prospects may be negatively impacted and territories in which the Group interruptions in the supply of energy, by reductions in its capital expenditure operates could affect the viability of its water, fuel or other key inputs could programme.
adversely affect their economic viability.
The Group requires substantial capital to The Group has operations in jurisdictions The Groups operations are resource invest in greenfield and brownfield projects with varying degrees of political, legal and intensive and, as a result, its costs and net and to maintain and prolong the life and commercial stability.
Administrative change, earnings may be adversely affected by the capacity of its existing mines.
The recently policy reform, changes in law or availability or cost of energy, water, fuel or announced reductions in capital expenditure governmental regulations can result in civil other key inputs.
If the current downward relate to the cancellation of, or slowing work on, certain projects and the deferral of others unrest, expropriation, or nationalisation.
trend in energy prices reverses, carbon until at least the Group is satisfied that Renegotiation or nullification of existing trading schemes or carbon taxes begin to market conditions and commodity prices agreements, leases and permits, changes in apply to the Groups operations or if the have sufficiently recovered and sufficient fiscal policies including increased tax or Group experiences interruptions in, or cash for investment is available.
The Group royalty rates or currency restrictions are all constraints on, its supply of energy, water, may reduce its capital expenditure further in possible consequences.
Commercial fuel or other key inputs, the Groups costs light of various considerations such as instability caused by bribery and corruption could increase and its results could be expected global demand for its products, the in their various guises can lead to similar materially adversely affected.
level of commodity pricing and the Groups consequences.
The consequences of such resources, which may negatively impact the instability or changes could have a material Increased regulation of greenhouse gas timing of the Groups growth and future adverse effect on the profitability, the ability emissions could adversely impact the prospects.
to finance or, in extreme cases, the viability Groups cost of operations.
If commodity markets improve, the of an operation.
Rio Tintos smelting and mineral processing Groups ability to take advantage of that Some of the Groups current and operations are energy intensive and depend improvement may be constrained by earlier potential operations are located in or near heavily on fossil fuels.
Increasing regulation capital expenditure restrictions and the long communities that may regard such an of greenhouse gas emissions, including the term value of its business could be adversely operation as having a detrimental effect on progressive introduction of carbon emissions impacted.
their environmental, economic or social trading mechanisms and tighter emission The Groups position in relation to its circumstances.
The consequences of reduction targets, in numerous jurisdictions competitors may also deteriorate.
community reaction could also have a in which the Group operates is likely to raise Competitors may have sufficient funds or material adverse impact on the cost, energy costs and costs of production to a access to capital and be better positioned to profitability, ability to finance or even the material degree over the next decade.
respond quickly to changes in commodity viability of an operation.
Such events could Regulation of greenhouse gas emissions in prices or market conditions generally.
lead to disputes with national or local the jurisdictions of the Groups major The Group may also need to address governments or with local communities and customers and in relation to international commercial and political issues in relation to give rise to material reputational damage.
If shipping could also have an adverse effect its reductions in capital expenditure in the Groups operations are delayed or shut on the demand for the Groups products.
certain of the jurisdictions in which it down as a result of political and community operates.
If the Groups interest in its joint instability, its revenue growth may be Estimates of ore reserves are based on ventures is diluted or it loses key constrained and the long term value of its certain assumptions and so changes in concessions or if it is prevented from business could be adversely impacted.
such assumptions could lead to reported reducing capital expenditure commitments ore reserves being restated.
in the relevant jurisdiction, its growth could The Groups land and resource tenure There are numerous uncertainties inherent be constrained.
Any of the foregoing could could be disputed resulting in disruption in estimating ore reserves including have a material adverse effect on the Groups and or impediment in the operation or subjective judgments and determinations business, results of operations, financial development of a resource.
based on available geological, technical, condition and prospects.
The Group operates in several countries contracted and economic information and where title to land and rights in respect of assumptions that are valid at the time of The Groups exploration and development land and resources including indigenous estimation may change significantly when of new projects might be unsuccessful, title, particularly in Australia and Canada new information becomes available.
expenditures may not be fully recovered may be unclear and may lead to disputes Changes in the forecast prices of and depleted ore reserves may not be over resource development.
Such disputes commodities, exchange rates, production replaced.
could disrupt or delay relevant mining costs or recovery rates may result in the The Group develops new mining properties projects and or impede the Groups ability to reserves ceasing to be economically viable.
and expands its existing operations as a develop new mining properties and may This may, ultimately, result in the reserves means of generating shareholder value.
The have a material adverse effect on the Groups needing to be restated.
Such changes in Group seeks to identify new mining results of operations and or prospects.
reserves could also impact depreciation and properties through its exploration amortisation rates, asset carrying values, programme.
The Group has also undertaken deferred stripping calculations and the development or expansion of other provisions for close down, restoration and major operations.
There is no assurance, environmental clean up costs.
however, that such expenditure will be recouped or that depleted ore reserves will be replaced.
26 Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report Markets and strategy The Groups net earnings are sensitive to sensitive to the assumptions used to value contributions to these pension plans.
the assumptions used for valuing defined the pension obligations and also to the Actual investment returns achieved benefit pension plans and post retirement underlying economic conditions that compared to the amounts assumed within healthcare plans.
Changing the Groups reported pension expense was as follows: Certain of the Groups businesses sponsor economic conditions and in particular poor defined benefit pension plans.
The pension pension investment returns may require the expense reported in respect of those plans is Group to make substantial cash US$ millions 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 Expected return on plan assets 1,000 550 326 306 263 Actual return on plan assets 2,910 442 664 529 650 Difference between the expected and actual return on plan assets: Loss gain US$ million 3,910 108 338 223 387 Difference as a percentage of plan assets 37% 1% 6% 4% 8% The Group is dependent on the continued the Group to realise its production or growth As at 31 December 2008, the Group had estimated pension liabilities on an IAS19 services of key personnel.
plans or some other adverse affect on accounting basis of US$13.1 billion and assets The Groups ability to maintain its operational performance.
After excluding those competitive position and to implement its pension arrangements deliberately operated business strategy is dependent on the The Groups mining operations are as unfunded arrangements, representing services of its personnel, including key vulnerable to natural disasters, operating liabilities of US$0.9 billion, the global funding engineering, managerial, financial, difficulties and infrastructure constraints level for pension liabilities on an IAS19 basis commercial, marketing and processing that could have a material impact on its was approximately 86 per cent.
If the funding personnel and the maintenance of good productivity and not all of which are level materially deteriorates further cash labour relations.
The loss or diminution in covered by insurance.
contributions from the Group may be needed, the services of such key personnel, Mining operations are vulnerable to natural subject to local requirements.
particularly as a result of a reduction in disasters, including earthquakes, drought, The long term credit ratings of the Group headcount, an inability to attract and retain floods, fire, tropical storms and the physical were downgraded in December 2008.
See additional staff, or if the Group does not effects of climate change.
Operating earlier risk factor relating to credit ratings.
If have a competitive remuneration structure, difficulties, such as unexpected geological the Groups long term credit ratings are could have a material adverse effect on the variations that could result in significant downgraded by Moodys by another two Groups business, financial condition, results failure, could affect the costs and viability of levels to Baa3, Rio Tinto would be required of operations and prospects.
its operations for indeterminate periods.
to make a one off cash payment to the Competition for personnel with relevant Furthermore, downstream activities such as Rio Tinto Pension Fund UK to bring the expertise and experience of international smelting and refining are dependent upon funding level up to 100 per cent on the best practice in certain of the jurisdictions in mine production.
The Groups insurance funding basis agreed with the trustees, or which the Group operates, especially for coverage can provide protection from some, offer an alternative form of security.
As at positions in engineering, mining, metallurgy but not all, of the costs that may arise from 31 December 2008, the funding deficit was and geological sciences, is intense due to the unforeseen events.
estimated to be 108 million US$156 small pool of qualified individuals and strong The Group requires reliable roads, rail million.
If the Group is required to make demand for such individuals.
This may affect networks, ports, power sources and water such substantial cash contributions to its the Groups ability to retain its existing supplies to access and conduct its pension plans, its financial position and senior management, marketing and technical operations.
The availability and cost of this results could be adversely affected.
personnel and attract additional qualified infrastructure affects capital and operating personnel on appropriate terms or at all.
costs and the Groups ability to maintain Labour disputes could lead to lost expected levels of production and sales.
In production and or increased costs.
Some of the Groups technologies are particular, the Group transports a large Some of the Groups employees, including unproven and failures could adversely proportion of its products by sea.
The Group employees in non managed operations, are impact costs and or productivity.
competes with a number of other exporters represented by labour unions under various The Group has invested in and implemented for limited storage and berthing facilities at collective labour agreements.
The Group may information systems and operational ports, which can result in delays in loading not be able to satisfactorily renegotiate its initiatives.
Some aspects of these technologies the Groups products and expose the Group collective labour agreements when they are unproven and the eventual operational to significant delivery interruptions.
expire and may face tougher negotiations or outcome or viability cannot be assessed with Limitations, or interruptions in, rail or higher wage demands than would be the case certainty.
Accordingly, the costs, productivity shipping capacity at any port, including as a for non unionised labour.
In addition, and other benefits from these initiatives and result of third parties gaining access to the existing labour agreements may not prevent a the consequent effects on the Groups future Groups integrated infrastructure, could strike or work stoppage at its facilities in the earnings and financial results may vary impede the Groups ability to deliver its future, and any strike or other work stoppage widely from present expectations.
This could have a material could have a material adverse effect on the Groups technology system fails to realise the adverse effect on the Groups business, Groups earnings and financial condition.
anticipated benefits, there is no assurance results of operations, financial condition and that this would not result in increased costs, prospects.
interruptions to supply continuity, failure for The Groups insurance does not cover Rio Tinto 2008 Annual report 27 Risk factors continued interests, joint ventures necessarily involve every potential risk associated with its special risks.
Whether or not the Group operations.
Adequate coverage at reasonable holds majority interests or maintains rates is not always obtainable.
In addition, operational control in its joint ventures, its the Groups insurance may not fully cover its partners may: liability or the consequences of any business interruptions such as equipment failure or have economic or business interests or labour dispute.
The occurrence of a goals that are inconsistent with or opposed significant adverse event not fully or to those of the Group: partially covered by insurance, could have a exercise veto rights so as to block actions material adverse effect on the Groups that the Group believes to be in its or the business, results of operations, financial joint ventures best interests: condition and prospects.
take action contrary to the Groups policies or objectives with respect to its The Groups costs of close down and investments: or restoration, and for environmental clean as a result of financial or other difficulties, up, could be higher than expected due to be unable or unwilling to fulfil their unforeseen changes in legislation, obligations under the joint venture or other standards and techniques.
Underestimated agreements, such as contributing capital to or unidentified costs could have a material expansion or maintenance projects.
adverse impact on the Groups reputation and results of operations.
Where projects and operations are controlled Close down and restoration costs include the and managed by the Groups partners, the dismantling and demolition of infrastructure Group may provide expertise and advice, but and the remediation of land disturbed it has limited control with respect to during the life of mining and operations.
compliance with its standards and objectives.
Estimated costs are provided for over the life Improper management or ineffective policies, of each operation based on the net present procedures or controls could adversely affect value of the close down and restoration the value of the related non managed costs.
The estimated costs are updated projects and operations and, by association, annually but the provisions might prove to damage the Groups reputation and thereby be inadequate due to changes in legislation, harm the Groups other operations and standards and the emergence of new access to new assets.
Furthermore the expected timing of expenditure could Health, safety, environmental and other change significantly due to changes in regulations, standards and expectations commodity prices which might substantially evolve over time and unforeseen changes curtail the life of an operation.
The total could have an adverse effect on the provisions as at 31 December 2008 Groups earnings and cash flows.
amounted to US$6,011 million 2007 Rio Tinto operates in an industry that is restated: US$6,228 million as set out in note subject to numerous health, safety and 27 to the financial statements.
These environmental laws, regulations and provisions could, however, be insufficient in standards as well as community and relation to the actual cost of restoration or stakeholder expectations.
The Group is the cost of remediating or compensating subject to extensive governmental damage including to land or other elements regulations in all jurisdictions in which it of the environment outside the site operates.
Operations are subject to general boundary.
Any underestimated or and specific regulations governing mining unidentified close down and restoration and processing, land tenure and use, costs could have a material and adverse environmental requirements including site impact on the Groups reputation as well as specific environmental licences, permits and its asset values, earnings and cash flows.
statutory authorisations, workplace health and safety, social impacts, trade and export, Joint ventures and other strategic corporations, competition, access to partnerships may not be successful and infrastructure, foreign investment and non managed projects and operations may taxation.
Some operations are conducted not comply with the Groups standards under specific agreements with respective and as a consequence may adversely governments and associated acts of affect its reputation and the value of such parliament but unilateral variations could projects and operations.
diminish or even remove such rights.
The Group participates in several joint Evolving regulatory standards and venture arrangements and it may enter into expectations can result in increased further joint ventures in the future.
litigation and or increased costs, all of Although the Group has, in relation to its which can have a material and adverse effect existing joint ventures, sought to protect its on earnings and cash flows.
