Risk action !owdown Internal control and risk management 80  for internal control The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for maintaining and reviewing its effectiveness from both a financial and an Group operational perspective.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to Business unit provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or Function loss.
The Groups approach to internal control is based on the underlying principle of line management's accountability for control and risk management.
In reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, the Board has Programme Department taken account of the results of the work carried out to audit and review the activities of the Group.
There is an ongoing process to identify, assess and manage risk, including Work package those risks affecting the Groups reputation.
This process is subject to continuous improvement and has been in place throughout the financial year to which these statements apply and up to the date of their approval.
In 2008, the effectiveness The risk escalation process and consistency of risk management at all levels of the organisation has been Risks may arise from a variety of internal and external sources.
They may be measured, improved and reported via the sector and function assurance associated with regulations, customer requirements and competitor actions, or framework.
could result from the capability of the processes used to execute the business, or The Board has reviewed the risk management process and confirms that from external and largely unpredictable events, such as terrorist activity or war.
The ongoing processes and systems ensure that the Group continues to be compliant principal risks and uncertainties for the Group are shown on pages 21 to 24. with the Turnbull guidance as contained inInternal Control: Guidance for Directors Risks, irrespective of source, are managed through processes operated by on the Combined Code.
business unit and functional teams.
The corporate risk register is updated and reviewed by the risk committee twice a year so that the Board may then consider Organisation structure and review these risks in terms of their potential impact.
The Group has a clearly defined organisation structure within which operational Management has continued to perform comprehensive risk reviews for all management has detailed responsibilities and levels of authorisation, supported by key projects, programmes and business change plans.
written job descriptions and operating manuals.
All the processes operated by the Group are subject to continuous improvement, including the risk management process itself.
Development and The risk management system deployment of the process is the responsibility of a dedicated Enterprise Risk The risk management system is an integral part of managements approach to Management team.
The team has created a comprehensive framework for the delivering business objectives and is a systematic process designed to identify, assessment of risk management maturity at all levels throughout the organisation assess, treat, manage and communicate risks.
that enables focused improvement actions and drives consistent application of the risk management process throughout the Group.
The risk process is underpinned by an integrated range of tools and training and education programmes.
Deployment of an enterprise-wide risk management Assessment software application enables the analysis, management and communication of risks across the business.
A network of risk champions, mentors and facilitators helps to develop, embed and share best practice throughout the organisation.
Identication Treatment Planning Risk register Systems of internal control The general managers of individual businesses are aware of their responsibility to operate systems of internal control which provide reasonable assurance of effective and efficient operations, reliable financial information and compliance with laws Review, control and communication and regulations.
Financial managers are required to acknowledge in writing that their routine financial reporting is based on reliable data and that their results are properly stated in accordance with Group requirements.
The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget The risk management process approved by the Board.
Revised forecasts for the year are reported at least quarterly.
Actual results are reported monthly against budget and variances reviewed.
Risks are recorded in regularly updated risk registers operating at all levels of the The activities of the Group are subject to review by the Department of Risk, organisation and are continuously reviewed and monitored.
The risk management including business assurance and product introduction and life cycle process places significant emphasis on learning from and sharing prior experience.
management, and the assurance functions of Health, Safety and Environment, The system provides methods for escalation and delegation to the appropriate Quality and Engineering.
These functions operate to work programmes agreed by levels within the organisation and ensures that actions are owned, defined, the appropriate Board member.
The business assurance function, which works closely with the external auditors, undertakes a programme of financial and operational audits and reviews agreed by the audit committee and covering all Group activities.
The programme includes independent reviews of the systems of internal control and risk management.
The findings and the status of corrective actions taken to address these are reported in writing to both the audit and risk committees twice a year.
Risk escalation and monitoring Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Rolls-Royce Group plc | Annual report 2008
