BUSINESS REVIEW: RISKS STATEMENT OF PRINCIPAL RISKS AND These processes of risk management within We identify three main risk areas: UNCERTAINTIES the businesses involve: Strategic risk risks affecting the The Group has an established process Identication and assessment of strategic aims of the business, or those for the identication and management of individual risks issues that affect the strategic objectives risk across the divisional businesses working faced by the Group within the governance framework set out Design of controls in our corporate governance statement, Financial risks issues that could Testing the controls through internal see page 32.
Ultimately the management affect the nances of the business both operational audits of risk is the responsibility of the Board, externally and from a perspective of and the development and execution of a Forming a conclusion on the effectiveness internal controls comprehensive and robust system of risk of the control environment in place.
Operational risks matters arising out management has a high priority in Rotork.
The major risks affecting the Group are of the operational activities of the Group The Boards role in risk management includes identied by senior management in relating to areas such as procurement, promoting a culture that emphasises association with the full Board of Directors product development and interaction integrity at all levels of business operations, and the external Auditor is invited into the with commercial partners.
embedding risk management within the process in a support role.
This process The top ten risks identied in the risk core processes of the business, approving involves regular risk assessment and a management process are listed in the table appetite for risk, determining the principal process for ensuring that the Groups below in order of severity, and with the risks, and ensuring that these are approach to dealing with individual risks is categorisation given to them internally communicated effectively across the robust and timely.
These risks are categorised shown along side.
Mitigation where possible businesses, and setting the overall policies by likely impact on the business and likely is shown by each identied risk area.
for risk management and control.
Each risk once identied is allocated to one of the Directors of the divisional businesses as appropriate to ensure the correct level of visibility and attention, and update sessions to review progress in dealing with issues at an operational level are conducted regularly through the year.
TYPE OF RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATION 1 Strategic Existing competitor moving to lower Direct presence in terms of production and sales and service support.
Constant drive to maintain differentiation from competition.
2 Operational Political instability in a key market.
True mitigation difficult but as the spread of business increases, so the overall risk to the Group diminishes.
3 Financial Volatility of exchange rates.
Short-term movements are addressed using forward exchange contracts but this does not mitigate against long-term trends.
These can only be covered through a geographical spread of operations, component sourcing and customers.
4 Strategic Appropriate products, both in terms of Taking cost out and differentiating Rotork products from cost and features.
Development of products to address lower specication lower price markets.
5 Strategic Lower investment in Rotorks traditional Existing product offering into new markets and new products market sectors.
6 Operational Major in-eld product failure Good quality control procedures including supplier audit and existing products.
7 Strategic Failure to manage succession planning.
Active succession planning programme in place and regularly reviewed.
8 Strategic Risk of copy Rotork actuators and Legal enforcement of intellectual property rights wherever possible.
Take cost out and differentiate our product from copies.
Investigate copies to learn their shortcomings.
9 Strategic Consolidation of competitors and No mitigation but offers opportunities as well as risks.
10 Operational Major in-eld product failure on new Our extensive product design review process pre-launch reduces the product launch.
risk of failures happening after the product is launched.
