Business Review Risk Management 21 RPS Group Risk Analysis here are failure of IT systems and the The Executive Committee reviews and has to approve all acquisitions before recruitment and retention of key staff.
RPS supplies a wide range of services any binding commitment is made.
For to many sectors of the economy in a n Financial Commercial - the risk of acquisitions with an enterprise value in significant number of countries.
This gives performance falling short of excess of 20 million the full Group rise to a range of potential risks that need expectations.
This includes reputational Board approval is required prior to any to be individually recognised, assessed and risk linked to quality of work and binding commitment being made.
Due to the robust liability risk not covered by current economic circumstances the structure of the business, the management professional indemnity insurance.
full Group Board is being kept informed of these risks is not an additional function n Compliance - the risk of failing to about all potential acquisitions.
to the business, but is treated as an comply with all relevant legislation and integral part of the way we operate.
The Executives have developed regulations.
Main areas of risk to the Executive Directors review the risks the comprehensive methods of evaluation of Group include legal action from Group may be exposed to and report to potential acquisitions, including the legal compliance failures.
the Board all major risks identified.
framework within which businesses are n Health, Safety and Environment - the acquired and methods of integration.
The Group has a well-established and risk related to the safety of staff, embedded system of internal control and Each year the value of goodwill associated clients, sub-contractors, members of risk management that is designed to with acquisitions carried in the Group the public and the environment.
safeguard shareholders investment, as well balance sheet is reviewed.
Reduction and as the Groups assets and reputation.
volatility in the Groups share price Business Strategy Whilst the Group Board has overall increases our WACC weighted average The Groups strategy seeks to ensure responsibility for the Groups system of cost of capital and, therefore, requires a continuous improvement in the range and internal control and for reviewing its higher return from acquisitions to justify quality of our services and our financial the goodwill carried.
In such circumstances effectiveness, it is the role of management performance by: a significant economic downturn as seems to implement the policies on risk n operating in markets where we can likely in 2009 could require impairment and control.
add value to our clients activities: charges to be made against certain The principal risks identified by the Group acquisitions depending upon both n endeavouring to achieve leadership in can be described under the following their current trading and medium categories: those markets: and term prospects.
n making acquisitions of quality n Business Strategy - the risk of not delivering the Groups long-term businesses in order to extend our Business Continuity expertise and geographical presence.
Principal risks of the Group Failure to recruit and retain qualified and include loss of competitive position talented staff can disrupt the Groups Successful implementation of the strategy and strategic risks in relation to ability to win new contracts and or requires the Board to identify appropriate specific activities.
markets and how to operate in them n Business Continuity - the risk that in successfully.
Each year the Board sets itself Each of the Groups businesses has, as a the event of an adverse occurrence a series of specific objectives and management priority, the successful the business operations will not be priorities.
Progress against these is implementation of the recruitment and able to operate.
Main areas of risk measured on a regular basis.
retention strategy and they do this in rpsgroup.
com Risk Management 22 manners appropriate to the markets they by directors who are responsible for the degree of scrutiny required to minimise operate in.
At Group level advice is development of their office and the possibility of mistakes, irregularity or provided to the businesses about accountable for its performance to the fraud remaining undetected.
recruitment techniques, remuneration relevant Board.
The Groups Executive Committee, which strategies and people management.
In comprises the Groups Executive Directors Each business unit prepares a Business Plan addition share schemes are put in place to which defines the activities and scope of and the Company Secretary meets at least assist staff motivation and retention.
business to be conducted by the office.
once a month and discusses newly The budgets quantify the expectations for emerging risks as they occur.
The minutes RPS Technology Services RPSTS manages the Group and comprise a key element of of these meetings are provided to the all the Groups IT systems although some the Business Plans.
The Plans including Non-Executive Directors.
The Chief detailed functions are carried out locally on budgets are agreed with the Group Executive reports verbally on the conduct site.
Each year RPSTS produces a plan for Board.
The businesses in the UK are and state of business on a frequent basis.
the improvement of the Groups systems.
supported by centrally run accountancy The Board approves that plan and allocates The RPS Board monitors the Groups and personnel functions.
The Dutch, Irish, the appropriate budget.
The plan, when financial performance on a monthly basis North American, Malaysian and Australian necessary and appropriate, includes using detailed budgets as the benchmark.
businesses have their own accounting and measures designed to ensure reliability and Future performance is estimated by personnel functions.
RPS has a detailed resilience within the Groups systems.
reference to forward order books, financial reporting management system, The fact that the Group has operations although the nature of most contracts which includes checks and reviews, financial in a large number of locations increases means that such forecasting cannot be modelling, accountability and transparency its ability to withstand events which cut completely accurate and the degree of at every level.
power and communications or cause imprecision cannot be statistically tested.
equipment malfunction or result Operational staff have no access to the The Groups financial instruments from theft.
comprise cash, bank loans and items such Invoices from suppliers are approved by as receivables and payables that arise Financial and Commercial the Operational Directors and are sent to directly from its operations.
The main Management the finance function for processing and purpose of these instruments is to provide payment.
Remittances from clients are RPS endeavours to conduct business in an finance for the Groups operations.
received by the finance function.
This open and fair manner.
A significant part of The Group reports its results in sterling segregation of duties within the finance RPS success derives from the clarity and and has operations in Ireland, USA, team itself and between the offices and accountability of its management structure.
Canada, Australia, Malaysia and the accounting function ensures The day-to-day business of the Group is the Netherlands that have functional accountability and sound financial practice carried out in business units which from currencies other than sterling.
As a result at every level.
time to time are grouped in either the Groups balance sheet and income geographical or functional segments.
Each Business unit and office financial results statement can be affected by movement in business unit is treated as both a separate are reviewed monthly by relevant boards the exchange rate between sterling and business for the purposes of budgeting and and directors.
the functional currencies of the overseas accounting and as part of the Group-wide This detailed review, together with the operations.
The Group does not hedge network for marketing and business checking and reconciliation work done by such translation exposures.
Each unit is managed the accounting team, ensures the high Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review 23 Where operations have part of their trade acquired businesses and during this period 9001:2000, through the: currencies other than their functional monitors closely the status of the systems n documenting of procedures to control currency they endeavour where possible and commercial integration.
the quality of services: to match the currency of revenues and RPS is a multi-disciplinary Group operating n maintaining records to control and cost of sales.
The Group occasionally uses across international boundaries with a show compliance with quality and foreign exchange contracts and loans to broad base of clients and skilled client requirements: manage transactional risks.
Correspondingly n recording the implementation of and consistent with its size and complexity It has been and remains the Groups policy corrective measures necessary to the Group has a large number of that no trading in financial instruments shall ensure the quality of service provided: contractual relationships.
In the directors' be conducted.
view, there is no single contract which is n taking appropriate preventative The Group has strong review procedures essential to the Group's business.
measures to improve quality and for monitoring and controlling cash flows minimise the possibility of and the requirements for debt.
This includes Compliance, Litigation unsatisfactory service: and the production of continuous cash flow and Insurance projections and the reporting and review of n monitoring of the quality management It is essential RPS complies with prevailing daily cash collections against targets.
system in operation at each office at legislation and with the terms of its regular intervals in order to ensure its The internal audit function is undertaken by contracts with clients, staff and suppliers.
In continuing and improving effectiveness.
the Group financial accounting team as part order to ensure this the Group has in place of its other functions.
Given the current Formal certification to ISO 9001:2000 a series of quality management systems.
structure of the Group, the Board and the standard is a required procedure for some In certain parts of its business RPS Audit Committee consider that a separate aspects of RPS business: therefore a maintains and implements documented internal audit function is not required number of RPS offices in the UK, Ireland Quality Management Systems which satisfy, presently.
The Board recognises that control and the Netherlands are certified to ISO as a minimum, the requirements of ISO risks increase during the integration of newly 9001.
Offices in North America and Our business depends largely on our ability to attract and retain talented employees.
com Risk Management 24 Australia have quality systems that are against losses and potential loss.
The main The Board require that each business based on formal procedures that have insurance policies are Professional provide and maintain safe working been developed in line with ISO 9001 Indemnity and Employers and Public conditions, suitable equipment and guidelines.
Liability, although a range of others are resources to implement safe systems of also in place.
work to protect employees, contractors, Those RPS offices providing environmental visitors and other people who could be monitoring and analytical services hold Health and Safety affected by the Groups activities.
external accreditations from additional The health and safety performance of the Compliance with legislation in all the quality assurance schemes.
Quality Group is fundamental to RPS operations countries where activities are carried out accreditations held by individual RPS worldwide.
Safeguarding the employees is a mandatory requirement.
Systems are offices include those externally audited by well-being is of paramount importance in place to ensure that this is carried out.
UKAS, Aquacheck, RICE, UK NEQAS and with the responsibility resting with the Wherever possible the Group aims to the UK Health and Safety Executives Board.
This responsibility is shared with surpass minimum standards and develop WASP scheme.
the local management boards within the best-practice within the industry.
In Ireland our offices are quality accredited organisation and is passed down to each through the NSAI National Standards Each business in the Group has appointed manager and employee.
Authority of Ireland and SGS and for health and safety professionals to The Board sets the policy and objectives Safety Management through the NISO implement appropriate management for health and safety management.
The National Irish Safety Organisation.
During 2008 RPS Water and the Company Secretary oversees Consulting Engineers offices in Dublin, However, even when these systems work implementation of the health and safety Cork and Galway successfully achieved well issues can arise which may give rise management within the Group.
The certification to OHSAS 18001, the to litigation in which RPS needs to performance is discussed at every Board internationally recognised standard for participate.
There are procedures in place meeting, where an analysis of accidents health and safety management.
The Group and incidents is presented together with up from 8.3% of employees across the also has extensive cover in place to ensure proactive performance indicators.
The University of Manchester, Student Centre Alkmaar waste to energy plant, Netherlands Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review 25 Group work in offices that have had 3rd are trained to ensure that they can 1,000 employees.
The large majority of party certification to OHSAS 18001. discharge their responsibilities to their staff.
accidents arise from manual handling incidents, although this has reduced Accident incident rates considerably in 2008 through the 25.1% introduction of targeted training.
Group RPS offers clients a range of health and safety consultancy services including 2008 2007 process safety, asbestos management, fire 8.3% Reportable 17 26 safety, occupational health and hygiene, Injuries safety auditing and safety engineering.
RPS Reportable 3.78 6.35 2007 2008 employees include highly qualified % Employees working in offices injuries incident with OHSAS18001 specialists who work on safety critical rate per 1,000 employees systems in the defence, nuclear, offshore, petrochemical, transport, construction and manufacturing industries.
All activities that are undertaken are assessed for hazards with appropriate There is a group wide system for controls put in place to ensure the risk is reporting and investigating accidents, reduced to a satisfactory level.
Where dangerous occurrences and near misses.
necessary safe systems of work are All incidents are investigated to determine documented.
There are systems in place the root cause.
Any significant incidents are throughout the organisation to audit reported throughout the organisation and activities to ensure compliance.
brought to the attention of the Board.
All employees are trained to ensure that The reportable accident rate has reduced they have the appropriate skills to carry by 40% in 2008 to 3.78 incidents per out their job safely.
Senior management Plymstock Quarry, Regeneration of a quarry site and new Stansted Airport housing development in Plymouth, UK rpsgroup.
com Corporate Responsibility 26 Winter Gardens, Sunderland RPS advised on the award winning project to replace the original Winter Gardens in Sunderland, UK Report and Accounts 2008
