qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:32 Page 44 Principal risks and uncertainties The Group has a well-established and During 2008, the risk management Policy statements and embedded system of internal control, process has been incorporated into an standards including financial, operational and over-arching resilience management As part of the SMS, the Board has compliance controls and risk management framework that incorporates risk, security, authorised a set of policy statements, designed to safeguard shareholders business continuity and crisis which are supported by standards, investments and the Groups assets and management.
The resilience management guidance and training material.
Whilst the Board has overall framework is supported by a set of standard defines the following principles responsibility for the Groups system of top-level requirements, more detailed that apply to all our business activities: internal control and for reviewing its process descriptions and guidance and We will comply with the laws of the effectiveness, it is the role of tools to support the implementation of the country in which business is being management to implement the framework across the Group.
transacted policies on risk and control.
The risk registers identify the key risks, the We will respect the rights of the The Groups risk management process probability of those risks occurring, their individual identifies the key risks facing each potential impact on the business and the business and the Group as a whole and actions being taken to reduce and mitigate We will respect the traditions and culture reports to the Board on how those risks the risks.
Guidance on the risk appetite of of communities and protect the are being managed.
These processes are the Group has been issued which defines environment within which we operate reviewed regularly by the Board and the appetite tolerance levels both for We will undertake our business activities conform to the requirements of the individual risks and for projects or business in accordance with the highest Combined Code.
Such a system, however, units where multiple risks are present.
standards of professionalism, integrity can only be designed to mitigate, rather and honesty.
than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve These broad principles are further business objectives, and can only provide interpreted in respect of individual and reasonable, and not absolute assurance, corporate behaviours.
A separate against misstatement or loss.
The Board corporate responsibility standard defines confirms that this process has been in the corporate responsibility programme place for the year under review and up to that is implemented throughout the Group.
the date of approval of the Annual Review The Groups risk management standard and Accounts.
defines the processes required in the The Serco Management System SMS is organisation to manage and mitigate the framework within which business threats to our business objectives.
divisions, operating companies and The risk management process is contracts implement processes and described in a risk management manual procedures that are appropriate to the and a set of guidance notes covering business being undertaken.
Divisional chief specific aspects appropriate to particular executives and business unit managers business activities.
An internally developed have the responsibility and authority to and supported risk database tool supports implement and monitor the system within the risk management process at all levels their businesses.
The SMS incorporates: of the business and is used to create the the Groups vision and strategy: the core risk, opportunity, assumption and issue values and business principles that define registers that support the decision-making the corporate behaviour of the processes.
Risk registers are maintained at organisation: the operating structure and a contract, business unit, divisional and roles and responsibilities of the principal Group level and are reviewed at least elements of the organisation: and its quarterly and more frequently as required.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:32 Page 45 Safety and Security covering threats to As Serco operates in a number of Principal risks the safety of staff, sub-contractors, business sectors such as aviation, rail and The Group risk register identifies the members of the public and the nuclear, where public safety is involved, principal risks facing the business, environment and the security of the societal concerns such as public safety including those that are managed directly Groups assets and staff.
Risks include and environmental damage are specifically at a Group level.
The process specifically the responsibility for a major accident or identified in the assessment criteria.
The identifies the business objectives and the incident where public safety is criteria are generally subjective rather than interests not only of shareholders but also concerned, environmental pollution, financially based since it is difficult to of other stakeholders that are likely, directly assaults on staff in the course of their quantify the financial impact of a major or indirectly, to influence the performance duties, loss of sensitive information and incident involving loss of life.
of the business and its value.
crime, fraud and terrorism Sercos approach to the reporting of risks These include, but are not limited to, Operational covering threats to the that have social, environmental or ethical shareholders, customers, suppliers, staff, continuity of business operations.
It is trade unions, government, regulators, Principal risks include the failure of based on the assessment of three factors: banks and insurers.
The interests of the information systems, loss of key wider community in areas such as social, Significance of the risk to the infrastructure and the recruitment and environmental and ethical impact are achievement of Sercos business retention of key staff recognised in the Groups corporate objectives responsibility programme.
Management covering possible Significance of the risk to wider society internal failures of managers or The Group risk register is updated at least Ability of Serco to influence or control management systems.
Principal risks quarterly, reviewed six-monthly by the Risk the risk.
include failures of internal controls and Oversight Group and discussed at management systems.
Risks that could have a significant impact quarterly Board meetings.
Active risks are on Sercos business objectives are ranked by importance and grouped under For the Group, the most significant risks strategically important and are reported the following six headings: relate to the strategy and safety areas.
Where this impact is combined Social, environmental and ethical issues, Strategic covering threats to the with a high significance to society and while recognised within a number of the long-term deliverability of the Groups Serco has a direct responsibility for the Groups risks, do not represent significant strategy.
Principal risks include loss of management of the risk, additional threats to the Groups strategy at present.
competitive position and risks performance indicators are also included in Reputational and emerging risks are kept associated with acquisitions external reporting.
Examples of such risks under active review and the Board Financial Commercial covering threats include public safety, environmental informed of changes.
Emerging risks cover to the shortto medium-term protection and data protection.
longer-term risks that could represent a performance.
Principal risks include threat to the Groups activities but which financial market instability, the loss of key are not yet sufficiently defined to be contracts, failure to meet financial included as active risks.
Examples of these business plans, pension fund liabilities risks include influenza pandemic, climate and delays or cost over-runs in major change and changes in key markets.
transition programmes In quantifying and ranking risks, Serco Compliance covering compliance with uses a risk scoring system based on all relevant legislation and regulations.
assessments of probability and impact.
Principal risks include legal action The guidance provided in internal resulting from compliance failures, loss documents requires the assessment to or compromise of personal data and address the impact on business objectives unethical behaviour by Directors or as well as wider stakeholder interests.
members of staff Serco Group plc 45 Serco AR2008 p39 -.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:32 Page 46 There is a formal review and approval Risk mitigation process for all proposals and business Each risk in the Group register is assigned acquisitions including delegated an owner at Board or senior management authority for sign-off based on the level and specific risk reduction and risk financial value and capital requirement of mitigation actions are identified.
the transaction and the assessed risk of The Board may ask for additional the project information in respect of risk reduction or Sound project management and change mitigation actions or request that an audit implementation disciplines are applied to is undertaken to provide additional all major development projects including assurance.
Risk management techniques new contract transitions, acquisitions, used include appropriate systems, staff, new technology applications, change internal controls, public and media programmes and other major initiatives relations and business continuity planning.
These techniques are designed with clarity The commitment and capability of staff of accountability and responsibility and is critical for the effective management of with certain formal policies covering areas operational risk.
Ongoing training and such as compliance, safety and career development constantly improves environmental protection.
the skills of our employees.
Selective recruitment, succession planning and Sercos business units build and maintain other human resource policies and an understanding of their operational risk practices are in place to ensure that staff profiles and are expected to fully skills are aligned with the current and understand the likelihood and potential future needs of the organisation impact of any operational incidents, at the same time making appropriate and Safety management systems in the informed decisions that balance the risks Groups aviation, rail, defence, nuclear against the potential returns and and marine businesses have been opportunities.
While operational risk can addressed by the appointment of safety never be eliminated, the Group specialists for each area who report endeavours to minimise the impact by directly to the Board and maintain and ensuring that appropriate infrastructure, further develop the very high standards controls, systems, staff and processes are expected in these industries in place.
The Groups approach to health, safety Some of the key management and control and environmental protection is techniques are set out below: described in the Directors Report.
Qualified and experienced staff in each The principles of clear delegation of business unit provide advice and authority and segregation of duties are support on health, safety and fully reflected in the Groups operating environmental issues and undertake processes regular audits Comprehensive business review The Chief Information Officer is processes ensure that our services and responsible for ensuring that systems products meet customer expectations, and processes are in place to ensure performance criteria, operational the confidentiality, integrity and effectiveness, regulatory requirements, availability of sensitive information and investment returns, cash flow the associated information systems that requirements and profitability support the Groups business activities An Investment Committee meets on a An Ethics Committee, comprising the monthly basis to consider new or Executive Team, has been established developing projects against a defined with responsibility for the review of set of criteria ethical issues that may arise from the Groups current and possible future activities 46 Serco Group plc Serco AR2008 p39 -.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:32 Page 47 The Company Secretary manages the CAG sponsors five specialist groups: confidential reporting service, to which A Health, Safety and Environment staff can report illegal, dangerous, Oversight Group, chaired by the dishonest or unethical activities Director, Health, Safety and Environment, and comprising senior A programme of internal audits confirms the extent to which key controls are assurance representatives from across applied across the Group.
During the year, this group are established on the basis of risk met four times to review health, safety assessments, regulatory requirements and environmental policy and and business imperatives procedures, and to review the performance of the operating divisions The operational risk framework tracks against safety and environmental targets key indicators.
These include analysis of business performance and variances A Risk Oversight Group, chaired by the from plan, customer satisfaction and Risk Director, comprising operational retention data, staff turnover and and assurance representatives from satisfaction levels, occupational health across the Group, which met twice and safety incidents, and error and during the year to review the Group risk exception reporting.
register and key risk controls.
This group provides additional assurance in relation The Group maintains insurance policies to to the system of internal control and risk provide for losses arising from management and enhances the Boards circumstances such as damage or ability to discharge its responsibilities in destruction of physical assets, theft, legal relation to internal control liability for third party loss and professional advice.
The adequacy of the insurance An Aviation Safety Oversight Group, cover is reviewed at regular intervals.
chaired by an independent aviation safety professional and comprising the aviation safety representatives from Corporate Assurance Group across the Group, which met once The Corporate Assurance Group CAG during the year.
This group has been oversees and reviews internal controls and responsible for the implementation of the risk policies, procedures and management aviation safety management system frameworks and develops guidance, across the Group and for transferring training material and management training best practice between Sercos aviation to ensure the business needs are met.
operating companies The Board recognises its responsibilities to shareholders and the wider community A Transportation Safety Oversight where social, environmental and ethical Group, chaired by the Integrated issues are very important.
CAG is Transport Non-Executive Director with responsible for developing and overseeing Special Interest in Safety and comprising the corporate responsibility activities within the rail and road safety representatives the Group.
from across the Group, oversees the safety management systems within Every quarter, CAG reports formally to the Sercos rail and road businesses in the Board, providing analyses of the health, United Kingdom, Middle East and safety and environmental performance of Australia the Group against targets and advises the Board on policy and future activities to A Corporate Responsibility Steering enhance best practice.
A separate Group, chaired by the Assurance resilience report covering risk, security, Director, provides direction on projects business continuity and crisis management that address the social and is also submitted to the Board on a environmental issues affecting our staff quarterly basis.
CAG works closely with and the communities within which we the internal audit function to provide an work.
appropriate level of business assurance to the Board.
qxd:Serco AR08 - Design 20 03 2009 17:32 Page 48 Internal audit Review of internal controls During the first half of 2008, Grant The Board confirms that the actions it Thornton continued to provide an considers necessary have been taken to outsourced internal audit function within remedy such failings and weaknesses the Group, in addition to that provided by which it has determined to be significant internal peer review and CAG.
On 1 July from its review of the internal controls.
The 2008, KPMG LLP took over responsibility Board also confirms that it has not been for the outsourced internal audit advised of material weaknesses in that programme with a revised scope of work.
part of the internal control system that At the same time, a Head of Internal Audit relates to financial reporting.
was appointed with responsibility for coordinating the work carried out by Corporate responsibility KPMG and the audit programme carried Corporate responsibility is about living the out within the operating divisions.
The values and principles that govern the way risk-based audit programme has been we operate and behave.
Our approach designed to address the internal control reflects the importance corporate and risk management processes and the responsibility has to those with whom we recommendations of the Combined Code.
It is also good business The outsourced internal auditors reported practice, which we believe will ultimately to the Audit Committee twice during the help us deliver better returns to year.
There were no material weaknesses shareholders.
identified as a result of the audits The responsibilities of CAG, which reports undertaken and corrective action has been directly to the Board, include developing taken where deficiencies were found.
As a and overseeing our corporate responsibility result of recommendations made by activities.
Our corporate responsibility KPMG, the internal audit processes and model encompasses four elements: reporting activities have been strengthened and more closely integrated with the risk Safety recognising our legal management process.
responsibility for the safety of our staff, sub-contractors and the general public for whom we have a duty of care Joint ventures People addressing our legal and moral In addition to contracts held in Sercos responsibility for our employees name, the Group has material investments in a number of joint ventures.
Where Community addressing our social investments are not wholly owned by responsibility for the communities within Serco, the Group can influence, but not which we operate control, management practices.
Serco Environment recognising our legal and representatives within these companies moral responsibility to protect the ensure that the processes and procedures environment from damage as a direct for identifying and managing risk are result of our operations and to promote appropriate for the business and that activities to protect and sustain the internal controls exist and are regularly wider environment.
Employees from the Groups A summary of our performance in 2008 joint ventures participate in the Health, and targets and objectives for 2009 can Safety and Environment Oversight Group, be found in the 2008 Corporate the Risk Oversight Group and the Responsibility Review and at Transportation Safety Oversight Group.
