RISK PRODUCT LIABILITY The Group monitors the safety of its products from initial product development through to product use or application.
In addition, the businesses of the Group analyse on a worldwide basis reports of adverse reactions and complaints relating to its products.
Each business reviews these adverse reactions and complaints and any safety matters arisingwithits .
Product liability is a commercial risk for the industry of which the Group is a part, particularly in the US.
Smith & Nephew has taken steps it believes are appropriate to minimise losses.
Management believes that the Groups regulatory and medical controls are robust and insurance cover is adequate and appropriate for this class of products.
The Groups reputation depends on strong risk management controls and on appropriate crisis .
In August 2003, the Group voluntarily withdrew the macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components from all markets.
As at that date 2,971 components had been implanted of which approximately 2,471 were inthe US, 450 inAustralia and 50 inEurope, the first  2001.
The product was withdrawn when management became aware of a higher than usual percentage of reports of early revisions revisions are implants which need to be replaced.
Evidence suggested that the cause of some revisionswas   fixationwiththebone.
As at 31 December 2008, 1,044 of these implants had undergone revision surgery, and settlements had been agreed with patients in respect of 997 of these revisions.
The total amount paid as of 31 December 2008 in settlements, legal costs and associated expenses was $206m, of which $60m was received from insurers and $ settlement.
In addition to the macrotextured claims, the Group has faced other claims from time to time.
Even if there is no product defect, an unsuccessful patient procedure can lead to a claim of product liability against the Group.
The Group carries insurance against product liability risk in amounts and subject to terms that it believes are appropriate, withasubstantial .
RISK FACTORS There are risks and uncertainties related to Smith & Nephews business.
The factors listed below could cause the Groups financial condition or results of operations to differ materially from expected and historical levels.
Factors not listed here, that Smith & Nephew cannot presently identify or does not believe to be equally significant, could alsoadversely affect Smith&Nephewsbusiness.
Product LiabilityClaims and Lossof Reputation The development, manufacture and sale of medical devices entail risk of product liability claims or recalls.
Design and manufacturing defects with respect to products sold by the Group or by companies it has acquired could damage, or impair the repair of, body functions.
Smith & Nephew may become subject to liability, which could be substantial, because of actual or alleged defects in its products.
In addition, product defects could lead to the need to recall from the market existing products, which may be costly and harmful to the Groups reputation.
There can be no assurance that customers, particularly in the US, the Groups largest geographical market, will not bring product liability or related claims that would have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial position or results of operations in the future, or that the Group will be able to resolve such claims within insurancelimits.
 The Groups business units compete across a diverse range of geographic and product markets.
The markets in which each of the business units operates each contains a number of different competitors, includingspecialised 22 and international corporations.
Significant product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of price competition by competitors could adversely affect the Groups operating results.
Some of these competitors may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than Smith & Nephew.
These competitors may be able to initiate technological advances in the field, deliver products on more attractive terms, more aggressively market   intotheirbusinesses.
There is a risk of further consolidation of companies, particularly in the orthopaedic industry, which could adversely affect the Groups ability to compete with much larger companies due to insufficient financial resources.
If any of the Groups businesses were to lose market share or achieve lower than expected sales growththerecouldbe   strategic options.
In addition, competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the basis of quality, service and price.
There has been some consolidation in the Groups customer base, as well as among the Groups competitors, and these trends are expected to continue long term.
Increased competition and unanticipated  todownwardpressure onpricesand  in any of the Groups business areas which would adversely affect Smith & Nephews results of operations and hinderits growthpotential.
Failure to Make Successful Acquisitions A key element of the Groups strategy for continued growth is to make strategic acquisitions or alliances to complement its existing businesses.
Failure to identify appropriate acquisition targets or failure to integrate them successfully would have an adverse impact on the Groups competitive position and profitability.
This could result from the diversion of management resources towards the acquisition or integration process, challenges of integrating organisations of different geographical, jurisdictional and ethical backgrounds, as well as the prospect of taking on unexpected liabilities of strategic partners.
In addition, the recent contraction of available global capital may make financing less attainable or more expensive and could result in the Group failing in its strategic .
Stock Market Valuations As a growth industry, medical device companies have higher stock market valuations than many other industrial companies.
If market conditions change, other companies in its sector fail to perform, or if the Group is perceived tobe performingless wellthanthesector,  adversely affected.
Attracting and Retaining Key Personnel The Groups continued development depends on its ability to hire and retain highly skilled personnel with particular expertise.
This is critical, particularly in research, new product development and in the sales forces.
If Smith & Nephew is unable to retain key personnel in research and new product development or if its largest sales forces suffer disruption or upheaval, its sales and operating profit wouldbe adversely affected.
Additionally, if the Group is unable to recruit, hire, develop and retain a talented, competitive workforce, it may not be able to meet its strategic business objectives.
Dependance on Government and Other Funding In most markets throughoutthe world, expenditure onmedical devices is ultimately controlledto a large extent by governments.
Funds may be made available or withdrawn from healthcare budgets depending on government policy.
The Group is therefore largely dependent on future governments providing increased funds .
This control may be exercised by determining prices for an individual product or for an entire procedure.
The Group is exposed to changes in reimbursement policy and pricing which may have an adverse impact on sales and operating profit.
23 Group Description Regulatory Compliance in the Healthcare Industry Business practices in the healthcare industry are subject to regulation and review by various government authorities.
In general, the trend in many countries in which the Group does business is towards higher expectations and increased enforcement activity by governmental authorities.
While the Group is committed to doing business with integrity and welcomes the trend to higher standards in the healthcare industry, the Group and other companies in the industry have been subject to investigations and other enforcement activity that have .
The Group has taken steps to introduce best practices developed in certain countries to other regions around the world.
As the Group continues to enhance its compliance programs globally, it is possible that operations in someregionsmaybe disrupted.
Regulatory Approvals and Controls The medical device industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether substances and materials can be developed into marketable products and the amount of time and expense that should be allotted to such development.
At any time the Group is awaiting a number of regulatory approvals, which if not received, could adversely affect results of operations.
Regulatory approval of new products and new materials is required in each country in which the Group operates although a single approval may be obtained for all countries within the European Union.
Regulatory approval of new products may entail a lengthy process particularly if materials are employed which have not previously been used in similar products.
Regulatory approvals in the US, Europe and .
The Group is required to comply with a wide range of regulatory controls over the manufacturing, testing, distribution, marketing and sale of its products, particularly in the US, UK and Continental Europe.
Such controls have become increasingly demanding and costly to comply with and management believes that this trend will continue.
Failure to comply with these controls could have a number of adverse consequences, including withdrawalofapproval tosell .
Proprietary Rights and Patents Due to the technological nature of medical devices, the Group is subject to the potential for patent infringement claims.
Smith&Nephewattempts toprotectits  thirdparty patents and trademarks where appropriate in those areas that might conflict with the Groups business interests.
If Smith & Nephew fails to successfully enforce its intellectual property rights, its competitive position could suffer, which couldharmits results ofoperations.
Claims asserted by third parties regarding infringement of their intellectual property rights, if successful, could require the Group to expend time and significant resources to pay damages, develop non-infringing products or to obtain licenses to the products which are the subject of such litigation, thereby affecting the Groups growth andprofitability.
Continual Developmentand Introduction of New Products The Group operates in the medical devices industry, which is highly competitive and has a rapid introduction rate of new products.
In order to remain competitive, each of the Groups business units must continue to develop innovative products that satisfy customer needs and preferences or provide cost or other advantages.
Developing new products is a costly, lengthy and uncertain process.
A potential product may not be brought to market for any numberof reasons, includingfailure to workoptimally, failure , failure to be cost-competitive, infringement of patents or other intellectual property rights and changes in consumer demand.
The Groups products and technologies are also subject to marketing attack by competitors.
Furthermore, new products that are developed and marketed by the Groups competitors may affect price levels in the various markets in which the Groups business units operate.
If new products do not remain competitive , theGroupssales revenuecoulddecline.
There is a risk that a major disruptive technology could be introduced into one of the Groups markets and adversely affect its  plans andtargets.
24 Manufacturing and Supply The Groups manufacturing production is concentrated at eleven main facilities in Memphis, Tennessee, Mansfield, Massachusetts, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and Largo, Florida in the US, Hull, Warwick and Gilberdyke in the UK, Aarau in Switzerland, Tttlingen in Germany, and Suzhou and Beijing in China.
If major physical disruption took place at any of these sites, it would adversely affect the results of operations.
Physical loss and consequentialloss   andmaynotbe .
Each of the business units is reliant on certain key suppliers of raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials.
These suppliers must provide the materials and perform the activities to the Groups standard .
Therecanbe no assurance that alternative suppliers would provide the necessary raw materials on favourable or cost-effective terms at the desired quality.
Consequently, the Group may be forced to pay higher prices to obtain raw materials, which it may not be able to pass on to its customers in the form of increased prices for its finished products.
In addition, some of the raw materials used may become unavailable, and there can be no assurance that the Group will be able to obtain suitable and cost-effective substitutes.
Any interruption of supply caused by these or other &.
As part of the EIP programme the Group is inthe process of outsourcingto third parties  countries certain of its manufacturing processes.
As a result of these transfers, there is a risk of disruption to supply.
Currency Fluctuations The Group uses the US Dollar as its reporting currency and the functional currency of Smith & Nephew plc.
In 2008, 44% of Group revenue arose in the US, 28% in Continental Europe, 20% in Africa, Asia, Australia, Canada, New Zealand and Latin America, and 8% in the UK.
During 2008 fluctuations in the exchange rates used to translate the financial statements of operations outside the US into US Dollars had the effect of increasing Group revenueby2%.
The Groups manufacturing cost base is situated principally in the US, the UK and Switzerland from where finished products are exported to the Groups selling operations worldwide.
Thus, the Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates between the US Dollar, Sterling and Swiss Franc and the currencies of the Groups selling operations, particularly the Euro and Japanese Yen.
If the US Dollar, Sterling or Swiss Franc should strengthenagainst   adversely affected.
In 2008, the Group managed $1bn of foreign currency purchase transactions by using forward foreign exchange contracts, of which the major transaction flows are from Euros into US Dollars and Sterling.
The Groups policy is for firm commitmentsto be fully covered and forecast transactions to be covered between 50% and 90% for up to oneyear.
Had the Group not transacted forward foreign exchange purchase contracts and if the Euro were to have weakened on average over the year by 10% against all other currencies, Smith & Nephews profit before taxation in 2008 would have decreased by an estimated $45m 2007 decreased by an estimated $46m on account of transactional and translational movements: if the US Dollar were to have weakened on average over the year by 10% against all other currencies, profit before taxation in 2007 would have increased by an estimated $51m  $42m.
25 Group Description Political Uncertainties The Group has operations in 32 countries.
Political upheaval in those countries or in the regions surrounding those countries may impact the Groups results of operations.
Political changes in a country could prevent the Group from receiving remittances of profit from a member of the Group located in that country or from selling its investments in that country.
Furthermore, legislative measures in a country could result in changes in tariffs, import quotas or taxation that could adversely affect the Groups turnover and operating profit.
World Economic Conditions Demand for the Groups products is driven by demographic trends, including the ageing population and the incidence of osteoporosis and obesity, which continue to remain as favorable trends for Group performance.
Supply, use and payment for products is influenced by world economic conditions which could place increased pressure on demand and pricing, adversely impacting the Groups ability to deliver revenue and margin growth.
The conditions could favour larger, more capitalised groups, with higher market shares and margins.
As a consequence the Groups prosperity is linked to general economic conditions and there is a risk of deterioration .
Other Risk Factors The Board considers that Smith & Nephew is subject to a numberof other risks   part ofits .
In the financial area these include interest rate volatility, share price volatility, challenges by taxation authorities, .
Adverse events in the areas of corporate social responsibility could also adversely impact Group operating results.
EXCHANGE AND INTEREST RATERISK AND FINANCIALINSTRUMENTS The Board of Directors of the Companyhas established a set of policiesto manage funding, currencyand interest rate risks.
Derivative financial instruments are used only to manage the financial risks associated with underlying business activities and their financing.
The Groups financial instruments are subject to changes in fair values as a result of changes in market rates of exchange and forward interest rates.
Financial instruments entered into to hedge foreign currency purchase transactions and interest rate exposures are accounted for as hedges.
As such, changes in fair values of these financial instruments would not affect the Groups income statement.
The movements in the fair value of financial instruments that are not accounted for as hedges offset movements in the values of assets and liabilities and are recognised through the income statement.
The net impact of these changes in fair value on the Groups income statement isnotsignificant.
