30 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Risks and uncertainties Smiths is exposed to the following principal risks.
If any of these risks, Information technology or other significant unforeseen risks, materialise, they could have a Smiths is dependent on information technology systems for both significant adverse effect on not only our business and financial condition internal and external communications and for the day to day but also our reputation and the trading prices and liquidity of our management of its operations with a number of key enterprise resource securities.
This could lead to a loss for investors of part or, in a worst case planning projects in the course of implementation across the Group.
Any all, of their investment.
disruption to these systems, or delays or failures in the implementation of these projects, could have significant adverse consequences for the Smiths seeks to mitigate significant identified risks through risk Group.
management processes, appropriate Group policies and other measures including insurance where we regard it as appropriate and Acquisitions and disposals economic but there can be no assurance that such measures will be Smiths is an active acquirer of other businesses and companies: effective in any particular case.
acquisitions may involve risks that might have a material impact on the Group.
Competition, innovation and major projects Smiths operates in highly competitive markets where some competitors The sale and purchase agreement governing the sale of the Aerospace may have greater resources than we do and where the entry of new business to GE Aviation UK in 2007 contains certain warranties and competitors, the consolidation of competitors and changed or irrational indemnities in favour of GE Aviation UK.
If costs should be incurred under behaviour by competitors could all have a significant adverse impact on any of these warranties or indemnities or similar such provisions in our business.
other agreements for the disposal of businesses these could have a significant adverse effect.
Continued development of new products and improvements to existing products is critical to the future of the business and competitors may Controls innovate in these areas more effectively than we do with significant Smiths information systems, personnel and facilities are subject to adverse consequences for Smiths.
security risk, and failures in security systems or processes could have significant adverse consequences as could failures in the Groups Smiths develops new technologies and introduces new products, in various corporate governance and internal controls or non compliance some cases contracting to supply the products to the customer before with the Smiths Code of Business Ethics.
the design is established or proven.
All new technologies and products involve risk, including possible abortive expenditure, reputational risk, Legislative and regulatory and potential customer claims or onerous contracts.
The same is true Smiths is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and standards in for investment in new facilities and other major projects.
Such risks, if the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Unexpected changes in these laws they materialise, may have significant adverse consequences for Smiths.
or regulations or failure to comply with them could have significant adverse consequences.
Raw materials and inability to supply Smiths products contain various raw materials or purchased The Detection, Interconnect and Medical divisions are particularly components including electronic components, metals and plastics.
subject to regulation, with certain customers and regulatory or other Increases or volatility in prices and shortages in supply could have a enforcement bodies routinely inspecting the Groups practices, significant adverse effect.
A compliance problem arising in one of these or any other of Smiths Divisions could have significant adverse Inability to supply against contractual commitments is a risk, which consequences for the Group as a whole.
could materialise in a number of different scenarios and which could have a significant adverse effect.
Litigation and product liability Smiths is subject to litigation risk including but not limited to product Given the competitive nature of the markets in which Smiths operates, liability risks.
Many Smiths products are used in critical applications any loss of customer confidence resulting from failure to supply may be where the consequences of a failure could be extremely serious and, in difficult or impossible to recover.
some cases, potentially catastrophic, with significant adverse Global political and economic conditions consequences for the Group.
Operating in over 50 countries, Smiths is exposed to political and Remediation of design, manufacturing or other product defects could economic risks, including possible terrorist action.
require Smiths to recall products with significant adverse consequences Some 43% of total sales are to customers in the US, and the Group is for the Group.
therefore particularly affected by US economic conditions.
John Crane, Inc. a subsidiary of Smiths, is currently one of many Smiths may be impacted by adverse changes in general economic defendants in litigation relating to products previously manufactured conditions including interest rates, and the availability of credit, exchange which contained asbestos.
rates and inflation, and the effect of these could be significant.
In The outcome of legal action is always uncertain and there is always the addition, demand for products from the Detection and Interconnect risk that it may prove more costly and time consuming than expected.
divisions is significantly dependent on spending by governments and Both current and potential future litigation could have significant adverse government agencies, and aside from the impact of general economic impact on the Group.
conditions, these businesses may suffer significant adverse effects if these customers reduce their spending.
31 Smiths Group plc Annual report, year ended 31 July 2008 Environmental and external The environmental laws of the jurisdictions in which Smiths operates impose actual and potential obligations to remediate contaminated sites, including some sites no longer owned by Smiths.
There is a risk that remediation could prove more costly than expected or that further contamination could be discovered with significant adverse consequences for the Group.
Because of the location of its operations, Smiths is also exposed to a number of natural catastrophe risks, such as earthquakes, floods, hurricanes and other types of storm, which like other external events, such as terrorist attacks or a disease pandemic could have significant adverse consequences for the Group.
Financial Smiths is exposed to two types of currency risk: transaction risk in respect of products manufactured in one currency region and sold in another currency: and translation risk in that the results of non-UK businesses will translate into differing pounds sterling values depending on the exchange rate.
Smiths is exposed to credit risk particularly in relation to customers, banks and insurers.
Both currency and credit risk could result in significant adverse consequences for the Group.
In addition, whilst in recent times Smiths has had an effective tax rate of approximately 24%, there can be no guarantee that this rate will remain below the prevailing tax rate applicable in the territories in which Smiths operates.
Pension funding The Group operates significant pension plans as a result of which Smiths is subject to various funding risks, including poor performance of the investments particularly equity investments, increased longevity of members and changes in valuation and funding assumptions, any of which could have significant adverse effects.
Human resources Smiths employs approximately 22,000 people around the world and faces considerable competition in recruiting and retaining the talented individuals it needs to ensure that it is successful.
Failure to recruit these staff and or a loss of key personnel could have significant adverse consequences.
