O Ove ver rv viie ew w Business Review Governance Financial Statements Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties The necessary actions are taken by the audit committee to The process for identifying, evaluating and remedy any failings or weaknesses identified by its review of the managing any significant risks forms part of internal control system: and the groups system of internal controls.
the executive directors report to the Board on changes in the business and external environment which present significant risks.
The group finance director provides the Board with Internal controls monthly financial information which includes key performance The Board is ultimately responsible for the groups system of indicators.
Regular reports on significant legal issues and internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such insurance matters are received from the company secretary.
a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to meet business objectives and can provide only reasonable and The key potential risks and uncertainties which could have a not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
material impact on the groups long-term performance are described below.
Consistent with the guidance provided for directors on internal control by the Financial Reporting Council Internal Control: Strategic risk Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the Board Spectris has a broad spread of markets, products and customers, confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, as described previously in this review, and this limits, to a large evaluating and managing assessed significant risks faced by the extent, any specific risk to the ability to implement our strategy group, that this has been in place for the year under review and up due to changes in the political and economic environments in the to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, that this countries in which we operate.
This broad spread of markets also process has been reviewed by the Board during the year and that provides a good averaging of individual sector investment cycles.
the group accords with the guidance.
The Board affirms the Our products typically involve low capital outlay but provide importance it attaches to the continuous review and application of significant and rapid payback.
These benefits become even more the guidance, the regular and systematic assessment of the risks attractive to customers as they seek to reduce their own costs facing the group and the value of embedding risk management and of production.
internal control systems within its business processes.
The group has an internal audit function which reviews the design and A key element of Spectris strategy is to grow the business portfolio effectiveness of internal controls across the groups operations.
through acquisition of stand-alone or bolt-on businesses which complement or extend the range of products and applications The processes which the Board and the audit committee have Spectris can provide.
Potential risks exist in successfully applied in reviewing the effectiveness of the groups system of integrating acquisitions.
However, Spectris believes that its track internal controls are summarised below: record of carefully selecting businesses which fulfil its acquisition criteria and rigorous financial assessment of the potential an established process is in place whereby each business unit acquisitions ability to contribute to growth will continue to ensure regularly assesses, evaluates and reports risks of group that any businesses acquired will be successfully integrated.
Each business unit is required to document the management and mitigating actions in place and proposed: Operational risk regular review of the status of risks and corresponding In order to sustain competitive advantage, the group invests mitigating actions ensure that risk management is embedded significantly in research and development.
The development of all in day-to-day management processes and decision-making as new technologies and products involves risk including the product well as in the annual strategic planning cycle: being more expensive, or taking longer, to develop than originally the effectiveness of risk management and mitigating actions is planned: that the market for the product is smaller than originally reviewed regularly by the executive directors and twice yearly envisaged: or that the product fails to reach the production stage.
by the audit committee: However, we endeavour to reduce this risk by ensuring that new additionally, the executive directors consider those risks to the product development is carried out in conjunction with customers groups strategic objectives which are not addressed within the to ensure that the products meet expectations of the market.
All business units and develop appropriate approaches to managing businesses are exposed to risk from competitive activity.
However and mitigating these risks: the diversity of Spectris products and markets, and the high annual financial plans for each business unit, significant barriers to entry, limits the overall risk from any single competitor.
capital investments or contractual commitments and major Although the majority of our business is to supply products only, acquisitions or divestments are all subject to review and approval by the Board: there may be instances where Spectris companies enter into complex long-term or multi-site contracts with customers.
Spectris a Group Accounting and Policies Manual sets out the minimum standards and procedures to be applied in relation to those has a strict approval process for such contracts in order to manage any risks they may present.
Potential risk from loss of a key risk areas which are regarded as significant in a group context: a process of self-assessment of compliance with the Manual customer is limited as no single customer accounts for more than 1% of turnover, and credit control procedures limit the risk from and reporting thereon has been established, providing for a documented trail of accountability from business unit non-payment by customers.
Group operating companies also monitor customer satisfaction to ensure they are meeting presidents and finance directors to the audit committee.
23 Annual report and accounts 2008 Spectris plc Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued customers product, delivery and service requirements.
Inadvertent infringement of third-party rights also company is also exposed to the risk that some of the components it presents a risk and Spectris has procedures in place requiring its sources, particularly for custom-built items or older components, operating companies to maintain a watching brief on new are provided by a single supplier and are vulnerable to interruption applications and to undertake specific reviews prior to of supply.
The group seeks to address this risk by finding alternative commencing new product development programmes, acquisitions sources to reduce dependency on single-source suppliers and or licenses.
building sufficient safety stock of critical components.
Information technology business interruption risk Spectris operations are characterised by short lead times and Spectris depends on timely and reliable information from key seasonal fluctuations in sales, with some businesses exhibiting software applications to aid day-to-day operational management a greater trend towards sales in the second half of the year.
This and to provide accurate financial information for its head office.
limited forward visibility and the potential for delays in the Whilst the company endeavours to ensure the continuous shipment of orders exposes the company to the potential risk availability and operation of these systems and software, any that it may not meet its sales forecast for the year.
disruption could delay or otherwise impact day-to-day decision making.
Disaster recovery plans to maintain business-critical Financial risk processes and activities in the event of a significant interruption to The principal financial risks managed by the group are foreign the normal course of business are in place throughout the group currency, interest and liquidity.
The groups exposure to and are regularly tested.
commodity risk is perceived to be small by virtue of the nature of the businesses.
Hazardous risk Assessment of risk to the business is carried out on a continuous Foreign exchange transaction risk is managed principally through basis to determine any potential effects on the environment forward contracts covering up to 75% of forecast forward resulting both from product manufacture and operation of our exposures for up to eighteen months ahead.
Foreign exchange products at the customers site.
Each operating company is translation risk, which results from converting foreign currency required to produce a risk register which identifies possible to sterling, is not hedged but is actively managed through natural hazardous risks to their business.
For each risk the likelihood hedging by matching invoicing and purchasing currencies as far as of the occurrence is documented, together with the possible is commercially practical.
In addition, it is the aim where possible consequences, the actions required to minimise the probability to hedge foreign currency investments with borrowings in the of the event occurring, and responsibility assigned to a member same currency.
In order to minimise interest cost and maximise of the companys management team.
The risk register is reviewed interest income, companies are required to pass surplus funds to regularly by the groups internal audit function.
Group Treasury through inter-company loans.
Where possible zero balance pools are in place to centralise cash automatically.
Contractual arrangements The long-term aim with regard to interest rate risk is to have a The company has no contractual or other arrangements which are balance between fixed and floating rate debt.
Interest rate swaps essential to the business of the company, nor any key customers or are considered to achieve this balance.
major suppliers upon which it is dependent.
The group manages its liquidity risk through the use of regularly updated cash flow forecasts and liquidity headroom analysis to determine its funding requirements.
The group maintains sufficient lines of credit from high quality investment grade lenders to cover expected cash requirements and provide reasonable headroom.
The facilities are described in detail in the Financial Review.
Intellectual property risk Spectris business is focused on the design and manufacture of technologically advanced products and applications and the group makes significant investment in research and development.
As a consequence, the group owns and protects patents, trademarks, trade secrets, copyright information and intellectual property licenses.
Although these are important to growth as a whole, no single patent, trade secret or trademark is sufficiently important to present a material risk to the success of the company.
Appropriate measures are taken to protect the companys intellectual property rights and to minimise the risk of infringement by third parties.
Spectris is prepared to initiate legal action if necessary to safeguard 24 Spectris plc Annual report and accounts 2008
