Business review Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties which the directors Spirent is continuing to diversify its customer base in believe are currently faced by Spirent Communications Service Assurance and Systems.
In addition Spirent plc are discussed below.
works closely with all its customers to develop strong relationships with a significant focus on ensuring its Global economic and market conditions products and services meet the needs of its customers Spirent operates globally with revenue generated in the and are of the highest quality.
United States, Europe and Asia.
Demand for Spirents products is therefore dependent on the general economic Reliance on contract manufacturers and market conditions in all these regions.
A significant The fact that Spirent uses contract manufacturers for the deterioration in economic or market conditions, for manufacture of a substantial amount of its products example a recession in any one of these regions, could could have an adverse impact on the supply of its significantly reduce demand for Spirents products which products and on operating results.
Financial problems of could harm the business, operating results and financial contract manufacturers on whom Spirent rely, or condition of the Group.
limitations in the manufacturing capacity at contract manufacturers, could either limit supply or increase Deteriorating economic and market conditions may also costs.
Also, a major contract manufacturer of the Group impact the financial position of the Groups customers is located in Asia.
Any disruption of its operations could and suppliers and impact their ability to do business have an adverse impact on Spirent.
Spirent works closely with its contract manufacturers and The Groups businesses closely monitor both market and maintains a regular onsite presence.
To minimise the geographic trends in order to take timely actions to effect on supply that could be caused by disruption at minimise the effects of adverse economic and contract manufacturers there are contingency plans in market conditions.
place to transfer manufacturing to other locations.
Technological change Operational risks and systems The Spirent Group sells products and systems in several Operational risks are present in the Spirent Groups industries that are characterised by rapid technological businesses.
These risks include, but are not limited to, changes, frequent product and service introductions and the risk of failed internal and external processes and evolving industry standards.
If the Communications systems including information technology systems, business fails to extend its existing capabilities in the human error and external events.
Such events could have next-generation technology, the business, operating an impact on the business, operating results and results and financial condition of the Communications financial condition.
A significant portion of Spirents communications Spirent believes that the continued success of the operations are located in California which has Communications business is dependent on its ability to experienced natural disasters, including earthquakes and advance next-generation technologies and continues to wildfires, in the past.
A significant natural disaster, such make significant investment in product development and as an earthquake or wildfire, could disrupt its ability to in 2008 45.3 million, being 18 per cent of revenue, was conduct business in the affected locations and could invested.
Spirent prioritises investment across its have a material adverse impact on business, operating portfolio based on the expected return.
Customer concentration An important component of Spirents corporate Although no one customer accounts for more than governance is its integrated risk management strategy 10 per cent of revenue for the Spirent Group, in some and its regular self assessment of risks encompassing businesses in particular in Service Assurance and all business units.
Part of this process is to ensure that Systems there are a limited number of customers, which the risks of disruption to the business are identified, makes relationships with these customers, as well as monitored and controlled wherever possible as well as the success of those customers businesses, critical to arranging appropriate insurance cover.
The loss of one or more of Spirents major customers could harm the business, operating results and financial condition of Spirent.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2008 15 Business review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Competition Retention and recruitment of key staff The Spirent Group faces competition in all of its Spirents success is dependent on attracting and businesses.
To stay competitive these businesses will retaining highly qualified and skilled employees.
There need to introduce successful new products and also may is competition for personnel from other organisations have to adjust prices of some products.
The business, and the loss of key employees, or the failure to attract operating results and financial condition may suffer if and retain other highly skilled employees, may impair Spirent does not compete effectively.
Spirents ability to run and expand its business effectively.
The Group invests in product development to develop new technologies and products to sustain and improve The Group aims to attract, retain and motivate the its competitive position.
Spirent actively works with its highest calibre of employees and encourages their customers to find innovative ways to meet their contribution and development.
Appropriate career paths technological needs in order to remain a key provider to and internal recognition programmes are developed for them.
Spirents value proposition is based on its service, both technical and non-technical staff.
expertise and product breadth rather than just competing on price.
Intellectual property While Spirent does not believe that any of its products Financial markets and credit risk infringe the valid intellectual property rights of third The Spirent Group is exposed to credit risk in relation to parties, it may be unaware of intellectual property rights its trade receivables and its short term bank deposits of others that may cover some of its technology, and other investments.
As a result Spirent could suffer litigation expenses or could be prevented from selling Deteriorating economic conditions may impact the certain products as a result of third-party infringement financial position of our customers and of those banks claims.
Spirent has procedures in place regarding the with whom Spirent transact investments.
There has also development of new products that includes consideration been significant weakness during the year in the of intellectual property rights and also consults internal international financial markets which should it continue and external legal counsel experienced in intellectual could pose risks to the financial position of our property matters.
customers and may impact that of the banks with whom Spirent transact investments.
The success of Spirent depends in part on proprietary technology.
Should Spirent fail to maintain or enforce Should Spirent be subject to the failure of a major intellectual property rights, or if competitors design customer or a bank with which it transacts investments around its technology or develop competing technologies, the Spirent Groups business, operating results and its competitive position could suffer and its operating financial condition may suffer.
Spirent prioritises investment across its portfolio based on the expected return.
For trade receivables the appropriate credit checks are Spirent also has active IP protection programmes to made on potential customers prior to sales commencing obtain appropriate intellectual property protection in and balances due from customers are monitored and a cost effective manner.
The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the large customer base.
Regulation and taxes The businesses are subject to various significant The Spirent Group invests cash as short term bank international, federal, state and local regulations deposits and other similar investments.
Investment currently in effect and scheduled to become effective is limited to a group of high quality banks.
There are in the near future, including but not limited to pre-approved limits set by the Board for each bank environmental, health and safety and import export to avoid concentrations of credit risk.
These regulations are complex, change frequently, can vary from country to country, and have Credit risk is discussed in note 27 of Notes to the increased over time.
Spirent may incur significant consolidated financial statements.
expense in order to comply with these regulations or Spirent Communications plc 16 Annual Report 2008 Business review Where trading transactions within Spirents operations Regulation and taxes continued are exposed to foreign currencies, and these do not to remedy violations of them.
Any failure by Spirent to naturally offset, forward foreign currency exchange comply with applicable government regulations could contracts are put in place to hedge the transactions.
result in non-compliant portions of our operations being shut down, product recalls or impositions of civil and Critical accounting policies and judgements criminal penalties and, in some cases, prohibition from The consolidated Group financial statements are distributing our products or performing our services until prepared using a number of estimations and the products and services are brought into compliance, assumptions which are based on the directors best which could significantly affect our operations.
knowledge of the current facts and circumstances.
Results may differ significantly from those estimates The Group closely monitors regulations across its made under different assumptions and judgements.
The businesses to ensure that it complies with the relevant directors have outlined those accounting policies which laws and regulations.
Whilst Spirent does not believe that are considered most critical in note 2 of Notes to the it is non-compliant with any laws or regulations, other consolidated financial statements.
than as disclosed in note 17 of Notes to the consolidated financial statements, any instances of non-compliance Forward-looking statements would be brought to the attention of the appropriate This document includes forward-looking statements authorities as soon as possible.
concerning Spirents business, operations and financial performance and condition.
Forward-looking statements The Groups tax charge is comprised of current and are based on current expectations and projections about deferred tax charges.
The calculation of these charges future events.
These forward-looking statements are involves a certain amount of estimation and judgement.
subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions about Spirent is subject to income taxes in a number of tax the Spirent Group.
The Spirent Group undertake no jurisdictions and there are many transactions for which obligation to update publicly or revise any forward-looking the final tax determination is uncertain and which may statements, whether as a result of new information, take many years to resolve.
Liabilities are recognised for future events or otherwise.
Given these considerations, anticipated tax audit issues determined on whether readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on additional taxes are likely to be due using facts and such forward-looking statements.
circumstances known at the time the financial statements are prepared.
The final outcome could differ significantly from the amounts initially recorded and affect the financial position and results of the Group.
Exchange rate Currency exposures arise from trading transactions undertaken by the Groups operations in foreign currencies and on the translation of the operating results and net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
Spirent conducts operations globally and accordingly the value of its revenue and expenses, assets and liabilities will be affected by fluctuations of the pound sterling, its reporting currency, against the currency in which these are denominated.
The Group does not enter into instruments to hedge the translation exposure of the operating results or net assets of its overseas subsidiaries as these are considered accounting and not cash exposures.
Such fluctuations in exchange could therefore have a material impact on the reported results.
The principal currency to which Spirent is exposed is the US dollar.
Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2008 17
