RISK FACTORS The risks and uncertainties below represent the risks that our Increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive management believes are material.
If any of the events or information sources may reduce demand for our developments discussed below actually occurs, our business, products and services.
financial condition or results of operations of could be adversely In recent years, more public sources of free or relatively affected.
Other factors not presently known to us or that we presently inexpensive information have become available, particularly believe are not material could also affect our future business through the Internet, and this trend is expected to continue.
For example, some governmental and regulatory agencies have increased the amount of information they make publicly available We may be adversely affected by a further deterioration at no cost.
In addition, open source software that is available in the markets that we serve.
for free may provide some functionality similar to that in some Our performance depends on the financial health and strength of our products.
Public sources of free or relatively inexpensive of our customers, which in turn is dependent on the general information may reduce demand for our products and services.
economies in our major markets in North America, Europe and Although we believe our information is more valuable and Asia.
The current global economic crisis has caused disruptions enhanced through analysis, tools and applications that are and volatility in financial markets in particular.
A continued embedded into customers workows, our financial results may downturn in the financial markets, a prolonged recession in one or be adversely affected if our customers choose to use these more of the countries in which we operate or significant trading public sources as a substitute for our products or services.
market disruptions or suspensions could adversely affect our business.
In 2008, we derived approximately 59% of our pro If we are unable to develop new products, services, forma revenues from our financial businesses.
The deepening applications and functionalities to meet our customers economic crisis has also impacted the legal industry, causing a needs, attract new customers or expand into new number of law rms to increase their focus on reducing costs.
geographic markets, our ability to generate revenues Continued cost-cutting by any of our customer segments in may be adversely affected.
response to the current economic climate may also adversely Our growth strategy involves developing new products, services, affect our financial results.
applications and functionalities to meet our customers needs for intelligent information solutions and maintaining a strong position We operate in highly competitive markets and may be in the sectors that we serve.
As the information and news services adversely affected by this competition.
industries undergo rapid evolution, we must be able to anticipate The information and news industries are highly competitive.
and respond to our customers needs in order to improve our Many of our principal competitors have substantial financial competitiveness.
In addition, we plan to grow by attracting new resources, recognized brands, technological expertise and market customers and expanding into new geographic markets.
Our competitors are also enhancing their products take us a significant amount of time and expense to develop and services, developing new products and services and investing new products, services, applications and functionalities to meet in technology to better serve the needs of their existing customers needs of customers, attract new customers or expand into new and to attract new customers.
Our competitors may acquire geographic markets.
If we are unable to do so, our ability to additional businesses in key sectors that will allow them to offer generate revenues may be adversely affected.
a broader array of products and services.
We may also face increased competition from Internet service companies and search We generate a significant percentage of our revenues providers that could pose a threat to some of our businesses by from subscription-based arrangements, and our ability providing more in-depth offerings, adapting their products and to generate higher revenues is dependent in part on services to meet the demands of their customers or combining maintaining a high renewal rate.
with one of their traditional competitors to enhance their products In 2008, 86% of our pro forma revenues were derived from and services.
Competition may require us to reduce the price of subscriptions or similar contractual arrangements, which result our products and services or make additional capital investments in recurring revenues.
Our subscription arrangements are most that would adversely affect profit margins.
If we are unable or often for a term of one year or renew automatically under unwilling to do so, we may lose market share and our financial evergreen arrangements.
With appropriate notice, however, results may be adversely affected.
In addition, some of our certain arrangements are cancelable quarterly, particularly within customers have in the past and may decide again to develop our Markets division.
In addition, the renewals of longer term independently certain products and services that they obtain from arrangements are often at the customers option.
In order to us, including through the formation of consortia.
To the extent generate higher revenues, we are dependent on a significant that customers become more self-sufficient, demand for our number of our customers to renew their arrangements with us.
products and services of may be reduced which may adversely Our revenues could also be lower if a significant number of our affect our financial results.
customers renewed their arrangements with us, but reduced the amount of their spending.
12 THOMSON REUTERS We rely heavily on network systems and the Internet We may be adversely affected by changes in legislation and any failures or disruptions may adversely affect and regulation.
our ability to serve our customers.
Laws relating to communications, data protection, e-commerce, We are dependent on our ability to handle rapidly substantial direct marketing and digital advertising and the use of public quantities of data and transactions on computer-based networks records have become more prevalent in recent years.
Existing and and the capacity, reliability and security of our electronic delivery proposed legislation and regulations, including changes in the systems and the Internet.
Any significant failure or interruption of manner in which such legislation and regulations are interpreted these systems, including operational services, loss of service from by courts, in the United States, the United Kingdom, Canada and third parties, sabotage, break-ins, terrorist activities, human error, other jurisdictions may impose limits on our collection and use natural disaster, power or coding loss and computer viruses could of certain kinds of information and our ability to communicate cause our systems to operate slowly or interrupt service for periods such information effectively to our customers.
We may also be of time and could have a material adverse effect on our business impacted by legislative and regulatory changes in the financial and results of our operations.
Our ability to effectively use the services sector that apply to customers of our Markets division, as Internet may be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service well as how we provide products and services to these customers.
outages at third party Internet providers or increased government It is difficult to predict in what form laws and regulations will be regulation.
In addition, we are facing significant increases in our adopted or how they will be construed by the relevant courts, or use of power and data storage.
We may experience shortage of the extent to which any changes might adversely affect us.
capacity and increased costs associated with such usage.
These In addition, changes in tax laws and or uncertainty over their events may affect our ability to store, handle and deliver data application and interpretation may adversely affect our results.
and services to our customers.
We operate in many countries worldwide and our earnings are From time to time, update rates of market data have increased.
subject to taxation in many different jurisdictions and at different This can sometimes impact product and network performance.
We seek to organize our affairs in a tax efficient manner, Factors that have signicantly increased the market data update taking account of the jurisdictions in which we operate.
Tax laws rates include: that apply to our company may be amended by the relevant authorities, for example, as a result of changes in scal circumstances the emergence of proprietary data feeds from other markets: or priorities.
Such amendments, or their application to our high market volatility: company, may adversely affect our results.
decimalization: Operating globally involves challenges that we may reductions in trade sizes resulting in more transactions: not be able to meet and that may adversely affect our ability to grow.
new derivative instruments: There are certain risks inherent in doing business globally which increased  algorithmic and may adversely affect our business and ability to grow.
These risks program trading: include difficulties in penetrating new markets due to established market fragmentation resulting in an increased number of and entrenched competitors, difficulties in developing products trading venues: and and services that are tailored to the needs of local customers, lack of local acceptance or knowledge of our products and multiple listings of options and other securities.
services, lack of recognition of our brands, unavailability of joint Changes in legislation and regulation pertaining to market venture partners or local companies for acquisition, instability of structure and dissemination of market information may also international economies and governments, exposure to adverse increase update rates.
While we continue to implement a number government action in countries where we may conduct reporting of capacity management initiatives, there can be no assurance activities, changes in laws and policies affecting trade and that our company and our network providers will be able to investment in other jurisdictions, and exposure to varying legal accommodate accelerated growth of peak trafc volumes or standards, including intellectual property protection laws.
Adverse avoid other failures or interruptions.
developments in any of these areas could cause our actual results to differ materially from expected results.
However, there are also We are dependent on third parties for information advantages to operating globally, including a proportionately and other services.
reduced exposure to the market developments of a single country or region.
We obtain significant information through licensing arrangements with content providers.
In addition, we rely on third party service Our goodwill is key to our ability to remain a trusted providers for telecommunications, IT support and certain human source of information and news.
Some providers may seek to increase fees for providing their proprietary content or services.
The integrity of our reputation is key to our ability to remain a If we are unable to renegotiate commercially acceptable trusted source of information and news.
Failure to protect our arrangements with these content or service providers or nd brands or failure to uphold the Reuters Trust Principles may alternative sources of equivalent content or service, our business adversely impact our credibility as a trusted supplier of content and could be adversely affected.
may have a negative impact on our information and news business.
ANNUAL REPORT 2008 13 RISK FACTORS We may be subject to impairment losses that would Our credit ratings may be downgraded, or adverse reduce our reported assets and earnings.
conditions in the credit markets may continue, which may impede our access to the debt markets or raise Goodwill and identiable intangible assets comprise a substantial our borrowing rates.
portion of our total assets.
Economic, legal, regulatory, competitive, contractual and other factors may affect the value of goodwill and Our access to financing depends on, among other things, identiable intangible assets.
If any of these factors impair the suitable market conditions and the maintenance of suitable value of these assets, accounting rules would require that we long-term credit ratings.
Our credit ratings may be adversely reduce their carrying value and recognize an impairment charge, affected by various factors, including increased debt levels, which would reduce our reported assets and earnings in the year decreased earnings, declines in customer demands, increased the impairment charge is recognized.
competition, a continued deterioration in general economic and business conditions and adverse publicity.
Any downgrades in Our intellectual property rights may not be adequately our credit ratings or continued adverse conditions in the credit protected, which may adversely affect our financial results.
markets may impede our access to the debt markets or raise our borrowing rates.
Many of our products and services are based on information delivered through a variety of media, including the Internet, Currency uctuations and interest rate uctuations software-based applications, books, journals, compact discs, may have a significant impact on our reported revenues dedicated transmission lines and handheld wireless devices.
rely on agreements with our customers and patent, trademark, copyright and other intellectual property laws to establish and Our financial statements are expressed in U. S. dollars and are, protect our proprietary rights in our products and services.
Third therefore, subject to movements in exchange rates on the parties may be able to copy, infringe or otherwise profit from our translation of the financial information of businesses whose proprietary rights without authorization and the Internet may operational currencies are other than our reporting currency.
The lack of specic legislation relating We receive revenue and incur expenses in many currencies and are to the protection of intellectual property rights for content thereby exposed to the impact of uctuations in various currency delivered through the Internet or other electronic formats creates rates.
To the extent that these currency exposures are not hedged, an additional challenge for us in protecting our proprietary rights exchange rate movements may cause uctuations in our in content delivered through these media.
We also conduct consolidated financial statements.
business in some countries where the extent of effective legal Substantially all of our non-U.
S. dollar-denominated debt has protection for intellectual property rights is uncertain.
We cannot been hedged into U. S. dollars.
Our hedging strategies against assure you that we have adequate protection of our intellectual currency risk could also impact our financial results when the property rights.
If we are not able to protect our intellectual U. S. dollar strengthens against other currencies.
In addition, an property rights, our financial results may be adversely affected.
increase in interest rates from current levels could adversely affect our results in future periods.
We may operate in an increasingly litigious environment, which may adversely affect our financial results.
If we do not continue to recruit and retain high quality We may become involved in legal actions and claims arising in the management and key employees, we may not be able to ordinary course of business.
Due to the inherent uncertainty in the execute our strategies.
litigation process, the resolution of any particular legal proceeding The completion and execution of our strategies depends on our could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and ability to continue to recruit and retain high quality management results of operations.
and employees across all of our businesses.
We compete with We are signicantly dependent on technology and the rights many businesses that are seeking skilled individuals, including related to it, including rights in respect of business methods.
This, those with advanced technological abilities.
We may not be able combined with the recent proliferation of business method to continue to identify or be successful in recruiting or retaining patents issued by the U. S. Patent Ofce, and the increasingly the appropriate qualied personnel for our businesses and this litigious environment that surrounds patents in general, increases may adversely affect our ability to execute our strategies.
the possibility that we may be sued for patent infringement.
If an infringement suit were successful, it is possible that the infringing product would be enjoined by court order and removed from the market and we may be required to compensate the party bringing the suit either by a damages claim or through ongoing license fees or other fees, and such compensation could be significant, in addition to the legal fees that would be incurred defending such a claim.
Responding to intellectual property claims, regardless of the validity, could also be time consuming and could require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms.
14 THOMSON REUTERS acquired businesses, our anticipated revenues and profits may be We have significant funding obligations for pension and lower.
Our strategies have historically resulted in decisions to post-retirement benefit arrangements that are affected dispose of assets or businesses that were no longer aligned with by factors outside of our control.
We expend costs and management resources We have significant funding obligations for various pension and to complete divestitures.
Any failures or delays in completing other post-retirement benefit arrangements that are affected by divestitures could have an adverse effect on our financial results factors outside our control.
The valuations of material plans are and on our ability to execute our strategy.
Long-term rates of return for pension plans and post-retirement benefit arrangements are Benets from our integration and savings program may based on evaluations of historical investment returns and input not be achieved to the extent, or within the time period, from investment advisors.
These valuations and rates of return currently expected.
require assumptions to be made in respect of future compensation In addition to the potential revenue growth generated by our levels, expected mortality, ination, the expected long-term rate company, our acquisition of Reuters is expected to deliver annual of return on the assets available to fund the plans, the expected run-rate savings of $1 billion by the end of 2011.
In February social security costs and medical cost trends, along with the 2009, we raised our overall savings target which also includes discount rate to measure obligations.
These assumptions are $400 million of savings expected from legacy efficiency programs reviewed annually.
While we believe that these assumptions are to $1.4 billion.
Our integration and savings program involves appropriate given current economic conditions, significant investing in new revenue initiatives and transformation initiatives, differences in results or significant changes in assumptions may including content and development transformation, common materially affect pension plan and post-retirement benefit platform development, customer administration and data center obligations and related future expenses.
We may encounter difficulties during this process that could eliminate, reduce or delay the realization of the savings Woodbridge controls our company and is in a position that are currently expected.
Among other things, these difficulties to affect our governance and operations.
could include: Woodbridge had an economic and voting interest in Thomson unexpected issues, higher than expected costs and an overall Reuters of approximately 55% as of March 26, 2009.
For so long process that takes longer than originally anticipated: as Woodbridge maintains its controlling interest in Thomson Reuters, it will generally be able to approve matters submitted to our inability to successfully integrate operations, technologies, a majority vote of our shareholders without the consent of other products and services: shareholders, including, among other things, the election of the loss of key employees: our board.
In addition, Woodbridge may be able to exercise a controlling inuence over our business and affairs, the selection of modication or termination of existing agreements with our senior management, the acquisition or disposition of our customers and suppliers and delayed entry into new assets, our access to capital markets, the payment of dividends agreements with prospective customers and suppliers: and and any change of control of our company, such as a merger or the diversion of managements attention from day-to-day take-over.
The effect of this control may be to limit the price that business or developing longer-term strategy as a result of the investors are willing to pay for our shares.
In addition, a sale of need to deal with integration and savings program issues.
shares by Woodbridge or the perception of the market that a sale may occur may adversely affect the market price of our shares.
As a result of these difficulties, the actual savings generated may be less, and may take longer to realize, than is currently expected.
We may be unable to derive fully the anticipated benets from our existing or future acquisitions, joint ventures, Our acquisition of Reuters may not maximize the growth investments or dispositions.
potential of, or deliver greater value for, our company beyond the level that either Thomson or Reuters could We have acquired, invested in and or disposed of, and in the have achieved on its own.
future may seek to acquire, invest in and or dispose of, various companies and businesses.
In the future, we may not be able to One of the principal reasons for the acquisition of Reuters was successfully identify attractive acquisition opportunities or make to maximize our growth potential beyond the level that either acquisitions on terms that are satisfactory to our company from Thomson or Reuters could have achieved on its own.
In addition, competition for acquisitions this growth potential is dependent upon a number of factors, in the industries in which we operate during recent years has many of which are beyond our control.
We may not be able to escalated, and may increase costs of acquisitions or cause us to pursue successfully innovative product development opportunities refrain from making certain acquisitions.
We may also be subject or enhance the quality and competitiveness of our product to increasing regulatory scrutiny from competition and antitrust offerings to the extent anticipated.
The inability to realize the authorities.
Achieving the expected returns and synergies from full extent of the anticipated growth opportunities, as well past and future acquisitions will depend in part upon our ability to as any delays encountered in the integration process, could integrate the products and services, technology, administrative have an adverse effect on our revenues, operating results functions and personnel of these businesses into our segments in and financial strength.
an efficient and effective manner.
We cannot assure you that we will be able to do so, or that our acquired businesses will perform at anticipated levels.
If we are unable to successfully integrate ANNUAL REPORT 2008 15 RISK FACTORS Our DLC structure involves different issues and risks than those Each of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson associated with other more common corporate structures.
Our Reuters PLC is exposed to the credit risk of the other.
structure was implemented by means of contracts between In light of the cross guarantees, each of Thomson Reuters Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC and Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC is exposed to the credit provisions in their organizational documents.
The legal effect of risk of the other.
For example, if Thomson Reuters PLC is unable these contractual rights may be different than the legal effect or fails to pay its contractual indebtedness or other obligations, of a take-over bid, merger or amalgamation and there may be a creditor under a contract may require Thomson Reuters difficulties in enforcing them.
In addition, certain contracts Corporation to pay all amounts due.
between Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC provide that they are enforceable only by the two companies The DLC structure involves risks to the Thomson Reuters and not directly by our shareholders.
Nevertheless, shareholders Corporation shareholders with respect to the support of either Thomson Reuters Corporation or Thomson Reuters PLC arrangements.
might challenge the validity of the contracts or their lack of standing to enforce rights under these contracts, and courts may The DLC structure provides that in the event of the insolvency interpret or enforce these contracts in a manner inconsistent with of Thomson Reuters PLC, Thomson Reuters Corporation must the provisions and intentions of the companies expressed in take certain actions to support Thomson Reuters PLC and its documents governing our DLC.
shareholders to restore economic equivalence as between the shares of the two companies.
The DLC structure does not provide There is also uncertainty as to the enforceability of certain a reciprocal obligation by Thomson Reuters PLC to support provisions of the documents governing our DLC, including those Thomson Reuters Corporation in the event of the insolvency of relating to an insolvency of one parent company or both parent Thomson Reuters Corporation.
For example, in the event of an insolvency of Thomson Reuters PLC, Thomson Reuters Corporation must take actions to The DLC structure also provides that Thomson Reuters restore economic equivalence as between the shares of the two Corporation must take certain actions to support Thomson companies.
We cannot assure you that a court would interpret Reuters PLC where it is required to declare or pay a dividend or or enforce that obligation in a manner consistent with the terms other cash distribution but is unable to do so.
Thomson Reuters of the DLC documents and the intentions of the companies PLC is not required to support Thomson Reuters Corporation in expressed therein.
the event that Thomson Reuters Corporation is unable to declare or pay a dividend or other cash distribution.
As our two parent companies are both publicly listed, we comply with both Canadian and U. K. corporate law and different regulatory Accordingly, there is a risk that Thomson Reuters Corporation and stock exchange requirements in Canada, the United Kingdom will be required to support Thomson Reuters PLC and its and the United States.
This requires more administrative time and shareholders although Thomson Reuters Corporation and its cost than was the case prior to the acquisition of Reuters.
shareholders would not receive support in corresponding circumstances.
We cannot assure you that we will maintain our DLC structure in the future.
The trading prices and liquidity of our shares may not be the same and the differences between them may Changes in the tax residence of Thomson Reuters be material.
Corporation or Thomson Reuters PLC could cause us adverse tax consequences.
Although the economic interests of Thomson Reuters Corporation common shares and Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares are We expect Thomson Reuters Corporation will remain resident the same, the trading prices of our shares have not been the same only in Canada for tax purposes and Thomson Reuters PLC will when adjusted for the applicable exchange rate since the closing remain resident only in the United Kingdom for tax purposes.
of the Reuters acquisition in April 2008.
In addition, the liquidity However, if Thomson Reuters Corporation were to cease to be of the markets for our shares has also varied at times.
The resident solely in Canada and or Thomson Reuters PLC were difference in our share prices has averaged approximately 18% to cease to be resident solely in the United Kingdom for tax from the closing date of the acquisition through March 26, 2009. purposes including as a result of changes in applicable laws or in Canadian regulatory practice or the practice of U. K. taxation Our DLC structure may be adversely affected by changes authorities, this could cause us adverse tax consequences.
to legislation and regulations, and involves risks and costs not associated with other corporate structures.
Our DLC structure was developed on the basis of existing law and policies of regulatory authorities in Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States.
Changes to these laws or policies including changes to tax laws may impact or alter the rights, benets or protections afforded to our company and our shareholders under the DLC structure.
16 THOMSON REUTERS If Thomson Reuters PLC were classied as a passive foreign Provisions in our DLC documents that are designed to investment company under U. S. federal income tax laws, ensure that shareholders of Thomson Reuters Corporation it could have adverse tax consequences for U. S. holders of and Thomson Reuters PLC are treated on an equivalent Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares including those basis with respect to take-over bids and similar represented by Thomson Reuters PLC ADSs.
transactions may prevent or discourage take-over bids and similar transactions.
Special rules apply to certain U. S. shareholders that own shares in a non-U.
S. corporation that is classied as a passive foreign We believe that it is essential to the implementation and operation investment company, or PFIC.
We do not believe that Thomson of our DLC structure that holders of Thomson Reuters Corporation Reuters PLC is currently a PFIC and, based on the strategy for our common shares and Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares be business, we do not expect Thomson Reuters PLC to become a treated on an equivalent basis with respect to any take-over bid PFIC in the foreseeable future.
However, the application of the or similar transaction for such shares.
Accordingly, our DLC PFIC rules to the DLC structure is uncertain and involves some risk documents contain provisions that are intended to impede a that the IRS will consider Thomson Reuters PLC to be a PFIC.
The person from making a take-over bid or similar transaction for PFIC rules are extremely complex and could, if they apply, have shares of one company without also making an equivalent takesignificant adverse effects on the taxation of dividends received over bid or similar transaction for shares of the other company.
and gains realized by a U. S. shareholder of Thomson Reuters PLC.
The effect of these provisions may be to limit the price that Accordingly, U. S. shareholders of Thomson Reuters PLC should investors are willing to pay for Thomson Reuters Corporation consult with their tax advisers concerning the potential application common shares or Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares if these of PFIC rules to their particular circumstances.
See the Additional provisions are viewed as preventing or discouraging take-over Information Taxation section of this annual report for more bids or similar transactions for shares of either company.
The rights and privileges of Thomson Reuters U. S. holders of Thomson Reuters PLC ordinary shares Corporation shareholders and Thomson Reuters PLC who do not hold their shares through Thomson Reuters shareholders are governed by different laws and PLC ADSs might not qualify for special reduced U. S. tax regulations.
rates on payments of future dividends from Thomson Ontario law and the Thomson Reuters Corporation Articles and Reuters PLC.
the Thomson Reuters Corporation By-Laws govern Thomson It is not entirely clear whether U. S. shareholders of Thomson Reuters Corporation and its relations with its shareholders.
U. K. Reuters PLC ordinary shares would be able to qualify for special law and the Thomson Reuters PLC Articles govern Thomson reduced U. S. tax rates with respect to the payment of dividends Reuters PLC and its relations with its shareholders.
Although the from Thomson Reuters PLC.
rights and privileges of shareholders of Thomson Reuters Corporation are comparable to those of shareholders of Thomson Reuters Founders Share Company holds a Reuters Reuters PLC, particularly taking into account the effects of the Founders Share in each of Thomson Reuters Corporation DLC structure, their respective rights and privileges differ in and Thomson Reuters PLC and may be in a position to certain respects due to differences between Ontario law and affect our governance and management.
regulations and U. K. law and regulations and between the Thomson Reuters Corporation Articles and the Thomson Reuters Reuters Founders Share Company was established to safeguard Corporation By-Laws and the Thomson Reuters PLC Articles.
In the Reuters Trust Principles, including the independence, integrity addition, Canadian and U. K. courts could interpret comparable and freedom from bias in the gathering and dissemination of provisions differently.
Reuters Founders Share Company holds a Reuters Founders Share in each of Thomson Reuters Corporation and Thomson Reuters PLC.
The interest of Reuters Founders Share Company in safeguarding the Reuters Trust Principles may conict with our other business objectives, impose additional costs or burdens on us or otherwise affect the management and governance.
In addition, the Reuters Founders Shares enable Reuters Founders Share Company to exercise extraordinary voting power to safeguard the Reuters Trust Principles and to thwart those whose holdings of voting shares of Thomson Reuters Corporation or Thomson Reuters PLC threaten the Reuters Trust Principles.
As a result, Reuters Founders Share Company may prevent a change of control including by way of a take-over bid or similar transaction of our company in the future.
The effect of these rights of Reuters Founders Share Company may be to limit the price that investors are willing to pay for our shares.
