36 Principal risks and uncertainties Background Risks inherent in operating in emerging economies We aim to expand our activities in the high-growth Tomkins operates globally in a variety of markets potential emerging markets of Eastern Europe, Asia, and is affected by a number of risks inherent in the Middle East and South and Central America.
face inherent risks in operating in these markets that Business risk can be considered either as downside risk include, but are not limited to, economic and political the risk that something can go wrong and result in a instability, restrictive or complex laws and regulations, financial loss or exposure or volatility risk the risk volatility in currency exchange rates, protection of associated with uncertainty, meaning there may be an intellectual property and strong competition from opportunity for financial gain as well as the potential companies that are already established in these for loss.
If we are unable to adequately assess these risks and develop and execute appropriate mitigating We outline below our principal risks and uncertainties, strategies, we may have to decline growth i. e. those that the Board believes have the greatest opportunities which may adversely impact the Groups potential to impact the Groups results or financial sales, profitability and cash flows.
We have not listed these risks in any order of priority.
Details of the Groups risk management Our funding procedures are set out under the heading Internal Control on page 48.
Risks arising from illiquid credit markets Despite the efforts of national governments, Additional risks not currently known to us, or risks restrictions on the availability of credit continue and that currently we do not regard as significant, could many companies are finding it difficult to obtain or also have a material adverse effect on our results or renew borrowing facilities on commercially acceptable financial position and our analysis of our principal terms.
We finance our business principally through risks and uncertainties should therefore be read in equity and bank and other borrowings.
While we conjunction with the cautionary statement regarding currently have considerable headroom under our forward-looking statements set out on the inside committed borrowing facilities, our 400 million multifront cover.
currency revolving credit facility expires in August 2010.
We may have to accept less favourable terms When applying the Groups accounting policies, when we come to renew or replace the facility.
management must make assumptions and estimates about the future that may differ from actual Failure to obtain sufficient funding to meet our outcomes.
We discuss the key sources of estimation liquidity requirements may result in lost business uncertainty that have a significant risk of causing a opportunities or the curtailment of capital spending, material adjustment to the carrying value of the research and development and other important Groups assets and liabilities in note 4 to the strategic programmes.
Illiquid credit markets may also restrict the reshaping of our portfolio because the reduced access to credit Our strategy may adversely impact the ability of both the Group Risks associated with acquisitions and disposals and potential buyers to finance the acquisition of We seek to reshape our portfolio by making strategic businesses.
bolt-on acquisitions of complementary businesses to expand our product portfolio and geographic presence If we were unable to replace or renew our borrowing and by disposing of non-core businesses.
facilities as they expire, there may be a threat to the Groups status as a going concern.
If we were able to Acquisitions and disposals, particularly investments in obtain funding on less favourable terms, there may be emerging markets, involve legal, economic and an adverse impact on the Groups profitability and political risks.
We also encounter risks in the selection cash flows.
of appropriate investment and disposal targets, execution of the transactions, integration of acquired Our markets businesses and a risk that we may not generate the anticipated returns and savings from our acquisitions Risks associated with economic downturn and disposals.
Demand for our products is driven directly or indirectly by consumer demand and preferences.
Our markets tend to be cyclical and the recent decline in asset prices, severe limitations on the availability of credit and the volatility in the prices of oil and other commodities have eroded market confidence and driven down consumer spending in a number of our end markets.
Performance 37 Principal risks and uncertainties While the downturn began in the US, it has spread to Our products the developed economies in Europe and parts of Asia Risks associated with the cost and availability of and we are now faced with a global recession.
It is production inputs likely that this will continue to reduce demand for our Steel, aluminium, rubber and rubber-based materials products, increase pressure on prices, reduce margins are some of the key inputs needed in many of our and accelerate customer consolidation.
Energy is another significant part of the these pressures will continue to be particularly acute in Groups costs, affecting both production and our residential, commercial construction and distribution costs.
If prices of these and other inputs automotive markets.
increase and we are unable to pass these increases on to customers, there is a risk that our margins may Risks associated with the major US automotive not be sustained and profitability may be adversely manufacturers affected.
In 2008, the Group derived 9.7% of its sales from During 2008, we have seen both significant rises and General Motors, Ford and Chrysler.
For some time, the falls in the prices of many inputs.
If such price volatility global automotive industry has been characterised by continues, it may hinder accurate forecasting and overcapacity and fierce competition and, in North costing and make it difficult to pass cost increases America, it is also affected by significant pension and on to customers.
In recent years, the Detroit Three have seen a decline in their market share of vehicle Our businesses compete globally for key production sales, particularly in North America, due to Asian and inputs.
The availability of certain raw materials, energy European automobile manufacturers increasing their or other key inputs may be disrupted by any number presence and the preference of customers for fuelof geopolitical factors.
Such disruptions may require efficient vehicles.
North American vehicle production additional capital or operating expenditures by the declined sharply from 15.1 million in 2007 to Group or forced reductions in our production volumes.
12.6 million in 2008 and is projected to fall further Financial distress of key suppliers as a result of to 9.5 million in 2009.
As a consequence, the Detroit increasing prices, declining demand and a lack of Three are in severe financial difficulty and have been available financing may lead to disruption in the offered financial assistance from the US government.
supply of inputs negatively impacting our production Should one or more of the Detroit Three file for and profitability.
reorganisation under US bankruptcy laws, we may not be able to recover amounts owed to us by them.
Risk of product liability claims We expect that the production capacity of the Detroit Due to the nature of our products, we face an Three in North America will be severely cut back and inherent risk of product liability claims if failure results that any recovery in sales may take some years as they in any claim for injury or consequential loss.
Litigation replace their vehicle platforms.
is inherently unpredictable and these claims, regardless of their outcome, may be costly, divert management Risk of increased competition from low-cost attention and adversely affect our reputation.
Supplier producers consolidation and the increase in low-cost country Many of our end markets are highly competitive, sourcing may increase the likelihood of receiving particularly in the automotive industry.
Customers are defective materials, thereby increasing the risk of expanding their sourcing of products by looking to product failure and resulting liability claims.
regions that enjoy economic advantages such as lower labour costs, cheaper raw materials or export Our people subsidies.
If we are unable to continue to provide Risk that our human resources strategies may not technologically superior or better quality products or be effective to match the prices of these low-cost suppliers, there We believe that our future success depends in is a risk that customers will switch to these suppliers, large measure on our ability to retain and develop leading to a loss of market share and reductions in our people.
If we are unable to identify, attract and sales and margins.
retain excellent non-management, management and executive talent, we may not be able to effectively Risks inherent in the supply chain implement our business strategies, or we may experience Failure to deliver products within acceptable delays in the development and production of, or face timeframes in our competitive markets could have an difficulty in selling, our products and services.
adverse effect on the business.
Customer-driven reductions in lead times, carrier consolidation, the availability and cost of fuel and longer supply chains resulting from low-cost country sourcing may all impact service levels resulting in lost market share or missed opportunities.
Shorter lead times can also make it difficult to predict trends or market changes, hampering accurate forecasting.
