qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:29 Page 44 Directors report: Business review Risk management and risk factors Managing risk responsibly Tullow has comprehensive risk management systems in place, with clear targets and responsibility.
Effective risk management is critical to achieving the Groups Ian Springett, Chief Financial Officer, has responsibility for strategic objectives and protecting its people and reputation.
managing liquidity and developing the Groups longer-term Tullow manages and mitigates risk by maintaining a balanced financing strategy.
He is also responsible for external risks portfolio, compliance with the terms of its licences, the such as cost inflation and oil and gas price volatility and application of policies and procedures appropriate for an internally focuses on ensuring the Groups processes and international oil and gas company of its size and scale, and systems develop in line with the increased scale of Tullow.
through the recruitment and retention of skilled personnel Graham Martin, General Counsel and Company Secretary, throughout its business.
is responsible for legal and governance issues, and along The Group has a systematic approach to risk identification with Aidan Heavey, he is also tasked with developing and and management combining both a top-down driven by maintaining successful relationships with governments the Board and a bottom-up originating from the business and developing the Groups political risk profiling process.
units and operations review and approval process.
In each area the Executive Directors are supported by members of the senior management team or managers Detailed assessment in 2008 with key functional responsibilities.
The Board completed a detailed update of strategy during 2008 and a key component of this process was an assessment Performance reporting processes of risks critical to strategic delivery.
This assessment was Tullow undertakes a detailed annual business planning completed with each Board member and senior managers and budget process.
This includes annual objectives and from production, exploration and finance.
targets covering production, development, exploration, EHS One of the main outcomes is that responsibility for and financial performance, which are set at a business unit managing and monitoring key risks has been assigned and asset level with key risks to the delivery of these targets to individual Executive Directors and senior managers.
Actual performance is reported on a monthly basis with narrative explaining key variances.
On a quarterly Other key outcomes are that risk management is now basis senior management assess the Groups performance integrated with the Groups performance management through a series of reviews with business units.
These tools and will be reported on a quarterly basis to the Board.
reviews include an assessment of risks to delivery of targets and performance, and measures being implemented to Assigned responsibility manage these potential risks.
While the Tullow Board and Executives have collective responsibility for the management of risk, the Group has Dedicated major project management Board sponsors with responsibility for key risks and these Dedicated teams have been established to manage are outlined here.
developments in Ghana and Uganda.
Project milestones Aidan Heavey, Chief Executive Officer, has responsibility have been established with progress reported on an ongoing basis.
Risk identification, mitigation and monitoring along with the executive team for strategic delivery consistent with shareholders expectations.
are completed as part of the day-to-day management of the developments.
Detailed risk analysis is completed with Cost and capital discipline is the responsibility of Paul input from partners as appropriate to identify key risks to McDade, Chief Operating Officer and Angus McCoss, project costs and timetable delivery.
Plans to mitigate these Exploration Director.
70% of 2009 capital expenditure risks are developed, monitored and reported regularly by is allocated to P&D and 30% to E&A activities.
Paul, with the project teams to the Executives and the Board.
the Head of EHS, Graham Brunton, has responsibility for ensuring the Group achieves its EHS targets and maintains Appropriate policies and procedures the security of its employees, contractors and operations.
Detailed procedures support risk management across Tullow In addition, P&D has direct operational responsibility for and the application and consistency of these procedures is the specific targets to achieve the fast-track development regularly reviewed by the Groups Internal Audit function.
of major projects in Ghana and Uganda.
These procedures include: 44 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts TU017 p44-47 vAW6.
qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:29 Page 45 Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Risk management at Tullow Tullow Oil plc Board Executive Directors Audit Committee Senior Management Team Integrated strategic, business and operational risk management Identification Evaluation Mitigation Reporting KPIs Business Units Project Teams Corporate Functions Delegation of authority covering commitment and approval Exploration business procedures integrate technical, limits for work programmes, activities and expenditure: portfolio and financial controls with associated assurance and approval processes.
Integrated Management Systems which set minimum business standards to be used throughout Tullow Further, Tullow has successfully applied for external including risk management guidelines: certification of critical processes such as International Organization for Standardization ISO 14001 certification Business ethics includes a code of business conduct for environmental management in the UK, Dublin, Cape and ethics and integrity and whistleblowing policies: Town, Bangladesh, Pakistan and Mauritania.
The review Human resource policies establish a consistent set of process for this standard involves an assessment of values and standards for managing employees and the management of material risks and business and contractors throughout the Group: operational controls employed to mitigate such risks.
Contract and procurement detail procedures for tendering, Tullow groups risk into strategic, financial, operational evaluation, selection and award of contracts: and and external risks.
Risks identified are closely aligned with the Groups KPIs, as set out on page 18 to 19 of this report.
Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 45 TU017 p44-47 vAW6.
qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:29 Page 46 Directors report: Business review Risk management and risk factors continued Risk analysis outlining key risks facing Tullow together with their potential impact and the mitigation strategies developed is contained below.
Strategic risk Impact Ineffective or poorly executed strategy fails to create shareholder value or fails to meet shareholder expectations.
Risk Mitigation Strategy fails to meet Strategy focused on delivering Ghana and Uganda developments and selective shareholder expectations high-impact exploration programme.
Effective communication with all stakeholders based on uniform, open and transparent dialogue.
Ineffective capital allocation Consistent investment appraisal through application of agreed criteria with ranking of opportunities validated by executive management.
Material acquisitions and disposals and new country entry require Board approval.
Loss of key staff and Remuneration policies to attract and retain staff, staff appraisal, specic development succession planning and training policies implemented.
Board succession plan to be reviewed in 2009.
Financial risk Impact Asset performance and excessive leverage results in the Group being unable to meet its financial obligations.
Risk Mitigation insufficient liquidity, Prudent approach to debt and equity balance maintained through renancing and equity inappropriate placing.
Regular Board review and approval for nancing options.
Shortand long-term nancing strategy cash forecasts reported to senior management and Board monthly.
Inadequate or Hedging strategy agreed by the Board utilises a mix of physical and derivative products excessive hedging appropriate to Tullows size and production base.
Hedging activity is reported to the Board monthly and accounting reviewed by external audit.
Underperforming assets Monthly asset financial and operational performance reporting and KPI measures established.
Detailed senior management review completed quarterly with business unit teams.
Active portfolio management and review of carrying values.
Cost and capital discipline Comprehensive annual budgeting process covering all expenditure approved by the Board.
Executive management approval required for major categories of expenditure effectively managing capital allocation.
Monthly reporting vs budget with variance analysis.
Uninsured events Comprehensive insurance programme approved annually with business interruption cover for key producing assets.
46 Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts TU017 p44-47 vAW6.
qxp:Layout 1 27 3 09 22:29 Page 47 Group overview Directors report: Business review Directors report: Corporate governance Financial statements Operational risk Impact Operational event impacting staff, contractors, communities or the environment leading to loss of reputation and or revenue.
Risk Mitigation EHS EHS performance standards set and monitored regularly across the Group through KPI reporting.
Security incident Integrated Management System covers day-to-day operational risks.
Key development failure Technical, financial and Board approval for all projects, dedicated project teams established.
Risk evaluation and progress reporting initiated for all projects.
Project milestone KPIs established for Ghana and Uganda.
Ineffective management Policies and procedures developed for all significant business processes appropriate processes increased scale for Tullows size and scale.
Application validated through management and internal audit of business review.
Failure to secure Rigorous contracting procedures and competitive tendering.
Major contracts require equipment, services senior management and partner approval.
and resources Corruption or Consistent ethical standards established and applied through code of business conduct reputation risk and contract and procurement procedures.
Corporate and Social Social and community programmes overseen by CSR Committee, policies established Responsibility and regular reporting of progress and financial commitment implemented.
Sustained exploration Exploration process validates programmes prior to Board approval, KPI measuring failure success of exploration spend reported monthly to Board.
External risk Impact The overall external political, industry or market environment may negatively impact on the Groups ability to independently manage and grow its business.
Risk Mitigation Political risk and Developing and maintaining successful relationships with governments scal change and communities.
Lack of control Joint venturing with partners and governments.
Enforceability of licence and of key assets production agreements.
Corporate governance Regular review of compliance requirements with periodic Board reporting.
failings Oil and gas price volatility Hedging strategy agreed by Board, monthly reporting of hedging activity.
Hostile acquisition Robust defence strategies against hostile acquisitions.
Effective investor engagement and ongoing communications programmes.
Industry cost ination Rigorous contracting procedures and competitive tendering required for all significant expenditures.
Tullow Oil plc 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 47
