28 Operating and Financial Review Risks and Uncertainties In this section we describe some of the principal risks that Our continued expansion into new geographic regions the directors believe could materially affect our business, subjects our businesses to specific risks of operating in revenues, operating income, net income, net assets or liquidity these regions.
The nature of risk is such that no list can be As a result of acquisitions and organic growth, we have comprehensive and it is possible that other risks may arise, or that operations in many new geographic regions such as India, risks not currently considered material may become so in future.
South America and the United Arab Emirates.
We are a global Sound risk management is an essential discipline for running entity but growth in these regions presents logistical and the business efficiently and pursuing our strategy successfully.
management challenges due to different business cultures, UBM has a business-wide risk management process, monitored laws and languages.
Expansion in geographical locations remote by the Board, to ensure a consistent and coherent approach.
from the centres of management, increases the spans of control.
This results in control, operational and reputation risks which We operate in a highly competitive environment that is we are addressing by sending experienced employees into subject to rapid change and must continue to invest and new regions as part of local management teams and through adapt to remain competitive.
There are also challenges in managing Our B2B Communities and B2B Distribution, Monitoring and remuneration structures in what have, to date, been very fast Targeting businesses operate in highly competitive markets that changing business climates which creates a risk to the retention continue to change in response to technological innovation and of our best staff.
other factors, as discussed in the Strategy and Performance section.
We cannot predict with certainty changes that may affect Implementing our strategy depends on attracting the competitiveness of the business, or whether technological and retaining key management personnel across all innovation will render some of our existing products and our businesses.
services partially or wholly obsolete.
We operate in a number of industry segments in which there We aim to mitigate this risk through creating a balanced is intense competition for experienced and highly qualified portfolio of products that evolves to meet the needs of our individuals.
In the past, a number of staff have left the business customers, investing particularly in organic initiatives that to join private-equity backed ventures and this is the single address this environment, and acquiring leading online largest threat to our retention of key staff.
As we cannot predict businesses, while at the same time selling or closing titles.
the future availability of good people, we place significant emphasis on succession planning and developing and retaining Our strategy calls for acquisitions in a number of our management talent.
We have in place a number of incentive businesses, consequently exposing us to risks associated schemes that are available for relevant management executives.
These include the Executive Share Option Scheme, Performance The risks associated with such a strategy include the availability Share Plan, Bonus Investment Plan and the Medium-Term of suitable acquisition candidates, obtaining regulatory approval Investment Plan along with annual bonuses and serve to attract, for any acquisition, assimilating and integrating acquired motivate and retain key senior managers.
We have also continued companies into UBM and changes in the availability or cost of to invest in the development of our Company culture to support debt financing due to the global credit crunch.
In addition, the evolution of a more agile, entrepreneurial and innovative potential difficulties inherent in mergers and acquisitions may Company.
Our flagship UBM Business Leaders programme aims adversely affect the results of an acquisition.
These include delays to develop high calibre business leaders and provides a valuable in integration or unexpected costs or liabilities, as well as the risk tool in the succession planning process.
of failing to realise operating benefits or synergies from completed transactions.
In 2009, the acquisition risk on potential acquisitions is likely to increase, as there will be a need to move quickly, which could reduce time available to carry out the normal due diligence procedures.
We mitigate these risks by following systematic procedures for integrating acquisitions, applying strict financial criteria to any potential acquisition including the costs associated with financing the transaction, and subjecting the process to close monitoring and review by internal audit and the Board.
29 Several of UBMs businesses have a strategy which is During an economic slowdown, there is an increased risk of fraud dependent upon the successful execution of major projects.
We seek to mitigate this risk through our B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targetings project to robust internal control framework, which is set out in detail in the consolidate its 11 editorial bureaux to three facilities in Cleveland, Corporate Governance Statement, as well as through a strong Albuquerque and Washington DC has been completed in 2008. culture of communication and compliance which seeks to As previously disclosed, the disruption of the consolidation and ensure that matters of concern are raised when identified.
the demands of training new staff caused lapses in service quality, As the Group moves away from print advertising towards resulting in loss of customers and of market share.
Although we online and digital products, risks around IT security increase lost customers and market share in the first half of 2008, this has significantly.
Specific risks include theft of data within our data since stabilised and we are maintaining our market share.
We seek based businesses, access to confidential information, particularly to mitigate these risks by closely monitoring client service quality, within our B2B Distribution, Monitoring and Targeting businesses.
ensuring that this is maintained and enhanced.
In addition, we We seek to manage this risk by having well-defined IT security have continued to invest in enhancing service quality, with further standards within the group, and reviews including penetration upgrades to the US Editorial System being launched in 2009. tests by internal audit and third party specialist firms.
A number of UBMs businesses are currently engaged in Decentralisation and delayering of the Group organisational material projects to update critical reporting systems, restructure structure increases pressure on control resources, systems the business, refresh existing products, or develop new products and capabilities.
to ensure that we remain competitive.
These projects are required During 2008, we reorganised UBM Technology, CMP Information to secure future revenue streams and often involve a significant and Commonwealth into a number of smaller business units, capital investment.
Many of the projects specifically involve restructuring UBM Technology into four businesses, CMP a heavy investment in IT, and system development in particular.
Information into five businesses and Commonwealth into two.
The failure to manage and execute these projects successfully Delayering the management structure and decentralisation of could lead to increased costs, delays in completion and authority increases the pressure on control resources, systems consequent erosion of UBMs competitive position.
and capabilities, which in turn leads to increased control risks.
We seek to mitigate these project-related risks through We have redesigned the control processes at a local level at UBM monitoring by internal audit and assigning responsibility for Technology and CMP Information.
The reorganisation of the projects at an executive management level within UBM.
Commonwealth business became effective on the 1 January 2009, Structural market change and the economic downturn may and we are reviewing the control framework at each business.
Fluctuations in exchange rates may affect our reported results.
Advertising and other marketing spend tends to be cyclical.
UBMs financial statements are expressed in pounds sterling and In times of economic slowdown or recession, some companies are therefore subject to fluctuating exchange rates whenever spend significantly less, particularly on advertising.
There is also financial information is translated from other currencies.
increasing competition for advertising revenues from competitors including search companies such as Google and Yahoo!.
Our advertising revenues in 2008 were 24% 2007: 29%.
We are addressing this risk by migrating our B2B Communities operations from their traditional print base to incorporate a higher proportion of event, data, services and online revenues.
The increasing proportion of revenues from events in particular gives us better visibility on future earnings.
We are also investing in both print and online intellectual property-based products e. g. workflow business information products which are less subject to the cycle of advertising spend.
30 Operating and Financial Review Risks and Uncertainties continued Future tax payments may exceed recorded liabilities.
Our businesses are required to comply with tightening and The management of tax liabilities are also a matter of regulatory increasingly high profile legislation on data protection issues.
There is a risk of failure to comply Our operations are required to comply with growing levels of with the necessary legislation and this could expose the Group data protection and privacy legislation governing increasing areas to penalties or challenges to legal structures.
The Group manages of our businesses.
The need to comply with data protection its tax affairs actively and seeks at all times to use both internal legislation is a significant control, operational and reputation risk resource and external advisors to ensure that these risks which can impact the business in a number of ways including, for are contained.
example, making it more difficult to grow and maintain marketing data and also through potential litigation relating to the alleged The cost of providing pension benefits to existing and former misuse of personal data.
We are addressing these risks by legal employees is subject to changes in pension fund values and reviews, operational reviews and staff training to raise awareness changing mortality.
of the need for compliance in this area.
UBM operates a number of pension plans that provide defined As UBM continues to expand its presence in the emerging benefits.
The UK plan is closed to new employees, and the U. S. economies, the risk of non compliance with local legislation plan was closed on 1 January 2009, hence we expect a significant and specifically, compliance with health and safety legislation reduction in service cost in 2009.
The cost of providing these increases.
With UBM operating events in a number of geographic benefits to existing and former employees is subject to changes markets, there is an increased risk that compliance with health in the pension fund values and changing demographics, including and safety is not as well controlled, and a major health and longer life expectancy among beneficiaries.
We believe that safety incident could impact UBM brand reputation.
We aim to sustained falls in equity markets and reductions in bond yields mitigate this risk through continuous review of health and safety have and may continue to have a material adverse effect on the requirements in all geographic markets in which we operate value of our pension funds.
We may therefore be required to live events.
recognise additional charges to our profit and loss account to the extent that the pension fund values are less than the total anticipated liability under the plans.
There is an exposure in the event that asset returns are insufficient to cover changes in the schemes liabilities over time.
This has been mitigated by active management of the investment portfolio and additional contributions have been made to the UK schemes.
UBM has acted to close its defined benefit schemes to new members and neither the CEO nor CFO belongs to such a scheme.
At 31 December 2008 the Group pension schemes showed a net surplus of 14.6m on an IAS 19 accounting basis.
31 Our exhibitions businesses may be adversely affected by In addition to the risks described above, further information on incidents which curtail travel, such as major terrorist attacks risks and how they are addressed is provided elsewhere in the or outbreaks of disease, such as Avian flu or Severe Acute Annual Report and Financial Statements: Respiratory Syndrome.
the Operating and Financial Review contains discussion of UBMs exhibitions businesses contributed 32.9% of the Groups funding and financial risk management: revenue in 2008.
Visitors fly in to these shows from around Note 21 to the consolidated financial statements contains the world.
further information on risks associated with capital Any incident that curtails travel will have an impact on the management: and running of an event that year.
In 2008, the CPhI India and the report on Corporate Governance contains a discussion P-MEC India shows in Mumbai scheduled for November 2008, on risks relating to financial reporting.
coincided with the terrorist attacks in the city, leading to the shows being rescheduled for later in 2009.
Whilst revenues and operating profits were affected in 2008, we expect confidence in the region to recover quickly, and bookings for the 2009 to be strong.
Changes in government legislation may affect the pharmaceutical industry.
Changes in government health policies, for example on the use of generic drugs or reimbursement prices, could adversely affect pharmaceutical companies.
This could lead to reduced spending by pharmaceutical companies on advertising.
This we have seen in a number of countries, notably in the U. S. Regulatory pressures may also affect pharmaceutical companies ability or willingness to sponsor ongoing medical education events.
We monitor developments in public policy in all our major markets and work with our customers to ensure we can deliver the best possible media product while meeting all regulatory obligations.
