indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions risKs and Uncertainties riSkS and riSk management treaSUry management demand and supply which in turn are practiceS Our core philosophy in treasury influenced by global economic Our businesses are subject to a variety management revolves around three scenarios, regional growth, of risks and uncertainties which are no main pillars a protect capital, infrastructure spending by different from any other company in b maintain liquidity and, c maximise governments and also by speculative general and our competitors in yields.
The treasury policies are activities.
In the case of iron ore, prices particular.
Such risks are the result of approved by the Board and adherence are not linked to any metal exchange not only the business environment in to these policies is strictly monitored but are generally influenced by all other which we operate but also of other at the Executive Committee meetings.
factors enumerated above which is factors over which we have little or no Day-to-day treasury operations of our reflected in the benchmark prices control.
These risks may be Group subsidiaries are managed by the agreed between major iron ore categorised as operational, financial, respective subsidiary finance teams suppliers and steel makers.
environmental, health and safety, within the framework of the overall political, market-related and strategic.
Long-term We sell iron ore under annual price fund raising including strategic contracts as well as at spot prices We have well documented and treasury initiatives are handled by a determined at the time of supplies.
practised risk management policies central team while short-term funding Price fluctuations can affect our that act as an effective tool in mitigating for routine working capital business assumptions and hence our various risks to which our businesses requirements is delegated to subsidiary investment decisions, operational and are exposed in the course of their daycompanies.
Each of our subsidiaries financial performance.
to-day operations as well as in their has a strong internal control system strategic actions.
Risks are identified including segregation of front office and While the Group aims to achieve through a formal risk management back office functions with a separate average LME prices for a month or a programme with active involvement reporting structure.
We have a strong year, average realised prices may not of business managers and senior system of internal control which necessarily reflect the LME price management personnel at both the enables effective monitoring of movements because of a variety of subsidiary level as well as at the adherence to Group policies.
The reasons including uneven sales during corporate level.
Each significant risk internal control measures are the year.
Any fluctuation in the prices has an owner within the Group at effectively supplemented by regular of the metals that we produce and a senior level, and the impact to internal audit.
sell will have an immediate and the Group if a risk materialises direct impact upon the profitability and its likelihood of crystallisation We do not purchase or issue derivative of our businesses.
financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes and neither do As a general policy, we aim to sell our A risk register and matrix is maintained we enter into complex derivative products at prevailing market prices.
and regularly updated in consultation transactions to manage our treasury Hedging activity in commodities is with business managers.
The risk and commodity risks.
Derivative undertaken on a strategic basis to a management process is coordinated by transactions in both treasury and limited degree and is subject to strict our internal audit function and is commodities are normally in the form limits laid down by our Board and is regularly reviewed by our Audit of forward contracts and interest rate subject to strictly defined internal Committee.
Key business decisions are and currency swaps, which are subject controls and monitoring mechanisms.
discussed at the monthly meetings of to strict guidelines and policies.
Decisions relating to hedging of the Executive Committee and senior Interest rate swaps are taken to commodities are taken at the managers address risk management achieve a balance between fixed rate Corporate level and with clearly laid issues when presenting initiatives to and floating rate obligations as down guidelines for their the Executive Committee.
The overall described below under Interest rate implementation by the subsidiaries.
internal control environment and risk risks and currency swaps are taken management programme is reviewed primarily to convert the Groups Our custom smelting operations of by our Audit Committee on behalf of exposure to non-US dollar currencies copper at Tuticorin enjoy a natural the Board.
hedge except to the extent of a possible mismatch in quotational periods internal controlS commodity riSkS between the purchase of concentrate A strong internal control culture is Our principal commodities are and the sale of finished copper.
The pervasive throughout the Group.
aluminium, copper, zinc and iron ore. Groups policy on custom smelting is Regular internal audit visits to the In FY 2008, we acquired the Iron Ore to generate its margins mainly from operations and holding companies are business thereby broad-basing our TC RCs, premiums and sale of undertaken to ensure the Groups high basket of commodities.
Hence, quotational period standards of internal control are basket offers an inherent hedging mismatches are actively managed to maintained.
The strength of a mechanism against volatility in prices ensure that the gains or losses are businesss internal control environment of various commodities.
TC RCs are a major source is factored into senior managers of income for the copper smelting performance appraisals.
Further Of the Groups principal commodities, operations in India and therefore are details on the Groups internal control aluminium, copper, lead and zinc are susceptible to fluctuations in TC RCs environment are provided in the priced with reference to LME prices.
which are influenced by factors such Corporate Governance Report.
LME prices are influenced by global as demand and supply conditions VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC 58 ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Job: 10808 VED 08 front AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions Financial review prevailing in the market for mine The political, legal, fiscal and other results, depletion, new information output.
The Copper business actively regulatory regimes in these countries on geology and fluctuations in reviews its procurement strategy to may result in restrictions such as production, operating and other strike a judicious balance between imposition increase of royalties, mining costs and economic parameters copper concentrate procured at spot rights, taxation rates, repatriation of such as metal prices, smelter TC RCs and those which are sourced money and so on.
Changes to treatment charges and exchange at long-term contractual TC RCs.
government policies such as changes rates, many of which are beyond Approximately two-thirds of the copper in royalty rates, reduction in import our control.
We engage the services concentrate consumed in FY 2008 tariffs in India, reduction in assistance of independent experts normally came from long-term contracts and the given by Government of India for once in three years to ascertain balance from the spot terminal market.
exports and reduction or curtailment of and verify the quantum of reserves income tax benefits available to some and resources including ore grade Our Australian mines in Tasmania, of our operations in India and Zambia and other geological characteristics.
supplied about 78% of the concentrate are some of the examples of risks requirement of the custom smelter at under this category.
delivery oF expanSion proJectS Tuticorin.
This situation adversely on time and Under BUdget impacts the profitability of the Copper The bulk of our Group revenues and We have a strong pipeline of green field business particularly at times when profits are derived from commodities and brown field expansions projects.
TC RCs show a declining trend.
We sold to customers in India.
The We have committed funds for these insulate ourself by constantly focusing performance and growth of our projects.
These projects have achieved on reducing unit cash costs at our businesses are dependent on the various stages of completion.
Our plans smelting and refining operations.
health of the overall Indian economy.
to generate sufficient cash flows from Any downturn in the rate of economic these projects to repay our long-term KCM is largely an integrated copper growth in India, whether due to political debt and our ability to raise further producer and hence our Group strategy instability or regional conflicts or debt are dependent upon the successful to protect it from price fluctuations in economic slowdown may have a completion of these projects on time copper is to focus on controlling its material adverse effect on demand for and under budgeted cost and a faster costs and for FY 2008, we hedged the metals produced and sold by us.
part of its production to protect its cash flows.
We may also be affected by the Our current and future projects may omissions and commissions of political be significantly delayed by failure to Aluminium, zinc and lead prices are acts of governments in these countries receive regulatory approvals or terminal market-related ie LME prices over which we have no control.
renewal of approvals, failure to obtain and for FY 2008, we hedged a small We strive to maintain harmonious sufficient funding, technical difficulties, portion of zinc and lead production.
relationships with the governments in due to human resources, technological Set out below are the key commodity these countries and actively monitor or other resource constraints or for price sensitivities on EBITDA resulting developments in political, regulatory, other unforeseen reasons, events from a $100 per mt movement in prices.
fiscal and other areas which may have or circumstances.
Effect on As a result, these projects may incur average EBITDA of reServeS and reSoUrceS significant cost overruns and may not market price $100 tonne in FY 2008 change in The ore reserves stated in this report be completed on time, or at all.
We have $ tonne LME $million are estimates and represent the the necessary resources in all the commodity price quantity of copper, zinc, iron ore, lead areas such as technology, financial and and bauxite that we believe could be human resources and have SenSitivity Copper 7,588 15.5 mined, processed, recovered and sold successfully completed Phase I at prices sufficient to cover the projects on time and below their Aluminium 2,620 41.1 Zinc 2,992 53.6 estimated future total costs of budgeted costs, demonstrating our production, remaining investment and ability to manage the successful anticipated additional capital completion of large green field and The above sensitivities are based on expenditures.
Our future profitability brown field projects.
FY 2008 volumes, costs and exchange and operating margins depend upon rates and provide the estimated impact our ability to access mineral reserves aSSetS USe continUity on EBITDA of changes in prices that have geological characteristics and inSUrance assuming that all other variables enabling mining at competitive costs.
Productive assets in the use in mining remain constant.
Replacement reserves may not be and smelting operations and the available when required, or, if available, associated power plants may face political, legal, economic and may not be of a quality capable of being break downs in the normal course of regUlatory riSkS mined at costs comparable to the operations or due to abnormal events Our mining and smelting operations existing or exhausting mines.
such as fire, explosion, environmental are located in India, Zambia and hazards or other natural calamities.
Australia and our holding and Moreover, these estimates are subject Our insurance policies may not cover investment companies are located in to numerous uncertainties inherent in all forms of risks due to certain jurisdictions including the United estimating quantities of reserves and exclusions and limitations.
It may Kingdom, Mauritius and Cyprus.
could vary in the future as a result of also not be commercially feasible to actual exploration and production cover all such risks.
As a result, our VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 59 Job: 10808 VED 08 front AW.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions risKs and Uncertainties CONTINUED insurance coverage may not cover all liqUidity Subsequent to the year end, we We require funds both for short-term the claims including for environmental re-financed a $1.0 billion debt to fund or industrial accidents or pollution.
We operational needs as well as for longits acquisition of Sesa Goa.
term investment programme mainly in regularly carry out extensive work on the adequacy of our insurance coverage growth projects.
In addition to Foreign cUrrency generating sufficient cash flows from by engaging consultants and specialists Our presentation currency is the and decide on the optimal levels of our current operations, available cash US dollar.
A majority of our assets are and cash equivalents and liquid insurance coverage typical of our located in India where the Indian rupee industry in India, Zambia and Australia.
financial asset investments, we have is the functional currency for our sufficient committed funding facilities subsidiaries.
Operating costs are SaFety, HealtH and which provide liquidity both in the influenced by the currencies of those short-term as well as in the long-term.
environment riSkS countries where our Groups mines and We are engaged in mining activities At 31 March 2008, we had cash and plants are located.
A majority of our liquid investments of $5,106.7 million which are inherently hazardous and any mines and plants are located in India accident or explosion may cause as well as $4,400.6 million of and hence the Indian rupee is the committed funding facilities from our personal injury or death, property currency in which most of our costs are damage or environmental damage at or lenders.
Long-term borrowings are incurred and whose fluctuation may supplemented by shortto mediumto its mines, smelters, refineries or have a significant impact on our related facilities and also to term project finance wherever required.
Currency exposures communities that live near the mines also exist in the nature of capital and plants.
Such incidents not only Our balance sheet is strong and gives expenditure and services denominated us sufficient headroom for raising result in expensive litigation, damage in currencies other than the Indian claims and penalties but also cause further debt should the need arise.
KCMs functional currency is the We enjoy good ratings by reputed loss of reputation.
We also operate in US dollar with its cost base having a Zambia which has a high incidence of international rating agencies such as mix of the Zambian kwacha and the Moodys and Standard & Poors.
Our HIV AIDS a threat to economic US dollar.
We accord very high current ratings by Moodys and Standard & Poors are Baa3 and BB priority to safety, health and Our Group borrowings are predominantly environment matters.
These ratings provide denominated in US dollars while a necessary financial leverage and large portion of cash and liquid operational riSkS access to debt or equity markets at investments are held in other competitive terms.
We generally Our operations are subject to currencies, mainly in Indian rupee.
conditions and events beyond our maintain a healthy debt-equity ratio as Some financial assets and liabilities well as retain the flexibility in our control that could, amongst other are not held in the functional currency matters, increase our mining, financing structure to alter this ratio of the respective subsidiary.
transportation or production costs, disrupt or halt operations at our mines We also hold some intra-Group Our contractual cash obligations and production facilities for varying balances in currencies which are not lengths of time or even permanently.
excluding the convertible bond on an the functional currency of the undiscounted basis by remaining These conditions and events include respective subsidiary and hence the disruptions in mining and production maturity of our financial liabilities Group is exposed to movements in the arising in the ordinary course of due to equipment failures, unexpected functional currency of those entities maintenance problems and other business at 31 March 2008 are and the currencies in which these set out below.
interruptions, non-availability of raw balances are held.
materials of appropriate quantity and quality for our energy requirements, in $ millions 1 year 12 years 25 years 5 years Total disruptions to or increased cost of Payments due by period transport services or strikes and Bank loans and other borrowings 1,417.2 104.6 810.2 36.9 2,368.9 industrial actions or disputes.
While Deferred consideration for many of these risks are beyond our KCM acquisition 5.2 5.2 control, we have adequate and Capital commitments 1,427.3 1,886.7 3,314.0 competent experience in these areas and have consistently demonstrated total 2,849.7 1,991.3 810.2 36.9 5,688.1 our ability to actively manage these problems proactively.
At 31 March 2008, we had access to funding facilities of $4,400.6 million of which $1,426.5 million was undrawn as set out below: Financial riSkS and SenSitivitieS Within the areas of financial risk, our in $ millions Total facility Drawn Undrawn Board has approved policies which Funding facilities embrace liquidity, currency, interest Below 1 year 2,730.5 1,417.2 1,313.3 rate, counterparty and commodity risk.
indd Proof: 06 Proof Read by: Operator: r o b Date: 13.06.2008 Server: studio 3 Set-up: r o b First Read Revisions Financial review Consequently, currency fluctuations intereSt riSkS Considering our net cash position at At 31 March 2008, our net cash of may have a large impact on our Group 31 March 2008 and our investments in financial results.
We are subject to approximately $2.0 billion comprised bank deposits and debt mutual funds, cash and liquid investments of currency risks affecting the underlying any increase in interest rates would cost base in the operating subsidiary $5.0 billion offset by debt of $3.0 billion.
result in a net gain and any decrease in companies, and also the translation of interest rates would result in a net loss.
unit cash costs, income statement and We are exposed to the interest rate risk Based on our gross debt as at 31 March on short-term and long-term floating the balance sheet including non-US 2008, with all other variables remaining dollar denominated borrowings in the rate instruments and also on the constant, a one percentage point refinancing of fixed rate debt.
Our policy consolidated financial statements, increase in the US dollar LIBOR where the functional currency is not is to maintain a balance of fixed and would impact our profit before tax by floating interest rate borrowings.
proportion of fixed and floating rate debt is determined by current market Foreign currency exposures are An analysis of the weighted average managed through a Group-wide interest rates.
As at 31 March 2008, interest rates for debt and cash and 29.3% of our total debt was at a fixed hedging policy.
The policy is reviewed current asset investments as at 31 March periodically to ensure that the risk from rate and the balance was at a 2008 is given in the table below.
fluctuating currency exchange rates Interest is appropriately managed.
Natural Interest income Our floating rate debt is largely linked hedges available in the business are paid average identified at each entity level and to the US dollar LIBOR.
We also aim to fixed % yield % minimise the average interest rates on hedges are placed only for the net cUrrency exposure.
Short-term net exposures our borrowings by opting for a higher Indian rupee 8.0 7.7 proportion of long-term debt mainly to are hedged progressively based on US dollar 6.1 3.4 their maturity.
A more conservative fund our growth projects.
We have entered into cross currency interest approach has been adopted for project Some of the investments above expenditures to avoid budget overruns.
rate swaps in order to convert fixed generate a tax free return.
rate US dollar borrowings to floating Longer-term exposures are not hedged.
Stop-loss and take-profit rate US dollar borrowings.
Cash and coUnterparty riSkS liquid investments are invested in triggers are implemented to protect We are exposed to counterparty us from adverse market movements, short-term deposits and debt mutual credit risks on our investments and funds to achieve the triple goal of while at the same time enabling us receivables.
We have clearly defined to take advantage of favourable maintaining liquidity, carrying policies to mitigate counterparty risks.
insignificant risk and achieving market opportunities.
Cash and liquid investments are held satisfactory returns.
A majority of our primarily in mutual funds and banks investments of surplus cash is of short Set out in the table below are the key with high credit ratings.
Emphasis is foreign currency sensitivities on duration and is influenced by given to the security of investments.
EBITDA resulting from a 10.0% Limits are defined for exposure to movement in exchange rates.
individual counterparties in the case of mutual fund houses and banks.
Most of Closing Impact the surplus cash is invested in banks US dollar Average of a 10.0% exchange US dollar movement and mutual funds in India where there rate as of exchange in currency is a well developed financial market.
We 31 March rate in on EBITDA also review the underlying investment 2008 FY 2008 $ million portfolio of mutual fund houses to cUrrency ensure that indirect exposures or latent Indian rupee 39.970 40.241 325.7 exposures are minimised.
Australian dollar 1.089 1.158 11.0 Zambian kwacha 3765.700 3960.400 34.8 A large majority of receivables due from third parties are secured either as The above sensitivities are based on FY 2008 volumes, costs and prices and give advance receipt of money or by use of the estimated impact on EBITDA of changes in exchange rates assuming that all trade financial instruments such as other variables remain constant.
Moreover, given the diverse nature of our businesses, trade receivables are spread over a number of customers with no significant concentration of credit risk.
Our history of the collection of trade receivables shows a negligible provision for bad and doubtful debts.
Therefore we do not expect any material risk on account of non-performance by any of the counterparties.
VEDANTA RESOURCES PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 61
