VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 47 Key Risks and Uncertainties The Board is committed to ensuring that high quality risk Changes in laws and regulations management systems are in place across the Group.
The objective VT is subject to various laws and regulations in different is to safeguard the interests of shareholders, customers and staff jurisdictions, including state aid, procurement, export control, through effective management of corporate and operational risk.
taxation and environmental and health and safety laws.
These laws The Groups management operates a risk management process and regulations are complex, are subject to change and can vary which identifi es the key risks facing each business.
The process from country to country.
Group compliance policies are in place to is based on each business unit producing a risk register which reduce the risk of breach of any of these obligations.
identifi es the potential key risks to the individual business unit, the potential impact should they occur and the action being taken Political risk to suffi ciently manage those risks or where further mitigating Given that a large proportion of the Groups activities are derived actions are required.
Business unit risk registers are reviewed from government authorities, the Groups business is susceptible to by the Audit Committee at least twice during the year and more changes in government policy, budget allocations and the changing frequently if required.
political environment, both in the UK and worldwide.
The Group has The internal audit team independently reviews the Groups risk and sought to mitigate this risk in recent years by diversifying the service control processes and reports its fi findings periodically to the Audit offering from a largely UK based defence orientated business to Committee.
The Committee reviews and challenges the assurance provision of a broader range of services on an international basis.
procedures, ensuring that an appropriate mix of techniques is used to obtain the level of assurances required by the Board.
The audit Joint ventures committee presents its fi findings to the Board on a six monthly basis The Group has a number of joint ventures with the most signifi cant or more frequently if required.
being ALC, Fleet Support Limited and Flagship Training Limited.
Given their importance to the Group, executive directors and Contract management members of the GEC are responsible for representing the Groups The Groups largest operational risk remains the management interests on their respective boards.
A regular report on the joint of ongoing long-term contracts to customer satisfaction.
This is ventures is made to the Group Board.
managed via regular project appraisals and continued dialogue with the customers as programmes progress.
All major contracts Environmental and health and in all business units have a live risk register and signifi cant risks are safety liabilities considered for inclusion in divisional risk registers.
VT businesses are exposed to risks associated with the contamination of their sites and former sites, non-compliance New business and major bid pricing with environmental, health and safety law and personal injury Given the long-term nature of contracts that the Group enters claims resulting from injuries sustained at work, including historical into, there is a risk that unfavourable terms could be negotiated exposures to asbestos containing materials.
A framework of Groupat inception leading to less than expected returns.
The Group wide policies and procedures is in place to minimise these risks.
manages this risk via a rigorous bid acceptance process, ultimately involving main board approval for major bids.
Key risks involved in Insurance policies new markets and bids are considered as part of the Groups bid The Group maintains insurance policies to provide protection from approval process.
losses arising from claims from third parties.
The adequacy of the Risk registers are presented and reviewed as part of the Groups insurance cover is reviewed annually by the Board.
Dependence on key people A signifi cant number of VTs contracts with customers and renewals and extensions of previous contracts are awarded The success of the Group is dependent on recruiting, retaining and pursuant to competitive tender prices.
Such processes require developing highly skilled, competent people at all levels.
We are the commitment of considerable time, effort, resources and aiming to build our employee brand to improve our attractiveness other costs.
We have signifi cantly improved our Graduate scheme offering in the past few years which is refl ected in the The Groups expansion encompasses organic growth, calibre of graduates who we now bring in to the Company each acquisitions and potentially entering into new market year and then move into management positions.
Both acquisitions and the entry into new markets bring with them an extra element of risk as these may involve Pensions activities not currently carried out by the Group.
All such activities require main board approval, after having carefully considered VT participates in certain defi ned benefi t pension schemes.
As at the Groups ability to manage and fund any new activities arising.
31 March 2008 these schemes had defi cits, net of related deferred tax assets, of 7 million.
The Group is making contributions to make good these defi cits over a period of years.
How we run the Group VT Group Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 48 Key Risks and Uncertainties continued Credit risk Financial risk The risk of financial loss due to a counterpartys failure to honour The following policies have been agreed by the Board to manage its obligations arises principally in relation to transactions where the Groups financial risk.
the Group provides goods and services on deferred terms, enters Foreign currency risk into derivative contracts requiring settlement by the other party and invests or deposits surplus cash.
The Group has invested in operations outside the United Kingdom and also buys and sells goods and services denominated in Group policies are aimed at minimising such losses, and require currencies other than sterling.
As a result the value of the Groups that deferred terms are granted only to customers who demonstrate non-sterling revenues, purchases, financial assets and liabilities and an appropriate payment history and satisfy creditworthiness cash flows can be affected significantly by movements in exchange procedures.
Individual exposures are monitored with customers rates, particularly in the US Dollar and Euro.
subject to credit limits to ensure that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
VT Group policy is to finance, so far as practicable, the costs of acquisition and new business opportunities by matching Group policies also restrict the counterparties with which derivative borrowings in the local currency in order to eliminate foreign transactions can be contracted and funds may be invested to exchange transaction exposure, provided that the benefits are those approved by the treasury team and approved by the Board, not outweighed by the overall cost of the borrowing.
comprising banks and financial institutions with a high credit rating.
The treasury team ensures that exposure is spread across The Groups transactional currency exposure arises from sales a number of approved financial institutions.
or purchases by certain operating units in currencies other than its functional currency.
It is the Groups policy not to enter into Liquidity risk forward contracts for purchases until there is a high degree of The Group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing cash certainty.
In addition, the Group treasury policy is to hedge if and generation by its operations, applying cash collection targets to when a significant exposure is recognised, through the use of Fx all business divisions.
Investment of surplus funds is carefully instruments to manage the currency exposures on any individual controlled with defined policies in place over institutions within transactions for which payment is anticipated.
which investments can be placed.
Authorisation procedures for investment are in place across the Group and where necessary Interest rate risk are elevated to Board level.
Our policy is to manage the cost of borrowing using a mix of fixed In its funding strategy, the Groups objective is to maintain a balance and variable rate debt.
Whilst fixed rate interest bearing debt is not between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of exposed to cash flow interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for overdrafts, bank loans, loan notes and finance leases.
To meet this the Group to enjoy a reduction in borrowing costs in markets where objective, the Groups policy is to ensure that adequate unutilised rates are falling.
In addition, the fair value risk inherent in fixed rate committed funding facilities are available to cover authorised capital borrowing means that the Group is exposed to unplanned costs expenditure commitments and debt due for repayment within should debt be restructured or repaid early.
In contrast, whilst one year.
floating rate borrowings are not exposed to changes in fair value, the Group is exposed to cash flow risk as costs increase if market Surplus cash is only invested in high credit rated financial rates rise.
institutions and in financial instruments exposed to insignificant risk of changes in market value, with not less than 50% of surplus We have no absolute policy towards either fixed rate finance or funds available invested with maturities of three months or less.
The proportions of interest rate exposure that Funds may not be invested for periods of greater than one year.
should be fixed and the proportion that should be floating, will be dictated by the nature and terms of the underlying asset s and Excess cash used in managing liquidity is only invested in financial contract s being funded.
The exact proportion will be determined instruments exposed to insignificant risk of changes in market by current economic conditions, the currency in which the debt is value, being placed on interest-bearing deposit with maturities fixed denominated and the purposes and duration of the debt.
at no more than six months.
Short-term flexibility is achieved by overdraft facilities.
The Group uses interest rate swaps agreed with other parties to generate the desired interest profile, agreeing to exchange, at Price risk specified intervals, the difference between fixed rate and variable interest amounts calculated by reference to an agreed-upon It is, and has been throughout the period under review, the notional principal.
At the year end, 11% 2007: 19% of the Groups Groups policy that no trading in derivative financial instruments borrowings were at fixed rates after taking account of interest shall be undertaken.
