Index Directors Report and Accounts 2007 8 5 Appendix to the directors report risks and uncertainties The financial results of Whitbreads of the UK.
The differing types of business that K N has appropriate disaster businesses and or its share price operated by Whitbread mitigate the risk of recovery plans in place.
could be materially adversely affected reduced consumer spending.
The largest by a number of different risks and contribution of profit to Whitbread is from Two further suppliers have been uncertainties.
This section highlights its budget hotels business, Premier Inn.
identified as being key suppliers, the what the Board believes some of the This sector, with a mix of business and failure of which would be a potential main risks to be and explains how the leisure customers, has proven to be robust risk to Whitbread.
The Group has Group mitigates these risks.
in times of lower economic activity and mitigated this risk by developing an Whitbread believes that Premier Inn has understanding of those suppliers Marketplace risks the resilience to withstand any downturn.
contingency and disaster recovery plans The geographical spread of Whitbreads and by identifying alternative suppliers Consumer trends businesses helps to mitigate the risk of a with the capacity to supply Whitbread It is possible that changes in consumer regional downturn in consumer spending.
trends may reduce the appeal of some of In addition, Whitbreads expansion into Whitbreads businesses if those trends emerging markets elsewhere in the world Food safety food sourcing are not properly anticipated and action will further reduce Whitbreads exposure The contamination of products served is not taken to address potential issues to the UK consumer.
to the Groups customers would put at an early stage.
the Groups reputation and future Competition performance at risk.
Whitbread mitigates this risk in a The hospitality sector of the UK economy number of ways.
First, each of the Groups is highly competitive.
Whitbreads future Whitbread has implemented a robust businesses carries out market research financial performance would be at risk supplier audit programme.
The selection and analyses consumer trends in the if it failed to compete strongly and lost process for food suppliers includes UK and overseas.
Whitbread uses this market share to its competitors.
research to anticipate future consumer Whitbread maintains a multi-region trends and to position itself to benefit Whitbread has a sector-leading business sourcing strategy where appropriate.
It also has a fast example, the sourcing of Whitbreads growing chain of coffee stores.
The poultry is split between the UK, Brazil, In addition, the Group places great success of these businesses is evidence Thailand and the Netherlands to importance on listening to the views of of Whitbreads ability to perform well mitigate the possible occurrence of avian its customers.
Premier Inn, for example, relative to its competitors.
flu in any one of those countries.
obtained feedback from over 425,000 customers last year.
It uses this feedback An important part of ensuring that People to ensure that it continues to offer the Whitbread continues to compete The successful delivery of service to type and quality of services that its effectively is the in-depth analysis that the Groups customers depends on customers expect.
The importance of the the Groups businesses carry out on their Whitbread recruiting and retaining customer to Whitbread is demonstrated competitors.
Whitbread people visit people of a high quality.
The failure to by the fact that Guest Recommendation competitors sites on a regular basis to employ the right people would put the is one of the key elements of the Groups keep abreast of changes in the market.
Groups reputation at risk and could lead WINcard see page 8 of the Annual to loss of market share.
Whitbread All Whitbreads businesses use the believes that by listening to its customers WINcard to monitor their key performance Whitbread is proud of its people.
The it is significantly reducing the risks indicators.
Whitbread believes that Group believes that by taking care of its associated with changing customer by using the WINcard to get the people, its people will take care of the trends.
fundamentals right, it will reduce the risk customers, and financial performance of losing market share to its competitors.
Whitbread listens to the Consumer spending views of its employees, has a range of As more than 95% of Whitbreads Operational risks employment policies designed to make turnover comes from the UK, the general Whitbread a rewarding place to work health of the UK economy is important Suppliers and emphasises the importance it to the Groups success.
There is currently The quality and efficiency of Whitbreads attaches to its people by including Team speculation that problems in the credit supply chain is key to the ongoing success Turnover and Health and Safety as two market could lead to a downturn in of the Groups businesses.
A breakdown in key measures on its WINcard.
A significant the supply chain would reduce the ability downturn in consumer spending would of the businesses to deliver the experience Whitbread carries out a rigorous selection be a risk to Whitbreads financial that its customers expect.
process and benchmarks the pay and performance.
However, approximately benefits that it offers its employees in half of Premier Inns turnover is business During the course of the 2008 9 order to recruit and retain the best people to business.
financial year, Whitbread will complete for the role.
Talent planning is carried out the outsourcing of its food logistics on an annual basis.
Whitbread has over 1,600 outlets, which operation to Kuehne Nagel K N. The operate in different sectors of the UK failure of K N would be a significant More information on Whitbreads people hospitality industry.
These businesses operational risk to Whitbread.
Whitbread can be found on pages 21 and 22 of the appeal to different sectors of the UK mitigated this risk by undertaking a Annual Review.
economy and are spread across the whole rigorous selection process and ensuring www.
co. uk annualreport0708 Index Risks and uncertainties 6 Health and safety In 2008 a new combined Whitbread Pension funding A major incident resulting from a health hotels and pub restaurants management Whitbread operates a defined benefit and safety failure would be a significant team was put in place with the intention pension scheme.
At 28 February 2008, reputational risk to Whitbread.
Whitbread of improving the key areas of pricing, there was a gross pension fund deficit takes health and safety very seriously.
The food quality, environment and service.
There is a risk that this central Safety and Security team ensures The new structure reflects the joint site deficit could grow in the event of poor a consistency of approach.
investment performance or increasing business units have comprehensive life expectancy.
Recent legislation means health and safety policies and risk External financial risks that, on occasions, it may be necessary assessments covering significant areas to approach the Pensions Regulator for of risk.
In addition, health and safety is Utility costs pre-clearance of agreements reached one of the key measures on the WINcard.
In common with any significant with the Pension Trustee at the time of More details about the Groups approach company in the hospitality sector, significant corporate transactions.
Such to health and safety can be found on Whitbreads businesses require a large clearance may include a requirement page 21 of the Annual Review.
amount of electricity, gas and water.
to increase the level of funding over a Recent years have seen large rises in reduced timescale.
Expansion utility costs and future cost increases A vital part of Whitbreads future are a risk.
Whitbreads pension risks have been development and success is the mitigated by the closure of the defined continued expansion of its successful Whitbread has mitigated these cost benefit scheme to new entrants on 31 Costa and Premier Inn businesses.
Failure rises by the forward buying of resources December 2001.
A defined contribution to expand these businesses at a fast to guard against future cost rises and pension scheme is available to eligible enough rate could adversely affect the by reducing its requirement for these new employees.
Whitbread also Groups future performance.
More information about maintains a close dialogue with the the energy saving achievements so far pension schemes Trustee.
In order Whitbread has announced ambitious and the plans for future savings can be to reduce the funding deficit in the plans to expand both Premier Inn and found in the Environment Report on the scheme, the Group has made additional Costa.
The Group has an ambition of Companys website.
contributions of 150 million since 55,000 Premier Inn rooms and 2,000 September 2005 and committed to Costa stores within the next five years.
Wage inflation further injections of 90 million over the Dedicated development teams and The minimum wage has increased faster next three years.
These contributions acquisition managers have been tasked than the rate of general wage inflation were agreed with the Trustee Board in with meeting these ambitions and have over the last four years.
It currently stands advance of the Companys returns of succeeded in meeting the targets set at 5.52 per hour.
There is a risk that the cash to shareholders in 2006 and 2007. for 2007 8.
These teams have now been minimum wage will continue to rise at a increased in order to meet the Groups faster rate than the rate of inflation.
Companies within the Group are party Whitbread has mitigated against this to leases of properties relating to Pub Restaurants continuing risk by reviewing its operating businesses which have been sold where A significant part of Whitbreads procedures and improving productivity the Groups interests in the leases have turnover is derived from the pub through the use of labour scheduling been assigned to a third party.
third party defaults in its obligations improvement in performance is an under those leases such as when the important factor in the Groups future Food inflation third party becomes insolvent, the prospects.
Input pricing is currently running higher landlord may be able to hold the original than last year and continuing high price Whitbread company which entered into increases would be a risk to Whitbreads the lease liable to meet the obligations profitability.
Whitbread has a dedicated under the lease.
This is a risk carried by procurement team to help mitigate all companies selling leasehold interests.
