32 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 Financial review continued Cash flow The Group adheres strictly to the payment terms agreed with a Summary cash flow statement its suppliers, and at the year end the average creditor days 2008 2007 Change outstanding was 34, compared to 31 days in the prior year.
m m m Cash generated from operations 756 704 52 c Disposals and divestment proceeds Interest and tax 127 109 18 Proceeds of 94m on disposal of properties were lower than in Disposal and divestment proceeds 94 158 64 the previous year as the process of disposing of stores acquired Capital expenditure 402 257 145 with Safeway that did not fit Morrisons operating model largely Share issues and dividend 91 93 2 completed in 2006 07.
In the year under review the proceeds long term cash on deposit 74 74 were realised from a surplus depot, surplus land and two Repayment of loans 269 263 6 replaced stores.
Net decrease increase in cash 113 140 253 The capital expenditure programme was fully funded from cash b Operating cash flow flow.
It included the opening of eight new stores, compared with The Group generated an increasing level of cash flow from four in the previous year, as well as the fitting out of the new operations of 756m driven from improved operational Swindon depot and the acquisition and development costs of efficiency and after funding additional contributions of 100m the new Spalding abattoir planned to open in the second to the two pension funds.
The overall working capital cash half of 2008. impact was neutral as the business required an increased level of stock to support higher sales in the last quarter, along with a commensurate increase in trade creditors.
Principal risks and uncertainties Like all businesses, our business faces risks and uncertainties Financial and Treasury that could impact on the Groups achievement of its objectives.
The Groups financial results may be subject to volatility Risk is accepted as being a part of doing business and within arising from movements in commodity prices, foreign currencies, the Group, responsibility for risk management and internal interest rates and the availability of sources of funding.
See note control lies with the Board.
Through the application of reasoned 19 on page 68. judgement and consideration of the likelihood and consequence Product quality and safety of events, the Board believes a successful risk management We recognise that the quality and safety of our products is of framework will balance risk and reward.
critical importance to us and that any failure in this regard would The list below sets out the most significant risks to the affect the confidence of our customers in us.
We work with achievement of the Groups business goals.
The list does not our suppliers to ensure the integrity of the products supplied.
include all risks that the Group faces and it does not list the Also, as a manufacturer of food products, we have established risks in any order of priority.
strict standards and monitoring processes to manage the risks associated with food safety throughout our Group and its Business strategy supply chain.
Food hygiene practices are taken very seriously In the long term, effectively managing the strategic risks that throughout our Group, and are monitored both through internal the Group faces will deliver benefits to all our stakeholders.
The audit procedures and external bodies such as environmental Board understands that if the strategy and vision are not properly health departments.
We have well prepared procedures for crisis formulated or communicated then the business may suffer.
management in order to act quickly when required.
The CEO has led the development of the strategy with other In March 2007, Morrisons and other supermarkets were supplied senior executives, and this is detailed in the Operating review with contaminated fuel that was subsequently sold to customers on page 24.
The Board has considered and approved the through our petrol forecourts.
Once we became aware of this we strategy, takes time each year to review it, and continues to moved quickly to replace the contaminated fuel, compensate the monitor its delivery.
4,500 affected customers and resume normal business.
To ensure that our strategy is communicated and understood, In August 2007, a number of cases of E. coli were detected in the the Group engages with a wide range of stakeholders including Paisley area of Scotland, and circumstantial evidence suggested shareholders, employees, suppliers and other groups.
This that the source may have been the delicatessen counter of one continual process helps to ensure that the strategy remains of our stores.
As a precautionary measure, the counter was relevant and improves the likelihood of success.
closed and stringent checks of products, equipment and personal Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2008 33 hygiene were undertaken.
These tests revealed no evidence of meet our commitments this could damage our reputation and contamination.
potentially lose the trust of our stakeholders.
We are aware that if we fail or are perceived to fail to deliver, Therefore, reporting to the Board is a cross functional steering to our customers satisfaction, the expected standards of quality group of senior executives that ensure that the appropriate and safety in our products this has the potential to impact on management, evaluation and verification systems are integrated their loyalty to us.
This in turn could adversely impact on our into operational management activities.
Delivery against targets market share and our financial results.
and key performance indicators is regularly monitored and reported.
Further information is available in our Corporate Social Regulation Responsibility summary on page 18.
The Group operates in an environment governed by strict regulations to ensure the safety and protection of customers, Business interruption shareholders, staff and other stakeholders and the operation Our distribution and systems infrastructures are fundamental to of an open and competitive market.
These regulations include ensuring the normal continuity of trading in our stores.
If a major food hygiene, health and safety, the handling of hazardous incident occurred to this infrastructure or another key facility materials, data protection, the rules of the stock exchange and this would have a detrimental impact on the businesss ability competition law.
In all cases, the Board takes its responsibilities to operate effectively.
very seriously, and recognises that breach of regulation can lead To reduce the chances of this happening and also to reduce the to reputational and financial damage to the Group.
There is clear, impact of such an event if it were to happen, we have developed ultimate accountability with Directors for compliance with all recovery plans and invested in the creation of a remote IT areas of regulation.
In addition, to further minimise any In September 2007, the Office of Fair Trading OFT issued a possible disruption to our business the Group Finance Director Statement of Objections concerning the pricing of milk and is leading a project to increase the resilience and readiness of other dairy products during 2002 and 2003.
It accused a our critical processes.
number of the largest grocers at that time, and a number of Stores producers, of colluding to increase the prices paid by consumers The business is growing the size of its retail space, modernising for such products.
One of the accused companies was Safeway, and extending existing stores and facilities.
In this context there which at the time of the alleged collusion was an independent is a possibility that the business fails to deliver an acceptable company.
Based on the evidence available, we concluded that return on this investment or that there is damage to the Safeway, now owned by Morrisons, had infringed the businesss reputation if this is not done in a safe and timely Competition Act along with others at that time.
The business mitigates against these risks through: agreed to co-operate fully with the OFT and to settle the liability in respect of Safeway at 10.7m.
In its Statement of Objections a property strategy that develops stores to a well proven the OFT also accused Morrisons of colluding to increase milk format, prices in 2002, and in this case the Board has objected strongly the application of a formal capital approval process, to this accusation.
The evidence put forward by the OFT is, in our view, weak and contains a number of basic factual inaccuracies.
long-standing relationships and agreements with contractors We also regret that the OFT made these and other accusations known to achieve required quality, safety and cost standards.
publicly and in doing so generated misleading, inaccurate and Systems and infrastructure sensationalist publicity that has damaged Morrisons reputation.
The acquisition of Safeway in 2004 and its subsequent For this reason, not only have we submitted a robust defence integration with the core business has been a challenge for the but also, with regret, we have commenced proceedings in the business.
The Board has identified that existing systems do not High Court for a judicial review of the OFTs actions and for provide the level of reporting or control that is required and has defamation.
Given the strength of our case, the Directors do approved plans for a significant investment in new IT systems.
not consider it appropriate to accrue for any potential fine which the OFT may have proposed to levy.
As with all similar organisations, the business has a capacity to absorb a level of change without this having a detrimental Corporate Social Responsibility impact on continuing business operations.
In line with our commercial objectives we have identified three areas, Environment, Society and Business where by doing the There are significant change programmes within the Group.
right thing, we protect valuable resources, meet demand for These have been structured and are governed in a manner that sustainable products and make our business more efficient.
allows the Board to monitor the change occurring within the Morrisons is committed to taking good care and if we fail to Group and to deliver successful outcomes.
Additional information Company financial Consolidated financial Governance Financial review Operating review Chief Executives Chairmans statement statements statements and risks business review
