Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor Information Reviews 37 Operating and Financial Review Principal risks and uncertainties Principal risks and uncertainties Economic environment Changes to the contracting In order to achieve our business objectives A decrease in GDP as a result of a environment resulting from the Group must respond effectively to the world economic slowdown could have market developments associated risks.
The Group has established an adverse impact on workload for The ways in which business is conducted risk management procedures, involving the both private and public sector clients.
The nature identification and monitoring of strategic The Group monitors economic indicators of the contracting environment is especially and operational risks at various levels of and sentiment in the markets in which important for companies like Atkins.
The Board regularly reviews we operate.
This is complemented by trend remains one where clients increasingly material risks identified and risk management maintaining a strong balance sheet, seek to transfer risk to consultants: is embedded in our annual budgeting and working in a diverse portfolio of sectors contractors will also seek to share risks.
It is, however, and markets and by building flexibility There is a possibility that, in securing new not possible to mitigate fully all risks that into future plans.
work, the Group accepts risks that are the Group enters into.
In addition to market insufficiently understood or evaluated, with risk, credit risk and liquidity risk, which Competition ensuing financial loss.
We actively mitigate are covered under Treasury Policies and In common with all companies, the Group this risk via a range of internal review Objectives above, the principal key risks for faces competition from others in all of our procedures that enable contract terms the Group have been assessed as follows: markets.
Some of the markets in which to be subject to appropriate scrutiny and the Group works serve limited clients and manageable risks to be reduced.
Recruitment and retention of barriers to entry are high.
In other markets sufficient high-calibre staff such as architectural design and environment Reputation risk The Groups staff are its key resource there are numerous competitors and Our reputation for delivering complex and the recruitment and retention of barriers to entry are lower.
To ensure that projects relies on the perception of our top quality people are crucial to our future the Group continues to win work, we work clients and how this is portrayed in the success.
Failure to do so would constrain hard to develop long-term relationships with public arena.
There is a risk that a major the growth of the business and prevent our clients at multiple levels.
A measure failure from poor design, poor project the Group from achieving its potential.
of this success is our work in hand that management or delivery could impact our The skills needed are in short supply measures our secured workload over the ability to win future work.
We mitigate especially within the UK and the Group next year.
Our overall work in hand is 55%, this risk by ensuring we have robust cost has to compete with a large number of representing seven months of 2008 09 and project management systems linked other organisations to secure the best revenue that is already contractually to our internal quality processes.
The Group expends a great deal committed.
regularly independently audited by external of management effort and resource in this consultants against industry standards.
area, a summary of the approach being Health, safety and environment shown in the Human Resources Review The Groups business is concerned with the on pages 14 to 17. built environment and this entails significant health, safety and environmental risks.
Project management Should the Groups policy or practice Managing clients and our own projects in this area prove inadequate, there is is core to our business.
Inadequate project a consequent risk to employees, clients, management skills could lead to financial contractors and third parties.
The Group loss and reputational damage.
The Group takes health, safety and environment issues mitigates these risks by encouraging seriously and ensures that all staff are adherence to internal processes appropriately trained and that procedures augmented by ongoing training and are continuously reviewed and improved.
We look to take a leadership role on health and safety matters in our sector and we have representation on a number of committees.
Many of our clients insist on the Group attaining appropriate standards in health and safety and environment.
We are regularly independently audited by external consultants against these industry standards.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2008
