Principal Risks and Uncertainties The risks set out below represent some of the principal uncertainties and trends which may have an impact on our ability to execute our strategy effectively in future.
These risks have been assessed according to materiality, likelihood and residual risk after controls.
Further information about Xstratas risk management processes and controls is provided in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 91 to 97 of this report.
Risk Mitigation Commodity price volatility Xstratas revenue and earnings are dependent on prevailing commodity We manage the risk of commodity price uctuations through prices which are determined by the supply of, and demand for, raw maintaining a diversied portfolio of commodities and typically do materials and are closely linked to global economic growth.
The recent not implement large-scale strategic hedging or price management rapid deterioration of the global macroeconomic environment has led to initiatives.
We aim to reduce costs on a continuous basis and maintain reduced demand and the majority of commodities trading at dramatically low-cost, efficient operations, optimising our portfolio and returns lower levels.
Commodity prices for all products, and particularly for throughout the commodity price cycle.
exchange-traded commodities, may uctuate widely and may have a material impact on financial results.
The impact on Group earnings EBIT of movements in the price of each of Xstratas commodities is set out in the Financial Review.
Commodity price trends and commentary on the outlook for each of Xstratas commodity markets is provided in the Operating Review sections of this report.
Fluctuations in currency exchange rates Xstratas products are generally sold in US dollars, while our operations We maintain a diversied portfolio of assets across several different and operating costs are spread across several different countries and geographies and operating currencies.
From time to time we may also currencies.
Fluctuations in exchange rates, in particular movements in hedge a portion of our currency exposures to x costs in US dollars to US the Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and South African Rand against dollar revenues in relation to contracted terms.
Foreign currency hedging the US dollar, may have a material impact on our financial results.
information is provided in the Financial Review.
Xstratas financial The impacts of currency exchange rate uctuations on Group EBIT, structure, including exposure to interest payments, interest rate changes together with average exchange rates in 2008 compared to 2007, and amendments to taxation regulations, is regularly reviewed with are set out in the Financial Review.
the assistance of external advisers, to ensure compliance with relevant regulations and to maximise financial efficiency.
Xstrata maintains a robust investment grade credit rating and Group Treasury policy is actively monitored and regularly reviewed.
Energy Some of Xstratas operations and facilities are intensive users of natural We manage this risk through implementing energy efficiency plans gas, electricity, oil and other fuels.
Factors beyond the control of Xstrata, across our operations and developing energy efficient technologies, such as strong demand from the Asia-Pacic region, political, regulatory for example, Xstrata Alloys proprietary Premus technology which and economic uncertainties and the costs associated with emissions reduces the energy consumption of ferrochrome smelting by over from fossil fuels, as well as problems related to local generation and 20% compared to conventional processes.
Long-term energy transmission of power, for example, electricity constraints in South contracts are negotiated to reduce dependence on spot markets Africa and natural gas shortages in Chile, can reduce the reliability of and we seek to diversify power sources and identify alternatives.
energy supply and increase energy prices.
In some regions, Xstratas energy supply is dependent on one major or national power generation company, for example, Eskom in South Africa.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 25 Strategy: Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation Carbon emissions and climate change regulation Xstrata operates in a number of jurisdictions in which regulations or Climate change issues are given a high priority by management and laws have been introduced or are being considered to limit or reduce initiatives are undertaken to continually improve understanding of greenhouse gas emissions.
While the precise future impact of the Kyoto the Groups carbon footprint and to reduce the carbon intensity Protocol and related legislation or regulation is impossible to quantify of operations and activities.
Our commodity businesses actively at this time, the likely effect will be to increase costs for fossil fuels, participate in industry and regulatory initiatives to address climate electricity and transportation, restrict industrial emissions, impose added change and associated issues.
Xstrata Coal is actively investing in costs for emissions in excess of permitted levels and increase costs for and advocating government support for research and development monitoring, reporting and accounting.
Climate change legislation may projects to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the use of coal in lead to higher energy costs or restricted energy supply, which may have power generation, together with other coal producers, governments, a material adverse impact on our ability to maintain production and or scientific and academic organisations.
Demand for coal is expected contain operating costs.
Xstrata is the worlds largest producer of export to be supported by forecast significant increases in global demand for thermal coal.
Any material decline in the use of coal as a power source energy, particularly in developing countries, and by coals relative cost as a result of carbon taxes, emissions trading or similar legislation may position, availability and security of supply.
have a material adverse impact on Xstratas financial position.
Climate change may also result in weather-related events or other physical threats that may hamper production or damage assets.
Operational risks Xstratas operations are affected by a number of factors which are, to Our approach to operational risk is value driven and has the stated a large extent, outside managements control, including the availability objective of ensuring an environment where we can condently grow of raw materials, water and power.
In addition, Xstratas businesses shareholder value through developing and protecting our people, our are subject to numerous other operating risks which include: unusual assets, our environment and our reputation.
We have in place a robust or unexpected geological features, ground conditions or seismic and comprehensive programme to identify, understand and manage activity: climatic conditions including as a result of climate change the risks that affect our businesses and operations.
Each commodity such as ooding, drought or a reduction in permafrost: interruptions business undertakes an annual risk review and updates its risk register to power supplies: congestion at commodities transport terminals: accordingly.
All operations implement and regularly review water industrial action or disputes: environmental hazards: and technical management plans to reduce fresh water use and maximise on-site failures, res, explosions and other incidents at a mine, processing water storage and re-use.
Contingency plans are in place to restore plant, cargo terminal or related facilities.
operations quickly in the event of a severe weather event.
Risk management and planning processes include consideration of significant physical risks from climate change.
Reserves Mine reserves decline as commodities are extracted and not all We annually update our proven and probable reserve estimates as to both reserves may be mined as profitably as anticipated.
Successful quantity and quality periodically to reect the extraction of commodities exploration and development activities and acquiring properties and new drilling or other data received, available from our website.
We containing economically recoverable reserves are necessary for maintain a transparent and open relationship with regulators and local, Xstratas future success.
In order to develop reserves, various regional and national government bodies and closely monitor compliance governmental permits must be obtained.
with legislation and with the leading practice standards set out by the Groups Sustainable Development Framework.
Project development Xstrata benets from a significant pipeline of organic growth projects Rigorous planning and risk management processes are in place leading in a number of countries.
Ineffective project development, including up to project approval and through the development process.
Detailed lack of coordination with infrastructure constraints, cost overruns and progress reports are provided on a regular basis for all major projects unexpected delays due to problems obtaining, renewing or extending to the Group Executive Committee.
Cost control remains a key relevant operating, social or environmental permits or other legislative consideration of any project development and Xstratas commodity requirements may constrain the Groups ability to replace older businesses have an excellent track record of delivering major capital operations with new, lower cost supply, impacting future revenues, growth projects on time and on budget.
Effective project management costs and managements reputation for successful project procedures are a key focus for Xstratas Internal Audit function.
In addition, as part of the Groups near-term strategy Xstrata regularly liaises with government bodies during the to conserve cash, Xstratas businesses have deferred or cancelled development of its growth projects.
Deferrals of expenditure are occurring to take advantage of declining input costs and are being a substantial portion of expansionary capital expenditure in 2009. implemented in such a way as to ensure projects can be rapidly The slowing of the development of project pipelines may impact the recommenced as appropriate.
Groups ability to continue production at cost-effective levels.
When the global economy recovers, projects may not be sufciently advanced to enable the Group to benefit fully from increased commodity prices.
26 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Risk Mitigation Production curtailment During the current environment of depressed commodity prices, A thorough review of likely impacts and risks is undertaken in advance Xstrata and other mining companies are curtailing production by of suspending or closing higher cost operations and mitigating actions closing or suspending higher cost mines and production facilities.
are implemented to reduce associated costs, offset the socio-economic These actions are being taken to ensure Xstratas businesses remain impacts of closures where possible and implement support programmes cash positive, reduce average operating costs and avoid over-supplying for affected employees.
Suspended operations are maintained under markets or building up unsold inventory.
However, they may also care and maintenance programmes to enable a rapid restart and incur costs in the form of redundancy payments: equipment removal: preserve asset quality and operational integrity.
security: stabilisation: reclamation and site rehabilitation costs, the cost of resuming production or indirect costs in the form of foregone revenue, deterioration of assets or increased unit costs.
The closure or suspension of operations equally negatively impacts employees and local communities and may impact the Groups reputation as an industry-leading employer and corporate citizen.
Political, community and scal intervention Xstratas operations and projects span 19 countries, some of which have We perform a thorough risk assessment on a country-by-country more complex, less stable political or social climates and consequently basis when considering activities and investments and regularly higher country risk.
Political risks include changes in laws, taxes or review political, regulatory and social risk to ensure that risks have royalties, expropriation of assets, currency restrictions or renegotiation been properly identied and managed to within acceptable levels.
of, or changes to, mining leases and permits.
Similarly, communities in We work in partnership with our employees and local communities for certain regions may oppose mining activities for various reasons.
Any of mutual benets, earning and maintaining a social licence to operate.
these factors could have an adverse impact on Xstratas profitability in a We manage a broad geographic spread of assets, diversifying political certain geographic region or at certain operations.
In South Africa, these risk across a number of territories.
Investment terms and joint venture risks include the ability to convert existing mining licences to new order or other partnership agreements are reviewed to ensure fairness and mining rights under the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development reduce the risk of renegotiation.
Xstrata maintains a transparent and Act MPRDA and Empowerment Charter.
open relationship with regulators and local, regional and national government bodies and closely monitors compliance with legislation and with the leading practice standards set out by the Groups Sustainable Development Framework.
In South Africa, Xstrata is on track to achieve employment equity, procurement, social development and other targets as set out by the Mining Charter.
Health, safety and environment Xstratas operations are subject to extensive health, safety and Xstratas businesses monitor legislative requirements and engage environmental regulations and legislation and community with government and regulators regularly, to ensure full compliance.
New or amended environmental, health and safety Our commitment to the principles of sustainable development, which legislation or regulations may result in increased operating costs or, incorporates environmental, economic and social performance, is an in the event of non-compliance, the possibility of fines, penalties or integral part of our operating philosophy.
Every managed operation other actions which may adversely affect Xstratas financial position.
is independently audited through Xstratas independent Sustainable Rehabilitation costs, which are generally estimated and provided Development Assurance Programme on a regular basis, and health, for over the life of operations and based on the best information safety, environmental and social performance indicators are reported available, may subsequently increase, impacting on Group earnings.
regularly to the Group Executive Committee and Board.
Acquired Any breach of regulations or non-compliance with Xstratas own best operations are assessed for HSE risks and opportunities as part of the practice standards in health, safety and environmental performance integration process and action plans implemented to address areas and community relations may damage our reputation and, as a result, of underperformance.
Performance standards at acquired operations may not meet Xstratas expected performance standards.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 27 Strategy: Business Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Risk Mitigation REACH legislation in the EU Xstrata has developed a coordinated Group approach to REACH In June 2007, a new European Union regulation for the Regulation, legislation.
In addition, we are closely monitoring and involved with Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals REACH came into force the work of industry bodies, which are engaged in lobbying the EU on across the EU.
REACH is intended to place the burden of ensuring issues concerned with REACH.
All of our businesses have undertaken the safety of chemical substances in terms of both occupational and a review process to ensure the proper identication of all products environmental exposures onto industry instead of authorities.
Many imported into the EU and requiring registration under REACH.
To date, of the commodities produced by Xstrata and the chemicals used all pre-registration requirements have been completed by the relevant during its production processes fall within the scope of REACH.
REACH deadlines to enable the continued manufacture and or import of legislation requires the producers of products classied as chemicals affected commodities and other chemicals.
Registration of all to identify, register and carry out toxicity testing.
Failure to do so will applicable products will be made by the relevant REACH deadlines.
result in these products being excluded from the EU.
In particular, the EU 30th Adaptation to Technical Progress ATP to the Dangerous Substances Directive which entered into force in October 2008 and the proposed 31st ATP, introduce new classications for nickelcontaining substances which result in additional labelling and packaging requirements and may result in significant increased costs.
Non-compliance with REACH legislation would close the EU market to many of Xstratas commodities and potentially reduce revenues.
Labour and key employees The majority of Xstratas workforce is unionised.
We believe that all We aim to attract and retain the best people at every level of our of our operations have, in general, good relations with employees and businesses and to provide them with the resources they require unions, but from time to time the Groups operations have experienced to achieve and maintain our operational excellence.
We provide limited work stoppages and other industrial action which interrupts industry-leading career development opportunities, well structured production.
The management of Xstratas operations depends on employment contracts, competitive remuneration and fair and nona relatively small number of key employees.
The loss of certain key discriminatory workplaces.
We believe our devolved management employees, particularly to competitors, could have a material adverse structure and supportive environment for rational risk-taking is an effect on the Group.
In addition, as Xstrata develops and expands, we important retention measure, offering unparalleled opportunities for believe that our future success will depend on our ability to attract and development and entrepreneurial leadership, minimising bureaucracy retain highly skilled and qualied personnel, which is not guaranteed.
and allowing every employee to play an active part in our success.
Fast track and executive development programmes are in place across the Group and formal succession planning is regularly reviewed.
Credit market conditions and credit ratings Recent events in the credit markets have signicantly restricted the Xstrata is committed to maintaining an investment grade credit rating supply of credit, as financial institutions have applied more stringent and takes a considered approach to debt management.
On 29 January lending criteria or exited the market entirely.
The Group has a 2009, Xstrata announced a rights issue to repay existing debt and significant amount of indebtedness, which will not require significant reduce the Groups gearing to just under 30%, from 40% at the end renancing until 2011.
If current credit market conditions continue, of 2008.
In addition, the Group benets from significant headroom however, it will be more costly for Xstrata to renance its existing under existing debt facilities and has no material debt renancing debt as it falls due.
In addition, it has become and may continue to requirements until 2011.
Xstratas treasury policy and performance be more costly to raise new funds to take advantage of opportunities.
is actively monitored and reported each month to the Executive Committee and Xstrata maintains a robust financial position and an investment grade balance sheet.
28 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 Risk Mitigation Cost control As Xstrata is unable to directly set the prices it receives for the We recognise the importance of cost reduction as a driver of value commodities it produces, its competitiveness and long-term creation and as a measure of the quality of our operational management profitability depend, to a significant degree, on its ability to reduce and our stewardship of the assets of our owners.
Cost performance costs and maintain low-cost, efficient operations.
Important cost is regularly reported to the Group Executive Committee and is an inputs generally include extraction and processing costs of raw important management performance measure and regular internal materials and consumables, such as reductants, reagents, power, audits at operations identify potential efficiencies.
Xstratas dedicated technology business, Xstrata Technology Services, is a world leader in the fuels, labour, transport and equipment, many of which are particularly development of minerals processing and metals extraction technologies susceptible to inationary and supply and demand pressures.
Increases to improve efficiency and reduce operating costs.
Xstratas commodity in these costs have moderated in recent months and in some cases businesses also invest in the development of lower cost proprietary have actually declined.
However, further increases in input costs may technologies.
In each of the last seven years, Xstrata has achieved real negatively impact Xstratas earnings.
cost savings from its operational cost base.
In 2008, $184 million of real cost savings were achieved in a very challenging environment.
Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 29 30 Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 3 Performance 32 Key Performance Indicators 37 Financial Review 45 Operating Review 45 Xstrata Alloys 49 Xstrata Coal 55 Xstrata Copper 63 Xstrata Nickel 69 Xstrata Zinc 75 Xstrata Technology Services 76 Operations Data Ferrochrome at the Lion smelter in South Africa, which uses the low cost, energy efficient proprietary Premus technology Xstrata plc Annual Report 2008 31
