DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY Principal risks Defence spending The Group is Description: The Groups core businesses are primarily is expected to continue to be constrained, having dependent defence-related, selling products and services directly potential implications for the sustainability of long-term on defence and indirectly primarily to the US, the UK, the Saudi funding for future defence technologies and engineering spending and Arabian and other national governments.
In any single capabilities in the UK.
Saudi Arabia is expected to remain reductions in market, defence spending depends on a complex mix one of the heaviest defence spenders in the world.
such spending of political considerations, budgetary constraints and Impact: A decrease in defence purchases by the could adversely the ability of the armed forces to meet specific threats Groups major customers could have a material affect the Group.
Because of these adverse effect on the Groups future results of factors, defence spending may be subject to operations and financial condition.
significant fluctuations from year to year.
Mitigation: The Groups business is geographically Although the Group expects growth in US defence spread across six home markets and its products are spending to slow, it believes it is well placed to support marketed across a range of sectors within the defence the US Department of Defenses likely emphasis arena.
In addition, the Group uses realistic assumptions on force sustainment, readiness and affordable to underpin its financial and operational planning.
The UK defence equipment budget Large contracts Certain parts Description: A significant proportion of the Groups adverse effect on the Groups future results of the Groups revenue comes from a small number of large contracts.
of operations and financial condition.
business are These contracts individually are typically worth or Mitigation: The Board regularly reviews the Groups dependent on a potentially worth 1bn or more including, but not performance in these markets, and the Executive small number of limited to, those contracts in the Programmes & Committee continues to work closely with its large contracts.
customers to ensure the Group strategy is aligned Impact: The loss, expiration, suspension, with theirs refer to Strategy section on page 10. cancellation or termination of any one of these contracts, for any reason, could have a material Government contracts The Groups Description: The governments of the United Kingdom, and general practices relating to, government largest customer the United States and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia are contracts.
As a result of these audits and reviews, contracts are the Groups three largest end customers.
Any significant costs and prices under these contracts may be government disruption or deterioration in the relationship with subject to adjustment.
these governments and a corresponding reduction in Impact: The termination of one or more of the contracts government contracts would significantly reduce the for the Groups programmes by governments, or the Groups revenues.
Moreover, companies engaged in failure of the relevant agencies to obtain expected the supply of defence-related equipment and services funding appropriations for the Groups programmes, to government agencies are subject to certain could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business risks particular to the defence industry.
future results of operations and financial condition.
These governments could unilaterally cancel, suspend or amend their contractors funding under existing Mitigation: The Board regularly reviews the Groups contracts or eligibility for new contracts potentially performance in these markets, and the Executive at short notice.
Terms and risk sharing agreements Committee continues to work closely with its can also be amended.
In addition, the Group, as a customers to ensure the Group strategy is aligned government contractor, is subject to financial audits and with theirs refer to Strategy section on page 10. other reviews by some of its governmental customers with respect to the performance of, and the accounting Contract timing The timing of Description: The Groups operating performance and Mitigation: The Board regularly reviews the Groups contracts could cash flows are dependent, to a significant extent, on performance with regard to contract awards, and materially affect the award of defence contracts.
the Executive Committee actively manages the assets the Groups and resources of the Group in line with the timing Impact: Because the amounts payable under these future results of awards.
contracts can be substantial, the timing of award or of operations failure to receive anticipated orders could materially and financial affect the Groups operating results and cash flow condition.
com Fixed-price contracts The Group has Description: A significant portion of the Groups during performance of a fixed-priced contract may reduce fixed-price revenue is derived from fixed-price contracts, although the profitability of such a contract or result in a loss.
the Group has reduced its exposure to fixed-priced Mitigation: To manage contract-related risks and design and development activity which is in general uncertainties, contracts are managed through the more risk intensive than fixed-price production activity.
application of the Lifecycle Management LCM An inherent risk in these fixed-price contracts is that business process mandated by the Groups Operational actual performance costs may exceed the projected Framework at the operational level refer to page 21 for costs on which the fixed prices for such contracts further information on LCM.
The consistent application are agreed.
of metrics is used to support the review of individual Impact: The Groups failure to anticipate technical contract performance refer to page 26 for KPIs relating problems, estimate costs accurately or control costs to programme execution.
Global market The Group is Description: BAE Systems is a global company which downturns, political instability and civil disturbances exposed to conducts business in a number of regions, including could disrupt the Groups business activities.
risks inherent the Middle East, and, as a result, assumes certain risks Impact: The occurrence of any such events could in operating in associated with businesses with a broad geographical have a material adverse effect on the Groups future a global market.
In some countries these risks include, and are operational performance and financial condition.
not limited to, the following: government regulations and administrative policies could change quickly and Mitigation: The Group has a balanced portfolio with restraints on the movement of capital could be imposed: six home markets.
governments could expropriate the Groups assets: burdensome taxes or tariffs could be introduced: political changes could lead to changes in the business environment in which the Group operates: and economic Export controls and other restrictions The Group is Description: A portion of the Groups sales is derived Impact: Reduced access to export markets could have subject to from the export of its products.
Many of the products a material adverse effect on the Groups future results export controls the Group designs and manufactures for military or dual of operations and financial condition.
Failure to comply and other use are considered to be of national strategic interest.
with export controls and wider regulations could expose restrictions.
The export of such products outside the jurisdictions in the Group to fines and other penalties, including which they are produced is normally subject to licensing potential restrictions on trading.
and export controls and other restrictions.
No assurance Mitigation: The Group has formal systems and can be given that the export controls to which the Group policies in place which are mandated under the is subject will not become more restrictive, that new Groups Operational Framework to ensure adherence generations of the Groups products will not also be to regulatory requirements and to identify any subject to similar or more stringent controls, or that restrictions that could adversely impact the political factors or changing international circumstances Groups future activities.
will not result in the Group being unable to obtain necessary export licences.
Consortia and joint ventures The Group is Description: The Group participates in various consortia, business arrangement failing to meet its strategic involved in joint ventures and equity holdings, exercising varying objectives or expected benefits, the Groups business consortia, joint and evolving degrees of control.
While the Group seeks and results of operations may be adversely affected.
ventures and to participate only in ventures in which its interests Mitigation: The Group has formal systems and equity holdings are aligned with those of its partners, the risk of procedures in place to monitor the performance where it does not disagreement is inherent in any jointly controlled of such business arrangements and identify and have control.
entity, and particularly in those entities that require manage any adverse scenario arising.
the unanimous consent of all members with regard to major decisions, and that specify restricted rights.
Impact: In the event of disagreement within a consortium, joint venture or equity holding and the BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 59 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY Principal risks continued Competition The Groups Description: Most of the Groups businesses are be awarded on the basis of home country preference.
business is focused on the defence industry and subject to Therefore, other defence companies may have an subject to competition from national and multi-national firms with advantage over the Group for some defence-related significant substantial resources and capital, and many contracts contracts on the basis of the jurisdiction in which they competition.
are obtained through a competitive bidding process.
are organised, where the majority of their assets are The Groups ability to compete for contracts depends located or where their officers or directors are located.
to a large extent on the effectiveness and innovation of Impact: In the event that the Group is unable adequately its research and development programmes, its ability to to compete in the markets in which it operates, the offer better programme performance than its competitors Groups business and results of operations may be at a lower cost to its customers, and the readiness of adversely affected.
its facilities, equipment and personnel to undertake the programmes for which it competes.
Mitigation: The Groups strong global market positioning, balanced portfolio, leading capabilities Additionally, in some instances, governments direct to and performance continue to address this risk a single supplier all work for a particular programme, refer to pages 15 to 17 for further information commonly known as a sole-source programme.
on the Groups positioning and portfolio.
Although governments have historically awarded certain programmes to the Group on a sole-source basis, they may in the future determine to open such programmes to a competitive bidding process.
Government contracts for defence-related products can, in certain countries, Pension funding The Group is Description: The Group operates certain defined reducing cash available to meet the Groups other exposed to benefit pension schemes.
At present, in aggregate, obligations or business needs.
funding risks in there is an actuarial deficit between the value of Mitigation: The performance of the Groups pension relation to the projected liabilities of these schemes and the value schemes and deficit recovery plans are regularly defined benefits of the assets they hold.
The Group has put in place reviewed by both the Group and the Trustees of the under its pension and is implementing deficit recovery plans in line schemes taking actuarial and investment advice as schemes.
with agreements reached with the respective scheme applicable.
The results of these reviews are discussed trustees based on actuarial advice and valuation results.
with the Board and appropriate action taken refer to Impact: The amount of the deficits may be adversely page 136 for further details of the Groups retirement affected by a number of factors, including lower than benefit plans.
assumed investment returns, changes in long-term interest rate and price inflation expectations, and greater than anticipated improvements in members longevity.
An increase in pension scheme deficit may require the Group to increase the amount of cash contributions payable to these schemes, thereby Acquisitions The Group has Description: The Group has experienced growth condition.
In addition, failure to integrate acquisitions experienced through acquisitions and continues to pursue appropriately creates the risk of impairments arising growth through acquisitions in order to meet its strategic objectives.
on goodwill and other intangible assets.
Integrating the operations and personnel of acquired Mitigation: The Group has an established methodology Anticipated businesses is a complex process.
The Group may in place to deliver the effective integration of acquisitions.
benefits of not be able to integrate the operations of acquired The Group has an established policy for monitoring acquisitions may businesses with existing operations rapidly or without impairment risks.
See note 1 to the Group accounts on not be realised.
page 110 for further information on the Groups approach Impact: The diversion of management attention to to impairment testing.
integration efforts and any difficulties encountered in combining operations could adversely affect the Groups business.
The failure to manage growth by acquisition while at the same time maintaining adequate focus on the existing assets of the Group could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business, future results of operations or financial 60 www.
com Laws and regulations The Group is Description: The Groups operations are subject to Mitigation: During the year, the Group has continued subject to risk numerous domestic and international laws, regulations to add to its resources dedicated to legal and regulatory from a failure to and restrictions.
Non-compliance with these laws, compliance in order to further enhance its capability comply with laws regulations and restrictions could expose the Group to to identify and manage the risk of compliance failure.
fines, penalties, suspension or debarment, which could Internal and external market risk assessments form an have a material adverse effect on the Group.
The Group important element of the ongoing corporate development has contracts and operations in many parts of the process.
Policies and procedures for the appointment of world and operates in a highly regulated environment.
advisers engaged in business development have been The Group is subject to the laws and regulations of further refined, and a uniform global policy and process many jurisdictions, including those of the UK and US.
The investigation announced in These include, without limitation, regulations relating 2004 by the Serious Fraud Office into suspected false to import-export controls, money-laundering, false accounting and corruption is continuing.
In June 2007, accounting, anti-bribery and anti-boycott provisions.
the Company was notified by the US Department of From time to time, the Group is subject to government Justice that it had commenced an investigation relating investigations relating to its operations.
to the Groups compliance with anti-corruption laws, including its business concerning the Kingdom of Impact: Failure by the Group or its sales representatives, Saudi Arabia.
marketing advisers or others acting on its behalf to comply with these laws and regulations could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities resulting in significant fines and penalties and or result in the suspension or debarment of the Group from government contracts for some period of time or suspension of the Groups export privileges.
Exchange rates The Group is Description: The global nature of the Groups business as an exception by the Treasury Review Management exposed to means it is exposed to volatility in currency exchange Committee, as well as to manage anticipated economic volatility in rates in respect of foreign currency denominated cash flow exposures over the medium term.
The Group currency transactions, and the translation of net assets and aims, where possible, to apply hedge accounting exchange rates.
income statements of foreign subsidiaries and equity treatment for all derivatives that hedge material foreign accounted investments.
The Group is exposed to a currency exposures.
The Group does not hedge the number of foreign currencies, the most significant translation effect of exchange rate movements on being the US dollar.
the income statement or balance sheet of overseas subsidiaries and equity accounted investments Impact: Significant fluctuations in exchange rates it regards as long-term investments.
Hedges are, to which the Group is exposed could have a material however, undertaken in respect of investments that adverse effect on the Groups future results of are not considered long-term or core to the Group.
Mitigation: In order to protect itself against currency fluctuations, the Groups policy is to hedge all material firm transactional exposures, unless otherwise approved Additional risks and uncertainties currently unknown to the Group, or which the Group currently deems immaterial, may also have an adverse effect on the financial condition or business of the Group.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2008 61 DIRECTORS REPORT: GOVERNANCE Governance Committed to the effective management of our business Governance contents 5 Board of directors 64 Corporate governance 66 Remuneration report 75 Other statutory and regulatory information, including statement of directors responsibilities 94 62 www.
com Our Operational Framework is a key document for all our employees.
It sets out the way we do business and what it means to be part of BAESystems.
It is based on principles of good governance, a set of definitions, values, policies and processes that guide our work and behaviour, and a clear system of delegated authority.
