s M i i s t i y g l a a t n i A o n l o M r t o n n o i t c o r d i n n g a DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY Risk management Effective management of risk and Risk management opportunity is essential to the delivery of the Groups objectives, achievement withinBAESystems of sustainable shareholder value and protection of its reputation.
Board review Reporting Monitoring Board Committee review Executive Committee Audit Committee review Corporate Responsibility review Committee review Identification At least six monthly, each business Reporting Monitoring and function undertakes a full review of potential risks Assurance Self-assessment Risks are recorded in registers explaining the event s with cause and effect statements prompting effective mitigation strategies Operational Framework Risk owners are allocated who Organisation Delegated Authorities have authority and responsibility Culture Mandated Policies and for assessing and managing Monitoring and control Governance Processes the risk Risks and plans are monitored Core Business Processes BAE Systems Businesses Analysis and regularly and rigorously Risks are analysed for impact and reviewed with significant risks probability to determine exposure immediately notified through Business risk management to the business the business reporting systems Evaluation Key risks are reported through Risk exposure is comprehensively the Integrated Business Plan, reviewed and risks prioritised in twice yearly through the relation to the achievement of Operational Assurance Statement business objectives self-assessment, and at Quarterly Business Reviews Risk evaluation is documented in controlled risk registers showing: The Executive Committee conducts risk workshops the risks that have been to analyse and allocate identified management responsibility for characteristics of the risk the management of the most significant non-financial risks the basis for determining to the Group mitigation strategy The Board and the Audit and necessary review and Corporate Responsibility monitoring committees review risk Mitigation on a regular basis Implementation of action plans to manage, or respond to, the risks Robust mitigation strategy subject to regular and rigorous review 56 www.
com a g n n d i r c o o t n i n E n t o r o v o i M l a t l a u c a fi t i i t o n n e d I Effective management of risk and opportunity is essential to Non-financial risk management assessment the delivery of the Groups objectives, achievement of sustainable shareholder value and protection of its reputation.
The Groups approach to risk management is aimed at the early identification In 2007, we introduced an overlay to our existing risk assessment and assurance process to more rigorously identify potential issues of non-financial and reputational of key risks and then removing or reducing the likelihood and risk.
The output from the existing risk assessment processes is collated and effect of risks before they occur, and dealing effectively with them reviewed by the Executive Committee, along with inputs and consideration of if they crystallise.
The Group is committed to the protection of its external factors, to identify those issues where the cumulative risk, or possible assets, which include human, property and financial resources, reputational impacts, could be significant.
The Non-Financial Risk register is through an effective risk management process, underpinned reviewed regularly by the Executive and Corporate Responsibility Committees to monitor the ongoing status and progression of mitigation plans.
The management of risk is linked into the Groups strategy, the environment in which it operates, the Groups appetite for risk and the delivery of the Groups business objectives.
The underlying principles are that risks are continuously monitored, associated action plans reviewed, appropriate contingencies are provisioned and this information is reported through established management control procedures.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that risk is effectively managed across the Group and has delegated to the Audit Committee the responsibility for reviewing in detail the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls.
The Executive Committee remains committed to the effective management of material non-financial risks including those arising in connection with safety and ethical issues.
The Executive Committee advises the Corporate Responsibility Committee of all matters within the latters remit.
In order to assist the Committees and the Board in their review, the Group has the self-assessment Operational Assurance Statement OAS process, which is mandated by the Operational Framework.
The OAS is in two parts: a self-assessment of As with any system of internal control, the policies and processes compliance with appropriate parts of the Operational Framework: that are mandated in the Operational Framework are designed and a report showing the key risks for the relevant business.
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Together with independent reviews undertaken by Internal business objectives, and can only provide reasonable, and not Audit, and the work of the external auditors, the OAS forms absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
the Groups process for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal controls.
Further detail of these business processes and mandated policies is given on page 18 and in the Corporate governance section on Reporting within the Group is structured so that key issues are pages 67 and 68. escalated through the management team, ultimately to the Board if appropriate.
The responsibility for risk identification, analysis, evaluation, mitigation, reporting and monitoring rests with line management.
Both the Audit Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Committee report the findings of their reviews to the Board so that the Board can form a view.
Further information on the activities of the Board and its Committees is given in the Corporate governance section on pages 66 to 76.
