09 Principal risks and risk management The identification, assessment, pursuit and management of opportunities as to assess if the aggregation effect of lower-level risks is material.
and the associated risks is an integral and inseparable part of management Such reviews identify the extent to which further initiatives are required, skills and processes.
These are a core element of activity throughout the for example, to develop specific additional risk management capability Group and, as such, are especially important for stakeholders.
The output from these reviews is contained in As referred to in the Directors report, under the heading Risk reports to the Board and Audit Committee.
management on page 15, a Group-wide risk management system underpins Furthermore, senior management at operating company and Group and assists in the delivery of this principle.
level review regularly the opportunity and risk management system and The system is founded upon a process that drives perceived its application with a view to identifying potential improvements to the opportunities and risks progressively, against formal impact and likelihood system and or its application.
The output from these reviews is captured in rating criteria, up through the management chain for review and challenge.
development plans, which are reviewed at Group level.
Progress against the In addition to a discrete review of each individual opportunity and risk, plans is reported upon three times a year to Group senior management and various exercises are carried out at Group level, three times a year, to the Board and Audit Committee.
Occasionally, independent third parties are identify key issues facing the Group as a whole, the changing risk profile engaged to assist the Group with the identification and implementation of facing the Group and emerging issues that may affect the Group, as well potential improvements.
Risk management process Principal risks and risk management exposure to infrastructure markets mitigates the risk of changes in government regulated entities expenditure policy in any one market.
The difficult economic environment has also seen increased The following table shows the key business risks, which are then competition in tenders for work in some private markets and has also addressed below.
resulted in challenges in completing project financing.
Risk group Type of risk Increased customer expectations External Economic environment Customers are increasingly demanding the provision of an integrated Increased customer expectations approach to the delivery of infrastructure projects.
The Group has specialist Commercial counterparty solvency operating companies which support cross-Group activities and provide Legal and regulatory customers with management of the delivery of those services.
Strategic Bidding Joint venture Commercial counterparty solvency Acquisition The Groups financial exposure to any of its major customers, subcontractors Investment and suppliers is mitigated by rigorous checks on their financial strength prior Organisation and management Growth to the signing of contracts.
To the extent possible, the Group seeks to ensure People that it is not over-reliant on any one counterparty.
Business conduct Legal and regulatory Information technology The Group operates in a diverse number of territories and its businesses are Information security therefore subject to a number of complex, demanding and evolving legal and Financial and treasury Treasury risk management regulatory requirements.
In addition to ensuring rigorous compliance with Finance and liquidity existing regulations, the Group continually monitors and responds to legal Treasury counterparty and regulatory developments.
Contract bonds Currency Strategic risks Interest rate Pension The Group is particularly aware of the potential for importing risk into Delivery and operational Performance the business by way of winning new contracts, forming joint ventures, Supply chain acquiring businesses or investment.
Rigorous processes are therefore in Health, safety and environmental place for managing such exposure within a specified opportunity and risk management framework that applies to all operating companies and Group External risks functions, as follows: Bidding The Group addresses continually the impact of the external business The Groups operating companies bid selectively for a large number of environment, updating as appropriate its strategy and medium-term contracts each year and a more limited number of concession opportunities.
planning, both at Group and operating company level.
Areas of focus Tenders and investment appraisals are developed in accordance with include the following: thorough processes for estimating and risk identification and assessment, Economic environment with particular attention to new or unique characteristics.
They are subject The Group has a broad exposure to infrastructure markets across its various to formal review and approval by tender review and investment committees operating companies.
A significant proportion of the Groups revenue flows established at Board, sector or operating company level depending upon the from contracts founded upon government policy and or public funding.
value and nature of the contract.
The current economic environment may cause some customers to delay Joint venture or postpone their capital investment and asset maintenance plans which Joint ventures are formed for contracts where to do so will strengthen the would then impact the Groups order book.
The breadth of the Groups quality of the bid and prospects of delivering a contract successfully.
10 Principal risks and risk management Procedures are in place to ensure that joint venture partners bring skills, Information technology experience and resources that complement and add to those provided from The Group is conscious of the reliance placed on IT systems as a platform within the Group.
for efficient delivery of day-to-day operational activities and for knowledge gathering and sharing.
Following an internal review, supported by an Acquisition independent third-party review team, the Group has positioned itself to The Group seeks to identify, in alignment with its strategy, a small number respond more rapidly to increasing demands in this area, by augmenting of acquisitions in defined sectors.
Group management project manages the its central IT team, to work with operating companies and Group functions due diligence, with operating companies drawing on their own resources to develop and deliver further improvements in line with the Groups IT and and those from other parts of the Group, in order to ensure that the most disaster recovery strategies.
appropriate personnel, with relevant experience and knowledge, conduct the detailed due diligence.
Where necessary, specialist external resources Information security are engaged.
In common with most large organisations, the Group is exposed to potential Post-acquisition integration is closely managed, drawing on information security threats and consequently takes active steps to protect the detailed due diligence material and integration tracker system for both its customers, and partners as well as its own information and each functional activity, with reviews conducted formally at prescribed systems from loss or compromise.
The Group currently has an initiative periods following the acquisition.
As the Group grows, it recognises that in progress to upgrade further its capabilities in this area, following an acquisitions may bring new approaches to opportunity and risk management independent third-party review to identify areas where already effective from which the Group can learn and these are considered as part of regular protection may be strengthened.
Financial and treasury risks Investment The Group promotes and invests in a number of privately-funded The Financial review from page 3, together with Note 21 to the accounts, infrastructure assets, in selected sectors, both in the UK and internationally.
addresses the Groups financial and treasury risks.
The Groups approach to such opportunities is on a limited recourse finance basis in those business sectors where it has appropriate experience.
Pension It uses this platform as a basis for moving incrementally into new sectors The Groups pension deficit in respect of its defined benefit schemes with appropriate partners.
The degree of leverage associated with such is subject to changes in market conditions and increasing longevity investments reinforces the need for the application of a rigorous risk assumptions.
The assets of the schemes are managed in the light of management process drawing on standard operating procedures.
In addition, specific steps have been taken Such activity is conducted by a discrete group of personnel with extensive during the year to restrict certain future increases in the principal defined experience in the relevant fields of activity.
The consequent delivery risk benefit schemes liabilities and these are detailed on page 3 of the arising on investment activities is managed and mitigated by the careful Financial review and in Note 26 to the accounts.
selection of delivery and service partners.
Delivery and operational risks Organisation and management risks The Group is engaged on a wide range of contracts e. g. asset creation, As the Group grows, it responds to the challenges this brings to its long-term maintenance, facilities management and asset management, organisational and management structures, in particular: with the successful discharge of all contracts being controlled and managed through the Groups operating structure.
In delivering these contracts, Growth rigorous processes are in place for managing the potential risk exposure: The recent and sustained pace of growth of the Group has acted as a catalyst for a number of targeted reviews of the Groups organisation and Performance management structure.
Where the results of such reviews indicate a need The Groups procedures embrace regular and frequent reviews with an for changes, these are made promptly, with the allocation of suitably agenda centred on health, safety and environmental performance, issues experienced and qualified staff.
affecting delivery and the impact on costs to completion and forecast revenue.
Where the Group provides services or manages the delivery of People such services on behalf of clients or manages assets, such reviews also The retention and recruitment of staff is a key challenge for a business concentrate on key operational and performance measures.
This approach which is growing both organically and by acquisition.
Defined recruitment is underpinned by a continuing focus on assurance as to the effectiveness and remuneration processes exist at a local level and are centrally of the relevant controls.
Emphasis is also placed on ensuring that the co-ordinated to ensure that the Group is competitive and continues to assurance mechanism responds to the challenges posed by the attract the best candidates.
As part of its overall talent management process the Group has well developed succession planning procedures which have ensured that high Supply chain calibre management is developed and successfully retained within the The execution of a large number of the Groups contracts is dependent Group to fill key roles as they arise.
In addition, where appropriate, the on the availability of appropriately skilled subcontractors.
An increasing Group seeks to complement and supplement its existing talent pool with proportion of the Groups supply base is retained in long-term relationships selected strategic hires from outside the Group.
based on their alignment with the aims and objectives of the Group, in particular, in respect of adherence to health and safety, ethical standards Business conduct and financial stability, as well as product quality and price.
The Group expects the highest standards of integrity and conduct from all its employees in their dealings with customers, suppliers and other Health, safety and environmental stakeholders.
The Groups Business Conduct Guidelines and Stakeholder The Group has further enhanced the attention it gives to HS&E, along with Codes of Practice clearly set out a framework of behaviour expected by the the continuing objective of improving its performance, as embraced in the Group of its employees and operating companies.
The Group is carrying out safety commitment, Zero Harm, as reported on in more detail in the Chief a review of its existing codes of practice to ensure they are consistent with Executives review on page 12 and Corporate responsibility statement from best practice.
More details are given in the Corporate responsibility page 44 of the Annual review 2008. statement on page 45 of the Annual review 2008.
