CAPITAL SHOPPING CENTRES PLC DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2008 PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The key risks and uncertainties of the group are set out below: Risk Description Impact Mitigation Financing These risks are discussed further in note 19 Liquidity Reduced availability Insufficient funds to Efficient treasury management and meet requirements strict credit control.
Property values Property values Impact on Regular monitoring of LTV: decrease covenants covenant headroom maintained: regular market valuations: focus on quality assets: regular portfolio reviews identifying properties for disposal.
Economic Reduction in rental Impact on Internal Group limits on debts to downturn income covenants assets and interest rate ratios.
Interest cover Interest rates fluctuate Lack of certainty Hedging to establish long-term over interest costs certainty.
REIT Breach REIT conditions Tax penalty or be Regular monitoring of compliance forced to leave the and tolerances.
REIT regime Joint ventures Reliance on JV partners Partners under Agreements are in place and performance and perform or provide regular communication with reporting incorrect partners.
information Asset management Tenants Tenant failure Financial loss Regular reporting and modelling of covenant cover: credit control.
Voids Increased voids, failure Financial loss Policy of active tenant mix to let developments management Reputation Responsibility Failure of Health & Impact on Annual audits carried out by for visitors to Safety reputation or external consultants.
Health & shopping potential criminal Safety policies in place.
centres civil proceedings Disaster Effect of natural Impact on footfall Security team training and National disaster terrorist strike and retailer income: procedures in shopping centres.
security adverse publicity Implementation of NATSCO recommendations.
Security and Health & Safety policies and procedures in shopping centres offices.
Terrorist insurance is in place.
People HR Staff Key staff Loss of key Succession Planning: performance members of the evaluation: training and management team development: incentive reward.
could impact adversely on the Groups success Development Time Planning Securing planning Policy of sustainable development consent for and regeneration of brownfield sites.
developments Constructive dialogue with planning authorities.
Costs and Construction cost Returns reduced by Approval process based on detailed letting risk overrun, low occupancy increased costs or project costs: regular monitoring levels delay in securing and forecasting of project costs and tenants rental income: and fixed cost contracts.
