Directors Report Business Review: Principal Risks and Uncertainties Principal Risks and Uncertainties BBA Aviation is ultimately exposed to the amount of fl ying activity undertaken principally by business and general aviation aircraft and to a lesser extent by commercial and military aircraft.
The number of hours fl own directly impacts our fl ight support organisation but also, over the longer term, our aftermarket services businesses.
The key risks that impact the level of fl ying activity are: Terrorist attacks and threats of attacks together with recent international confl icts have impacted regional and international air travel.
There can be no absolute assurance that we will avoid adverse consequences of any future attacks or threats, notwithstanding the preventative measures that we undertake in co-operation with airport authorities and other government agencies A very high price per barrel for crude and a corresponding rise in jet fuel prices for a prolonged period which particularly impacts the commercial market General economic conditions and business and consumer confi dence Legislation impacting air travel The Group has signifi cant operations in the USA with approximately 66% of pre-tax profi ts being denominated in US dollars.
Although we are seeking to expand our operations in Europe and the rest of the world the majority of all business and general aviation aircraft are located in North America and it will remain the dominant market in the years ahead.
Consequently our fi financial performance in sterling terms is subject to the eff ects of fl uctuations in foreign exchange rates, in particular the rate of exchange between US dollar and sterling.
The Group has a number of contingent liabilities that might impact its future performance.
These are analysed in note 27 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Retaining our key management is of critical importance to the Group.
To aid this, work is in hand to improve our performance and talent management processes and give sharper focus to ensuring that our compensation and benefi ts off erings remain competitive.
