Business review Risk management 3i has a risk management framework which provides a structured and consistent process for identifying, assessing and responding to risks in relation to the Groups strategy and business objectives.
Introduction Risk management operates at all levels throughout the Group, across business lines, geographies and professional functions.
The Board is ultimately responsible for risk management, which includes the Groups risk governance structure and maintaining an appropriate internal control framework.
Managements responsibility is to manage risk on behalf of the Board.
By reporting regularly to Audit and Compliance Committee, the Groups Compliance and Risk Assurance and Audit functions provide support to the Board in maintaining the effectiveness of risk management across the Group.
The Groups risk management processes, including a number of new committees providing input to Group Risk Management Committee, became operational in March 2007 and formalised many existing practices.
The diagram below shows this risk management framework and outlines the key responsibilities of each committee.
Risk governance Group Risk Management Committee Responsible for overall risk management process Monitors changes in external risk environment Reviews reports from Investment, Operational and Financial Risk Committees Reports to Audit and Compliance Committee Investment Committee Conflicts Committee Takes or recommends investment decisions on individual opportunities Decides issues on conflicts arising in investment process and other areas Health and Safety Committee Reviews Health and Safety arrangements and policy Monitors implementation and performance Operational Risk Committee Provides input to the setting of investment policy and guidelines Deals with all aspects of operational risk Corporate Responsibility Committee Recommends socially responsible investment policy Identifies and promotes awareness of corporate responsibility and developments, opportunities and risks Financial Risk Committee Assesses financial risk including treasury and funding risk Quarterly monitoring of portfolio composition Regulatory Risk Forum Provides regulatory input to investment policy Identifies and promotes awareness of regulatory developments and risks 38 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders Risk categories Risk type Brief description Further information Risk mitigation External Risks arising from current, Chairmans statement Entry into new geographical markets subject proposed and anticipated political, Chief Executives statement to extensive market research and due diligence legal, regulatory, economic policy Business review, Close monitoring of regulatory and scal and competitor changes Group business section developments in main markets Diversied investment portfolio in a range of sectors, with different economic cycles, across geographical markets Strategic Risks arising from the analysis, Business review, Monitoring of a range of key performance design and implementation Group business, indicators, forecasts and periodic updates of the Groups business model, Our strategy section of plans and underlying assumptions and key decisions on investment Regular monitoring by Group Risk levels and capital allocations Management Committee Investment Risks in respect of specic Business review, Investment Committee approval of all asset investment decisions, Financial review section significant investments the subsequent performance Financial statements Regular asset reviews of an investment or exposure Ten largest investments Representation by a 3i investment executive concentrations across business on the boards of investee companies line portfolios Portfolio is subject to periodic reviews at both the business line and Group levels to monitor exposure to any one sector or geography Treasury Risks arising from i uncertainty Business review, Credit risk exposure is managed on an asset-specic and funding in market prices and rates, Financial review section basis by individual investment managers ii an inability to raise adequate Notes to the financial statements Board review of the Groups financial resources funds to meet investment every six months needs or meet obligations as Assets denominated in foreign currency broadly they fall due, or iii inappropriate matched with borrowings in the same currency capital structure Type and maturity of the borrowings broadly matched to those of the corresponding assets Operational Risks arising from inadequate Business review Line management at all levels is responsible for or failed processes, people and Corporate identifying, assessing, controlling and reporting systems or from external factors responsibility report operational risks affecting these Framework of core values, standards and controls, a code of business conduct and delegated authorities are in place Independent internal audit function carries out periodic reviews Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 39 Business review Risk management continued External risks Geopolitical risk 3i carries on business as an investment Macroeconomic risks Part of the Groups investment strategy is to trust under section 842 of the Income and 3i invests mainly in European companies and invest in new and emerging markets.
The legal, Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Continuation of continues to develop its operations in Asia regulatory and capital frameworks in these this status is subject to the Company directing and the US.
The performance of the Groups markets may be less developed than in the other its affairs in line with the relevant requirements underlying investment portfolio is influenced main geographical markets in which the Group of the legislation.
Anticipated and actual changes by economic growth, interest rates, currency operates.
Changes and developments in all our in government policy and related tax treatment movements and changes in commodity and markets are monitored closely to ensure that any of investment trusts are closely monitored, as energy prices.
Market conditions for initial public impact on the value of existing investments, are other changes which could affect results of offerings, the level of mergers and acquisitions planned levels of investment or investment operations or financial position.
Related risks activity, the number of active trade or other returns are, as far as possible, anticipated, exist in other jurisdictions in which the Group private equity buyers and the availability of understood and acted upon.
This work includes operates, where there is similar close monitoring well-priced debt finance, all have an impact, periodic legal and regulatory updates by of changes in local taxation legislation which not only on the Groups ability to invest but on geography, in-depth market and sector research could affect the expected tax position of the Groups ability to exit from its underlying and regular reviews for existing investments.
portfolio, or on the levels of profitability Entry into new geographical markets is subject achieved on exit.
to extensive market research and due diligence.
Strategic risks The Groups strategy is based on a full analysis of To mitigate this, 3i aims to invest over time Government policy and regulation its operating environment.
In determining the in a range of sectors, with different economic 3i Investments plc, 3i Europe plc and appropriate business model, market and sector cycles, across its different business lines and 3i Nordic plc, all wholly-owned subsidiaries evaluations are taken into account, as well as the geographical markets.
This includes expansion in of 3i Group plc, are authorised persons under identification and assessment of external and both the US and in Asia, which further diversifies the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 internal risk factors.
and regulated by the FSA in the United Kingdom.
changes or outcomes, beyond those factored Where applicable, certain 3i subsidiaries into the Groups strategy and business model, businesses outside the United Kingdom may occur which could have an impact on the are regulated locally by relevant authorities.
Groups performance or financial position.
Changes to the regulatory frameworks under which the Group operates are closely monitored.
This is addressed through the monitoring of There are also appropriate processes and a range of key performance indicators, procedures in place, including a dedicated Group forecasts and periodic updates of plans and Compliance function, whose remit is to minimise underlying assumptions.
the risk of a breach of applicable regulations which could affect the Groups compliance costs, its business, results of operations or financial position.
40 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders Investment risks Investment performance monitor the exposure to larger investments.
Investment decisions The performance of the Groups portfolio is One of the conditions set out under section 842 The Group operates in a very competitive dependent upon a range of factors.
These of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 market.
Changes in the number of market include, but are not limited to: i the quality is that no single investment can exceed 15% of participants, the availability of funds within the of the initial investment decision described the Groups investment portfolio to maintain the market, the pricing of assets, or in the ability to above: ii the ability of the portfolio company Groups tax status as an Investment Trust.
access deals on a proprietary basis could have to execute successfully its business strategy: This also mitigates the Groups exposure to a significant effect on the Groups competitive and iii actual outcomes against the key investment concentration risk.
position and on the sustainability of returns.
assumptions underlying the portfolio companys Investment valuations and exit opportunities financial projections.
Any one of these factors The ability of the Group to source and execute The valuation of 3is portfolio and opportunities could have an impact on the valuation of a good quality investments in such markets is for realisations depend to some extent on stock portfolio company and upon the Groups ability dependent upon a range of factors.
The most market conditions and the buoyancy of the to make a profitable exit from the investment important of these include: wider mergers and acquisitions market.
Changes within the desired timeframe.
in market or macroeconomic conditions could i the ability to attract and develop people with A rigorous process is put in place for managing impact the valuation of portfolio assets and the the requisite investment experience and cultural the relationship with each investee company for ability to exit those investments profitably within fit: ii organisation of teams whose structure the period through to realisation.
This includes the desired timeframe.
is market-adapted and whose compensation is regular asset reviews and, in many cases, board results-oriented: and iii effective application representation by a 3i investment executive.
of collective knowledge and relationships to each investment opportunity.
Investment concentration The Group invests across a range of economic 3is investment appraisal is undertaken in a sectors and geographies.
This includes approval by particular sector or geography could increase the the relevant business line partnerships, and impact of adverse changes in macroeconomic where appropriate, peer review by executives or market conditions on the Group.
An increase from other business lines, together with 3is in the average size of investments over time international network of industry and sector could also increase the exposure of the Group specialists.
Investments over 5 million are to the performance of a small number of large presented to an Investment Committee chaired investments, albeit in different sectors and or by an authorised member of the Management geographies.
The portfolio is subject to periodic Committee and comprising our senior reviews by Financial Risk Committee and by investment executives.
individual business lines in order to monitor exposure to any one sector or geography and to Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 41 Business review Risk management continued Treasury and funding risks Liquidity risk Foreign exchange risk 3is funding objective is that each category The Group invests from its own balance sheet 3i reports in sterling and pays dividends from of investment asset is broadly matched with using cash generated from its investing activities its sterling profits.
The Group seeks to reduce liabilities and shareholders funds according and its core funding.
The Group also has available structural currency exposures by matching to the risk and maturity characteristics of the to it undrawn committed facilities.
In addition to investment assets denominated in foreign assets and that funding needs are met ahead funding from its own balance sheet, the Group currency with borrowings in the same currency.
periodically raises third-party funds and also The Group makes some use of derivative invests indirectly through funds administered by financial instruments to effect foreign exchange Credit risk third parties, or quoted investment vehicles.
The current policy is to hedge the 3is financial assets are predominantly unsecured main currency exposures in the range of 90% investments in unquoted companies.
An increase Unexpected changes in the levels of investment 100%.
in concentration of the portfolio in a particular and divestment activities or in interest rates economic sector or geography could increase could impact the availability of funds required for Interest rate risk credit risk.
Likewise, large or unexpected investment needs or to meet obligations as they 3i has a mixture of fixed and floating-rate increases in interest rates could increase credit fall due.
The assets are funded with a combination risk, particularly in companies which are of shareholders funds and borrowings according To manage this, a range of cash flow forecasts highly leveraged.
to the risk characteristics of the assets.
are produced and updated on a regular basis for The Board seeks to minimise interest rate The Group considers the maximum credit risk to each business line and for the Group as a whole.
exposure by considering the average life profile be the carrying value of loans and receivables Financial Risk Committee reviews the Groups of the various asset classes and adopting a and credit risk exposure is managed on an assetliquidity on a quarterly basis and the Board portfolio approach to the interest rate hedging specific basis by individual investment managers.
reviews the Groups financial resources every structure.
Some derivative financial instruments Regular asset reviews within each business line six months.
This includes consideration of the are used to achieve this objective.
provide an insight into the trading performance currency hedging and maturity profile aspects, of individual assets and give an early indication as well as liquidity, of the Groups current and of increased credit risk.
Leverage levels and forecast financial position.
performance of individual assets are also Price risk reviewed periodically by the Financial Risk The valuation of unquoted investments depends Committee.
upon a combination of market factors and the The Groups remaining financial assets are mainly performance of the underlying asset.
The Group in the form of deposits with banks of a credit does not currently hedge the market risk rating of AA or better.
Counterparty limits are inherent in the portfolio but manages asset set and closely monitored.
performance risk on an asset-specific basis.
42 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2008 Portfolio and additional Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements financial information Information for shareholders Operational risks Business processes The Group is exposed to a range of operational The Groups information technology and treasury risks which can arise from inadequate or systems, as well as its business processes and failed processes, people and systems or from procedures, support its operations and business external factors affecting these.
The Group has policies and operational events such as human resources procedures covering information security, risks, legal and regulatory risks, information change management, business continuity technology systems failures, business disruption and disaster recovery.
These are subject and shortcomings in internal controls.
management at all levels is responsible for Legal and regulatory identifying, assessing, controlling and reporting In order to conform to necessary legal and operational risks.
This is supported by a regulatory requirements across multiple framework of core values, standards and jurisdictions, the Group operates a complex controls, a code of business conduct and legal and corporate structure.
There is also an appropriate internal processes and procedures independent internal audit function which to be developed and followed, supported by carries out periodic reviews.
professional teams with appropriate skills, People drawing upon external resources where The ability to recruit, develop and retain capable appropriate.
There is also a Regulatory Risk people is of fundamental importance to Forum which meets periodically to review and achieving the Groups strategy.
The Group plan for forthcoming and anticipated legal operates in a competitive industry and aims to and regulatory changes which could impact remunerate staff in line with market practice and the Group.
to provide superior development opportunities.
The Group has human resources policies and procedures covering recruitment, vetting and performance management and appropriate processes in place to monitor their application.
Staff engagement is also regularly evaluated and reported to the Board.
Report and accounts 2008 3i Group plc 43
