18 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 Risks and uncertainties Risk management The Company manages this through updates from the The Company has a risk management framework Investment Adviser and other service providers and which provides a structured and consistent process through representation on investee companies boards.
for identifying, assessing and responding to risks in relation to the strategy and business objectives.
Introduction The Board is ultimately responsible for risk management, Due to the structure of the Company it is also reliant which includes the Companys risk governance on the risk management and control framework structure and maintaining an appropriate internal of the Investment Adviser and other key service control framework.
The Board has a risk matrix which providers and the risk management operations of it monitors and updates regularly.
Risk assessment Risk types and controls Risk type Risk mitigation and control External Risks arising from political, legal, regulatory, Review of new geographies, markets and economic and competitor changes sectors subject to extensive due diligence Monitoring of regulatory and fiscal developments Diversification by sector and geography Strategic Risks arising from the analysis, design and Monitor key performance indicators implementation of the Companys business and forecasts model and key decisions on investment Undertake strategic reviews growth rates and financing Review and test underlying assumptions in the Company business model Investment Risk in respect of specific asset investment Approval process for all investments decisions, the subsequent performance of Regular portfolio asset reviews an investment or concentration exposure Investment Adviser representation within sectors in the portfolio on the board of investee companies Concentration review for each new asset Treasury and funding Risk arising from: i inability to raise Borrowings lending maturity analysis, adequate funds to meet investment matching cash flow requirements needs or obligations as they fall due: Credit finance risk monitored ii uncertainty in market prices, on each asset rates and counterparty risk: and Hedging on individual assets iii inappropriate capital structure Regular Board review of funding options, review of counterparty limits Operational Risk arising from inadequate or failed Annual Board review of performance processes, systems or people both in of Investment Adviser service providers 3i Infrastructure and in key service Audit Committee review of controls within providers to whom investment advice Investment Adviser service providers and operational support are outsourced Service providers responsible for assessing, controlling and reporting operational risks 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 19 External risks Strategic risks Macroeconomic risks The Companys strategy is based on a full analysis of its The Company has invested mainly in Europe directly operating environment.
In determining the appropriate and in Asia through the 3i India Infrastructure Fund.
business model, market and sector evaluations are taken The performance of the underlying investment portfolio into account, as well as the identification and assessment is influenced by economic growth, interest rates, currency of external and internal risk factors.
Significant unexpected movements and changes in commodity and energy prices.
changes or outcomes, beyond those factored into the Market conditions for initial public offerings, the level of Companys strategy and business model, may occur which mergers and acquisitions activity, the number of active could have an impact on the Companys performance or trade or other private equity buyers and the availability financial position.
This is addressed through the monitoring of well-priced debt finance, all have an impact on the of a range of key performance indicators, forecasts and Companys ability to invest and on the performance of periodic updates of plans and underlying assumptions.
Investment risks To mitigate this, the Company aims to invest over time Investment decisions in a range of infrastructure sectors, with different The Company operates in a competitive market.
economic cycles and across different geographical Changes in the number of market participants, the markets.
This includes expansion in the US, which availability of funds within the market, the pricing of further diversifies the portfolio.
assets, or in the ability to access deals on a proprietary Geopolitical risk basis could have a significant effect on the Companys Part of the Companys investment strategy is to invest competitive position and on the sustainability of returns.
in newer or emerging markets.
The legal, regulatory The ability of the Company to source and execute good and capital frameworks in these markets may be less quality investments in such markets is dependent upon developed than in the other main geographical markets in a range of factors.
The most important of these include: which the Company operates.
Changes and developments in all the Companys markets are monitored closely i the advice of the Investment Adviser and its ability to to ensure that any impact on the value of existing attract and develop people with the requisite investment investments, planned levels of investment or investment experience and cultural fit: and ii effective application returns are, as far as possible, anticipated, understood of collective knowledge and relationships to each and acted upon.
This work includes periodic legal and investment opportunity.
regulatory updates by geography, in-depth market Investment appraisal is undertaken in a rigorous and sector research and regular reviews for existing manner through the Investment Adviser and the Board.
Entry into new geographical markets is The Board is appraised of work-in-progress by the subject to extensive market research and due diligence.
However, investments are considered Government policy and regulation and only advanced for consideration and approval of the The Company is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Board once they have been through a complete review Commission and the Investment Adviser is an authorised process within the Investment Adviser, including review person under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by an Investment Committee chaired by an authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority in the member of the 3i Group Management Committee and United Kingdom.
Changes to the regulatory frameworks comprising senior investment executives.
under which the Company operates are closely monitored.
Investment performance There are also appropriate processes and procedures in The performance of the Companys portfolio is dependent place, at the Company and the Investment Adviser, to upon a range of factors.
These include, but are not minimise the risk of a breach of applicable regulations limited to: i the quality of the initial investment decision which could affect the Companys compliance costs, described above: ii the ability of the portfolio company its business, results of operations or financial position.
to execute successfully its business strategy: and iii Infrastructure assets which provide essential services actual outcomes against the key assumptions underlying are often regulated.
Regulated assets will be subject to the portfolio companys financial projections.
Any one of periodic reviews by the appropriate regulatory body.
these factors could have an impact on the valuation of The outcome of such reviews may impact the returns a portfolio company and upon the Companys ability to generated from the asset, including the valuation.
make a profitable exit from the investment within the desired timeframe.
The Company, through the Investment Adviser, where applicable, will assist portfolio companies with regulatory reviews and monitor regulatory developments.
20 3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 Risks and uncertainties continued A rigorous process is put in place for managing the Financing and interest rate risk relationship with each investee company.
This includes Changes in interest rates can affect the Companys regular asset reviews and, in many cases, Board net income by increasing costs of servicing debt drawn representation by an investment executive from down by the Company to finance its investments.
Changes in the level of interest rates can also affect, among other things: Investment concentration The Company invests across a range of economic sectors i the cost and availability of debt financing and hence and geographies.
Over exposure to a particular sector the Companys ability to achieve attractive rates or geography could increase the impact of adverse of return on its investments: ii the Companys ability changes in macroeconomic or market conditions on the to invest when competing with other potential buyers Company.
Any increase in the average size of investments who may be able to bid for an asset at a higher price over time could also increase the exposure of the due to a lower overall cost of capital: iii the debt Company to the performance of a small number of financing capability of the infrastructure investments large investments, albeit in different sectors and or and businesses in which the Company is invested: and geographies.
The portfolio is subject to periodic reviews iv the rate of return on the Companys uninvested by the Board.
Investment valuations The Companys general financing strategy seeks to The valuation of the portfolio depends to some extent reduce exposure to interest rate risk by limiting on macroeconomic conditions.
Changes in market or borrowings to 50% of the gross assets of the Company.
macroeconomic conditions, could impact the valuation This exposure may also be reduced by introducing a of portfolio assets.
This is mitigated to some degree by combination of a fixed and floating interest rate cost, building portfolio diversification.
allowing continued flexibility but creating some certainty on funding costs going forward.
In addition, the Company Treasury and funding risks may enter into hedging transactions such as derivative The Companys funding objective is that each category transactions, including swaps or caps.
The Company may of investment asset is broadly matched with liabilities instead decide that a certain level of interest rate risk and shareholders funds, according to the risk and would be acceptable for the Company, even if it could maturity characteristics of the assets and that funding otherwise be hedged.
Interest rate hedging transactions needs are met ahead of planned investment.
will only be undertaken for the purpose of efficient portfolio management and are not carried out for Credit risk speculative purposes.
The Companys financial assets are predominantly unsecured investments in unquoted companies.
At 31 March 2008, the Company had in place a An increase in the concentration of the portfolio in a 225 million credit facility which was undrawn.
particular economic sector or geography could increase At the same date, Oystercatcher Luxco 2, a Group credit risk.
Likewise, large or unexpected increases in subsidiary, had borrowings of 190 million drawn interest rates could increase credit risk, particularly in down in full and repayable in full in 2014.
It also companies which are highly leveraged.
had an additional undrawn facility of 60 million.
The borrowings in Oystercatcher Luxco 2 are The Company considers the maximum credit risk to be non-recourse to the Company.
the carrying value of loans and receivables and credit risk exposure is managed on an asset-specific basis The borrowing arrangements of the investment portfolio by individual investment managers at the Investment and their hedging arrangements are managed by the Adviser.
Regular asset reviews provide an insight into the individual portfolio companies.
The Board and Investment trading performance of individual assets and give an early Adviser monitor the level of debt, refinancing risk indication of increased credit risk.
and hedging levels in the portfolio companies on a regular basis.
The Companys remaining financial assets are mainly in the form of deposits with banks of a credit rating of AA or better.
Counterparty limits are set and closely monitored.
3i Infrastructure Limited Annual report and accounts 2008 21 Currency risk Liquidity risk A portion of the Companys underlying investments The Company may face liquidity risks.
As the Companys are denominated in currencies other than sterling.
investments are in infrastructure businesses and assets, However, any dividends or distributions in respect of the and will require a long-term commitment of capital, ordinary shares will generally be made in sterling and the they are relatively illiquid.
The Company can seek to market prices and Net Asset Value of the ordinary shares manage liquidity needs by borrowing, but turns in market will be reported in sterling.
Changes in rates of exchange sentiment may make credit expensive or unavailable.
may have an adverse effect on the value, price or income Liquidity may also be addressed by selling the more liquid of the Companys investments.
A change in foreign assets in the Companys portfolio, but selling those assets currency exchange rates may adversely impact returns on first may in some circumstances not be advantageous the Companys non-sterling denominated investments.
The Company anticipates that its committed facility should assist in mitigating some of The Companys principal non-sterling currency exposures the liquidity risk and intends to raise long-term capital are to the euro, US dollar and indirectly, the Indian rupee in advance of investment needs.
and Singapore dollars, but this may change from time to time.
The Company is not currently hedging all of its Operational risks foreign currency denominated investments.
The Board The Company is exposed to a range of operational risks will review, on a regular basis, whether particular currency which can arise from inadequate processes, people exposures should be hedged.
and systems or from external factors affecting both Currency hedging has the sole purpose of efficient the Company and its external service providers.
portfolio management and is mainly carried out to seek Each service provider is responsible for identifying, to provide protection for the level of sterling dividends assessing, controlling and reporting operational risks.
and other distributions that the Company aims to pay on This is supported by a framework of core values, the ordinary shares and to reduce the risk of currency standards and controls operated by the Company.
fluctuations and the volatility of returns that may result The Board considers reports on the performance and from such currency exposure.
This involves the use of operation of each service provider to gain comfort on the foreign currency borrowings to finance foreign currency operational risk mitigation.
The Company also has regular assets, foreign exchange swaps or foreign exchange updates on legal, taxation and regulatory matters from contracts and other similar transactions.
or option transactions may also be used as part of the currency hedging strategy.
Currency hedging transactions will only be undertaken for the purpose of efficient portfolio management and are not carried out for speculative purposes.
Re-investment risk Where the Company realises an investment and is seeking an alternative investment in which to re-invest the capital realised, suitable investment opportunities may not always be available.
As a result, it may take a significant amount of time to re-invest the Companys capital.
Although the Company has a policy of active management of its cash and liquid investments portfolio to enhance returns pursuant to the Companys treasury management policy, the investments in which the Company invests its cash are expected to generate returns that are substantially lower than the returns that the Company receives from infrastructure investments.
There may also be a high degree of variability between the returns generated by different types of investments forming part of the Companys surplus cash and liquid investments portfolio.
