Chairmans 4 4- -5 5 6-7 8-9 10-15 16-33 34-47 48-53 54-104 Admiral Admiral Gr Group oup 2008 Financial Chief Executives Business review Governance & Board of Directors Financial statement in in 2008 2008 highlights statement Remuneration & Directors report statements A D M I R A L G R O U P p l c 3 plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the Board, and reviews the plans for other senior management positions.
Responsibility for making senior management appointments rests with the Chief Executive.
During 2008, the Committee discussed succession planning across the Group with the Executive team.
Planning for the most senior management positions was formerly in place but below this, succession planning within the Group was not fully documented.
The People Services Manager has implemented a process of documenting and improving the approach taken by the Group to assess and monitor succession planning throughout the Group through the development of a Talent Management programme.
The Committee reviewed the current Board size, structure, and composition and confirmed that no further changes were required and that the leadership of the organisation was such that the Company could continue to compete effectively in the marketplace in which it operates.
The Remuneration Committee The membership at the year-end was John Sussens Chairman, Martin Jackson, and Margaret Johnson.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Committee invites the Chief Executive and Chairman to attend the meetings where it deems appropriate.
The Committee has formal terms of reference, which were last reviewed on 17 December 2008.
The Committee met five times during 2008.
During the year the Committee carried out the following activities :- Re viewed the Groups overall remuneration policy and strategy Rec ommended for approval individual remuneration packages for Executive Directors, and Company Secretary Re viewed the rules and performance measures of the Group share schemes and recommended for approval the grant, award, allocation or issue of shares under such schemes.
A separate Remuneration Report is included within the Report and Accounts.
During the year the Committee purchased consultancy services from Kepler Associates.
In addition, the Company Secretary circulates market survey results as appropriate to enable it to make judgments on the levels of remuneration for the Directors and to review the remuneration of the Groups senior Executives.
Internal control and risk management The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of these systems.
The systems of internal control over business, operational, financial and compliance risks are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups internal controls: that it has been in place for the year ended 31 December 2008: and that, up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, it is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the internal control guidance for Directors provided in the Code.
A key element of the control system is that the Board meets regularly with a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility.
In order to ensure these responsibilities are properly discharged, the Board has delegated the task of supervising risk management and internal control to the Risk Management Committee RMC.
There are several key elements to the risk management environment throughout the Group.
These include the setting of risk management policy at Board level, enforcement of that policy by the Chief Executive, delivery of the policy by the RMC via the Groups systems of internal 0 G O V E R n A n c E & R E M U n E R At I O n control and risk management, and the overall assurance provided by the Audit Committee that the systems operate effectively.
The Board recognises that the day-to-day responsibility for implementing these policies must lie with the management team, whose operational decisions must take into account risk and how this can effectively be controlled.
The Head of Compliance and the Risk Officer take responsibility for ensuring management are aware of their risk management obligations, providing them with support and advice, and ensuring that the risk management strategy is properly communicated.
The head of each business unit or business area is required, with the support of the Risk Manager, to undertake a full assessment process to identify and quantify the risks that their departments face or pose to the Group and the adequacy of the controls in place to mitigate or reduce those risks.
Reports are produced showing the most significant risks identified and the controls in place.
Internal Audit and the Compliance function use the risk registers to plan their programme of audits to ensure that the controls described are actually in place.
The RMC receives reports setting out key performance and risk indicators and considers possible control issues brought to their attention by early warning mechanisms that are embedded within the operational units.
The RMC and the Audit Committee also receive regular reports from Internal Audit, which include recommendations for improvement in the control and operational environment.
The Audit Committees role in this area is primarily confined to a high-level review of the arrangements for internal control although at its discretion the Committee may well request more detailed information on specific issues should they arise.
The Boards agenda includes consideration of risk and control as a regular item and receives reports thereon from the RMC and the Audit Committee.
The emphasis is on obtaining the relevant degree of assurance and not merely reporting by exception.
On 27 February 2009 the Board carried out the annual assessment for the 2008 year by considering documentation from the Audit Committee, taking account of events since 31 December 2008.
The Audit Committees ability to provide the appropriate assurance to the Board depends on the provision of periodic and independent confirmation, primarily by Internal Audit, that the controls established by management are operating effectively.
The Audit Committee reviews the wider aspects of internal control and risk management, providing a high level challenge to the steps being taken to implement the risk management strategy.
The Board confirms that there were no significant issues arising during the year under review.
The Risk Management Committee The Committees members include the three Executive Directors, the Head of Compliance who chairs the meetings, the Risk Officer, and senior management representatives.
One of the Committees principal responsibilities is to ensure that the risk management policy approved by the Board is implemented throughout the Group.
The Committee has formal terms of reference and is required to manage regulatory issues, assess and monitor reinsurance protection, and ensure that a risk management strategy is effectively employed by the Group.
The Committee meets around 8 times a year and each Committee member receives an agenda and papers in a timely manner allowing the Committee to make informed decisions and take appropriate actions.
The Committee develops policies to ensure compliance with regulation and ensures that appropriate action is taken by the management team to implement compliant systems and procedures.
Internal Audit The Internal Audit function assists management by providing them with timely, independent assurance that the controls established are operating effectively.
This includes regular reviews of internal control systems and business processes, including compliance systems and procedures, and identification of control weaknesses and recommendations to management on improvements.
