DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION BG078 p11-19 vAW2.
qxp:Layout 1 16 3 09 22:42 Page 17 17 Principal risks and uncertainties This section provides a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on BG Groups strategy, performance, results, financial condition and or reputation.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business, set out below, do not appear in any particular order of potential materiality or probability of occurrence.
It is important to note that not all of these risks are within the Process, a mandatory Group-wide process designed to enable Groups control.
It is also not certain that the Groups processes for timely and appropriate management of risk.
identifying and managing risk will be successful in fully mitigating The Audit Committee oversees the framework within which all relevant risks.
The Group may also be adversely affected by other BG Groups risk management systems operate.
The Group Executive risks besides the principal risks listed here.
Investors should carefully Committee GEC has overall accountability for the identification consider the principal risks and uncertainties described in this section and management of risk across the Group.
In addition, individual in conjunction with the Legal Notice set out on page 136. executive committees such as the Energy Trading and Credit Risk The risks set out below should be viewed in the context of what Committee and the Group Performance Committee monitor are now very challenging global economic conditions.
In almost specific risk areas.
The Governance and Risk Committee provides all countries, industrial and consumer demand is falling sharply as assurance to the GEC on the effectiveness of the Groups risk the economic crisis continues.
Those changes can directly impact management framework and processes.
Details of the executive Group performance, particularly through falling commodity prices, committees and their responsibilities are given on pages 48 and 49. as indicated below.
The Chairmans and Chief Executives statements Risks are identified at project, operational and strategic levels.
on pages 6 to 10 provide an overview of BG Groups perspective on Management of risk is a line responsibility: however, risks are also the global economic outlook.
The Strategy section on pages 11 to 16 monitored at corporate level by the relevant BG Group technical and summarises the Groups short, medium and long-term plans for professional functions and by the Groups management committees.
continued growth and value creation through the current downturn Aggregated risk information is also shared widely across the global and beyond.
organisation to ensure that the Groups business units are aware of BG Groups proactive approach to the identification, assessment and the wider risk environment when assessing the challenges in their mitigation of risk is delivered through the Business Risk Management own areas of responsibility.
Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary Commodity prices BG Groups results are sensitive to natural gas and crude oil prices The Groups portfolio includes a range of long-term gas contracts which are dependent on a number of factors which impact world which are not directly or immediately linked to short-term changes supply and demand.
The Groups exposure to commodity prices also in commodity prices.
Additionally, some LNG purchase contracts varies according to a number of other factors, including the mix of contain provisions under which the gas suppliers share price risk production and sales.
The Group estimates that, other factors being with BG Group.
The Group does not, as a matter of course, hedge constant, a US$1.00 rise or fall in the Brent oil price would increase all commodity prices, but may hedge certain LNG contracts and gas or decrease operating profit in the Groups E&P business in 2009 and oil revenue streams from time to time.
In marketing its gas supply by around 55 million.
portfolio, the Group undertakes commodity hedging and trading activities, including the use of natural gas futures contracts, financial and physical forward-based contracts and swap contracts.
Fluctuations in exchange rates BG Groups cash ow, income statement and balance sheet are In light of its US Dollar exposure, the Group borrows in, or swaps the reported in pounds Sterling and may be affected by uctuations majority of its borrowings into, US Dollars.
In general, the Group does in exchange rates.
A significant majority of the Groups business not hedge US Dollar-denominated transactions, although it may do activities is conducted in US Dollars, and the Group holds substantial so for specific transactions.
The Groups net balance sheet exposure US Dollar-denominated assets.
BG Group estimates that, in 2009, to currencies other than the US Dollar or pound Sterling primarily the other factors being constant, a 10 cent strengthening or weakening Brazilian Real and Australian Dollar is managed on a case-by-case in the US Dollar against the pound Sterling would increase basis, partly by hedging certain expected cash ows into pound or decrease operating profit by approximately 250 to 300 million.
Subsidiary undertakings which borrow without recourse to the Group are generally required to borrow in, or swap borrowing into, their respective functional currency.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 BG078 p11-19 vAW2.
qxp:Layout 1 16 3 09 22:42 Page 18 18 Directors Report Business Review Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary Credit The challenging credit environment during 2008 has highlighted Credit exposure risk is monitored centrally for individual transaction the importance of governance and management of credit risk.
and concentration risk and the appropriateness of limits.
The Group BG Groups exposure to credit risk takes the form of a loss that considers each counterpartys financial condition prior to entering would be recognised if counterparties failed to, or were unable to, into commercial contracts, trading sales agreements, swaps, futures meet their payment obligations.
These risks may arise in certain and options contracts.
The Group may also seek cash collateral, letters agreements in relation to amounts owed for physical product sales, of credit or parent company guarantees.
Where multiple transactions the use of derivative instruments, and the investment of surplus are undertaken with a single counterparty or group of related cash balances.
The Group is also exposed to political and economic counterparties, the Group may enter into a netting arrangement risk events, which may cause non-payment of foreign currency such as the standard International Swaps and Derivative Association obligations to BG Group.
The current credit crisis could also lead to ISDA documentation for financial transactions.
For physical the failure of companies in the sector, potentially including partners, commodity trading, BG Group seeks to put in place bespoke master contractors and suppliers.
netting agreements or standard arrangements appropriate to the local market.
Interest rate and liquidity risk The Groups financing costs may be significantly affected by interest The Groups interest rate management policy requires that rate volatility.
The Group is also exposed to liquidity risks, including borrowings are substantially oating rate.
Exceptions from this policy risks associated with refinancing borrowings as they mature, the risk require approval from the Groups Finance Committee.
The Group that borrowing facilities are not available to meet cash requirements maintains adequate committed borrowing facilities and holds its and the risk that financial assets cannot readily be converted to cash financial assets primarily in short-term, highly liquid investments without loss of value.
Failure to manage financing risks could have that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash.
The Group a material impact on the Groups cash ow, balance sheet and imposes limits on the amount of borrowings that mature within financial position.
Reserves development and project delivery Delivery of growth from the portfolio outlined on page 11 will Development planning and project delivery are subject to stringent depend to a significant extent upon developing reserves and internal assurance processes to optimise designs and minimise risk.
completion of various development and expansion projects.
The Due diligence prior to the final investment decision includes rigorous Groups ability to develop reserves could be affected by inaccurate scrutiny of feasibility studies, concept selection and definition, interpretation of received data, unexpected drilling conditions or by project planning, commercialisation options and project economics.
inadequate human or technical resources.
During the pre-sanction Projects are screened against a wide range of external sensitivities, phase, projects are subject to a number of sub-surface, engineering, including stakeholder issues, commodity prices and input costs.
stakeholder, commercial and regulatory risks.
The principal risk prior BG Group is focused on project management throughout the to sanction is failure to assess accurately the project schedule and development lifecycle, assuring performance against Group-wide cost, leading to margin erosion or negative returns.
Failure to select technical standards and applying strict capital and cost discipline the most suitable development concept, based on a full lifecycle to ensure value is protected.
The Group seeks to ensure that effective understanding of the project, can expose projects to additional risk stakeholder alignment enables an adequate degree of control during and cost.
Subsequent delivery of the projects is subject to cost and project construction and operation.
time overruns: Health, Safety, Security and Environmental HSSE risks: technical, commercial, legal or regulatory compliance failures: equipment shortages: availability, competence and capability of human resources and contractors: unscheduled outages: mechanical and technical difficulties: and gas pipeline system constraints.
In many cases, the cause of delay or cost overrun in project implementation can be the misalignment of partner objectives: political factors can also often be a significant risk to project delivery.
com DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT SHAREHOLDER BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INFORMATION BG078 p11-19 vAW2.
qxp:Layout 1 19 3 09 18:13 Page 19 19 Principal risks and uncertainties Commentary Industry costs Ination in raw materials costs and in the costs of goods and services Industry costs are already beginning to respond to the downturn in from industry suppliers and manufacturers presents risks to project activity.
Input costs of some raw materials have already fallen sharply, economics.
The rapid reduction in commodity prices and demand in and the Group expects other supply costs to moderate over the next recent months has already led to reductions in some industry costs, 12 to 18 months.
The cost reductions expected as a result of these notably raw materials.
However, the timing of cost reductions can lag market forces will provide the Group with an opportunity to lock in the decline in commodity prices: and sustainable project economics lower unit costs across its portfolio of new projects.
depend upon the degree and timing of commitment to particular cost structures.
Operational performance BG Groups production volumes and therefore revenues are dependent BG Group has mandatory policies and standards governing all on the continued performance of its production assets.
The Groups aspects of production including HSSE and asset integrity.
These are production assets are subject to operational risks including: equipment supported by assurance processes which are applied across its global or limited plant availability due to plant maintenance or shutdowns: operations and which are supervised by the Groups professional asset integrity and HSSE incidents: adverse reserves recovery from technical functions.
the field: the performance of joint venture partners: and exposure to natural hazards such as extreme weather events.
Health, Safety, Security and Environment HSSE Hydrocarbon production and operations in harsh and remote Safety and asset integrity are overriding priorities for the Group.
The working environments present a number of HSSE risks.
These Groups mandatory HSSE and Asset Integrity Standards are regularly include: asset integrity failure: loss of containment of hydrocarbons reviewed to ensure they are in line with industry best practice, and are and other hazardous materials: personal health and safety: effects embedded in the organisation through extensive training backed up of natural disasters and pandemics: and security of personnel.
These by regular audits and assessments.
Further details of the Groups risks could result in injury or loss of life, damage to the environment approach to HSSE risk are set out in The way we work section on or loss of certain facilities.
Stakeholder relationships Successful delivery of BG Groups strategic objectives depends in BG Group is committed to alignment with governments and key part on the Groups ability to maintain positive and collaborative stakeholders, built around long-term relationships, economic stakeholder relationships and to act with integrity in the countries development, local content and employment creation.
Through this in which it does business.
This includes the Groups management of approach based on the objective of shared benefits the Group seeks relationships with, for example, governments and host communities to build a foundation of stakeholder support for its operations that is as well as with national oil companies, many of which play a key role in key to sustainability.
Governments of resource-owning nations are determining access to a substantial percentage of global hydrocarbons.
aware of their need for foreign direct investment amid capital scarcity, Stakeholder issues have the potential to impact directly on project and understand that there is competition between nations to attract economics or on BG Groups scope to operate in line with its business that investment.
In BG Groups view, host governments also understand plan.
For example, resource-owning nations may seek to alter fiscal or the importance that investors place on stability and sanctity of other terms governing oil and gas industry operations.
Further details of the Groups approach to stakeholder alignment are set out in The way we work section on page 35.
Climate change policy Policies and initiatives at national and international level to address BG Groups strategy takes account of the fact that many governments climate change are likely to affect business conditions and demand are now seeking increased natural gas utilisation as a lower-carbon for various types of energy in the medium to long term.
Policy alternative to coal or oil within the context of their broader climate approaches which promote the usage of non-hydrocarbon energy change mitigation strategies.
However, public policy responses to sources such as renewables, biofuels, hydroelectric power and nuclear global warming continue to evolve, and BG Group closely monitors power may have an impact on BG Groups ability to maintain its developments in this area.
Further details of the Groups approach and position in key markets.
Additionally, new regulatory regimes intended perspective on climate change are set out in The way we work section to establish emissions trading schemes could alter hydrocarbon on page 35 of this report and in the BG Group Sustainability Report, production economics.
Access to oil and gas resources may also be available online at www.
com sr affected by developments in policies intended to protect local habitats.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
