42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 32 32 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts The Group has in place a risk management framework designed to ensure that the risks inherent within the business are Business review adequately assessed and monitored.
No business is without risk.
This section explains our risk management structure and highlights the main risks that we believe could impact on the Risk factors performance of the business.
Risk Management Structure The Group has a Risk Management Committee which meets on a monthly basis.
This Committee comprises the Director responsible for Risk, the Group Head of Risk and various other senior managers representing legal, investment, compliance, group projects, as well as representatives of Alliance Trust Savings Limited and AT Asset Management Asia-Pacific Limited the latter also having its own local Risk Management Committee on which the Group Head of Risk also serves.
The risk management framework categorises risk under four broad headings: investment risk, operational risk, business risk and liquidity risk.
Investment Risk This risk, which includes credit risk, concerns mainly the decisions being taken over the investment of funds in different asset classes, and within the different portfolios.
This is monitored through the Asset Liability and Income Committee ALICo who provide oversight on asset allocation within parameters approved by the Board.
Individual managers are responsible for assessing the risks associated with each investment that they make.
In the course of the year additional management tools were introduced to improve the monitoring of investment performance and hence the risks associated with investment decisions.
During the year the Board approved a derivatives policy which formulates the basis under which these financial instruments can be used.
Derivatives may be used by the Company to reduce the potential of loss or to enhance our ability to change investments Joe Hannah, Risk Management.
The use of such investments is centrally controlled.
Gearing risk also falls under this category.
The risk here is that the value of investments made with money which is borrowed do not increase sufficiently to cover the borrowing and interest The Group has in place a risk costs resulting in a loss.
The Company intends only to use gearing tactically where it identifies opportunities which will management framework designed provide a return, whilst at the same time managing the risk.
The to ensure that the risks inherent level of gearing which may be used is set by the Board and the within the business are adequately use of gearing is decided by ALICo.
Operational Risk This is the risk of inadequate or failed processes or systems.
The main potential risk here is a failure of our systems for holding or administering investments.
We have introduced improved systems regarding business continuity planning and testing.
This year we successfully undertook a significant business continuity test involving the use of live data and our backup facilities which are externally hosted.
Our business continuity plan is updated regularly and is subject to scrutiny and testing.
Information for Overview Business Review Governance Directors Remuneration Financial Statements Shareholders 42472 Accounts:42472 Accounts 21 4 08 18:22 Page 33 Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 33 Change, in the form of business projects, has again been a major feature of the year.
This has been achieved through our project framework focusing activity on those areas identified as presenting our greatest potential risk exposure.
We actively look at data security and we have taken steps at a Group level to improve our existing personal data integrity processes.
Business Risk This risk category includes external factors such as changes in the political, economic and regulatory environment as well as the risks arising from our businesses and products, strategic acquisitions or business diversification.
The effect of legislation on the operation of our financial subsidiaries is high, and we have a number of specialist staff to ensure compliance with the legal and regulatory strictures affecting our operations.
Liquidity Risk This risk category relates to the level of liquid funds, whether in Louise Marshall and Mike Murphy, Compliance.
cash or easily realisable assets, that we have to satisfy obligations for payments that may arise.
Our cash position is monitored daily across the organisation with surplus funds invested to earn interest.
The subprime credit problem in the course of the year exposed a number of weaknesses in the market which impacts on the ability of some companies to obtain credit.
However, this is not an issue for the Company which continues to be able to secure funding when required from major banks at keen rates.
Alliance Trust Savings Limited The foregoing risks also apply to our main financial services company.
We have reviewed our operating processes and migrated some of the work formerly carried out in London to Dundee while simplifying and enhancing operations.
In the course of the year we carried out an offsite business continuity test which demonstrated our ability to maintain our business processes even if the use of our main offices was denied to us.
Other specific areas of risk management which have been enhanced in the course of the year have included a re-emphasis of the importance of client data security with additional guidance being given on security measures to be taken in the case of any transfer of such information.
Anti-fraud measures have been taken to combat the increasing incidence of criminal activity in the financial services sector.
Further information on financial instuments and risk as required by IFRS7 can be found on pages 79 to 83 of this Report and Accounts.
