Aviva plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Risk management As a global company, we face a large and diverse number of Our Risk Management Framework provides the means for us to risks.
Each of these risks has the potential to harm our financial identify, assess, measure, manage and monitor all of these different performance or hinder the achievement of our strategic objectives.
types of risk to provide us with a single picture of the threats, If we dont manage risk effectively we could miss potential uncertainties and opportunities we face.
Were then able to make opportunities to further develop and expand our business.
appropriate decisions to limit and control the impact that all of these risks may have on our strategic objectives.
What sorts of risks do we face?
What risk management activity happens at Aviva?
We group the type of risks we face into three categories: financial, strategic and operational.
To ensure that risks are effectively identified and assessed and that appropriate controls and responses are in place, our risk Financial risks cover market and credit risk, insurance risk, management activity needs to operate through clearly defined liquidity and capital management.
and agreed structures and processes.
At Aviva, we coordinate all group-wide risk management Strategic risks include issues such as customer, products and markets activities through a central risk team, led by the group chief risk as well as any risks to our business model arising from changes officer.
In each of our regions, local chief risk officers ensure that in our market and risks arising from mergers and acquisitions.
the regional risk profiles remain within the limits set centrally.
Operational risks arise from inadequately controlled internal The local chief risk officers work with business unit management processes or systems, human error or non-compliance as well as to ensure that our risk management framework is being used from external events.
Operational risks include taxation, reputation consistently across all our businesses.
They also work with the and regulatory risks, such as compliance.
group chief risk officer to coordinate and communicate decisions that are taken at a group level.
Naturally, its impossible to analyse every single risk we encounter, As well as working with the regions, the central risk team is so instead we set limits to manage our material risks to ensure also responsible for managing group risk governance and oversight.
we stay within our risk appetite the amount of risk we are willing to accept.
To work out how material a risk is to our business Our Risk Management Framework we assess its size and scale based on how likely it is that it will At group centre, we monitor risks on a regular basis through our occur and what potential impact it would have on our business and Risk Management Framework.
The framework includes all our risk our stakeholders if it were to occur.
Most importantly, when risks management processes, systems and tools and helps set standards are outside of appetite we agree what actions need to be taken for identifying, managing and reporting risks and establishing to manage the risks or groups of risks.
minimum standards for our control environment.
Corporate Governance and oversight: Risk committee structure Set strategic objectives Board Aviva plc Board Monitor performance Set and uphold values Audit Risk and CSR Committee Regulatory Committee Committee Set risk policies Disclosure Group Group Monitor performance Committee Executive Oversee risk management Committee Provide challenge Recommend risk activity Group ALCO Group ORC ALCO ORC SubSubcommittees committees Oversee risk management Regional Region Monitor regional risk profile Executive Operate in line with policy Committee Report to Group Regional Risk Committee Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information This process allows us to: How are financial, strategic and assess the overall risk exposures we face as a group: operational risks managed at Aviva?
identify risk exposures across specific areas of our business Financial risks or business activities: and Were exposed to financial risk as a result of changes in the values of our investments and the value of our insurance liabilities.
This risk is define the risks were prepared to accept.
caused by potential market movements in equity and property prices, The central risk team monitors these risk exposures on a regular the impact of interest rate changes and inflation expectations, credit risk basis with a specific focus on financial risks via a fortnightly report, exposures, foreign exchange rate movements and liquidity demands.
and reports the findings to the Executive Committee and, as part Market risk of the performance management process, senior management Aviva is exposed to market risk from owning a portfolio of review risk management information to ensure the successful international insurance businesses.
A decline in markets or an delivery of our business objectives.
increase in market volatility may also adversely affect sales of As well as the ongoing monitoring activities the central risk team our investment products and our fund management business.
produces a formal quarterly risk report for the Risk and Regulatory We recognise that market risk is part of the businesses that Committee of the board and the various risk oversight committees.
we run, and that a certain level of market risk is acceptable in Corporate governance and oversight order to deliver benefits to both policyholders and shareholders.
Our Risk Governance Framework allocates responsibility for the We manage market risk by applying our market risk policy to oversight of risk management to a number of committees at group all of the assets under the groups control.
This includes policyholder centre with the Group Asset Liability Committee ALCO and the assets those assets supporting the technical liabilities and Group Operational Risk Committee ORC providing a key focus shareholder assets the surplus assets held that are not required on financial and operational risk.
The Group centre committees are to meet policyholder benefits and to cover regulatory margins.
in turn supported by the regions.
These relationships are summarised In practice assets can move between these categories.
To ensure we manage the risks around assets backing technical These committees monitor the aggregate risk profile, provide liabilities, we have set standards for the way businesses should challenge and recommend risk management activity and ensure match their liabilities with appropriate assets.
Businesses also need that our risk policies are used to manage risk to agreed standards.
to follow a clear decision-making and monitoring process when Board oversight is maintained on a regular basis through liabilities cannot be matched or a degree of mismatching is desired.
its Risk and Regulatory Committee.
The group chief risk officer Several of our long-term savings businesses sell products where has a reporting line to the chief financial officer as well as to the majority of the market risk is borne by the policyholder.
the chairman of the Risk & Regulatory Committee assuring Any market risk attributable to policyholders is managed to independence of the function.
satisfy the policyholders objectives for risk and reward.
We monitor the financial impact of the changes to market Policies and procedures values including our staff pension schemes through our We have 35 policies that deal with the management of all our risks.
measurement of economic capital and sensitivities to our key These policies define our risk appetite and set out risk management performance measures and set our risk appetite in respect of and control standards for the groups worldwide operations.
the amount to be invested in different types of asset.
The policies also set out the roles and responsibilities of businesses, regions, policy owners, and the risk oversight committees.
Equity price risk As our business needs to change and respond to market Falls in equity prices is our largest market risk exposure.
conditions and customer needs, we regularly monitor our policies We continually monitor our exposures relative to our risk appetite and risk appetite to ensure they remain relevant and up-to-date.
and have reduced our overall exposures to equity risk during 2008 This helps to provide assurance to the various governance and by extending our portfolio of equity hedges.
This is in addition risk oversight committees that there are appropriate controls in to the significant equity fide-risking we performed in 2007 within place for all our core business activities, and that the processes for our main staff pension scheme and general insurance businesses.
managing risk are understood and followed consistently across These hedges tend to take the form of a portfolio of options our global businesses.
designed to provide protection against falls in equity prices at the lowest cost possible.
Over the year we have actively managed our Risk and economic capital portfolio of equity hedges to ensure our equity risk remains within We continue to develop our economic capital models to allow us appetite without any adverse liquidity impacts.
Hedging is a to measure, compare and further understand our risks.
The results strategy used to reduce exposures to price risk movements.
of the modelling are incorporated into our key decision making A 10% decrease in equity prices would decrease total processes.
These models show us the relative impact to economic shareholders funds net of tax by 1,100 million on an MCEV basis capital from the risks we face.
In turn this allows us to consider and 600 million on an IFRS basis.
Lines of business sensitivities to appropriate and effective mitigating strategies where risks are increases in equity prices are shown in note 55 to the financial outside of appetite.
statements and in the section on MCEV reporting.
These figures The Financial Services Authority FSA requires Aviva to assess are based on an instantaneous shock and include the impact of its economic capital requirements to ensure that it adequately the hedges in place.
reflects business and control risks.
In turn this analysis supports our strategic planning and decision-making processes.
Aviva plc 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Risk management continued Deployment of assets Credit risk exposures 1 1 6 5 debt securities 7 2 4 3 % 6 % 1 Equities 12 4 2 Property 4 1 AAA 44 150bn 355bn 3 Cash 7 2 AA 16 4 Loans 12 3 A 26 5 Debt securities 43 4 BBB 9 5 6 Other investments 10 5 Speculative grade 1 3 7 Other net assets 12 6 Not rated 4 2 Total 100 Total 100 Interest rate risk Were also exposed to credit risk through our use of reinsurance.
Changes in the level of interest rates affect both the products we Reinsurance arrangements are only placed with providers who sell and the value of our investments.
For example, long-term debt meet our counterparty credit standards.
and fixed income securities are both exposed to fluctuations in interest Foreign exchange risk rates.
We are also exposed to movements in interest rates on As an international business were exposed to fluctuations in business carrying investment return and surrender value guarantees.
exchange rates in the countries in which we undertake business.
A 1% increase in interest rates would decrease total Over half of our premium income comes from currencies other shareholders funds net of tax by 500 million on an MCEV basis than sterling.
Generally, we dont hedge these currency risks and 600 million on an IFRS basis.
Lines of business sensitivities to as profits are retained to support growth in the business units.
increase in interest rates are shown in note 55 and in the section However significant dividends from overseas business units are on MCEV reporting.
hedged as they are declared.
For some categories of our long-term business, we reduce Movements in exchange rates will affect the value of interest rate risk through the close matching of assets and liabilities.
shareholders funds which are expressed in sterling.
This aspect For short-term business such as general insurance, we require a of foreign exchange risk is monitored centrally against limits aimed close matching of assets and liabilities by duration to minimise this at aligning capital deployed with capital required.
If we cant entirely remove interest rate exposure through borrowings and derivatives when necessary to keep currency matching, then we may use a variety of derivative instruments exposures within these limits.
We hedge specific foreign exchange in order to hedge against unfavourable market movements.
transaction risks when we feel its appropriate: for example, We have implemented a portfolio of hedges in Delta Lloyd acquisition or disposal activity.
to protect against the interest rate guarantees within the business.
Were also exposed to some exchange risk from assets held This strategy protected our position in the light of the rapidly falling in staff pension schemes, as a part of the investment strategy interest rates environment we have witnessed.
agreed with the scheme trustees.
Property price risk Derivatives risk We also invest in property assets in different global locations.
We use derivatives in a number of our businesses to enable efficient These assets are also subject to fluctuations in their value.
Property investment management or as part of structured retail savings investment is managed locally by our business units, recognising products.
In addition we use derivatives to hedge the financial risks any local regulatory restrictions in respect of asset admissibility or discussed above.
Derivatives can involve complex financial transactions liquidity and with reference to the business units and, to minimise the risks involved we set minimum standards of risk appetite.
control that we require our businesses to adopt when using derivatives.
A 10% decrease in property values would decrease Activity is overseen by the Derivatives Approvals Committee, shareholders funds by 300 million pre-tax on an IFRS basis and which monitors implementation of the policy, exposure levels and embedded value would decrease by 355 million, net of tax on an approves large or complex transactions proposed by businesses.
Sensitivities to property values are shown in note 55 Speculative activity is prohibited, unless prior approval has been and in the section on MCEV reporting.
obtained from the Derivatives Approval Committee.
Credit risk Liquidity risk We have significant exposures to credit risk through our investments We need to ensure that we maintain sufficient liquid assets to meet in corporate bonds, commercial mortgages, and other securities.
our cash flow obligations as they fall due.
All our businesses identify We hold these investments for the benefit of both our policyholders their sources of liquidity risk and monitor the potential exposures.
At group level, we maintain a prudent level of liquidity which We manage the exposure to individual counterparties, by meets the expectations of the FSA and the wider investment measuring exposure against centrally set limits.
We maintain a buffer of liquid assets to cover account of credit ratings issued by rating agencies such as Standard unforeseen circumstances, including providing temporary funds & Poors.
to any of our business units that may experience temporary liquidity We manage the level of risk were prepared to take via analysis shortfalls.
The group maintains significant committed borrowing that helps us define the optimal balance between the risk we take facilities from a range of banks.
and the returns we can earn on the underlying assets, monitoring the types of investment available to us to achieve our aims.
We also Insurance risk management actively monitor and consider the risk of a fall in the value of fixed As an insurance business, we evaluate exposures to determine interest securities from changes in the perceived credit worthiness whether or not to insure risks and set terms and conditions for of the issuer.
Business review 12 81 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 35 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information Life insurance risk We use reinsurance to help reduce the financial impact of a Our life insurance businesses are exposed to a range of life catastrophe and to manage the volatility of our earnings.
We use insurance risks from various products.
These risks are, typically, extensive financial modelling and analysis to ensure we understand longevity the risk that people will live longer than we have the catastrophe risk and to ensure we get maximum benefit in assumed, mortality the death of a policyholder, and morbidity terms of cost of providing the catastrophe reinsurance covers.
ill health, as well as experience risks to changes in the underlying As catastrophe events become more remote, the amount of risk assumptions made at the start of the insurance policy, for example we retain increases, so that our total potential loss from our most duration of the policy and expenses.
concentrated exposure northern European wind storm is approximately 400 million for a one in ten year event, compared to Longevity risk approximately 850 million for a one in a hundred year event.
We have a significant exposure to annuity business and our most significant life insurance risk is therefore associated with longevity.
Worsening claims ratios We monitor longevity statistics and compare these with emerging Another material risk is the financial impact of worsening claims industry trends.
We use the results of this analysis to decide both ratios.
The business units manage this risk through underwriting the reserving and pricing of annuities.
disciplines, control of claims management and exploring different Inevitably, there remains uncertainty about the development of solutions to the way we measure and price the risks we underwrite.
longevity that cannot be removed.
Should our assumptions in respect For example, our UK business has developed digital flood mapping to of annuitant mortality worsen by 5% then shareholders funds would understand better the risk to household insurance from flood damage.
decrease by 320 million pre-tax on an IFRS basis and decrease Strategic risks embedded value by 415 million on an MCEV basis, net of tax.
We are exposed to a number of strategic risks.
Our strategy needs to Mortality and morbidity risk support our vision, purpose and objectives and be responsive to both Our business units manage mortality and morbidity risk arising the external and internal environment, for example changes in the on insurance products through the setting of limits and the use competitive landscape, regulatory changes, merger and acquisition of reinsurance to transfer excessive risk exposures.
Sensitivity tests opportunities and emerging trends such as climate change, show that mortality risk is relatively low.
A 5% worsening in pandemic and improving longevity.
assurance mortality experience reduces shareholder funds by Strategic risk is explicitly considered throughout our strategic 30 million on an IFRS basis and decreases embedded value by review and planning process.
Developments are assessed during 265 million on an MCEV basis, net of tax.
our quarterly performance management process where all aspects of our risk profile are considered.
Persistency risk We actively engage with external bodies to share the benefit Persistency or lapse risk affects all of our life insurance businesses of our expertise in supporting responses to emerging risks as well and is managed at a business unit level through frequent monitoring as challenging developments that could be damaging to our of experience.
Where possible, the potential financial impact of business and the industry as a whole.
lapses is reduced by the product design.
Guidelines have been developed on persistency management, sharing best practice Operational risks in the setting of lapse assumptions, product design requirements, Were exposed to operational risk arising from inadequately controlled experience monitoring, and required management actions.
internal processes or systems, human error or non-compliance as well as from external events.
Operational risks include taxation, Product Design and Pricing risk reputation and regulatory risks, such as compliance.
Poorly designed or inadequately priced products can lead to both Our businesses are primarily responsible for identifying and financial loss and reputational damage for Aviva.
Guidelines have been managing operational risks in line with minimum standards of developed to support the businesses through the complete cycle control set out in our policies.
Each operational risk is assessed of the product development process, financial analysis and pricing.
against financial, operational and reputation criteria.
Expense risk Business management teams must be satisfied that all Expenses are managed and monitored at a business unit level, material risks falling outside our risk appetite are being mitigated, as part of general day-to-day business management.
Expense monitored and reported to an appropriate level.
Any risks with a management is a key part of a business ability to meet financial high potential impact level are monitored centrally on a regular basis.
Expense risk arises not only from any failure to control Supplier risk the overall level of expenses but also from any deviation of actual Within Aviva, we have robust guidelines on how supplier risk should experience from the assumptions made in pricing our insurance be assessed, mitigated and monitored through our Purchasing and policies.
Expense assumptions are regularly monitored to ensure Outsourcing policies.
These policies are promoted and endorsed they remain appropriate.
by Aviva's senior management and our local Procurement and Risk General insurance risk teams have the responsibility to ensure these are fully implemented.
Our general insurance businesses are exposed to a variety of Performance against these guidelines is then assessed at both risks, including fluctuations in the timing, frequency and severity regional and group level on an ongoing quarterly basis.
Risk is of claims and claim settlements, inadequate reinsurance protection measured against four areas: financial impact, internal service and inadequate reserves.
disruption, customer impact and risk to the Aviva brand.
Where we identify any potential supply risk detailed actions Catastrophe risk plans are put in place and local senior management are informed to Our largest general insurance risk is claims incurred from ensure appropriate focus is applied.
catastrophic events, such as flooding and windstorm.
We manage In addition we complete regular assessments of our major this risk through central monitoring of risk aggregations and, suppliers and ensure that we have robust alternative supply options where we do not wish to retain the risk within the group, available.
We assess the ongoing financial health of our major by purchasing catastrophe cover from third-party reinsurers.
suppliers globally, coupled with a review of the business contingency plans to ensure an adequate standard of assurance is maintained.
