Business review C14170 Barclays B 069-079. qxp:B File 05 6 3 09 01:26 Page 69 Risk management 1 Risk factors 70 Barclays approach to risk management 75 Organisation and structure 76 Key elements 78 Credit risk management 80 Organisation and structure 81 Measurement, reporting and internal ratings 82 Credit risk mitigation 86 Analysis of total assets and credit risk exposures 88 Loans and advances 89 Debt securities and other bills 103 Derivatives 104 Barclays Capital credit market exposures 106 Market risk management 119 Organisation and structure 119 Traded market risk 120 Non-traded market risk 122 Disclosures about certain trading activities 123 Liquidity risk management 124 Organisation and structure 124 Key elements 125 Capital risk management 127 Organisation and structure 127 Key elements 128 Operational risk management 130 Organisation and structure 130 Measurement and capital modelling 131 Operational risk events 132 Financial crime risk management 133 Anti-money laundering and sanctions risk 133 Fraud risk 134 Security risk 134 Statistical information 135 Supervision and regulation 148 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 69 C14170 Barclays B 069-079. qxp:B File 05 6 3 09 01:26 Page 70 Risk management Risk factors The following information sets forth certain risk factors that the Group Business conditions and general economy believes could cause its actual future results to differ materially from The profitability of Barclays businesses could be adversely affected by the expected results.
However, other factors could also adversely affect the worsening of general economic conditions in the United Kingdom, globally Group results and so the factors discussed in this report should not be or in certain individual markets such as the United States, Spain or South considered to be a complete set of all potential risks and uncertainties.
Factors such as interest rates, inflation, investor sentiment, the availability and cost of credit, foreign exchange risk, creditworthiness of counterparties, the liquidity of the global financial markets and the level and volatility of equity prices could significantly affect the Groups customers activity levels and financial position.
For example: the current economic downturn or significantly higher interest rates or continued lack of credit availability to the Groups customers could adversely affect the credit quality of the Groups on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet assets by increasing the risk that a greater number of the Groups customers and counterparties would be unable to meet their obligations: a market downturn or further worsening of the economy could cause the Group to incur further mark to market losses in its trading portfolios: a further decline in the value of Sterling relative to other currencies could increase risk weighted assets and therefore the capital requirements of the Group: a further market downturn could reduce the fees the Group earns for managing assets.
For example, a downturn in trading markets could affect the flows of assets under management: and a further market downturn would be likely to lead to a decline in the volume of transactions that the Group executes for its customers and, therefore, lead to a decline in the income it receives from fees and commissions and interest.
Current market volatility and recent market developments The global financial system has been experiencing difficulties since August 2007 and financial markets have deteriorated dramatically since the bankruptcy filing of Lehman Brothers in September 2008.
Despite measures taken by the United Kingdom and United States governments and the European Central Bank and other central banks to stabilise the financial markets, the volatility and disruption of the capital and credit markets have continued.
Together with the significant declines in the property markets in the United Kingdom, the United States, Spain and other countries, these events over the past two years have contributed to significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored entities and major retail, commercial and investment banks.
These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions, to be nationalised and, in some cases, to fail.
Reflecting concern about the stability of the financial markets generally and the strength of counterparties, many lenders and institutional investors have substantially reduced and, in some cases, stopped their funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions.
While the capital and credit markets have been experiencing difficulties for some time, the volatility and disruption reached unprecedented levels in the final months of 2008 and economic activity started to contract in many of the economies in which the Group operates.
These conditions have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers.
The resulting lack of credit, lack of confidence in the financial sector, increased volatility in the financial markets and reduced business activity could continue to materially and adversely affect the Groups business, financial condition and results of operations.
| 70 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 069-079. qxp:B File 05 6 3 09 01:26 Page 71 1 Credit risk The main market risk arises from trading activities.
Barclays is also exposed to market risk through non-traded interest rate risk and the Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss, should any of the Groups customers, clients or market counterparties fail to fulfil their contractual pension fund.
The Groups market risk governance structure, management and obligations to the Group.
The credit risk that the Group faces arises mainly from wholesale and retail loans and advances.
However, credit risk may also measurement methodologies, together with an analysis of exposures to both traded and non-traded market risk is detailed in the Market risk arise where the downgrading of an entitys credit rating causes the fair value of the Groups investment in that entitys financial instruments to fall.
management section on page 119 and the Market Risk note to the financial statements on page 278.
Pension risk is analysed in note 30 In a recessionary environment, such as that ongoing in the United Kingdom, the United States and other economies, credit risk increases.
The Groups future earnings could be affected by depressed asset Credit risk may also be manifested as country risk where difficulties may arise in the country in which the exposure is domiciled, thus impeding or valuations resulting from a deterioration in market conditions.
Financial markets are sometimes subject to stress conditions where steep falls in reducing the value of the assets, or where the counterparty may be the country itself.
asset values can occur, as demonstrated by recent events affecting asset backed CDOs and the US sub-prime residential mortgage market and Another form of credit risk is settlement risk, which is the possibility that the Group may pay a counterparty but fail to receive the which may occur in other asset classes during an economic downturn.
Severe market events are difficult to predict and, if they continue to occur, corresponding settlement in return.
The Group is exposed to many different industries and counterparties in the normal course of its could result in the Group incurring additional losses.
In 2007 and in 2008, the Group recorded material net losses on business, but its exposure to counterparties in the financial services industry is particularly significant.
This exposure can arise through trading, certain credit market exposures, including ABS CDO Super Senior exposures.
As market conditions change, the fair value of these exposures lending, deposit-taking, clearance and settlement and many other activities and relationships.
These counterparties include brokers and could fall further and result in additional losses or impairment charges, which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups earnings.
Such dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds and other institutional clients.
Many of these relationships expose the losses or impairment charges could derive from: a decline in the value of exposures: a decline in the ability of counterparties, including monoline Group to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty and to systemic risk affecting its counterparties.
Where the Group holds collateral insurers, to meet their obligations as they fall due: or the ineffectiveness of hedging and other risk management strategies in circumstances of severe against counterparty exposures, it may not be able to realise it or liquidate it at prices sufficient to cover the full exposures.
Many of the hedging and stress.
other risk management strategies utilised by the Group also involve Liquidity risk transactions with financial services counterparties.
The failure of these This is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations when counterparties to settle or the perceived weakness of these counterparties they fall due as a result of customer deposits being withdrawn, cash may impair the effectiveness of the Groups hedging and other risk requirements from contractual commitments, or other cash outflows, management strategies.
Such outflows would deplete available cash The Groups credit risk governance structure, management and resources for client lending, trading activities and investments.
In extreme measurement methodologies, together with an analysis of exposures to circumstances, lack of liquidity could result in reductions in balance credit risk is detailed in the Credit risk management section on page 80 sheet and sales of assets, or potentially an inability to fulfil lending and the Credit Risk note to the financial statements on page 264. commitments.
This risk is inherent in all banking operations and can Barclays Capital credit market exposures be affected by a range of institution-specific and market-wide events An analysis of Barclays Capitals credit market exposures is detailed on including, but not limited to, credit events, merger and acquisition pages 106 to 118. activity, systemic shocks and natural disasters.
The Groups liquidity risk management has several components: Market risk intra-day monitoring to maintain sufficient liquidity to meet all Market risk is the risk that the Groups earnings or capital, or its ability to meet business objectives, will be adversely affected by changes in the level settlement obligations: or volatility of market rates or prices such as interest rates, credit spreads, mismatch limits to control expected cash flows from maturing assets commodity prices, equity prices and foreign exchange rates.
Market risk and liabilities: has increased due to the volatility of the current financial markets.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 71 C14170 Barclays B 069-079. qxp:B File 05 6 3 09 01:26 Page 72 Risk management Risk factors monitoring of undrawn lending commitments, overdrafts and systems.
Operational risks are inherent in the Groups operations and are contingent liabilities: and typical of any large enterprise.
Major sources of operational risk include operational process reliability, IT security, outsourcing of operations, diversification of liquidity sources by geography and provider.
dependence on key suppliers, implementation of strategic change, During periods of market dislocation, such as those currently ongoing, integration of acquisitions, fraud, human error, customer service quality, the Groups ability to manage liquidity requirements may be impacted regulatory compliance, recruitment, training and retention of staff, and by a reduction in the availability of wholesale term funding as well as an social and environmental impacts.
increase in the cost of raising wholesale funds.
Asset sales, balance sheet The Groups operational risk management and measurement reductions and the increasing costs of raising funding will affect the methodologies are detailed in the Operational risk management section on page 131. earnings of the Group.
In illiquid markets, the Group may decide to hold assets rather than Financial crime risk securitising, syndicating or disposing of them.
This could affect the Financial crime risk is a category of operational risk.
It arises from the risk Groups ability to originate new loans or support other customer that the Group might fail to comply with financial crime legislation and transactions as both capital and liquidity are consumed by existing or industry laws on anti-money laundering or might suffer losses as a result legacy assets.
of internal or external fraud, or might fail to ensure the security of The Groups liquidity risk management and measurement personnel, physical premises and the Groups assets.
methodologies are detailed in the Liquidity Risk Management section The Groups financial crime management and processes are detailed on page 125 and the Liquidity Risk note to the financial statements in the Financial crime risk management section on page 134. on page 282.
Regulatory compliance risk Capital risk Regulatory compliance risk arises from a failure or inability to comply fully Capital risk is the risk that the Group has insufficient capital resources to: with the laws, regulations or codes applicable specifically to the financial meet minimum regulatory capital requirements in the UK and in service industry.
Non-compliance could lead to fines, public reprimands, damage to reputation, enforced suspension of operations or, in extreme other jurisdictions such as the United States and South Africa where regulated activities are undertaken.
The Groups authority to operate cases, withdrawal of authorisations to operate.
In addition, the Groups businesses and earnings can be affected by as a bank is dependent upon the maintenance of adequate capital resources: the fiscal or other policies and other actions of various governmental and regulatory authorities in the United Kingdom, the European Union EU, support its credit rating.
A weaker credit rating would increase the the United States, South Africa and elsewhere.
All these are subject to Groups cost of funds: change, particularly in the current market environment where recent support its growth and strategic options.
developments in the global markets have led to an increase in the involvement of various governmental and regulatory authorities in the During periods of market dislocation, increasing the Groups capital financial sector and in the operations of financial institutions.
In particular, resources may prove more difficult or costly.
Regulators have also recently governmental and regulatory authorities in the United Kingdom, the increased the Groups capital targets and amended the way in which United States and elsewhere are implementing measures to increase capital targets are calculated and may further do so in future.
This would regulatory control in their respective banking sectors, including by constrain the Groups planned activities and contribute to adverse impacts imposing enhanced capital requirements or by imposing conditions on on the Groups earnings.
direct capital injections and funding.
Any future regulatory changes may The Groups capital management objectives and processes are potentially restrict the Groups operations, mandate certain lending detailed in the Capital risk management section on page 128. activity and impose other compliance costs.
It is uncertain how the more Operational risk rigorous regulatory climate will impact financial institutions, including the Group.
Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect losses resulting from human factors, external events, and inadequate or failed internal processes and | 72 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 069-079. qxp:B File 05 6 3 09 01:26 Page 73 1 Areas where changes could have an impact include: will be paid to the person who held the security immediately before the transfer, who may not be the encumbrancer.
the monetary, interest rate and other policies of central banks and The Banking Act also vests power in the Bank of England to over-ride, regulatory authorities: vary or impose contractual obligations between a UK bank or its holding general changes in government or regulatory policy that may company and its former group undertakings as defined in the Banking significantly influence investor decisions in particular markets in which Act, for reasonable consideration, in order to enable any transferee or the Group operates: successor bank of the UK bank to operate effectively.
There is also power for the Treasury to amend the law save for a provision made by or under general changes in the regulatory requirements, for example, prudential the Banking Act by order for the purpose of enabling it to use the special rules relating to the capital adequacy framework and rules designed to resolution regime powers effectively, potentially with retrospective effect.
promote financial stability and increase depositor protection: Financial Services Compensation Scheme changes in competition and pricing environments: The Financial Services Compensation Scheme the FSCS was created further developments in the financial reporting environment: under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and is the UKs differentiation amongst financial institutions by governments with statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial services firms.
The FSCS can pay compensation to customers if a firm is unable, or respect to the extension of guarantees to customer deposits and the terms attaching to those guarantees: and likely to be unable, to pay claims against it.
The FSCS is funded by levies on authorised UK firms such as Barclays Bank PLC.
In the event that the FSCS implementation of, or costs related to, local customer or depositor raises funds from the authorised firms, raises those funds more frequently compensation or reimbursement schemes.
or significantly increases the levies to be paid by such firms, the associated Two specific matters that directly impact the Group are the Banking Act costs to the Group may have a material impact on the Groups results of operations and financial condition.
2009 and the Financial Services Compensation Scheme: Further details of specific matters that impact the Group are included Banking Act 2009 in the Competition and regulatory matters note to the financial On 21st February 2009, the Banking Act 2009 came into force which statements on page 246. provides a permanent regime to allow the FSA, the UK Treasury and the Bank of England the Tripartite Authorities to resolve failing banks in the Legal risk UK.
The Banking Act aims to balance the need to protect depositors and The Group is subject to a comprehensive range of legal obligations in all prevent systemic failure with the potentially adverse consequences that countries in which it operates.
As a result, the Group is exposed to many using powers to deal with those events could have on private law rights, forms of legal risk, which may arise in a number of ways.
Primarily: and, as a consequence, wider markets and investor confidence.
the Groups business may not be conducted in accordance with These powers, which apply regardless of any contractual restrictions, applicable laws around the world: include a power to issue share transfer orders pursuant to which there may be transferred to a commercial purchaser or Bank of England entity, contractual obligations may either not be enforceable as intended or all or some of the securities issued by a bank.
The share transfer order can may be enforced against the Group in an adverse way: extend to a wide range of securities including shares and bonds issued by the intellectual property of the Group such as its trade names may a UK Bank including Barclays Bank PLC or its holding company Barclays not be adequately protected: and PLC and warrants for such and b the power to transfer all or some of the property, rights and liabilities of the UK bank to a purchaser or Bank of the Group may be liable for damages to third parties harmed by the England entity.
In certain circumstances encumbrances and trusts can conduct of its business.
Power also exists to over-ride any default provisions in The Group faces risk where legal proceedings are brought against it.
transactions otherwise affected by these powers.
Compensation may Regardless of whether such claims have merit, the outcome of legal be payable in the context of both share transfer orders and property proceedings is inherently uncertain and could result in financial loss.
In the case of share transfer orders any compensation Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 73 C14170 Barclays B 069-079. qxp:B File 05 6 3 09 01:26 Page 74 Risk management Risk factors Defending legal proceedings can be expensive and time-consuming and Tax risk there is no guarantee that all costs incurred will be recovered even if the The Group is subject to the tax laws in all countries in which it operates, Group is successful.
Although the Group has processes and controls to including tax laws adopted at an EU level.
A number of double taxation manage legal risks, failure to manage these risks could impact the Group agreements entered between two countries also impact on the taxation adversely, both financially and by reputation.
Tax risk is the risk associated with changes in tax law or in Further details of the Groups legal proceedings are included in the the interpretation of tax law.
It also includes the risk of changes in tax rates Legal proceedings note to the financial statements on page 245. and the risk of failure to comply with procedures required by tax authorities.
Failure to manage tax risks could lead to an additional tax charge.
It could Insurance risk also lead to a financial penalty for failure to comply with required tax Insurance risk is the risk that the Group will have to make higher than procedures or other aspects of tax law.
If, as a result of a particular tax anticipated payments to settle claims arising from its long-term and shortrisk materialising, the tax costs associated with particular transactions are term insurance businesses.
greater than anticipated, it could affect the profitability of those transactions.
Further details of the Groups insurance assets and liabilities, including The Group takes a responsible and transparent approach to the a sensitivity analysis of insurance contract liabilities, are included in the management and control of its tax affairs and related tax risk: Insurance assets and liabilities note to the financial statements on page 226. tax risks are assessed as part of the Groups formal governance processes and are reviewed by the Executive Committee, Group Business risk Finance Director and the Board Risk Committee: The Group devotes substantial management and planning resources to the development of strategic plans for organic growth and identification the tax charge is also reviewed by the Board Audit Committee: of possible acquisitions, supported by substantial expenditure to generate the tax risks of proposed transactions or new areas of business are fully growth in customer business.
If these strategic plans are not delivered as considered before proceeding: anticipated, the Groups earnings could grow more slowly or decline.
In addition, potential sources of business risk include revenue volatility due the Group takes appropriate advice from reputable professional firms: to factors such as macroeconomic conditions, inflexible cost structures, the Group employs high-quality tax professionals and provides ongoing uncompetitive products or pricing and structural inefficiencies.
technical training: Competition the tax professionals understand and work closely with the different The global financial services markets in which the Group operates are areas of the business: highly competitive.
Innovative competition for corporate, institutional and retail clients and customers comes both from incumbent players and a the Group uses effective, well-documented and controlled processes steady stream of new market entrants, as well as recent consolidation to ensure compliance with tax disclosure and filing obligations: and among banking institutions in the United Kingdom, the United States and where disputes arise with tax authorities with regard to the throughout Europe.
The landscape is expected to remain highly interpretation and application of tax law, the Group is committed to competitive in all areas, which could adversely affect the Groups addressing the matter promptly and resolving the matter with the tax profitability if the Group fails to retain and attract clients and customers.
authority in an open and constructive manner.
| 74 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 069-079. qxp:B File 05 6 3 09 01:26 Page 75 Risk management 1 Barclays approach to risk management This risk section outlines Barclays approach to risk management, as Risk management is a fundamental part of Barclays business activity exemplified by the application of the Groups Principal Risks Policy, and an essential component of its planning process.
To keep risk determination of its Risk Appetite and governance around its Risk management at the centre of the executive agenda, it is embedded in the Methodologies, which cover its processes, measurement techniques everyday management of the business.
In addition, we set out summary information and Barclays ensures that it has the functional capacity to manage the risk disclosure on our portfolios and positions.
in new and existing businesses.
At a strategic level, our risk management Barclays approach to risk management involves a number of objectives are: fundamental elements that drive our processes across the Group: To identify the Groups material risks and ensure that business profile The Principal Risks Policy covers the Groups main risk types, and plans are consistent with risk appetite.
assigning responsibility for the management of specific risks, and setting out the requirements for control frameworks for all of the risk types.
To optimise risk return decisions by taking them as closely as possible The individual control frameworks are reinforced by a robust system of to the business, while establishing strong and independent review and review and challenge, and a governance process of aggregation and challenge structures.
broad review by businesses and risk across the Group page 78.
To ensure that business growth plans are properly supported by The Groups Risk Appetite sets out the level of risk that the Board effective risk infrastructure.
is willing to take in pursuit of its business objectives.
This is expressed as the Groups appetite for earnings volatility across all businesses from To manage risk profile to ensure that specific financial deliverables remain possible under a range of adverse business conditions.
credit, market, and operational risk.
It is calibrated against our broad financial targets, including income and impairment targets, dividend To help executives improve the control and co-ordination of risk taking coverage and capital levels.
It is prepared each year as part of the Groups across the business.
Medium-Term Planning process, and combines a top-down view of the In pursuit of these objectives, Group Risk breaks down risk management Groups risk capacity with a bottom-up view of the risk profile requested and recommended by each business.
This entails making business plan into five discrete processes: direct, assess, control, report, and manage challenge see panel below.
adjustments as necessary to ensure that our Medium-Term Plan creates a risk profile that meets our Risk Appetite page 78.
Barclays Risk Methodologies include systems that enable the Group to measure, aggregate and report risk for internal and regulatory purposes.
As an example, our credit grading models produce Internal Ratings through internally derived estimates of default probabilities.
These measurements are used by management in an extensive range of decisions, from credit grading, pricing and approval to portfolio Process Activity management, economic capital allocation and capital adequacy processes page 79.
Direct Understand the principal risks to achieving Group strategy.
Establish and communicate the risk management framework including responsibilities, authorities and key controls.
Assess Establish the process for identifying and analysing business-level risks.
Agree and implement measurement and reporting standards and methodologies.
Control Establish key control processes and practices, including limit structures, impairment allowance criteria and reporting requirements.
Monitor the operation of the controls and adherence to risk direction and limits.
Provide early warning of control or appetite breaches.
Ensure that risk management practices and conditions are appropriate for the business environment.
Report Interpret and report on risk exposures, concentrations and risk-taking outcomes.
Interpret and report on sensitivities and Key Risk Indicators.
Manage Review and challenge all aspects of the and Groups risk profile.
Challenge Assess new risk-return opportunities.
Advise on optimising the Groups risk profile.
Review and challenge risk management practices.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 75 C14170 Barclays B 069-079. qxp:B File 05 6 3 09 01:26 Page 76 Risk management Barclays approach to risk management Organisation and structure Responsibility for risk management resides at all levels within the Group, from The Committees shown below receive regular and comprehensive the Executive down through the organisation to each business manager and reports.
The Board Risk Committee receives quarterly reports on the Groups risk specialist.
Barclays distributes these responsibilities so that risk return risk profile and forward risk trends for further information on the decisions are taken at the most appropriate level: as close as possible to the membership and activities of the Board Risk Committee, see page 166. business, and subject to robust and effective review and challenge.
The Board Audit Committee receives quarterly reports on control issues of Every business manager is accountable for managing risk in his or her significance and half-yearly impairment allowances and regulatory reports.
business area: they must understand and control the key risks inherent in the See page 163 for additional details on the membership and activities of the business undertaken.
Each business area also employs risk specialists to Board Audit Committee.
Both Board and Audit Committees also receive provide an independent control function and to support the development reports dealing in more depth with specific issues relevant at the time.
The of a strong risk management environment.
This functional approach to risk proceedings of both Committees are reported to the full Board, which also management is built on formal control processes that rely on individual receives a concise quarterly risk report.
Internal Audit supports both responsibility and independent oversight, as well as challenge through peer Committees by attendance and or the provision of quarterly reports reviews.
resulting from its work on governance, risk and control issues of significance.
The Board approves Risk Appetite and the Board Risk Committee The Board Audit Committee reviews and approves Internal Audits plans and monitors the Groups risk profile against this agreed appetite.
Business resources, and evaluates the effectiveness of Internal Audit.
Heads are responsible for the identification and management of risk in their An assessment by external advisers is also carried out periodically.
The Group Risk Director, under delegated authority from the In addition to the Committees shown in the chart, there is a Brand and Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, has responsibility for Reputation Committee reviewing emerging issues with potentially ensuring effective risk management and control.
Governance structure at Group level Board oversight Board Approves overall Group Risk Appetite Board Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Considers the adequacy and effectiveness Review the Group risk profile.
of the Group Control Framework.
Approves the Group Control Framework.
Reviews reports on control issues of Authority controls appetite Approves minimum control requirements Group-level significance.
Risk adjusted Assurance Group Chief Executive Reporting and Control performance Group Executive Committee Monitors and manages risk adjusted performance of businesses.
Governance and Control Committee Risk Oversight Committee Treasury Committee Reviews the adequacy and effectiveness Ensures current risk profile is consistent Sets policy controls for liquidity, of the Group Control Framework.
maturity transformation and structural interest rate exposure.
Debates and agrees actions on the risk Monitors compliance with the Framework including remediation profile and risk strategy across the Group.
Monitors the Groups liquidity and of significant control issues.
Considers issues escalated by Risk Type Reviews reports on control issues of Heads and Business Risk Directors.
Monitors usage of regulatory and Group-level significance.
Oversees the management of the Groups capital plan.
Assurance Internal Audit Assesses the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group Control Framework.
| 76 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 069-079. qxp:B File 05 6 3 09 01:26 Page 77 1 The Group Risk Director has overall day to day accountability for risk management.
Reporting to the Group Risk Director are Group Risk Heads for Retail Credit Risk, Wholesale Credit Risk, Market Risk, Operational Risk, Financial Crime Risk and Capital Demand.
Along with their teams, they are responsible for establishing a risk control framework and risk oversight at Group level.
This core team liaises with each business as part of the monitoring and management processes.
Each business has an embedded risk management team reporting to a Business Risk Director who reports to the Group Risk Director.
The risk management teams assist Group Risk in the formulation of Group Risk policy and its implementation across the businesses.
Business risk teams are responsible for assisting Business Heads in the identification and management of their business risk profiles and for implementing appropriate controls.
The functional coverage of risk responsibilities is illustrated in the diagram below.
Internal Audit is responsible for the independent review of risk management and the control environment.
To support risk taking, Barclays has continued to strengthen the independent and specialised risk teams in each of its businesses, supported by matching teams at Group level, acting in both a consultancy and oversight capacity.
As a prerequisite to business growth plans, it has made the recruitment, development and retention of risk professionals a priority.
Board Internal Audit Group Chief Executive Divisional Chief Executive Officers Group Finance Director Business Heads Group Risk Director Business Risk Directors Group Risk Heads Retail Credit Risk Wholesale Market Risk Operational Risk Financial Crime Risk Capital Demand Credit Risk Control and plan the taking and pricing of credit Ensure traded market Capture, understand Develop a clear profile Maintain and develop risk based on clear and accurate assessments risk resides primarily and report the of financial crime risk the Groups economic Support business decision-making and within Barclays operational risks being across the Group capital framework pro-active identification of new risks Capital, and minimise taken by the Group Share intelligence, Prepare Risk Appetite Ensure a robust framework for the creation, non-traded market risk On a cost-benefit basis, adopt common for the Board to use and monitoring of credit risk models Understand and control minimise the frequency standards and respond approve and track market risk by robust and impact of operational promptly to emerging Conduct stress measurement and risk events issues testing exercises setting of position limits Drive forward law Co-ordinate Group Risk Facilitate business enforcement and other input in the Groups growth within controlled government initiatives medium-term planning and transparent risk Provide assurance on management framework each businesss capital demand Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 77 C14170 Barclays B 069-079. qxp:B File 05 6 3 09 01:26 Page 78 Risk management Barclays approach to risk management Key elements Principal Risks This annual setting of Risk Appetite considers the Banks ability to support business growth, desired dividend payout levels and capital ratio The Board is responsible for the Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework GICAF.
As part of the GICAF, it approves the Principal Risks targets.
If the projections entail too high a level of risk, management will challenge each area to find new ways to rebalance the business mix to Policy, which sets out responsibilities for the management of the Groups most significant risk exposures.
The Board oversees the operating incur less risk on a diversified basis.
Performance against Risk Appetite is measured and reported to the Executive and Board regularly throughout effectiveness of the Principal Risks Policy through the regular review of reports on the Groups material risk exposures and controls.
Barclays believes that this framework enables it to: The Groups risk categorisation comprises 17 risk categories Level Improve risk and return characteristics across the business 1, 13 of which are known as Principal Risks.
Each Principal Risk is owned Meet growth targets within an overall risk appetite and protect the by a senior individual at the Group level, who liaises with Principal Risk owners within Business Units and Group Centre Functions.
The 17 risk Groups performance categories are shown in the panel below.
Improve management confidence and debate regarding our risk profile Each Group Principal Risk Owner GPRO is responsible for setting Improve executive management control and co-ordination of riskminimum control requirements for their risk and for overseeing the risk and control performance across the Group.
Group control requirements taking across businesses e. g. Group Policies Processes Committee oversight for each of these Identify unused risk capacity, and thus highlight profitable risks are defined, in consultation with Business Units, and communicated opportunities.
and maintained by the GPRO.
Implementation of the control requirements for each Principal Risk The Risk Appetite framework considers credit, market and operational risk and is applied using two perspectives: financial volatility and mandate provides each Business Unit or Group Centre Function with the foundation of its system of internal control for that particular risk.
This will usually be and scale.
Financial Volatility is the level of potential deviation from expected built upon in more detail, according to the circumstances of each Business Unit, to provide a complete and appropriate system of internal control.
financial performance that Barclays is prepared to sustain at relevant points on the risk profile.
It is established with reference to the strategic The specific controls for individual Principal Risks are supplemented by generic risk management requirements.
These requirements are objectives and to the business plans of the Group, including the achievement of annual financial targets, payment of dividends, funding of articulated as the Groups Operational Risk Management Framework see page 130 and include policies on: capital growth and maintenance of acceptable capital ratios and our credit rating.
The portfolio is analysed in this way at four representative levels: Internal Risk Event Identification and Reporting Expected performance including the average credit losses based on Risk and Control Assessment measurements over many years Key Indicators A level of loss that corresponds to moderate increases in market, credit Key Risk Scenarios or operational risk from expected levels Business Unit and Group Centre Function Heads are responsible for A more severe level of loss which is much less likely maintaining ongoing assurance that the controls they have put in place An extreme but highly improbable level of loss which is used to to manage the risks to their business objectives are operating effectively.
determine the Groups economic capital.
They are required to undertake a formal six-monthly review of assurance information.
These reviews support the regulatory requirement for the These potentially larger but increasingly less likely levels of loss are Group to make a statement about its system of internal control the illustrated in the Risk Appetite concepts chart below.
The Mandate and Turnbull statement, in the Annual Report and Accounts.
Scale framework is a formal review and control of our business activities to ensure that they are within our mandate i. e. aligned to the expectations Risk Appetite of external stakeholders and are of an appropriate scale relative to the Risk Appetite is the level of risk the Board of Barclays chooses to take risk and reward of the underlying activities.
Appropriate assurance is in pursuit of its strategic objectives, recognising a range of possible achieved by using limits and triggers to avoid concentrations and outcomes as business plans are implemented.
Barclays framework, operational risks which could lead to unexpected losses of a scale that approved by the Board Risk Committee, combines a top-down view of would result in a disproportionate fall in Barclays market capitalisation.
its capacity to take risk with a bottom-up view of the business risk profile Taken as a whole, the Risk Appetite framework provides a basis for the requested and recommended by each business area.
allocation of risk capacity to each business.
Since the level of loss at any given To determine this acceptable level of risk, management estimates the probability is dependent on the portfolio of exposures in each business, the potential earnings volatility from different businesses under various scenarios.
statistical measurement for each key risk category gives the Group clearer sight and better control of risk-taking throughout the enterprise.
Risk Appetite concepts diagram not to scale Principal Risks Other Level 1 Risks Mean Retail Credit Strategic Loss Wholesale Credit Change Market Corporate Sustainability Capital Brand Management Expected Economic capital Liquidity Loss Moderate Financial Crime Stress Operations Severe Stress Technology People Extreme Stress Regulatory Financial Reporting Potential size of loss in one year Legal Taxation | 78 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Probability of loss Business review C14170 Barclays B 069-079. qxp:B File 05 6 3 09 01:27 Page 79 1 Risk Methodologies models, which allows model risk to be monitored, and seeks to identify and escalate any potential problems at an early stage.
Fundamental to the delivery of the Groups risk management objectives are a series of risk methodologies that allow it to measure, model, price, stress, To help ensure that sufficient management time is spent on the more material models, each model is provided with a materiality rating.
GMRP aggregate, report and mitigate the risks that arise from its activities.
Many of the most important processes relate to the internal ratings used in granting defines the materiality ranges for all model types.
The materiality ranges are based on an assessment of the impact to the Group in the event of a credit and are discussed separately on page 82.
The specific methodologies used to manage market risk, liquidity risk, capital risk and operational risk are model error.
The materiality affects the approval and reporting level for each model, with the most material models being approved by the also discussed in their corresponding sections.
At a more general level, the Groups approach to risk management can be illustrated through its use of Executive Models Committee, a technical sub-committee of Group Executive Committee.
Although final level of model sign-off will vary, stress testing and the controls around model governance.
depending on model materiality, the standards of model build, Stress testing implementation, monitoring and maintenance do not change with the As part of the annual stress testing process, Barclays estimates the impact materiality level.
of a severe economic downturn on the projected demand and supply of Documentation must be sufficiently detailed, to allow an expert to capital.
This process enables the Group to assess whether it could meet its understand all appropriate aspects of model development.
It must include minimum regulatory capital requirements throughout a severe recession.
a description of the data used for model development, the methodology The Risk Appetite numbers are validated by estimating the Group used and the rationale for choosing such a methodology, a description sensitivity to adverse changes in the business environment and to include of any assumptions made, as well as details of where the model works well operational events that impact the Group as a whole using stress testing and areas that are known model weaknesses.
For instance, changes in certain macroeconomic All models are subject to a validation and independent review process variables represent environmental stresses which may reveal systemic before the model can be signed-off for implementation.
The model credit and market risk sensitivities in our retail and wholesale portfolios.
validation exercise must demonstrate that the model is fit for purpose and The recession scenarios considered incorporate changes in provides accurate estimates.
The independent review process will also macroeconomic variables, including: ensure that all aspects of the model development process have been Weaker GDP, employment or property prices performed in a suitable manner.
The initial sign-off process ensures that the model is technically fit for Lower equity prices purpose as well as ensuring that the model satisfies the business requirements and all the relevant regulatory requirements.
As detailed Interest rate curve shifts above, the process for model sign-off is based on materiality, with all of a Commodity price movements business units models at least initially being approved in business-led Such Group-wide stress tests allow senior management to gain a better committees, and Group involvement increasing as the models become more material.
understanding of how portfolios are likely to react to changing economic and geopolitical conditions and how the Group can best prepare for and Once implemented, all models within the Group are subject to an annual validation, to ensure that they are performing as expected, and react to them.
The stress test simulates the balance sheet and profit and loss effects of stresses across the Group, investigating the impact on that assumptions used in model development are still appropriate.
In line with initial sign-off requirements, annual validations are also formally profits and the ability to maintain appropriate capital ratios.
Insights gained are fully integrated into the senior management process and the reviewed at the appropriate technical committee.
In addition to annual validation, models are subject to quarterly Risk Appetite framework.
This process of analysis and senior management oversight also provides the basis for fulfilling the stress testing performance monitoring.
Model performance monitoring ensures that deficiencies are identified early, and that remedial action can be taken before requirements of Basel II.
Group-wide stress testing is only one of a number of stress test the deficiency becomes serious enough to affect the decision-making process.
As part of this process, model owners set performance triggers analyses that are performed as part of the wider risk management process.
Specific stress test analysis is used across all risk types to gain and define appropriate actions for their models in the event of breaches.
Externally developed models are subject to the same governance a better understanding of the risk profile and the potential effects of changes in external factors.
These stress tests are performed at a range standards as internal models, and must be initially approved for use following the validation and independent review process.
External models of different levels, from analysis covering specific stresses on individual sub-portfolios e. g. the impact of higher unemployment on the US cards are also subject to the same standards for ongoing monitoring and annual validation requirements.
portfolio to regularly assessed stress scenarios such as the effect of a sudden rise in global interest rates on Barclays Capitals market exposures.
Within Barclays Capital, where models are used to value positions within the trading book the positions are subject to regular independent Model Governance price testing which covers all trading positions.
Prices are compared to Barclays has a large number of models in place across the Group, covering direct external market data where possible.
When this is not possible, all risk types.
To minimise the risk of loss through model failure, a Group more analytic techniques are used, such as industry consensus pricing Model Risk Policy GMRP has been developed.
This has been extensively services.
These services enable Barclays to anonymously compare reviewed and enhanced during the course of 2008. structured products and model-input parameters with those of other The GMRP helps reduce the potential for model failure by setting banks engaged in the trading of the same financial products.
The minimum standards around the model development and implementation conclusions and any exceptions to this exercise are communicated to process.
The Policy also sets the Group governance processes for all senior levels of business and infrastructure management.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 79 C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 80 Risk management Credit risk management Credit risk is the risk of suffering financial loss should any of the Groups The granting of credit is one of the Groups major sources of income customers, clients or market counterparties fail to fulfil their contractual and, as its most significant risk, the Group dedicates considerable obligations to the Group.
The importance of credit risk is illustrated by noting that almost two-thirds of risk-based economic capital is allocated to credit risk.
Barclays is also exposed to other credit risks arising from its trading activities, including debt securities, derivatives, settlement balances with market counterparties and reverse repurchase loans.
In managing credit risk, the Group applies the five-step risk management process and internal control framework.
Specific credit risk management objectives are: To gain a clear and accurate understanding and assessment of credit risk across the business, from the level of individual facilities up to the total portfolio.
To control and plan the taking of credit risk, ensuring it is coherently priced across the business and avoiding undesirable concentrations.
To support strategic growth and decision-making based on sound credit risk management principles and a proactive approach to identifying and measuring new risks.
To ensure a robust framework for the creation, use and ongoing monitoring of the Groups credit risk measurement models.
To ensure that our balance sheet reflects the value of our assets in accordance with accounting principles.
In the review of Barclays credit risk management that follows, we first explain how the Group meets its credit risk management objectives through its organisation, structure and governance, its measurement, reporting and system of internal ratings and its mechanisms for credit risk mitigation.
We then provide a summary of the Groups total assets, including the asset types which give rise to credit risk and counterparty credit risk, namely: loans and advances, debt securities and derivatives.
On pages 89 to 102, we set out a detailed analysis of the Groups loans and advances across a number of asset classes and businesses referencing significant portfolios and including summary measures of asset quality.
We next provide disclosures and analyses of the credit risk profiles of these asset categories, beginning with Barclays Capitals credit market exposures by asset class, covering current exposures, losses during 2008, sales and paydowns, foreign exchange movements and, where appropriate, details of collateral held, geographic spread, vintage and credit quality.
These are given on pages 106 to 118.
Finally, additional analysis of debt securities and derivatives can be found on pages 103 and 104 to 105.
| 80 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 81 Risk management 1 Credit risk management Organisation and structure Barclays has structured the responsibilities of credit risk management Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
The Board Audit Committee so that decisions are taken as close as possible to the business, whilst also reviews the impairment allowance as part of financial reporting.
ensuring robust review and challenge of performance, risk infrastructure The Group Credit Risk Impairment Committee GCRIC, on a semiand strategic plans.
annual basis, obtains assurance on behalf of the Group that all businesses The credit risk management teams in each business are accountable are recognising impairment in their portfolios accurately and promptly in to the Business Risk Directors in those businesses who, in turn, report to their recommendations and in accordance with policy, accounting the heads of their businesses and also to the Risk Director.
These credit standards and established governance.
risk management teams assist Group Risk in the formulation of Group Risk GCRIC exercises the authority of the Group Risk Director, as delegated policy and its implementation across the businesses.
Examples include: by the Group Chief Executive, and is chaired by Barclays Credit Risk Director.
GCRIC reviews the movements to impairment in the businesses, maximum exposure guidelines to limit the exposures to an individual including those already agreed at Credit Committee, as well as Potential customer or counterparty Credit Risk Loans, loan loss rates, asset quality metrics and Risk Tendency.
country risk policies to specify risk appetite by country and avoid These committees are supported by a number of Group policies excessive concentration of credit risk in individual countries including: policies to limit lending to certain industrial sectors Group Retail and Wholesale Impairment and Provisioning Policies underwriting criteria for personal loans and maximum loan-to-value Group Retail and Wholesale Expected Loss Policies ratios for home loans Group Model Policy Within Group Risk, the Credit Risk function provides Group-wide GCRIC makes twice-yearly recommendations to the Board Audit direction of credit risk-taking.
This functional team manages the Committee on the adequacy of Group impairment allowances.
resolution of all significant credit policy issues and runs the Credit Impairment allowances are reviewed relative to the risk in the portfolio, Committee, which approves major credit decisions.
business and economic trends, current policies and methodologies, and The principal Committees that review credit risk management, our position against peer banks.
formulate overall Group credit policy and resolve all significant credit policy GCRIC has delegated the detailed review of loan impairment in the issues are the Group Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee, the businesses to the Retail and Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committees.
Group Retail Credit Risk Management Committee, the Risk Oversight Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 81 C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 82 Risk management Credit risk management Measurement, reporting and internal ratings The principal objective of credit risk measurement is to produce the most Credit Approval: PD models are used in the approval process in both accurate possible quantitative assessment of the credit risk to which the retail and wholesale portfolios.
In high-volume retail portfolios, Group is exposed, from the level of individual facilities up to the total application and behaviour scorecards are frequently used as decisionportfolio.
The key building blocks in this quantitative assessment are: making tools.
In wholesale and some retail mortgage portfolios, PD models are used to direct applications to different credit sanctioning Probability of default PD levels, so that credit risks are reviewed at appropriate levels.
Exposure in the event of default EAD Credit Grading: originally introduced in the early 1990s to provide a Loss given default LGD common measure of risk across the Group using an eight point rating scale: wholesale credit grading now employs a 21 point scale of default Barclays first began to use internal estimates of PD in its main businesses probabilities.
Internally derived estimates for PD, EAD and LGD have since Risk-Reward and Pricing: PD, EAD and LGD metrics are used to assess been used in our major risk decision-making processes, enabling the application of coherent risk measurement across all credit exposures, profitability of deals and portfolios and to allow for risk-adjusted pricing and strategy decisions.
With the advent of the Basel II accord on banking, Barclays has been Risk Appetite: measures of expected loss and the potential volatility of given permission to use internal rating models as an input to its regulatory loss are used in the Groups Risk Appetite framework see page 78. capital calculations.
In preparation, Barclays spent considerable time IAS 39: many of our collective impairment estimates incorporate the developing and upgrading a number of such models across the Group, moving towards compliance with the Basel II advanced internal ratings use of our PD and LGD models, adjusted as necessary.
As part of this process, all Basel credit risk models have Collections and Recoveries: model outputs are frequently used to been assessed against the Basel II minimum requirements prior to model segment portfolios allowing for suitably prioritised collections and sign-off to ensure that they are fit to be used for regulatory purposes.
recoveries strategies in retail portfolios.
Applications of internal ratings Economic capital EC allocation: most EC calculations use the same PD The three components described above the PD, EAD and LGD are and EAD inputs as the regulatory capital RC process.
The process also building blocks used in a variety of applications that measure credit risk uses the same underlying LGD model outputs as the RC calculation, across the entire portfolio.
These parameters can be calculated but does not incorporate the same economic downturn adjustment incorporating different aspects of the credit cycle into the estimates: used in RC calculations.
PD estimates can be calculated on a through-the-cycle TTC basis, Risk management information: Group Risk and the business units reflecting the predicted default frequency in an average 12 month generate risk reports to inform senior management on issues such period across the credit cycle, or on a point-in-time PIT basis, as the business performance, Risk Appetite and consumption of EC.
reflecting the predicted default frequency in the next 12 months.
Calculation of internal ratings LGD and EAD estimates can be calculated as downturn measures, To calculate probability of default PD, Barclays assesses the credit quality reflecting behaviour observed under stressed economic conditions, of borrowers and other counterparties and assigns them an internal risk or as business-as-usual BAU measures, reflecting best modelled rating.
Multiple rating methodologies may be used to inform the rating behaviour under actual conditions.
decision on individual large credits, such as internal and external models, rating agency ratings, and for wholesale assets market information such These parameters, in suitable combination, are used in a wide range of credit risk measurement and management and as our understanding and as credit spreads.
For smaller credits, a single source may suffice such as the result from an internal rating model.
Barclays recognises the need for experience have developed, we have extended the use and sophistication of internal ratings into the following: | 82 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 B Bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 83 1 1 two different expressions of PD depending on the purpose for which it is so that exposure is typically less than the approved loan limit.
For the purposes of calculating regulatory and economic capital, Group evaluates loans, it takes exposure at default into consideration, long-run average through-the-cycle PDs are required.
However, for the using its extensive historical experience.
It recognises that customers may make heavier than average usage of their facilities as they approach purposes of pricing, PDs should represent the best estimate of probability of default, typically in the next 12 months, dependent on the current default.
The lower bound of EAD is the actual outstanding balance at calculation of EAD.
For derivative instruments, exposure in the event of position in the credit cycle.
Hence, point-in-time PDs are also required.
Each PD model outputs a point-in-time PIT, through-the-cycle default is the estimated cost of replacing contracts with a positive value should counterparties fail to perform their obligations.
TTC or a hybrid, e. g. a 50:50 blend, default estimate.
Conversion techniques appropriate to the portfolio are then applied to calculate both When a customer defaults, some part of the amount outstanding on the loan is usually recovered.
The part that is not recovered, the actual loss, PIT and TTC estimates.
Industry and location of the counterparty and an understanding of the current and long-term credit conditions are together with the economic costs associated with the recovery process, comprise the loss given default LGD, which is expressed as a percentage considered in deriving the appropriate conversion.
Two ratings are therefore recorded for each client, the PIT and the TTC estimates.
Using historical information, the Group estimates how much is likely to be lost, on average, for various types of loans in the event of Barclays internal rating system also differentiates between wholesale and retail customers.
For wholesale portfolios, the rating system is default.
The level of LGD depends principally on: the type of collateral if any : constructed to ensure that each client receives the same rating independent of the part of the business with which they are dealing.
To the seniority or subordination of the exposure: the industry in which the customer operates if a business : the length of time taken for the recovery achieve this, a model hierarchy is adopted which requires users to adopt a specific approach to rating each counterparty depending upon the nature process and the timing of all associated cash flows: and the jurisdiction applicable and work-out expenses.
The outcome is also dependent on of the business and its location.
A range of methods is approved for estimating wholesale economic conditions that may determine, for example, the prices that can be realised for assets, whether a business can readily be refinanced or the counterparty PDs.
These include bespoke grading models developed within the Barclays Group Internal Models, vendor models such as availability of a repayment source for personal customers.
MKMV Credit Edge and RiskCalc, and a conversion of external alphabet The ratings process ratings from either S&P, Moodys or Fitch.
Retail models, especially those The term internal ratings usually refers to internally calculated estimates used for capital purposes, are almost exclusively built internally using of PD.
These ratings are combined with EAD and LGD in the range of Barclays data, although in some cases bureau models may be used in applications described previously.
The ratings process refers to the use conjunction with these models.
In addition, in some low data low default of PD, EAD and LGD across the Group.
In Barclays, the rating process is environments external developments may be utilised for decision-making defined by each business.
For central government and banks, institutions purposes.
and corporate customers many of the models used in the rating process A key element of the Barclays Wholesale framework is the probability are shared across businesses as the models are customer specific.
For of default distribution, which maps PDs into internal grades both for PIT retail exposures, the ratings models are usually unique to the business and default grades and TTC TTC band purposes.
This has been developed product type e. g. mortgages, credit cards, and consumer loans.
to record differences in the probability of default risk at meaningful levels throughout the risk range.
In contrast to wholesale businesses, retail areas Wholesale Approaches A bespoke model has been built for PD and LGD for Sovereign ratings.
do not bucket exposures into generic grades for account management purposes although they may be used for reporting purposes.
Instead, For Sovereigns where there is no externally available rating, we use an internally developed PD scorecard.
The scorecard has been developed accounts are managed either at a granular level or based on bespoke segmentations.
using historic data on Sovereigns from an external data provider covering a wide range of qualitative and quantitative information.
Our LGD model Exposure at default EAD represents the expected level of usage of the credit facility when default occurs.
At default, the customer may not is based on resolved recoveries in the public domain, with a significant element of conservatism added to compensate for the small sample size.
The recovery periods, seniority and costs by looking at Barclays historical experience, supplemented with other external information where applicability of each of these approaches to our customers has been validated by us to internal rating standards.
The data used in validating necessary.
Estimates built using historical information are reviewed to establish whether they can be expected to be representative of future loss these primary indicators are representative of the population of the banks actual obligors and exposures and its long-term experience.
rates, and adjusted if necessary.
In a similar fashion, wholesale EAD models estimate the potential Internally built PD models are also widely used.
We employ a range of methods in the construction of these models.
The basic types of PD utilisation of headroom based on historical information also considering the future outlook of client behaviour.
modelling approaches used are: Typically, modellers do not manipulate external data before using it as Structural input to the model estimation or validation procedure.
Changes required Expert lender in the estimation and validation process are documented in the model build papers.
Statistical For all the above asset classes we use the Basel II definition of default, utilising the 90 day past due criteria as the final trigger of default.
Structural models incorporate in their specification the elements of the industry-accepted Merton framework to identify the distance to default Derivative counterparty credit risk measurement for a counterparty.
This relies upon the modeller having access to specific The magnitude of trading exposure is determined by considering the time series data or data proxies for the portfolio.
Data samples used to current mark to market of the contract, the historic volatility of the build and validate these models are typically constructed by adding underlying asset and the time to maturity.
This allows calculation of a together data sets from internal default observations with comparable credit equivalent exposure CEE for such exposures using a stochastic externally obtained data sets from commercial providers such as rating method and a 98% confidence level.
agencies and industry gathering consortia.
Retail Approaches Expert lender models are used for parts of the portfolio where the risk drivers are specific to a particular counterparty, but where there is Our retail banking operations have long and extensive experience of using credit models in assessing and managing risk in their businesses and as a insufficient data to support the construction of a statistical model.
These models utilise the knowledge of credit experts that have in depth result models play an integral role in customer approval and management processes.
experience of the specific customer type being modelled.
For any of the portfolios where we have a low number of default Models used include PD models, mostly in the form of application and behavioural scorecards, as well as LGD and EAD models.
observations we adopt specific rules to ensure that the calibration of the model meets the Basel II and FSA criteria for conservatism.
Application scorecards are derived from the historically observed performance of new clients.
They are built using customer demographic We have developed our own internal policy which describes specific criteria for the use of parametric and non-parametric low default and financial information, supplemented by credit bureau information where available.
Through statistical techniques, the relationship between portfolio calibration techniques.
Statistical models such as behavioural and application scorecards are these candidate variables and the default marker is quantified to produce output scores reflecting a PD.
These scores are used primarily for new used for our high volume portfolios such as Small Medium Enterprises SME.
The model builds typically incorporate the use of large amounts of customer decisioning but are, in some cases, also used to allocate PDs to new customers for the purposes of capital calculation.
internal data, combined with supplemental data from external data suppliers.
Where external data is sourced to validate or enhance  scorecards are derived from the historically observed performance of existing clients as well as being supplemented by the held data as part of the risk assessment process or to support model development and BAU operation, a similar approach is adopted towards same data as is used for application scoring, including the use of bureau data.
The techniques used to derive the output are the same as for ensuring data quality to that applied to the management of internal data.
This entails adherence to the Groups procurement and supplier application scoring.
The output scores are used for existing customer management activities as well as for allocating PDs to existing customers management process, including the agreement of specifications and service level agreements.
for the purposes of capital calculation.
| 84 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 85 1 It is Barclays philosophy to embed Basel II models as extensively as Through their day-to-day activities, key senior management in Group Credit Risk, the businesses and the business risk teams have a good possible in the portfolio management process.
This is an ongoing initiative and we expect greater convergence over time.
However, in some cases understanding of the operation and design of the rating systems used.
For example: there are sound business reasons for having different models for capital allocations and internal processes.
The respective Business Risk Heads or equivalents are responsible for EAD models within retail portfolios are split into two main supplying a robust rating system.
The less complex models derive product level The Group Risk Director, Credit Risk Director and Wholesale and Retail credit conversion factors CCFs from historical balance migrations: these are frequently further segmented at a delinquency bucket level.
The most Credit Risk Directors are required to understand the operation and design of the rating system used to assess and manage credit risk in sophisticated EAD models are behavioural based, determining customer level CCFs from characteristics of the individual facility.
order to carry out their responsibilities effectively.
This extends to the Business CEOs, Business Risk Directors and the Commercial Managing Retail LGD models are built using bespoke methods chosen to best model the observed recovery process.
In a number of secured portfolios, Directors or equivalent.
structural models are often used which parameterise the LGD drivers In addition, Group Model Risk Policy requires that all models be validated giving models which can easily be updated to reflect current market as part of the model build see page 79.
This is an iterative process that is trends.
Models based on historical cash collected curves are often utilised carried out by the model owner.
Additionally, a formal independent review in portfolios where recoveries are not based on the recovery of a single is carried out after each model is built to check that it is robust, meets all source of collateral.
Finally, in some instances regression techniques are internal and external standards and is documented appropriately.
These used to generate predicted LGDs based on account characteristics.
In all reviews must be documented and conducted by personnel who are instances bespoke country level factors are derived to discount recovery independent of those involved in the model-building process.
The results flows to the point of default.
For capital calculations, customised of the review are required to be signed off by an appropriate authority.
economic downturn adjustments are made to adjust losses to stressed In addition to the independent review, post implementation and conditions.
annual reviews take place for each model.
These reviews are designed to Most retail models within Barclays are built in-house, although ensure compliance with policy requirements such as: occasionally external consultants will be contracted to build models on integration of models into the business process behalf of the businesses.
Whilst most models are statistically or empirically derived, some expert lender models similar to those described compliance with the model risk policy above in the wholesale context are used, particularly where data limitations preclude a more sophisticated approach.
continuation of a robust governance process around model data inputs and use of outputs Where models are used in the calculation of regulatory capital, the definition of default is in line with the regulatory definition of default Model performance is monitored regularly: frequency of monitoring is requirements i. e. for UK portfolios the default definition is 180 days past monthly for those models that are applicable to higher volume or volatile due whilst international regulators may have different rules.
In some cases, portfolios, and quarterly for lower volume or less volatile portfolios.
Model for models not used in regulatory capital calculations, in order to maximise monitoring includes coverage of the following characteristics: utility, model suitability, different default definitions are used.
However, in all stability, efficiency, accuracy, portfolio and data.
cases EAD and LGD models are appropriately aligned.
Model owners set performance ranges and define appropriate actions The control mechanisms for the rating system for their models.
As part of the regular monitoring, the performance of the Each of the business risk teams is responsible for the design, oversight and models is compared with these operational ranges.
If breaches occur, the performance of the individual credit rating models PD, LGD and EAD model owner reports these to the approval body appropriate for the that comprise the credit rating system for a particular customer within each materiality of the model.
The model approver is responsible for ensuring asset class.
Group-wide standards in each of these areas are set by Group completion of the defined action, which may ultimately be a complete Risk and are governed through a series of committees with responsibility rebuild of the model.
for oversight, modelling and credit measurement methodologies.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 85 C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 86 Risk management Credit risk management Credit risk mitigation The Group uses a wide variety of techniques to reduce credit risk on its portfolios by receipt of key risk measures and indicators at an individual portfolio level, ensuring mitigating actions taken to address performance lending.
The most basic of these is performing an assessment of the ability of a borrower to service the proposed level of borrowing without are appropriate and timely.
Metrics reviewed will consider portfolio composition at both an overall stock and new flow level.
In addition, the Group commonly obtains security for the funds advanced, such as in the case of a retail or commercial mortgage, a reverse The Wholesale Credit Risk Management Committee WCRMC oversees wholesale exposures, comprising lending to businesses, banks, repurchase agreement, or a commercial loan with a floating charge over book debts and inventories.
The Group ensures that the collateral held is other financial institutions and sovereigns.
The WCRMC monitors exposure by country, industry sector, individual large exposures and sufficiently liquid, legally effective, enforceable and regularly valued.
Various forms of collateral are held and commonly include: cash in exposures to sub-investment grade countries.
Country concentrations are addressed through the country risk policy major currencies: fixed income products including government bonds: letters of credit: property, including residential and commercial: and other and utilisation of country limits which specify Risk Appetite by country and avoid excessive concentrations of credits in individual countries.
The Group actively manages its credit exposures and when risk grades are assigned to all countries where the Group has, or is likely to have, exposure and are reviewed regularly to ensure they remain weaknesses in exposures are detected either in individual exposures or in groups of exposures action is taken to mitigate the risks.
Country grades, which are derived from long-term sovereign foreign currency ratings, range from 1 lowest probability of default to 21 steps to reduce the amounts outstanding in discussion with the customers, clients or counterparties, if appropriate, the use of credit highest probability of default.
A ceiling is applied where a country is graded 12 or worse so that the counterparty cannot normally receive a derivatives and, sometimes, the sale of the loan assets.
The Group also uses various forms of specialised legal agreements to higher risk grading than the country, unless some form of protection is available in the event of a cross-border event, such as a significant portion reduce risk, including netting agreements which permit it to offset positive and negative balances with customers in certain circumstances to of a counterpartys assets or income being held or generated in hard currency.
minimise the exposure at default, as well as financial guarantees, and the use of covenants in commercial lending agreements.
To manage exposure to country risk, the Group uses two country limits: the Prudential Guideline and the Country Guideline.
The Prudential Barclays manages the diversification of its portfolio to avoid unwanted credit risk concentrations.
A concentration of credit risk exists when a Guideline is identified through the strict mapping of a country grade to derive a model-driven acceptable level of country appetite.
The Country number of counterparties are engaged in similar activities and have similar economic characteristics that would cause their ability to meet Guideline for all graded countries is set by the Credit Committee based on the Prudential Guideline and the internal assessment of country risk.
The contractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic or other conditions.
Country Guideline may therefore be above or below the Prudential Guideline.
Credit risk mitigation to address concentrations takes several dimensions.
Within wholesale credit risk, maximum exposure guidelines Country risk is calculated through the application of Country Loss Given Default CLGD.
All cross-border or domestic foreign currency are in place relating to the exposures to any individual counterparty.
These permit higher exposures to borrowers with higher ratings.
They also transactions incur CLGD from the Country Guideline agreed at Credit Committee.
The level of CLGD incurred by a counterparty transaction will distinguish between types of counterparty, for example, between sovereign governments, banks and corporations.
Excesses to maximum largely depend on three main factors: the country severity, the product severity and counterparty grade.
CLGD is incurred in the country of direct exposure guidelines are considered individually at the time of credit sanctioning, are reviewed regularly, and are reported to the Risk Oversight risk, defined as where the majority of operating assets are held.
This may differ from the country of incorporation.
However, where transactions are Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
Wrong way risk in a trading exposure arises when there is significant secured with collateral, the country risk can be transferred from the country of the borrower to the country of the collateral provider.
This is correlation between the underlying asset and the counterparty which in the event of default would lead to a significant mark to market loss.
only permitted where the collateral covers the borrowing and is not expected to decrease over time.
When assessing the credit exposure of a wrong way trade, analysts take into account the correlation between the counterparty and the Country Managers are in place for all countries where the Group has underlying asset as part of the sanctioning process.
Adjustments to the exposure and they, under the direction of Credit Committee, have calculated CEE are considered on a case by case basis.
responsibility for allocating country risk to individual transactions.
The The Risk Oversight Committee has delegated and apportioned total allocation of country limits is monitored on a daily basis by Group responsibility for risk management to the Retail and Wholesale Credit Risk Credit Risk, as headed by the Credit Risk Director.
Discretions exist to Management Committees.
The Retail Credit Risk Management increase the Country Guideline above the level agreed by Credit Committee RCRMC oversees exposures, which comprise unsecured Committee where the Country Guideline is below the Prudential personal lending including small businesses, mortgages and credit Guideline.
All requests to increase the Country Guideline in line with cards.
The RCRMC monitors the risk profile and performance of the retail individual discretions must be submitted to and applied centrally through Group Credit Risk.
| 86 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 87 1 A further mitigant against undesirable concentration of risk is the parties, in order to provide hedges against interest rate and or currency movements.
This forms part of Barclays Capitals market making activity mandate and scale framework described on page 78.
Mandate and scale limits, which can also be set at Group level to reflect overall Risk Appetite, in interest rate and foreign exchange products.
Barclays also acts as an investor in third-party securitisations i. e. can relate either to the stock of current exposures in the relevant portfolio or to the flow of new exposures into that portfolio.
Typical limits include where Barclays would not be defined as an originator or a sponsor for regulatory purposes.
This includes positions in ABS CDO Super Senior, the caps on UK commercial investment property lending, the proportion of lending with maturity in excess of seven years and the proportion of other US Sub Prime & Alt A and bonds which benefit from monoline credit protection.
See Barclays Capital Credit Market Exposures on pages 106 to new mortgage business that is buy-to-let.
The mandate and scale framework also provides protection against undue concentrations 118 for further details.
Due to the market disruption experienced since August 2007, the within the collateral held.
Concentrations of credit exposure described in this credit risk volume of securitisation activity in all forms that Barclays has undertaken has been more limited than previously.
In addition, the change in risk management section and the following statistical section are not proportionally related to credit loss.
Some segments of the Groups weighting of certain assets for example residential mortgages and of banks securitisations exposures as a result of the introduction of the portfolio have and are expected to have proportionally higher credit charges in relation to the exposure than others.
Moreover, the volatility Basel II regime means that the extent of regulatory relief obtainable from securitisations has changed.
of credit loss is different in different parts of the portfolio.
Thus, comparatively large credit impairment charges could arise in parts As such, Barclays own asset securitisation in 2008 was limited mainly to trades where securities have been retained on balance sheet and used of the portfolio not mentioned here.
as required as in central bank liquidity schemes.
Securitisations During 2008, Barclays launched Salisbury Receivables Corporations In the course of its business, Barclays has traditionally undertaken Salisbury, a multi-seller asset-backed commercial paper conduit securitisations of its own originated assets as well as the securitisation of modelled after Sheffield Receivables Corporation Sheffield, which was third party assets via sponsored conduit vehicles and shelf programmes.
Similar to Sheffield, Salisbury has the ability Barclays has securitised its own originated assets in order to manage to issue both US commercial paper CP and Euro CP notes to finance the Groups credit risk position, to obtain regulatory capital relief, and to client asset-backed receivable transactions.
Sponsored conduits primarily generate term liquidity for the Group balance sheet.
fund traditional assets such as credit cards, auto loans, student loans, For these transactions Barclays adopts the following roles in the prime mortgages and trade receivables.
securitisation process: RWAs reported for securitised assets at December 2008 are Originator of securitised assets calculated in line with FSA regulations as well as any individual guidance received from the FSA as at the end of the period.
Barclays has approval Executor of securitisation trades including bond marketing and to use the Internal Ratings Based Approach for the calculation of RWAs.
syndication Within this, the Group uses the Internal Assessment Approach and the Provider of securitisation trade servicing, including data management, Supervisory Formula Approach to calculate its regulatory capital requirements arising from its securitisation exposures.
Further information about securitisation activities and accounting As at the end 2008 Barclays has securitised its own originated retail treatment is in Note 29.
The Groups accounting policies, including those and commercial mortgages, credit cards and corporate loans across both relevant to securitisation activities are on page 193. funded traditional and synthetic transactions.
For certain transactions, there may be a divergence between the Barclays acts as an administrator and manager of multi-seller accounting and regulatory treatment of Barclays exposure to conduits through which interests in  assets are securitisations, for example in the treatment of exposure values.
This will securitised and funded via the issuance of asset backed commercial reflect differing guidance given in the accounting and regulatory regimes paper.
From a regulatory perspective, Barclays would be defined primarily which in turn reflect the areas in which the aims of each regime differ.
as a sponsor of these conduits.
Barclays employs External Credit Assessment Institutions to provide In relation to such conduit activity, Barclays may provide all or a portion ratings for its asset backed securities.
Their use is dependent on the of the backstop liquidity to the commercial paper, programme-wide credit transaction or asset class involved.
For existing transactions, we employ enhancement and, as appropriate, interest rate and foreign currency Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch for securitisations of corporate, hedging facilities.
Barclays receives fees for the provision of these services.
residential mortgage and other retail exposures and Standard & Poors In addition to the above, Barclays has provided swaps to securitisation and Moodys for securitisations of small and medium-sized entity and vehicles, both those sponsored by Barclays and those sponsored by third revolving retail exposures.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 87 C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 88 Risk management Credit risk management Analysis of total assets and credit risk exposures Analysis of total assets Sub analysis Assets Assets not Debt Reverse subject subject Credit Loans and securities and repurchase to credit to credit Total market a b c d e advances other bills Derivatives agreements Other risk risk assets exposures Assets m m m m m m m m m Cash and balances at central banks 30,019 30,019 30,019 Items in the course of collection from other banks 1,695 1,695 1,695 Treasury and other eligible bills 4,544 4,544 4,544 Debt securities 148,686 148,686 148,686 4,745 f Equity securities 30,535 30,535 Traded loans 1,070 1,070 1,070 g Commodities 802 802 Total Trading portfolio assets 1,070 153,230 154,300 31,337 185,637 Financial assets designated at fair value Loans and advances 30,057 130 30,187 30,187 14,429 Debt securities 8,628 8,628 8,628 f Equity securities 6,496 6,496 h Other financial assets 1,469 7,283 479 9,231 9,231 Held on own account 31,526 8,628 7,283 609 48,046 6,496 54,542 Held in respect of linked liabilities under i investment contracts 66,657 66,657 Derivative financial instruments 984,802 984,802 984,802 9,234 Loans and advances to banks 47,707 47,707 47,707 Loans and advances to customers 461,815 461,815 461,815 12,808 Debt securities 58,831 58,831 58,831 727 f Equity securities 2,142 2,142 Treasury and other eligible bills 4,003 4,003 4,003 Available for sale financial instruments 62,834 62,834 2,142 64,976 Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed 130,354 130,354 130,354 Other assets 3,096 3,096 3,206 6,302 109 Current tax assets 389 389 Investments in associates and joint ventures 341 341 Goodwill 7,625 7,625 Intangible assets 2,777 2,777 Property, plant and equipment 4,674 4,674 Deferred tax assets 2,668 2,668 Total on-balance sheet 542,118 224,692 984,802 137,637 35,419 1,924,668 128,312 2,052,980 Off-balance sheet: Acceptances and endorsements 585 Guarantees and letters of credit pledged as collateral security and securities lending arrangements 53,942 Commitments 260,816 1,030 Total off-balance sheet 315,343 Total maximum exposure to credit risk 2,240,011 Notes a Further analysis of loans and advances is on pages 89 to 102 b Further analysis of debt securities and other bills is on page 103 c Further analysis of derivatives is on pages 104 to 105. d Reverse repurchase agreements comprise primarily short-term cash lending with assets pledged by counterparties securing the loan.
e Further analysis of Barclays Capital credit market exposures is on pages 106 to 118. f Equity securities comprise primarily equity securities determined by available quoted prices in active markets.
g Commodities primarily consists of physical inventory positions.
h These instruments consist primarily of loans with embedded derivatives and reverse repurchase agreements designated at fair value.
i Financial assets designated at fair value in respect of linked liabilities to customers under investment contracts have not been further analysed as the Group is not exposed to the risks inherent in these assets.
| 88 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 89 Risk management 1 Credit risk management Loans and advances As the granting of credit is one of the Groups major sources of income and through loans to banks, loan commitments, contingent liabilities and debt its most significant risk, the Group dedicates considerable resources to securities.
The value of outstanding loans and advances balances, their risk gaining a clear and accurate understanding of credit risk across the business profile, and potential concentrations within them can therefore have a and ensuring that its balance sheet correctly reflects the value of the assets considerable influence on the level of credit risk in the Group.
in accordance with applicable accounting principles.
This process can be As at 31st December 2008, total loans and advances to customers and summarised in the following broad stages: banks net of impairment allowance were 542,118m 2007: 410,789m, a rise of 32% on the previous year.
Loans and advances at amortised cost Measuring exposures and concentrations were 509,522m 2007: 385,518m and loans and advances at fair value Monitoring weakness in exposures were 32,596m 2007: 25,271m.
Loans and advances were well distributed across the retail and wholesale portfolios.
Identifying potential problem loans and credit risk loans collectively Loans and advances were also well spread across industry known as potential credit risk loans or PCRLs classifications.
Barclays largest sectoral exposure is to home loans which, Raising allowances for impaired loans combined with other personal and business services sectors, comprise 48% of total loans and advances 2007: 53%.
These categories are Writing off assets when the whole or part of a debt is considered generally comprised of small loans, have low volatility of credit risk irrecoverable outcomes, and are intrinsically highly diversified.
Growth in loans and Measuring exposures and concentrations advances to the financial services sector reflected an increased client base in Loans and advances to customers provide the principal source of credit risk to the fund management business and increases in cash collateral.
Loans and the Group although Barclays can also be exposed to other forms of credit risk advances are further diversified across a number of geographical regions, Fig.
1: Loans and advances to customers by industry % Fig.
2: Geographical analysis of loans and advances to customers % 1 UK Home loans 07 2 Other European 08 Union Financial services 3 United States 4 Africa Other personal 5 Rest of the World Business and other services Wholesale and retail trade, 5 5 distribution and leisure 4 4 1 Property 3 3 1 2 Manufacturing 2 Finance lease receivables Energy and water 2007 2008 Transport Construction Postal and Communication Agriculture, forestry and fishing Government 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 Table 1: Loans and advances at amortised cost Gross Loans and CRLs % of loans and Impairment advances net Credit risk gross loans Impairment Loan loss advances allowance of impairment loans and advances charge rates As at 31st December 2008 m m m m % m basis points Wholesale customers 266,750 2,784 263,966 8,144 3.1 2,540 95 Wholesale banks 47,758 51 47,707 48 0.1 40 8 Total wholesale 314,508 2,835 311,673 8,192 2.6 2,580 82 Retail customers 201,588 3,739 197,849 7,508 3.7 2,333 116 Total retail 201,588 3,739 197,849 7,508 3.7 2,333 116 Total 516,096 6,574 509,522 15,700 3.0 4,913 95 As at 31st December 2007 Wholesale customers 187,086 1,309 185,777 5,157 2.8 1,190 64 Wholesale banks 40,123 3 40,120 13 3 Total wholesale 227,209 1,312 225,897 5,157 2.3 1,177 52 Retail customers 162,081 2,460 159,621 4,484 2.8 1,605 99 Total retail 162,081 2,460 159,621 4,484 2.8 1,605 99 Total 389,290 3,772 385,518 9,641 2.5 2,782 71 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 89 C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 90 Risk management Credit risk management Loans and advances based on location of customers.
The majority of Barclays exposure is now Corporate and wholesale loans and advances outside the UK, reflecting higher rates of growth in the international Gross loans and advances to wholesale customers and banks grew 38% portfolios as well as the effects of currency movements in 2008. to 314,508m 31st December 2007: 227,209m, largely due to Barclays Barclays also actively monitors exposure and concentrations to subCapital where loans and advances increased 72,514m 53%.
investment grade countries see country risk policy, page 86.
Details of the Credit Risk Loans CRLs rose 59% to 8,192m 31st December 15 largest sub-investment grade countries, by limit, are shown in figure 3.
As a percentage of gross loans and advances, CRLs Contractual maturity represents a further area of potential increased 13% to 2.6% 31st December 2007: 2.3%.
The analysis shown in figure 4 indicates that just over 40% higher in all businesses, reflecting the downturn in economic conditions, of loans to customers have a maturity of more than five years: the majority with some deterioration across default grades, higher levels of Early of this segment comprises secured home loans.
Warning List balances and a rise in impairment and loan loss rates in most Barclays risk is therefore spread across a large number of industries wholesale portfolios.
The largest rises were in Barclays Capital and GRCB and customers and in the case of home loans, for example, well secured.
These classifications have been prepared at the level of the borrowing Impairment charges on loans and advances rose 119% 1,403m to entity.
This means that a loan to the subsidiary of a major corporation is 2,580m 31st December 2007: 1,177m, primarily in Barclays Capital, classified by the industry in which the subsidiary operates, even through although all other businesses were higher than the previous year.
the parents predominant sphere of activity may be in a different industry.
Impairment in Barclays Commercial Bank rose in both the Larger and Fig.
3: Credit exposure to sub-investment grade countries m Egypt Brazil 07 08 Kenya Indonesia Turkey Fig.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 91 1 Medium Business divisions.
Deterioration in the Spanish commercial Analysis of Barclays Capital wholesale loans and advances net of and residential property markets led to higher impairment in GRCB impairment allowances Western Europe, while in GRCB Absa, wholesale credit impairment Barclays Capital wholesale loans and advances increased 53% to began to rise from a low base and credit indicators began to show 208,596m 2007: 136,082m.
This was driven by a decline in the value deterioration.
The loan loss rate on the wholesale and corporate of Sterling relative to other currencies, increased drawdowns on existing portfolio rose to 82bp 2007: 52bp.
corporate lending facilities and the extension of new loans to corporate In the wholesale and corporate portfolios impairment allowances clients at current terms.
Additionally, continuing market volatility resulted increased 116% to 2,835m 31st December 2007: 1,312m.
in increased cash collateral being placed with clients relating to OTC Barclays largest corporate loan portfolios continue to be in derivatives.
Barclays Capital and Barclays Commercial Bank.
Barclays Capitals The corporate lending portfolio, including leveraged finance, corporate loan book grew 43% to 72,796m in 2008, driven by the increased 47% to 76,556m 2007: 52,258 primarily due to drawdowns decline in the value of Sterling relative to other currencies as well as on existing loan facilities and the extension of new loans at current terms drawdowns on existing loan facilities and the extension of new loans at to financial and manufacturing institutions.
current terms to financial and manufacturing institutions.
Loans and Included within corporate lending and other wholesale lending advances at amortised cost grew 5% in Barclays Commercial Bank portfolios are 7,674m of loans backed by retail mortgage collateral.
and was focused in lower-risk portfolios in Larger Business.
Barclays Capital loans and advances held at fair value Portfolio growth rates were higher in the international businesses, Barclays Capital loans and advances held at fair value were 19,630m where Global Retail and Commercial Bankings wholesale portfolios in 2007: 18,259m.
These assets are primarily made up of US RMBS whole Western Europe, Emerging Markets and Absa grew by 40%, 56% and loans and commercial real estate loans, 14,429m of which is discussed 63%, respectively.
within the credit market exposures.
Table 3: Analysis of wholesale loans and advances net of impairment allowances Settlement balance and Corporate Government cash collateral Other wholesale Total wholesale 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Wholesale m m m m m m m m m m BCB 67,741 64,773 659 279 68,400 65,052 Barclaycard 299 292 299 292 GRCB Western Europe 15,017 10,721 32 4 151 139 15,200 10,864 GRCB EmergingMarkets 5,283 3,276 1,709 1,193 437 285 7,429 4,754 GRCB Absa 8,480 5,204 28 5 8,508 5,209 Barclays Capital 72,796 51,038 3,760 1,220 79,418 46,639 50,826 36,671 206,800 135,568 BGI 834 211 834 211 Barclays Wealth 3,254 2,738 3,254 2,738 Head office 949 1,209 949 1,209 Total 174,653 139,462 6,188 2,701 79,418 46,639 51,414 37,095 311,673 225,897 Table 4: Analysis of Barclays Capitals loans and advances at amortised cost Gross Loans and CRLs % of loans and Impairment advances net Credit risk gross loans Impairment Loan loss advances allowance of impairment loans and advances charge rates As at 31st December 2008 m m m m % m basis points Loans and advances bank Cash collateral and settlement balances 19,264 19,264 Interbank lending 24,086 51 24,035 48 0.2 40 17 Loans and advances to customers Corporate lending 77,042 486 76,556 1,100 1.4 305 40 ABS CDO Super Senior 4,117 1,013 3,104 4,117 100.0 1,383 3,359 Other wholesale lending 23,933 246 23,687 478 2.0 208 87 Cash collateral and settlement balances 60,154 60,154 Total 208,596 1,796 206,800 5,743 2.8 1,936 93 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 91 C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 92 Risk management Credit risk management Loans and advances Analysis of Barclays Commercial Bank loans and advances to observable market inputs and is matched by offsetting fair value The tables below analyse the industry split of Barclays Commercial Bank movements on hedging instruments.
The underlying nominal portfolio loans and advances after impairment allowance of 504m.
The loan book increased 47% in 2008. consists of both loans and advances held at amortised cost and loans and Property balances within loans and advances at amortised cost and advances held at fair value.
held at fair value totalled 16,351m, of which 8,795m related to social Loans and advances held at fair value were 12,966m as at housing.
Of these, 12,360m related to government, local The weighted average of the drawn balance loss given default, for all authority and social housing.
Fair value exceeds amortised cost by of the above loans and advances, was 31%.
Fair value is calculated using a valuation model with reference Table 5: Analysis of Barclays Commercial Bank loans and advances Loans and advances to banks at amortised cost Total m Financial institutions and services 867 Total 867 Loans and advances to customers at amortised cost Total m Business and other services 16,611 Construction 3,974 Energy and water 1,112 Financial institutions and services 6,427 Finance Lease receivables 6,644 Manufacturing 8,378 Postal and communications 1,303 Property 8,985 Transport 2,014 Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 11,426 Government 659 Total 67,533 Loans and advances held at fair value Total m Business and other services 535 Construction 39 Financial institutions and services 32 Property 7,366 Government 4,994 Total 12,966 | 92 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 93 1 Barclays Commercial Bank financial sponsor leveraged finance As at 31st December 2008, the exposure relating to financial sponsor related leveraged finance loans in Barclays Commercial Bank was 2,445m, of which 1,875m related to drawn amounts recorded in loans and advances.
Table 6: Barclays Commercial Bank financial sponsor leveraged finance Leveraged finance exposure by region As at 31st December 2008 m UK 2,111 Europe 323 Other 11 Total lending and commitments 2,445 Underwriting 28 Total exposure 2,473 The industry classification of the exposure was as follows: Leveraged finance exposure by industry Drawn Undrawn Total As at 31st December 2008 m m m Business and other services 1,083 288 1,371 Construction 12 5 17 Energy and water 43 17 60 Financial institutions and services 58 10 68 Manufacturing 307 130 437 Postal and communications 35 2 37 Property 26 5 31 Transport 14 43 57 Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 297 70 367 Total exposure 1,875 570 2,445 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 93 C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 94 Risk management Credit risk management Loans and advances Retail loans and advances Total home loans to retail customers grew by 27% to 135,077m, Gross Loans and Advances to retail customers grew 24% to 201,588m driven by the 58% rise in GRCB Western Europe, reflecting currency 31st December 2007: 162,081m.
The principal drivers were GRCB movements and book growth.
The UK home finance portfolios within UK Western Europe, UK Retail Banking, and Barclaycard.
The GRCB Western Retail Banking grew 18% to 82,303m 31st December 2007: 69,805m.
Europe retail portfolio grew by 14,436m 59% to 38,918m, largely Unsecured retail credit credit card and unsecured loans portfolios driven by home loans in Spain and Italy, and the appreciation of the Euro grew 43% to 38,856m 31st December 2007: 27,256m, principally as against Sterling.
The UK Retail Banking portfolio increased by 12,319m a result of growth in Barclaycard US and GRCB Western Europe as well as 15% to 96,083m, primarily driven by UK home loans.
The Barclaycard the acquisition of Goldfish in the UK.
Retail portfolios grew by 8,866m 43% to 29,390m, with growth across the US, UK and Barclaycards other European card portfolios.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 95 1 Home Loans mortgages, 0.76% for Spain and 2.11% for South Africa.
To support the The Groups principal home loans portfolios continue to be in the Groups risk profile, we increased collections staff across the businesses UK Retail Banking Home Finance business 61% of the Groups total, and improved operational practices to boost effectiveness.
GRCB Western Europe 25% primarily Spain, and South Africa 14%.
Credit Cards and Unsecured Loans During the year, the Group managed the risk profile of these portfolios by The Groups largest card and unsecured loan portfolios are in the UK 47% strengthening underwriting criteria and reducing the maximum loan to of Group total.
The US accounts for 19%, where Barclaycards portfolio is value LTV ratios, with greater discrimination between purchases and largely Prime credit quality FICO score of 660 or more.
To address the remortgages and, within the UK buy to let BTL segment, between impact of economic deterioration and the impact of weaker labour portfolio customers and single property investors.
markets on the unsecured portfolios in 2008, the Group used a range Credit quality of the principal home loan portfolios reflected relatively of measures to improve new customer quality and control the risk profile low levels of high LTV lending.
The LTVs on the Groups principal home of existing customers.
loan portfolios are shown in table 9.
Using recent valuations, the LTV of the In the UK Cards portfolio, initial credit lines were made more portfolios as at 31st December 2008 was 40% for UK Retail Bankings conservative, followed by selective credit limit increases using more mortgage business, 48% for the Spanish mortgage portfolio within GRCB accurately assessed customer behaviour.
The overall number of credit Western Europe and 41% for GRCB Absas mortgage portfolio in South limit increases were reduced by strengthening qualification criteria and a Africa.
The average LTV for new mortgage business during 2008 at proportion of higher-risk dormant accounts were closed.
Arrears rates in origination for these portfolios was 47% for the UK, 63% for Spain and the UK Cards portfolio fell slightly during the year, reflecting measures 58% for South Africa.
The percentage of balances with an LTV of over taken to improve customer quality in 2007 and 2008.
Repayment Plan 85% based on current values was 10% for the UK, 5% for Spain and balances grew to support government initiatives to supply relief to 25% for South Africa.
In the UK, BTL mortgages comprised 6.8% the customers experiencing financial difficulty.
Payment rates in repayment total stock.
Impairment charges rose across the home loan portfolios, reflecting As a percentage of the portfolio, three-month arrears rates rose during the impact of lower house prices as well as some increase in arrears rates.
The rate reduced to Three-month arrears as at 31st December 2008 were 0.91% for UK 1.28% for UK Cards.
b Defined as total 90 day delinquent balances as a percentage of outstandings.
c Defined as total 90 day delinquent balances as a percentage of outstandings.
Excludes legal and repayment plans.
UK Cards based on Barclaycard Branded Cards, excluding Goldfish.
UK Loans based on Barclayloan.
US cards excludes Business Card and US Airways portfolios.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 95 C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 96 Risk management Credit risk management Loans and advances Monitoring weaknesses in exposures appropriate category.
All obligors, regardless of financial health, are subject Barclays actively manages its credit exposures.
When weaknesses to a full review of all facilities on, at least, an annual basis.
More frequent in exposures are detected either in individual exposures or in groups interim reviews may be undertaken should circumstances dictate.
of exposures the Group takes action to mitigate the risks.
Such Warning list balances rose throughout the year as wholesale credit actions may, for example, include: reducing the amounts outstanding conditions deteriorated across the regions in which Barclays operates.
in discussion with the customers, clients or counterparties if Within Local Business, accounts that are deemed to have a appropriate : using credit derivatives securitising the assets: and, on heightened level of risk, or that exhibit some unsatisfactory features which occasion, selling them.
could affect viability in the short medium term, are transferred to a Corporate accounts that are deemed to contain heightened levels of separate Caution stream.
Accounts on the Caution stream are reviewed risk are recorded on graded early warning or watch lists comprising three on at least a quarterly basis, at which time consideration is given to categories graded in line with the perceived severity of the risk attached to continuing with the agreed strategy, returning the customer to a lower risk the lending, and its probability of default.
These are updated monthly and refer stream, or instigating recovery exit action.
circulated to the relevant risk control points.
Once listing has taken place, Within the personal portfolios, which tend to comprise homogeneous exposure is very carefully monitored and, where appropriate, exposure assets, statistical techniques more readily allow potential weaknesses reductions are effected.
to be monitored on a portfolio basis.
This applies in parts of UK Retail Should an account become impaired, it will normally, but not Banking, Barclays Wealth, GRCBs international retail portfolios and necessarily, have passed through all three categories, which reflect the Barclaycard.
The approach is consistent with the Groups policy of raising need for ever-increasing caution and control.
Where an obligors financial a collective impairment allowance as soon as objective evidence of health gives grounds for concern, it is immediately placed into the impairment is identified.
CRLs and PPLs balances by UK and non-UK Fig.
5: CRLs balances by UK and non-UK m Fig.
6: PPLs balances by UK and non-UK m Non-UK Non-UK UK UK a b a b 04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective in relation to impaired loans: therefore these loans technically are not classified from 1st January 2005. as non-accrual.
In 2005, the Group replaced the non-accrual category with one b From 1st January 2005, the application of IAS 39 required interest to be recognised on termed impaired loans.
The SEC requires loans to be classified, where applicable, the remaining balance of an impaired financial asset or group of financial assets at the as non-accrual, accruing past due 90 days or more, troubled debt restructurings effective interest rate for that asset.
As a result, interest is credited to the income statement and potential problem loans.
| 96 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 4,115 5,210 5,088 9,641 15,700 798 929 761 1,797 2,456 Business review C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 97 1 Potential credit risk loans debtors financial difficulties, a concession has been granted to the In line with disclosure requirements from the Securities Exchange debtor that would not otherwise be considered.
Where the concession Commission SEC in the US, if the credit quality of a loan on an early results in the expected cash flows discounted at the effective interest warning or watch list deteriorates to the highest category, consideration is rate being less than the loans carrying value, an impairment allowance given to including it within the Potential Problem Loan PPL list.
loans where payment of principal and interest is up to date but where In 2007, the term Credit Risk Loans replaced the term Non-Performing serious doubt exists as to the ability of the borrowers to continue to Loans NPLs as the collective term for the total of these three classes to comply with repayment terms in the near future.
recognise the fact that the impaired loan category may include loans Should further evidence of deterioration be observed, a loan may which, while impaired, are still performing.
This category includes drawn move to the Credit Risk Loan CRL category as required by the SEC.
ABS CDO Super Senior positions.
Events that would trigger the transfer of a loan from the PPL to the CRL Potential Credit Risk Loans PCRLs comprise PPLs and CRLs.
Figures category could include a missed payment or a breach of covenant.
5 and 6 show CRL and PPL balances by UK and non-UK.
The amounts are CRLs comprise three classes of loans: shown before deduction of value of security held, impairment allowances Impaired loans comprise loans where individual identified impairment from 2005 onwards and provisions or interest suspense 2004, all of allowance has been raised and also include loans which are fully which might reduce the impact of an eventual loss, should it occur.
The collateralised or where indebtedness has already been written down to significant increase to non-UK CRL and PPL balances, in 2007 and 2008, the expected realisable value.
The impaired loan category may include is principally due to the inclusion of US-located ABS CDO Super Senior loans, which, while impaired, are still performing.
positions and other credit market exposures.
The category accruing past due 90 days or more comprises loans that Credit Risk Loans are 90 days or more past due as to principal or interest.
Balances were allowance will be raised against these loans if the expected cash flows higher in all businesses as credit conditions deteriorated across Barclays discounted at the effective interest rate are less than the carrying value.
areas of operations and total loans and advances grew.
The most notable increases were in Barclays Capital and the non-UK businesses in Global The category impaired and restructured loans comprises loans not Retail and Commercial Banking.
included above where, for economic or legal reasons related to the CRLs and PPLs as a percentage of Loans and Advances Fig.
7: CRLs Loans and Advances Ratio % Fig.
8: PPLs Loans and Advances Ratio % a b a b 04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective in relation to impaired loans: therefore these loans technically are not classified as from 1st January 2005. non-accrual.
The SEC requires loans to be classified, where applicable, as the remaining balance of an impaired financial asset or group of financial assets at the non-accrual, accruing past due 90 days or more, troubled debt restructurings and effective interest rate for that asset.
As a result, interest is credited to the income statement potential problem loans.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 97 1.8 1.7 1.6 2.5 3.0 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.5 0.5 C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 98 Risk management Credit risk management Loans and advances CRLs in retail secured mortgage products increased by 1,309m Potential Problem Loans 89% to 2,783m 2007: 1,474m.
The key driver was Absa Home Balances within the Groups potential problem loans PPLs category rose Finance where balances increased significantly as a result of higher by 659m to 2,456m 31st December 2007: 1,797m.
The principal interest rates and increasing consumer indebtedness.
Increases were also movements were in the corporate and wholesale portfolios, where PPLs seen in UK Home Finance, reflecting weakening UK house prices and the rose 1,463m to 1,959m 31st December 2007: 496m as credit slowing economy, and in Spain, as economic conditions deteriorated.
This rise was offset by a fall in PPLs relating to ABS CRLs in the unsecured and other retail portfolios increased by CDO positions, as those balances moved into the CRL category.
The key drivers for this flat PPLs from retail portfolios reflected methodology alignments affecting increase were: Absa, which was impacted by higher interest rates and GRCB Absa which transferred balances of just over 200m previously increasing consumer indebtedness, Barclaycard US, due to deteriorating reported as PPLs to CRLs.
This was offset by rises in UK Retail Banking, credit conditions which resulted in rising delinquency rates, asset growth GRCB Western Europe and GRCB Emerging Markets.
and exchange rate movements, and Spain, as economic conditions Potential Credit Risk Loans deteriorated and consumer indebtedness increased.
Combining CRLs and PPLs, total potential credit risk loans PCRL Corporate Wholesale CRLs, excluding ABS CDO Super Senior balances in the corporate and wholesale portfolios increased by 161% positions, increased by 2,262m 125% to 4,075m 2007: 1,813m.
in 2008 to 6,034m 31st December 2007: 2,309m as a number of The key drivers were: Barclays Capital following a number of credit names migrated into the CRL and PPL categories, reflecting higher default downgrades: increasing default probabilities: and Spain, primarily due probabilities in the deteriorating global wholesale environment.
to increases to the property-related names.
Balances also increased in PCRLs relating to ABS CDO positions remained stable at 4,117m Barclays Commercial Bank and Absa Commercial and Banking Business 31st December 2007: 4,145m.
as corporate credit conditions deteriorated, particularly in the last quarter Total retail PCRL balances increased 61% to 8,005m of 2008.
31st December 2007: 4,984m as delinquency rates rose across CRLs on ABS CDO Super Senior positions increased 773m 23% to a number of secured and unsecured portfolios following a deterioration 4,117m 2007: 3,344m.
The majority of this increase resulted from a in credit conditions, particularly in the UK, US, Spain and South Africa.
migration of assets, totalling 801m, from potential problem loans PPLs Group PCRL balances rose 59% to 18,156m 31st December 2007: to CRLs.
Excluding ABS CDO Super Senior positions, PCRLs increased 92% to 14,039m 31st December 2007: 7,293m.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 99 1 Impairment Allowances and Coverage Ratios levels of impairment than CRLs, a higher proportion of PPLs in total PCRLs In 2008, impairment allowances increased 74% to 6,574m 31st December will tend to lower the overall coverage ratio.
Excluding ABS CDO Super Senior positions, allowances Allowances for impairment and other credit provisions increased by 60% to 5,561m 31st December 2007: 3,482m.
Allowances Barclays establishes, through charges against profit, impairment allowances increased in all businesses as credit conditions deteriorated, but most notably and other credit provisions for the incurred loss inherent in the lending book.
in Barclays Capital and GRCBs international portfolios.
Under IFRS, impairment allowances are recognised where there is Reflecting this 74% rise in impairment allowance compared with the objective evidence of impairment as a result of one or more loss events 63% rise in total CRLs, the Groups CRL coverage ratio rose to 41.9% that have occurred after initial recognition, and where these events have 31st December 2007: 39.1%.
Coverage ratios for PCRLs rose to 36.2% had an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset or 31st December 2007: 33.0%.
Impairment of loans and receivables is The largest driver for these increases was the near four-fold increase measured as the difference between the carrying amount and the present in the impairment held against ABS CDO Super Senior positions as the value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets LGD of these assets increased.
If the carrying amount is less than the Allowance coverage ratios of CRLs and PCRLs excluding the drawn discounted cash flows, then no further allowance is necessary.
ABS CDO Super Senior positions decreased to 48.0% 31st December Impairment is measured individually for assets that are individually 2007: 55.3% and 39.6% 31st December 2007: 47.7%, respectively.
significant, and collectively where a portfolio comprises homogenous These movements in coverage ratios reflected: assets and where appropriate statistical techniques are available.
An increase in CRLs and PCRLs in the well-secured home loan In terms of individual assessment, the trigger point for impairment is portfolios.
formal classification of an account as exhibiting serious financial problems and where any further deterioration is likely to lead to failure.
Two key Higher CRLs and PCRLs in the corporate sector, where the recovery inputs to the cash flow calculation are the valuation of all security and outlook is relatively high.
collateral, as well as the timing of all asset realisations, after allowing for all Increased early-cycle delinquent balances in the retail unsecured attendant costs.
This method applies in the corporate portfolios Barclays portfolios, as credit conditions worsened.
These earlier-cycle balances, Commercial Bank, Barclays Capital and certain areas within GRCBs which tend to attract relatively lower impairment requirements, have international portfolios and Barclaycard.
increased as a proportion of the total delinquent balances.
For collective assessment, the trigger point for impairment is the missing of a contractual payment.
The impairment calculation is based on The decrease in the PCRL coverage ratio, excluding the drawn ABS a roll-rate approach, where the percentage of assets that move from the CDO Super Senior positions, was also driven by the overall increase in initial delinquency to default are derived from statistical probabilities PPLs as a proportion of total PCRLs.
Since, by definition, PPLs attract lower based on experience.
Recovery amounts and contractual interest rates are Fig.
9: Impairment provisions coverage of CRLs % Fig.
10: Impairment provisions coverage of PCRLs % including drawn ABS CDO Super Senior positions including drawn ABS CDO Super Senior positions a a 04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 Fig.
11: Impairment provisions coverage of CRLs % Fig.
12: Impairment provisions coverage of PCRLs % excluding drawn ABS CDO Super Senior positions excluding drawn ABS CDO Super Senior positions a a 04 05 06 07 08 04 05 06 07 08 Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
This Impairment charges on loans and advances and other credit method applies to parts of GRCBs international portfolios, Barclaycard provisions increased 77% 2,131m to 4,913m 2007: 2,782m see and UK Retail Banking and is consistent with Barclays policy of raising an table 1 on page 89 reflecting charges of 1,763m against ABS CDO Super allowance as soon as impairment is identified.
Senior and other credit market exposures and increased impairment in the Unidentified impairment allowances, albeit significantly lower in international portfolios within Global Retail and Commercial Banking.
Total amount than those reported above, are also raised to cover losses which loans and advances grew 33% to 516,096m 31st December 2007: are judged to be incurred but not yet specifically identified in customer 389,290m.
As a result, impairment charges on loans and advances exposures at the balance sheet date, and which, therefore, have not been and other credit provisions as a percentage of period end Group total loans specifically reported.
The incurred but not yet reported calculation is based on the assets In the retail portfolios, impairment charges on loans and advances probability of moving from the performing portfolio to being specifically and other credit provisions rose 45% 728m to 2,333m 2007: identified as impaired within the given emergence period and then on to 1,605m see table 1 on page 89 principally as a consequence of default within a specified period.
This is calculated on the present value increased impairment in the international portfolios, whilst total loans and advances increased 24% to 201,588m 31st December 2007: of estimated future cash flows discounted at the financial assets original effective interest rate.
As a result, impairment charges as a percentage of period end total loans and advances increased to 1.16% 2007: 0.99%.
The emergence periods vary across businesses and are based on actual experience and are reviewed on an annual basis.
This methodology In the wholesale and corporate portfolios, impairment charges on loans and advances and other credit provisions rose by 119% 1,403m ensures that the Group only captures the loss incurred at the balance sheet date.
to 2,580m 2007: 1,177m see table 1 on page 89 whilst total loans and advances increased 38% to 314,508m 31st December 2007: These impairment allowances are reviewed and adjusted at least quarterly by an appropriate charge or release of the stock of impairment 227,209m.
As a result, impairment charges as a percentage of period end total loans and advances increased to 0.82% 2007: 0.52%.
allowances based on statistical analysis and management judgement.
Where appropriate, the accuracy of this analysis is periodically Global Retail and Commercial Banking assessed against actual losses.
Impairment charges in UK Retail Banking increased 43m to 602m As one of the controls of ensuring that adequate impairment 2007: 559m, reflecting growth in the book and deteriorating economic allowances are held, movements in impairment allowances to individual conditions.
In UK Home Finance, whilst three month arrears increased names above 10m are presented to the Credit Committee for agreement.
from 0.63% to 0.91%, the quality of the book and conservative loan to Impairment charges and other credit provisions in 2008 value ratios meant that the impairment charges and amounts charged In 2008, total impairment charges increased 94% 2,624m to 5,419m off remained low at 24m 2007: 3m release.
This figure included impairment charges of 506m Consumer Lending increased 3% reflecting the current economic 2007: 13m on available for sale assets and reverse repurchase environment and loan growth.
13: Impairment provisions charges over five years m Table 13: Impairment Charges and Other Credit Provisions Year Ended Year Ended 31.12.08 31.12.07 m m UK Retail Banking 602 559 Barclays Commercial Bank 414 292 Barclaycard 1,097 827 GRCB Western Europe 296 76 GRCB Emerging Markets 166 39 GRCB Absa 347 146 Barclays Capital 419 64 Barclays Wealth 44 7 Head office functions and other operations 11 3 a Group Total 3,396 2,013 04 05 06 07 08 ABS CDO Sub-Prime and other credit Market Provisions 1,763 782 Group Total Including ABS CDO 5,159 2,795 Other AFS Assets and Reverse Repos 260 Group Total Including ABS CDO and AFS Reverse Repos 5,419 2,795 Note a 2004 does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
| 100 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 1,093 1,571 2,154 2,795 5,419 Business review C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 101 1 The impairment charge in Barclays Commercial Bank increased agreements 2007: nil.
Other impairment charges increased 355m to 122m to 414m 2007: 292m, primarily reflecting higher impairment 419m 2007: 64m and primarily related to charges in the private equity losses in Larger Business, particularly in the final quarter as the UK and other loans business.
The impairment charge in Barclays Wealth increased 37m to The impairment charge in Barclaycard increased 270m 33% 44m 2007: 7m from a very low base.
This increase reflected both to 1,097m 2007: 827m, reflecting higher charges in Barclaycard the substantial increase in the loan book over the last three years and International portfolios, particularly Barclaycard US which was driven by the impact of the current economic environment on client liquidity and loan growth, rising delinquency due to deteriorating economic conditions collateral values.
and exchange rate movements: and 68m from the inclusion of Goldfish.
The impairment charge in Head Office Functions and Other These factors were partially offset by lower charges in UK Cards and Operations increased 8m to 11m 2007: 3m mainly reflecting secured consumer lending.
losses on Floating Rate Notes held for hedging purposes.
An additional Impairment charges in GRCB Western Europe increased 220m to 19m 2007: nil of impairment charges were incurred on available for 296m 2007: 76m principally due to deteriorating economic trends sale assets.
and asset growth in Spain, where there were higher charges in the Writing-off of assets commercial portfolios as a consequence of the slowdown in the property After an advance has been identified as impaired and is subject to an and construction sectors.
In addition higher household indebtedness and impairment allowance, the stage may be reached whereby it is concluded rising unemployment has driven up delinquency and charge-offs in the that there is no realistic prospect of further recovery.
Write-off will occur personal sector.
when, and to the extent that, the whole or part of a debt is considered Impairment charges in GRCB Emerging Markets increased 127m irrecoverable.
to 166m 2007: 39m, reflecting: weakening credit conditions which The timing and extent of write-offs may involve some element of adversely impacted delinquency trends in the majority of the retail subjective judgement.
Nevertheless, a write-off will often be prompted by portfolios: asset growth, particularly in India: and increased wholesale a specific event, such as the inception of insolvency proceedings or other impairment in Africa.
formal recovery action, which makes it possible to establish that some or Impairment charges in GRCB Absa increased 201m to 347m the entire advance is beyond realistic prospect of recovery.
In any event, 2007: 146m as a result of rising delinquency levels in the retail the position of impaired loans is reviewed at least quarterly to ensure that portfolios, which have been impacted by rising interest and inflation irrecoverable advances are being written off in a prompt and orderly rates and increasing consumer indebtedness.
manner and in compliance with any local regulations.
Investment Banking and Investment Management Such assets are only written off once all the necessary procedures Barclays Capital impairment charges of 2,423m 2007: 846m included have been completed and the amount of the loss has been determined.
a charge of 1,763m 2007: 782m against ABS CDO Super Senior and Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are written other credit market positions.
Further impairment charges of 241m were back and hence decrease the amount of the reported loan impairment incurred in respect of available for sale assets and reverse repurchase charge in the income statement.
Total write-offs of impaired financial assets increased by 956m to 2,919m 2007: 1,963m.
14: Total write-offs of impaired financial assets m a 04 05 06 07 08 Note a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 101 1,595 1,587 2,174 1,963 2,919 C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 102 Risk management Credit risk management Loans and advances Risk Tendency Risk Tendency at GRCB Western Europe increased 135m to In 2008, Risk Tendency increased 58% 1,355m to 3,710m 270m 31st December 2007: 135m principally reflecting 31st December 2007: 2,355m, compared with 32% growth in the weakening credit conditions across Europe, particularly in Spain, asset Groups loans and advances balances.
This was reflective of the higher growth and movements in the Euro Sterling exchange rate.
credit risk profile, weakening credit conditions across our main Risk Tendency at GRCB Emerging Markets increased 210m businesses, and changing mix, as a consequence of planned growth, to 350m 31st December 2007: 140m reflecting weakening credit in a number of businesses and portfolios.
Risk Tendency in 2008 also conditions across the majority of regions, a change in the risk profile increased as a result of the weakening of Sterling against a number of following a broadening of the product offering through new product other foreign currencies, including the US Dollar and the Euro.
launches and new market entry in India and UAE, and asset growth.
UK Retail Banking Risk Tendency increased 50m to 520m Risk Tendency at GRCB Absa increased 65m to 255m 31st December 2007: 470m.
This reflected a higher risk profile in 31st December 2007: 190m reflecting weakening retail and, to a the unsecured and secured loans portfolios, weakening UK credit lesser extent, corporate credit conditions in South Africa and asset conditions, and asset growth, primarily in the Home Finance portfolio.
growth and movements in the Rand Sterling exchange rate.
Risk Tendency in Barclays Commercial Bank increased 95m to Risk Tendency in Barclays Capital increased 275m to 415m 400m 31st December 2007: 305m.
This reflected the 31st December 2007: 140m reflecting credit downgrades and deteriorating UK corporate credit environment and asset growth.
The drawn liquidity facilities on ABS CDO Super Senior Barclaycard Risk Tendency increased 520m to 1,475m positions are classified as credit risk loans and therefore no Risk 31st December 2007: 955m primarily reflecting the inclusion of Tendency is calculated on them.
new business acquisitions 260m as well as asset growth, exchange Risk Tendency at Barclays Wealth increased 10m to 20m rate movements, and the economic conditions in the US.
Risk 31st December 2007: 10m reflecting a weakening credit risk profile Tendency in the UK Cards portfolio remained stable as improvements and asset growth.
in portfolio quality were offset by deterioration in the UK economic environment.
Risk Tendency by business m 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 a b Barclays GRCB Barclays UK Retail Barclaycard GRCB GCRB Barclays Head office Banking Commercial Western Emerging Absa Capital Wealth functions Bank Europe Markets and other operations Notes a Excludes ABS CDO Super Senior positions as these are classified as credit risk loans and therefore no Risk Tendency is calculated on them.
b Head office functions and other operations comprise discontinued businesses in transition.
| 102 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 470 520 305 400 955 1,475 135 270 140 350 190 255 140 415 10 20 10 5 C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 103 Risk management Credit risk management Debt securities and other bills The following table presents an analysis of the credit quality of debt and similar securities, other than loans held within the Group.
Securities rated as investment grade amounted to 91.6% of the portfolio 2007: 88.0%.
Treasury and other Debt eligible bills securities Total As at 31.12.08 m m m % AAA to BBB investment grade 7,314 198,493 205,807 91.6 BB to B 1,233 15,309 16,542 7.4 B or lower 2,343 2,343 1.0 Total 8,547 216,145 224,692 100.0 Of which issued by: governments and other public bodies 8,547 73,881 82,428 36.7 US agency 34,180 34,180 15.3 mortgage and asset-backed securities 34,844 34,844 15.5 corporate and other issuers 55,244 55,244 24.6 bank and building society certificates of deposit 17,996 17,996 7.9 Total 8,547 216,145 224,692 100.0 Of which classified as: trading portfolio assets 4,544 148,686 153,230 68.2 financial instruments designated at fair value - 8,628 8,628 3.8 available-for-sale securities 4,003 58,831 62,834 28.0 Total 8,547 216,145 224,692 100.0 Treasury and other Debt eligible bills securities Total As at 31.12.07 m m m % AAA to BBB investment grade 4,114 189,794 193,908 88.0 BB to B 703 24,693 25,396 11.5 B or lower 1,181 1,181 0.5 Total 4,817 215,668 220,485 100.0 Of which issued by: governments and other public bodies 4,817 63,798 68,615 31.1 US agency 13,956 13,956 6.3 mortgage and asset-backed securities 28,928 28,928 13.1 corporate and other issuers 88,207 88,207 40.0 bank and building society certificates of deposit 20,779 20,779 9.5 Total 4,817 215,668 220,485 100.0 Of which classified as: trading portfolio assets 2,094 152,778 154,872 70.2 financial instruments designated at fair value 24,217 24,217 11.0 available-for-sale securities 2,723 38,673 41,396 18.8 Total 4,817 215,668 220,485 100.0 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 103 C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 104 Risk management Credit risk management Derivatives The use of derivatives and their sale to customers as risk management Interest rate derivatives The Groups principal interest rate related contracts are interest rate products are an integral part of the Groups trading activities.
These instruments are also used to manage the Groups own exposure to swaps, forward rate agreements, basis swaps, caps, floors and swaptions.
Included in this product category are transactions that include fluctuations in interest, exchange rates and commodity and equity prices as part of its asset and liability management activities.
An interest rate swap is an agreement between two parties to Barclays Capital manages the trading derivatives book as part of the market risk book.
This includes foreign exchange, interest rate, equity, exchange fixed rate and floating rate interest by means of periodic payments based upon a notional principal amount and the interest rates commodity and credit derivatives.
The policies regarding market risk management are outlined in the market risk management section on defined in the contract.
Certain agreements combine interest rate and foreign currency swap transactions, which may or may not include the pages 119 to 123.
Derivative instruments are contracts whose value is derived from exchange of principal amounts.
A basis swap is a form of interest rate swap, in which both parties exchange interest payments based on floating one or more underlying financial instruments or indices defined in the contract.
They include swaps, forward rate agreements, futures, options rates, where the floating rates are based upon different underlying reference indices.
In a forward rate agreement, two parties agree a future and combinations of these instruments and primarily affect the Groups net interest income, net trading income, net fee and commission income settlement of the difference between an agreed rate and a future interest rate, applied to a notional principal amount.
The settlement, which and derivative assets and liabilities.
Notional amounts of the contracts are not recorded on the balance sheet.
generally occurs at the start of the contract period, is the discounted present value of the payment that would otherwise be made at the The Group participates both in exchange traded and over the counter derivatives markets.
Exchange traded derivatives Credit derivatives The Group buys and sells financial instruments that are traded or cleared The Groups principal credit derivative-related contracts include on an exchange, including interest rate swaps, futures and options on credit default swaps and total return swaps.
A credit derivative is an futures.
Holders of exchange traded instruments provide margin daily arrangement whereby the credit risk of an asset the reference asset with cash or other security at the exchange, to which the holders look is transferred from the buyer to the seller of protection.
A credit default swap is a contract where the protection seller receives premium or interest-related payments in return for contracting to make Over the counter traded derivatives payments to the protection buyer upon a defined credit event.
Credit The Group also buys and sells financial instruments that are traded over events normally include bankruptcy, payment default on a reference the counter, rather than on a recognised exchange.
asset or assets, or downgrades by a rating agency.
These instruments range from commoditised transactions in A total return swap is an instrument whereby the seller of protection derivative markets, to trades where the specific terms are tailored to receives the full return of the asset, including both the income and change the requirements of the Groups customers.
In many cases, industry in the capital value of the asset.
The buyer in return receives a standard documentation is used, most commonly in the form of a master predetermined amount.
agreement, with individual transaction confirmations.
The existence of a signed master agreement is intended to give the Group protection Equity derivatives The Groups principal equity-related contracts are equity and stock index in situations where a counterparty is in default.
swaps and options including warrants, which are equity options listed Foreign exchange derivatives on an exchange.
An equity swap is an agreement between two parties The Groups principal exchange rate related contracts are forward foreign to exchange periodic payments, based upon a notional principal amount, exchange contracts, currency swaps and currency options.
Forward with one side paying fixed or floating interest and the other side paying foreign exchange contracts are agreements to buy or sell a specified based on the actual return of the stock or stock index.
An equity option quantity of foreign currency, usually on a specified future date at an provides the buyer with the right, but not the obligation, either to purchase agreed rate.
A currency swap generally involves the exchange, or notional or sell a specified stock, basket of stocks or stock index at a specified price exchange, of equivalent amounts of two currencies and a commitment or level on or before a specified date.
The Group also enters into fund-linked to exchange interest periodically until the principal amounts are derivatives, being swaps and options whose underlyings include mutual re-exchanged on a future date.
funds, hedge funds, indices and multi-asset portfolios.
Currency options provide the buyer with the right, but not the obligation, either to purchase or sell a fixed amount of a currency at a Commodity derivatives specified exchange rate on or before a future date.
As compensation for The Groups principal commodity-related derivative contracts are swaps, assuming the option risk, the option writer generally receives a premium options, forwards and futures.
The main commodities transacted are base at the start of the option period.
metals, precious metals, oil and oil-related products, power and natural gas.
| 104 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 105 1 The tables below set out the fair values of the derivative assets together with the value of those assets subject to enforceable counterparty netting arrangements for which the Group holds offsetting liabilities and eligible collateral.
Gross Counterparty Net assets netting exposure Derivative assets As at 31.12.08 m m m Foreign exchange 107,730 91,572 16,158 Interest rate 615,321 558,985 56,336 Credit derivatives 184,072 155,599 28,473 Equity and stock index 28,684 20,110 8,574 Commodity derivatives 48,995 35,903 13,092 984,802 862,169 122,633 Total collateral held 54,905 Net exposure less collateral 67,728 Gross Counterparty Net assets netting exposure Derivative assets As at 31.12.07 m m m Foreign exchange 30,824 22,066 8,758 Interest rate 140,504 117,292 23,212 Credit derivatives 38,696 31,307 7,389 Equity and stock index 13,296 12,151 1,145 Commodity derivatives 24,768 15,969 8,799 248,088 198,785 49,303 Total collateral held 16,700 Net exposure less collateral 32,603 Gross derivative assets of 985bn 2007: 248bn cannot be netted down under IFRS.
Derivative assets would be 917bn 2007: 215bn lower than reported under IFRS if counterparty or collateral netting were allowed.
Exposure relating to derivatives, repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, stock borrowing and loan transactions is calculated using internal, FSA approved models.
These are used as the basis to assess both regulatory capital and capital appetite and are managed on a daily basis.
The methodology encompasses all relevant factors to enable the current value to be calculated and the future value to be estimated, for example: current market rates, market volatility and legal documentation including collateral rights.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 105 C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 106 Risk management Credit risk management Barclays Capital credit market exposures Barclays Capitals credit market exposures primarily relate to US residential mortgages, commercial mortgages and leveraged finance businesses that have been significantly impacted by the continued deterioration in the global credit markets.
The exposures include both significant positions subject to fair value movements in the profit and loss account and positions that are classified as loans and advances and available for sale.
None of the exposure disclosed below has been reclassified to loans and advances under the amendments to IAS 39.
The exposures are set out by asset class in US Dollars and Sterling below: a a $m m As at As at As at As at US Residential Mortgages Notes 31.12.08 31.12.07 31.12.08 31.12.07 ABS CDO Super Senior A1 4,526 9,356 3,104 4,671 Other US sub-prime A2 5,017 10,089 3,441 5,037 Alt-A A3 6,252 9,847 4,288 4,916 US RMBS exposure wrapped by monoline insurers A4 2,389 1,462 1,639 730 Commercial mortgages Commercial real estate B1 16,882 22,239 11,578 11,103 Commercial mortgage-backed securities B1 1,072 2,596 735 1,296 CMBS exposure wrapped by monoline insurers B2 2,703 395 1,854 197 Other Credit Market Exposures b Leveraged finance C1 15,152 18,081 10,391 9,027 SIVs and SIV-Lites C2 1,404 1,570 963 784 CDPCs C3 218 39 150 19 CLO and other exposure wrapped by monoline insurers C4 7,202 817 4,939 408 These exposures have been actively managed during the year in an exceptionally challenging market environment and have been reduced by net sales and paydowns of 6,311m, offset by the 37% appreciation of the US Dollar against Sterling.
In January 2009, there was an additional sale of 3,056m of leveraged finance exposure which was repaid at par.
Exposures at 31st December 2008 included 1,060m of securities from the acquisition of Lehman Brothers North American businesses.
Exposures wrapped by monolines have increased during the course of 2008 as a result of declines in the fair value of the underlying assets.
Analysis of Barclays Capital credit market exposures by asset class CLO and other RMBS Commercial CMBS exposure ABS CDO wrappedby Commercial mortgage wrappedby wrapped by Super Other US monoline real estate backed monoline Leveraged SIVs and monoline As at Senior sub-prime Alt-A insurers loans securities insurers finance SIV-Lites CDPCs insurers 31.12.08 m m m m m m m m m m m m Debt securities 782 2,532 1,420 11 4,745 Trading portfolio assets 782 2,532 1,420 11 4,745 Loans and advances 1,565 778 11,555 531 14,429 Financial assets designated at fair value 1,565 778 11,555 531 14,429 Derivative financial instruments 643 398 1,639 23 685 1,854 273 150 4,939 9,234 Loans and advances to customers 3,104 195 9,361 148 12,808 Debt securities 147 580 727 Available for sale financial instruments 147 580 727 Other assets 109 109 Exposure on balance sheet 3,104 3,441 4,288 1,639 11,578 735 1,854 9,361 963 150 4,939 Notes a As the majority of exposure is held in US Dollars the exposures above are shown in both US Dollars and Sterling.
b Included within the total leveraged finance exposure of 10,391m is 1,030m of off-balance sheet commitments.
| 106 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 107 1 There were gross losses of 8,053m 2007: 2,999m in the year to 31st December 2008.
These losses were partially offset by related income and hedges of 1,433m 2007: 706m, and gains of 1,663m 2007: 658m from the general widening of credit spreads on issued notes measured at fair value through the profit and loss account.
The gross losses, which included 1,763m 2007: 782m in impairment charges, comprised: 5,584m 2007: 2,811m against US RMBS exposures: 1,488m 2007: 14m against commercial mortgage exposures: and 981m 2007: 174m against other credit market exposures.
Fair Value Impairment Gross Losses Charge Losses m m m ABS CDO super senior 78 1,383 1,461 Other US sub-prime 1,560 168 1,728 Alt-A 1,858 125 1,983 US RMBS wrapped by monoline insurers 412 - 412 Total US residential mortgages 3,908 1,676 5,584 US 671 671 Europe 350 350 Total commercial real estate 1,021 1,021 Commercial mortgage-backed securities 127 127 CMBS wrapped by monoline insurers 340 340 Total commercial mortgages 1,488 1,488 SIVs and SIV-Lites 143 87 230 CDPCs 14 14 CLO and other assets wrapped by monoline insurers 737 737 Total other credit market 894 87 981 Total 6,290 1,763 8,053 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 107 C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 108 Risk management Credit risk management Barclays Capital credit market exposures A.
US Residential Mortgages US residential mortgage exposures have reduced by 41% in US Dollar terms, and 19% in Sterling terms, since 31st December 2007.
ABS CDO Super Senior During the year ABS CDO Super Senior exposures reduced by 1,567m to 3,104m 31st December 2007: 4,671m.
Net exposures are stated after write-downs and charges of 1,461m incurred in 2008 2007: 1,816m and hedges of nil 31st December 2007: 1,347m.
There were no hedges in place at 31st December 2008 as the corresponding liquidity facilities had been terminated.
There were liquidations and paydowns of 2,318m in the year: weaker Sterling and a reduction in hedges increased exposure by 865m and 1,347m respectively.
The remaining ABS CDO Super Senior exposure at 31st December 2008 comprised five high grade liquidity facilities which were fully drawn and classified within loans and receivables, and no remaining mezzanine exposure.
At 31st December 2007 there were 15 facilities of which nine were high grade and six mezzanine.
The impairment assessment of remaining super senior positions is based on cash flow methodology using standard market assumptions such as default curves and remittance data to calculate the net present value of the future losses for the collateral pool over time.
As a result, future potential impairment charges depend on changes in these assumptions.
We have included all ABS CDO Super Senior exposure in the US residential mortgages section as nearly 90% of the underlying collateral relates to US RMBS.
The impairment applied to the notional collateral is set out in the table below.
The change in marks since 31st December 2007 primarily results from the liquidation during 2008 of the most impaired structures.
| 108 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 109 1 Consolidated collateral of 8.4bn relating to the ten CDOs that were liquidated in 2008 has been sold or are stated at fair value net of hedges within Other US sub-prime, Alt-A and CMBS exposures.
The notional collateral remaining at 31st December 2008 is marked at approximately 12%.
The collateral valuation for all ABS CDO Super Senior deals, including those liquidated and consolidated in 2008, is approximately 32% 31st December 2007: 62%.
The collateral for the outstanding ABS CDO Super Senior exposures primarily comprises residential mortgage backed securities RMBS.
At 31st December 2008 the residual exposure contains a higher proportion of collateral originated in 2005 and earlier than at 31st December 2007.
There is minimal exposure to collateral originated in 2007 or later.
The vintages of the sub-prime, Alt-A and US RMBS collateral are set out in the table below.
As at As at 31.12.08 31.12.07 Sub-prime Collateral by Vintage 2005 and earlier 71% 54% 2006 27% 41% 2007 and 2008 2% 5% Alt-A Collateral by Vintage 2005 and earlier 73% 49% 2006 22% 40% 2007 and 2008 5% 11% US RMBS Collateral by Vintage 2005 and earlier 72% 53% 2006 25% 40% 2007 and 2008 3% 7% RMBS collateral for the ABS CDO Super Senior exposures is subject to public ratings.
The ratings of sub-prime, Alt-A and total US RMBS CDO collateral are set out in the table below.
31.12.08 31.12.07 31.12.07 31.12.07 High Grade High Grade Mezzanine Total Sub-prime US RMBS Ratings AAA AA 42% 43% 2% 30% A BBB 21% 51% 82% 60% Non-investment Grade 37% 6% 16% 10% Alt-A RMBS Ratings AAA AA 66% 89% 47% 85% A BBB 7% 8% 45% 12% Non-investment Grade 27% 3% 8% 3% Total US RMBS Ratings AAA AA 50% 63% 14% 50% A BBB 13% 31% 70% 41% Non-investment Grade 37% 6% 16% 9% Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 109 C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 110 Risk management Credit risk management Barclays Capital credit market exposures A2.
Other US Sub-Prime As at As at Marks at Marks at 31.12.08 31.12.07 31.12.08 31.12.07 m m Whole loans performing 1,290 2,805 80% 100% Whole loans more than 60 days past due 275 372 48% 65% Total whole loans 1,565 3,177 72% 94% AAA securities 111 735 40% 92% Other sub-prime securities 818 525 23% 61% Total securities gross of hedges 929 1,260 25% 76% Hedges 369 Securities net of hedges 929 891 Residuals 233 24% Other exposures with underlying sub-prime collateral: Derivatives 643 333 87% 100% Loans 195 346 70% 100% Real Estate 109 57 46% 68% Total other direct and indirect exposure 1,876 1,860 Total 3,441 5,037 The majority of Other US sub-prime exposures are measured at fair value through profit and loss.
US sub-prime securities held in conduits and a collateralised debt obligation CDO are categorised as available for sale and are recognised in equity.
Exposure declined from 5,037m to 3,441m driven by gross losses of 1,728m and net sales, paydowns and other movements of 1,649m.
Weaker Sterling resulted in an increase in exposure of 1,086m.
Exposures at 31st December 2008 included assets acquired from Lehman Brothers North American businesses of 83m in AAA securities and 124m in other US sub-prime securities.
At 31st December 2008, 82% of the whole loan exposure was performing.
Whole loans included 1,422m 31st December 2007: 2,843m acquired on or originated since the acquisition of EquiFirst in March 2007.
Of this balance, 281m of new sub-prime loans were originated in 2008.
At 31st December 2008, the average loan to value at origination of all the sub-prime whole loans was 79%.
Loans guaranteed by Federal Housing Administration FHA are not included in the exposure above.
An FHA loan is a mortgage loan fully insured by the US Federal Housing Administration and therefore not considered to be a credit sensitive product.
EquiFirst has only originated FHA eligible loans since April 2008, and held 132m of these loans at 31st December 2008.
Securities included 37m held by consolidated conduits and 110m held in a CDO on which impairment charges of 16m and 53m respectively have been recorded.
Other exposures with underlying sub-prime collateral include counterparty derivative exposures to vehicles which hold sub-prime collateral.
Derivatives of 643m 31st December 2007: 333m relate to US Dollar denominated interest rate swaps.
The increase in the balance principally relates to the decline in interest rates globally and the 37% depreciation of Sterling relative to the US Dollar, especially in the second half of 2008.
The majority of all other exposures with underlying sub-prime collateral was the most senior obligation of the vehicle.
| 110 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
Alt-A As at As at Marks at Marks at 31.12.08 31.12.07 31.12.08 31.12.07 m m AAA securities 1,847 3,553 43% 87% Other Alt-A securities 1,265 208 9% 75% Whole Loans 776 909 67% 97% Residuals 2 25 6% 66% Derivative exposure with underlying Alt-A collateral 398 221 100% 100% Total 4,288 4,916 Alt-A securities, whole loans and residuals are measured at fair value through profit and loss.
Alt-A securities held in conduits and a collateralised debt obligation CDO are categorised as available for sale and are recognised in equity.
Net exposure to the Alt-A market was 4,288m 31st December 2007: 4,916m, through a combination of whole loans, securities and residuals, including those held in consolidated conduits.
There were gross losses of 1,983m in the year and net sales, paydowns and other movements of 181m.
Weaker Sterling resulted in an increase in exposure of 1,190m.
Exposures at 31st December 2008 included assets acquired from Lehman Brothers North American businesses of 300m in AAA securities and 324m in other Alt-A securities.
Securities included 491m held by consolidated conduits and 89m held in a CDO on which impairment charges of 65m and 58m respectively have been recorded.
At 31st December 2008, 75% of the Alt-A whole loan exposure was performing, and the average loan to value ratio at origination was 81%.
Other exposures with underlying Alt-A collateral include counterparty derivative exposures to vehicles which hold Alt-A collateral.
Derivative exposures with underlying Alt-A collateral of 398m 31st December 2007: 221m relate to US Dollar denominated interest rate swaps.
The majority of this exposure was the most senior obligation of the vehicle.
US Residential Mortgage Backed Securities Exposure Wrapped by Monoline Insurers The deterioration in the US residential mortgage market has resulted in exposure to monoline insurers and other financial guarantors that provide credit protection.
The table below shows RMBS assets where we held protection from monoline insurers at 31st December 2008.
These are measured at fair value through profit and loss.
Declines in fair value of the underlying assets are reflected in increases in the value of potential claims against monoline insurers.
Such declines have resulted in net exposure to monoline insurers under these contracts increasing to 1,639m by 31st December 2008 2007: 730m.
Claims would become due in the event of default of the underlying assets and losses would only be realised if both the underlying asset and monoline defaulted.
At 31st December 2008 while 81% of the underlying assets were non-investment grade, 97% are wrapped by monolines with investment grade ratings.
There is some uncertainty whether all of the monoline insurers would be able to meet all liabilities if such claims were to arise: certain monoline insurers have been subject to downgrades in 2008.
Consequently, a fair value loss of 412m has been recognised in the year.
There have been no claims due under these contracts as none of the underlying assets were in default at 31st December 2008.
The fair value is determined by a credit valuation adjustment calculation which incorporates stressed cash flow shortfall projections, current market valuations, stressed Probability of Default PDs and a range of Loss Given Default LGD assumptions.
The cash flow shortfall projections are stressed to ensure that we consider the potential for further market deterioration and resultant additional cash flow shortfall in underlying collateral.
Monoline ratings are based on external ratings analysis and where appropriate significant internal analysis conducted by the independent Credit Risk function.
In addition, we reflect the potential for further deterioration of monolines by using stressed PDs which results in all monolines having an implied sub-investment grade rating.
LGDs range from 45% to 100% depending on the monoline.
Exposure by Credit Rating of Monoline Insurer As at 31.12.08 Fair Value Credit of Underlying Fair Value Valuation Net Notional Asset Exposure Adjustment Exposure m m m m m AAA AA A BBB 2,567 492 2,075 473 1,602 Non-investment grade 74 8 66 29 37 Total 2,641 500 2,141 502 1,639 As at 31.12.07 AAA AA 2,807 2,036 771 41 730 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 111 C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 112 Risk management Credit risk management Barclays Capital credit market exposures The notional value of the assets, split by the current rating of the monoline insurer, is shown below.
Rating of Monoline Insurers As at 31.12.08 NonInvestment AAA AA A BBB Grade Total m m m m 2005 and earlier 143 143 2006 1,240 1,240 2007 and 2008 510 510 High Grade 1,893 1,893 Mezzanine 2005 and earlier 625 74 699 2 CDO 2005 and earlier 49 49 US RMBS 2,567 74 2,641 The notional value of the assets, split by the current rating of the underlying asset, is shown below.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 113 1 B.
Commercial Mortgages Commercial mortgages reduced 18% in US Dollar terms.
In Sterling terms these increased by 12%.
Commercial Mortgages Exposures in Barclays Capitals commercial mortgages portfolio, all of which are measured at fair value, comprised commercial real estate loan exposure of 11,578m 31st December 2007: 11,103m and commercial mortgage-backed securities CMBS of 735m 31st December 2007: 1,296m.
During the year there were gross losses of 1,148m.
Gross sales and paydowns of 1,034m in the UK and Continental Europe and 2,167m in the US were partially offset by additional drawdowns.
Weaker Sterling increased exposure by 3,058m.
The commercial real estate loan exposure comprised 55% US, 41% UK and Europe and 4% Asia.
5% of the total relates to land or property under construction.
The US exposure included two large transactions which comprised 42% of the total US exposure and have paid down approximately 789m in the year.
The remaining 58% of the US exposure comprised 76 transactions.
The remaining weighted average number of years to initial maturity of the US portfolio is 1.4 years.
The UK and Europe portfolio is well diversified with 64 transactions in place as at 31st December 2008.
In Europe protection is provided by loan covenants and periodic LTV retests, which cover 90% of the portfolio.
47% of the German exposure relates to one transaction secured on multifamily residential assets.
Exposure to the Spanish market represents less than 1% of global exposure at 31st December 2008.
b Weighted-average number of years to initial maturity.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 113 C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 114 Risk management Credit risk management Barclays Capital credit market exposures B1.
Commercial Mortgages continued Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities net of hedges a a As at As at Marks at Marks at 31.12.08 31.12.07 31.12.08 31.12.07 m m AAA securities 588 1,008 Other securities 147 288 Total 735 1,296 21% 98% Exposure is stated net of hedges traded in the liquid index swap market with market counterparties.
The counterparty exposure is managed through a standard derivative collateralisation process and none of the hedge counterparties are monoline insurers.
Exposures at 31st December 2008 included assets acquired from Lehman Brothers North American businesses of 143m in AAA securities and 86m in other securities.
CMBS Exposure Wrapped by Monoline Insurers The deterioration in the commercial mortgage market has resulted in exposure to monoline insurers and other financial guarantors that provide credit protection.
The table below shows Commercial Mortgage Backed Security CMBS assets where we held protection from monoline insurers at 31st December 2008.
Such declines have resulted in net exposure to monoline insurers under these contracts increasing to 1,854m by 31st December 2008 31st December 2007: 197m.
At 31st December 2008 all underlying assets were rated AAA AA and 89% are wrapped by monolines with investment grade ratings.
Consequently, a fair value loss of 340m has been recognised in the year.
Exposure by credit rating of monoline insurer As at 31.12.08 Fair value Credit of underlying Fair value valuation Net Notional asset exposure adjustment exposure m m m m m AAA AA 69 27 42 4 38 A BBB 3,258 1,301 1,957 320 1,637 Non-investment grade 425 181 244 65 179 Total 3,752 1,509 2,243 389 1,854 As at 31.12.07 AAA AA 3,614 3,408 206 9 197 The notional value of the assets, split by the current rating of the monoline insurer, is shown below.
Rating of monoline insurers As at 31.12.08 NonInvestment AAA AA A BBB Grade Total m m m m 2005 and earlier 437 437 2006 69 544 613 2007 and 2008 2,277 425 2,702 CMBS 69 3,258 425 3,752 Note a Marks are based on gross collateral.
| 114 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 115 1 The notional value of the assets split by the current rating of the underlying asset, is shown below.
All CMBS assets were rated AAA AA at 31st December 2008.
Rating of Underlying Asset As at 31.12.08 NonInvestment AAA AA A BBB Grade Total m m m m 2005 and earlier 437 437 2006 613 613 2007 and 2008 2,702 2,702 CMBS 3,752 3,752 C. Other credit market exposures In the year ended 31st December 2008 these exposures increased by 17% in US Dollar terms, and 61% in Sterling terms.
Leveraged Finance Leveraged loans are classified within loans and advances and are stated at amortised cost less impairment.
The overall credit performance of the assets remains satisfactory.
At 31st December 2008, the gross exposure relating to leveraged finance loans was 10,506m 31st December 2007: 9,217m.
Barclays Capital expects to hold these leveraged finance positions until redemption.
Material movements since 31st December 2007 reflect exchange rate changes rather than changes in loan positions.
The net exposure relating to leverage finance loans of 10,391m 31st December 2007: 9,027m was reduced to 7,335m following a repayment of 3,056m at par in January 2009.
Note a The movement in impairment during the period is primarily due to the release of the provision on the post year end repayment, for which there was a binding commitment as at 31st December 2008.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 115 C14170 Barclays B 080-118. qxp:B File 06 6 3 09 01:27 Page 116 Risk management Credit risk management Barclays Capital credit market exposures C2.
SIVs and SIV-Lites SIVs SIV-Lites As at As at Marks at Marks at 31.12.08 31.12.07 31.12.08 31.12.07 m m Liquidity facilities 679 466 62% 100% Bond inventory 11 52 7% 37% Derivatives 273 266 Total 963 784 SIV exposure increased from 784m to 963m during the year.
There were 230m of gross losses against SIVs and SIV lites in the year.
Weaker Sterling resulted in an increase in exposure of 281m.
At 31st December 2008 liquidity facilities of 679m 31st December 2007: 466m include 531m designated at fair value through profit and loss relating to a SIV-lite which had previously been hedged with Lehman Brothers.
Following the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy this facility was reflected as a new exposure to the underlying assets.
The remaining 148m represented drawn liquidity facilities in respect of SIV-lites and other structured investment vehicles classified as loans and advances stated at cost less impairment.
Bond inventory and derivatives are fair valued through profit and loss.
Movement in derivative exposure primarily related to CDS exposure due to general spread widening.
At 31st December 2008 exposure was broadly in line with the prior year.
CDPC exposure Credit derivative product companies CDPCs are specialist providers of credit protection principally on corporate exposures in the form of credit derivatives.
The Group has purchased protection from CDPCs against a number of securities with a notional value of 1,772m.
The fair value of the exposure to CDPCs at 31st December 2008 was 150m.
A fair value loss of 14m has been recognised in the year.
Of the notional exposure, 45% related to AAA AA rated counterparties, with the remainder rated A BBB.
Exposure by credit rating of CDPC As at 31.12.08 Credit Gross valuation Net Notional exposure adjustment exposure m m m m AAA AA 796 77 14 63 A BBB 976 87 87 Total 1,772 164 14 150 As at 31.12.07 AAA AA 1,262 19 19 | 116 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
CLO and other exposure wrapped by monoline insurers The table below shows Collateralised Loan Obligations CLOs and other assets where we held protection from monoline insurers at 31st December 2008.
The deterioration in markets for these assets has resulted in exposure to monoline insurers and other financial guarantors that provide credit protection.
Such declines have resulted in net exposure to monoline insurers under these contracts increasing to 4,939m by 31st December 2008 31st December 2007: 408m.
At 31st December 2008 all of the underlying assets have investment grade ratings and 39% are wrapped by monolines rated AAA AA.
87% of the underlying assets were CLOs, all of which were rated AAA AA.
Consequently, a fair value loss of 737m, has been recognised in the year.
In addition, we reflect the potential for further deterioration of monolines by using stressed PDs for non-AAA rated monolines, which results in all other monolines having an implied sub-investment grade rating.
Exposure by credit rating of monoline insurer As at 31.12.08 Fair value Credit of underlying Fair value valuation Net Notional asset exposure adjustment exposure m m m m m AAA AA 8,281 5,854 2,427 55 2,372 A BBB 6,446 4,808 1,638 204 1,434 Non-investment grade 6,148 4,441 1,707 574 1,133 Total 20,875 15,103 5,772 833 4,939 As at 31.12.07 AAA AA 15,152 14,735 417 9 408 The notional value of the assets, split by the current rating of the monoline insurer, is shown below.
All of the underlying assets had investment grade ratings as at 31st December 2008.
Rating of Underlying Asset As at 31.12.08 NonInvestment AAA AA A BBB Grade Total m m m m 2005 and earlier 6,037 6,037 2006 5,894 5,894 2007 and 2008 6,295 6,295 CLOs 18,226 18,226 2005 and earlier 862 862 2006 535 535 2007 and 2008 785 467 1,252 Other 2,182 467 2,649 Total 20,408 467 20,875 Own credit The carrying amount of issued notes that are designated under the IAS 39 fair value option is adjusted to reflect the effect of changes in own credit spreads.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
At 31st December 2008, the own credit adjustment arose from the fair valuation of 54.5bn of Barclays Capital structured notes 31st December 2007: 40.7bn.
The widening of Barclays credit spreads in the year affected the fair value of these notes and as a result revaluation gains of 1,663m were recognised in trading income 2007: 658m.
| 118 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 119-134. qxp:B File 07 6 3 09 01:28 Page 119 Risk management 1 Market risk management Organisation and structure Market risk is the risk that Barclays earnings or capital, or its ability to meet support is provided to the business by the Market Risk Director, assisted business objectives, will be adversely affected by changes in the level or by the central market risk team.
The Market Risk Committee reviews, volatility of market rates or prices such as interest rates, credit spreads, approves, and makes recommendations concerning the market risk commodity prices, equity prices and foreign exchange rates.
Market risk profile across Barclays including risk appetite, limits and utilisation.
mainly arises from trading activities.
Barclays is also exposed to market The Committee meets monthly and is chaired by the Market Risk risk through non-traded interest rate risk and the pension fund.
Attendees include the Group Risk Director, respective business risk managers and senior managers from the central market risk team.
Barclays market risk objectives are to: In Barclays Capital, the Head of Market Risk is responsible for Understand and control market risk by robust measurement and implementing the market risk control framework.
Day to day the setting of position limits.
responsibility for market risk lies with the senior management of Barclays Capital, supported by the Market Risk Management team that operates Facilitate business growth within a controlled and transparent risk independently of the trading areas.
Daily market risk reports are management framework.
produced for Barclays Capital as a whole as well as for the main business Ensure traded market risk resides primarily in Barclays Capital.
The risks covered include interest rate, credit spread, commodity, equity and foreign exchange.
A more detailed trading market risk Minimise non-traded market risk.
presentation is produced fortnightly and discussed at the Barclays Capital Traded Positions Risk Review meeting.
The attendees at this meeting include the Group Risk Director and senior managers from Barclays Capital and the central market risk team.
The Board approves market risk appetite for trading and non-trading In Global Retail and Commercial Banking, each of the six main business activities.
The Market Risk Director is responsible for the Market Risk areas UK Retail Banking, Barclays Commercial Bank, Barclaycard, Western Control Framework and, under delegated authority from the Group Risk Europe, Emerging Markets and Absa has its own market risk department.
Director, sets a limit framework within the context of the approved market The head of each department is responsible for implementing the Market risk appetite.
A daily market risk report summarises Barclays market risk Risk Control Framework, with oversight provided by the central market risk exposures against agreed limits.
This daily report is sent to the Group Risk team.
A combination of daily and monthly risk reports are sent to the Director, the Market Risk Director, the Group Finance Director and the central market risk team.
A risk summary is presented at Market Risk appropriate Business Risk Directors.
Committee and the respective Asset and Liability Committees.
The head of each business, assisted by the business risk Global Retail and Commercial Banking is responsible for non-structural management team, is accountable for all market risks associated with non-trading interest rate risk and Group Treasury is responsible for its activities.
Each business is responsible for the identification, structural risk interest rate and foreign exchange.
The chart below gives measurement, management, control and reporting of market risk as an overview of the business control structure.
outlined in Barclays Market Risk Control Framework.
Oversight and Overview of the business control structure Risk type... managed by and reviewed by Group Market Risk and...
Traded Barclays Capital Traded Products Risk Review Meeting Global Retail and Asset and Liability Committees Non-traded Commercial Banking New product process team Banking book interest rate risk Supervisory visits from the Foreign exchange risk Central Market Risk Team Barclays Wealth Asset and Liability Committee Market Risk Director Group Treasury Treasury Committee Treasury Hedge Committee Pension risk Pension Fund Trustees and Investment Committee Barclays Central Functions Pension Management Group Pension Executive Board BGI BGI Investment Committee Investment risk Barclays Wealth BGI Risk and Compliance Committee Asset management risk Absa Market Risk Committee GRCB Absa Barclays Wealth ALCO Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 119 C14170 Barclays B 119-134. qxp:B File 07 6 3 09 01:28 Page 120 Risk management Market risk management Traded market risk Barclays policy is to concentrate trading activities in Barclays Capital.
This Sum hypothetical profit or losses for day one, giving one total profit or includes transactions where Barclays Capital acts as principal with clients loss.
This is repeated for all other days in the two year history.
For maximum efficiency, client and market activities DVaR is the 95th percentile selected from the two years of daily are managed together.
In Barclays Capital, trading risk occurs in both the hypothetical total profit or loss.
trading book and the banking book, as defined for regulatory purposes.
The DVaR model has been approved by the FSA to calculate regulatory capital Risk measurement and control for the trading book.
The approval covers general market risk in interest rate, The measurement techniques used to measure and control traded market foreign exchange, commodities and equity products, and issuer specific risk risk include Daily Value at Risk DVaR, Expected Shortfall ES, stress testing for the majority of single name and portfolio traded credit products.
Book limits such as foreign exchange and interest rate as noted before, DVaR is calculated for both the trading and banking books.
delta limits are also in place.
When reviewing DVaR estimates, a number of considerations should Daily Value at Risk is an estimate of the potential loss arising from be taken into account.
These are: unfavourable market movements, if the current positions were to be held unchanged for one business day.
Barclays Capital uses the historical Historical simulation uses the recent past to generate possible future simulation method with a two year unweighted historical period.
market moves but the past may not be a good indicator of the future In 2008, the confidence level was changed to 95% from 98% as an The one day time horizon does not fully capture the market risk of increasing incidence of significant market movements made the existing positions that cannot be closed out or hedged within one day measure more volatile and less effective for risk management purposes.
Switching to 95% made DVaR more stable and consequently improved Intra-day risk is not captured management, transparency and control of the market risk profile.
DVaR does not indicate the potential loss beyond the 95th percentile.
The historical simulation calculation can be split into three parts: DVaR is an important market risk measurement and control tool and Calculate hypothetical daily profit or loss for each position over the most consequently the model is regularly assessed.
The main approach recent two years, using observed daily market moves.
employed is the technique known as back-testing which counts the The daily average, maximum and minimum values of DVaR, 95% and 98%, were calculated as below.
Consequently a diversification effect number for the high and low DVaR figures would not be meaningful and it is therefore omitted from the above table.
| 120 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 119-134. qxp:B File 07 6 3 09 01:28 Page 121 1 number of days when a loss as defined by the FSA in BIPRU 7.10 exceeds Scenario tests are hypothetical events which could lead to extreme yet the corresponding DVaR estimate, measured at the 99% confidence level.
plausible stress type moves under which profitability is seriously The FSA categorises a DVaR model as green, amber or red.
The scenarios are devised by senior risk managers and model is consistent with a good working DVaR model and is achieved for economists and are reviewed quarterly.
Examples include Global models that have four or less back-testing exceptions in a 12-month pandemic, Problems with GBP sovereign issuances and Liquidity crisis.
For Barclays Capitals trading book, green model status was The scenarios are calculated at least fortnightly and the results are maintained for 2008 and 2007. included in the Traded Positions Risk Review meeting information pack.
To further improve the control framework, formal daily monitoring of Analysis of traded market risk exposures Expected Shortfall ES was started.
This metric is the average of all the The tables and graph show the time series for total DVaR with hypothetical losses beyond DVaR.
Further analysis is given in Note 48.
Stress testing provides an indication of the potential size of losses that could arise in extreme conditions.
It helps to identify risk concentrations Analysis of trading revenue across business lines and assist senior management in capital planning The histograms below show the distribution of daily trading revenue for decisions.
A variety of different types of stress tests are performed in order to Barclays Capital in 2008 and 2007.
Revenue includes net trading income, fulfil the objectives of stress testing.
The global asset class stress tests have net interest income, net fees and commissions relating to primary trading, been designed to cover major asset classes including interest rate, credit and the effects of gains or losses on own credit.
The average daily revenue spread, commodity, equity, foreign exchange rates and emerging markets.
in 2008 was 19.5m 2007: 26.2m and there were 203 positive revenue Stress results are produced at least fortnightly.
If a potential stress loss days out of 254 2007: 224 out of 253.
The number of negative revenue exceeds the corresponding trigger limit, the positions captured by the stress days increased in 2008, largely a result of volatile markets especially in the test are reviewed and discussed by Barclays Capital market risk management fourth quarter.
The number of positive revenue days greater than 45m and the respective Barclays Capital business heads.
The minutes of the also increased but these were spread across the year.
discussion, including the merits of the position and the appropriate course of action, are then sent to the Market Risk Director for review.
Total DVaR 2007 and 2008 m DVaR 98% DVaR 95% 160 c 120 d 80 a 40 b 0 2007 2008 Barclays Capitals trading revenue 2008 m Barclays Capitals trading revenue 2007 m Number of days Number of days 30 30 15 0 to 15 to 30 to 45 to 60 to 75 to 90 30 30 15 0 to 15 to 30 to 45 to 60 to 75 to 90 90 to to 15 30 45 60 75 to to 15 30 45 60 75 90 15 0 15 0 Notes a Total DVaR remains broadly at the same level as recorded in Dec 07. b Total DVaR reduces due to reduction in interest rate positions.
c Barclays acquires Lehman Brothers North American businesses during a period of extreme market volatility.
The Lehman positions are subsequently reduced.
d DVaR increases significantly due to extreme market volatility following the failure of several financial intuitions and a material deterioration in the global economic outlook.
Barclays changes to 95% DVaR to improve management, transparency and control of the market risk profile.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 121 21 7 22 31 45 46 32 19 18 13 6 6 17 41 70 78 19 10 1 5 C14170 Barclays B 119-134. qxp:B File 07 6 3 09 01:28 Page 122 Risk management Market risk management Non-traded market risk Barclays objective is to minimise non-traded market risks.
This is achieved Other market risks by transferring risk from the business to a local treasury or Group Treasury, Barclays maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for which in turn hedges the net exposure with the external market.
Limits exist past and current employees.
The ability of the Pension Fund to meet the to ensure no material risk is retained within any business or product area.
projected pension payments is maintained through investments and The majority of exposures are within Global Retail and Commercial Banking.
Pension risk arises because: the estimated market value of the pension fund assets might decline: or their investment Non-traded interest rate risk returns might reduce: or the estimated value of the pension liabilities Non-traded interest rate risk arises from the provision of retail and might increase.
In these circumstances, Barclays could be required or wholesale non-traded banking products and services.
might choose to make extra contributions to the pension fund.
Financial The techniques used to measure and control non-traded interest rate details of the pension fund are in Note 30. risk include Annual Earnings at Risk, DVaR and Stress Testing.
Book limits Investment risk is the risk of financial volatility arising from changes in such as foreign exchange and interest position limits are also in place.
the market value of investments, principally occurring in Barclays Annual Earnings at Risk AEaR measures the sensitivity of net interest insurance companies and Barclays Global Investors.
A change in the fair income NII over the next 12 months.
It is calculated on a monthly basis value of these investments may give rise to a liability which may have to be as the difference between the estimated income using the current yield funded by the Group.
It is Barclays policy to hedge such exposures in line curve and the lowest estimated income following a 100 basis points with a defined risk appetite.
increase or decrease in interest rates.
Barclays policy is for foreign exchange traded risk to be concentrated To complement AEaR, the Group also uses a simplified version of the and managed in Barclays Capital.
Some transactional foreign exchange DVaR approach used by Barclays Capital.
risk exposure arises within the local treasury operations in Global Retail Stress testing is also carried out by the business centres and is and Commercial Banking to support and facilitate client activity.
This is reviewed by senior management and business-level asset and liability minimised in accordance with modest risk limits and was not material as committees.
The stress testing is tailored to the business and typically at 31st December 2008.
Other non-Barclays Capital foreign exchange incorporates scenario analysis and historical stress movements applied exposure is covered in Note 48. to respective portfolios.
Asset management structural market risk arises where the fee and The analysis of non-traded interest rate risk is given in Note 48. commission income earned by asset management products and businesses is affected by a change in market levels, primarily through the link between income and the value of assets under management.
It is Barclays policy that businesses monitor and report this risk against a defined risk appetite and regularly assess potential hedging strategies.
| 122 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 119-134. qxp:B File 07 6 3 09 01:28 Page 123 Risk management 1 Market risk management Disclosures about certain trading activities Disclosures about certain trading activities including non-exchange Credit risk traded commodity contracts Credit risk exposures are actively managed by the Group.
Refer to Note 47 The Group provides a fully integrated service to clients for base metals, on page 264 for more information on the Groups approach to credit risk precious metals, oil, power, natural gas, coal, freight, emission credits, management and the credit quality of derivative assets.
structured products and other related commodities.
This service offering Fair value of the commodity derivative contracts continues to expand, as market conditions allow, through the addition of The tables below analyse the overall fair value of the OTC commodity new products and markets.
derivative contracts by movement over time and maturity.
As at The Group offers both over the counter OTC and exchange traded 31st December 2008 the fair value of the commodity derivative contracts derivatives, including swaps, options, forwards and futures and enters into reflects a gross positive fair value of 44,881m 2007: 23,571m and a physically settled contracts in base metals, power and gas, oil and related gross negative value of 45,817m 2007: 22,759m.
Physical commodity positions are held at fair value and reported under the Trading Portfolio in Note 12 on page 215.
Fair value measurement The fair values of physical and derivative positions are primarily determined through a combination of recognised market observable prices, exchange prices, and established inter-commodity relationships.
Further information on fair value measurement of financial instruments can be found in Note 50 on page 287.
Movement in fair value of commodity derivative positions Maturity analysis of commodity derivative fair value 2008 2007 2008 2007 m m m m Fair value of contracts outstanding Not more than one year 2,022 279 at the beginning of the period 812 1,561 Over one year but not more than five years 999 773 Contracts realised or otherwise settled Over five years 87 318 during the period 241 764 Total 936 812 Fair value of new contracts entered into during the period 1,245 243 Other changes in fair values 744 228 Fair value of contracts outstanding at the end of the period 936 812 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 123 C14170 Barclays B 119-134. qxp:B File 07 6 3 09 01:28 Page 124 Risk management Liquidity risk management Organisation and structure Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to meet its obligations Barclays Treasury operates a centralised governance and control process when they fall due as a result of customer deposits being withdrawn, cash that covers all of the Groups liquidity risk management activities.
requirements from contractual commitments, or other cash outflows, Businesses assist Barclays Treasury in policy formation and limit setting by such as debt maturities.
Such outflows would deplete available cash providing relevant and expert input for their local markets and customers.
resources for client lending, trading activities and investments.
In extreme Execution of the Groups liquidity risk management strategy is carried circumstances lack of liquidity could result in reductions in balance out at country level within agreed policies, controls and limits, sheet and sales of assets, or potentially an inability to fulfil lending with the Country Treasurer providing reports directly to Barclays Treasury commitments.
The risk that it will be unable to do so is inherent in all to evidence conformance with the agreed risk profile.
Liquidity risk is banking operations and can be affected by a range of institution-specific a standing agenda item at Country and Cluster Asset and Liability and market-wide events including, but not limited to, credit events, Committees and on a consolidated basis is reported to the Groups merger and acquisition activity, systemic shocks and natural disasters.
The objective of the Groups liquidity risk management strategy is to ensure that the funding profile of individual businesses and the Group as a whole is appropriate to underlying market conditions and the profile of our business in each given country.
Liquidity risk limits and controls are flexed to achieve that profile and are based on regular qualitative and quantitative assessments of conditions and abilities under both normal and stressed conditions.
Businesses are only allowed to have funding exposure to wholesale markets where they can demonstrate that their market is sufficiently deep and liquid and then only relative to the size and complexity of their business.
Liquidity limits reflect both local regulatory requirements as well as the behavioural characteristics of their balance sheets.
Breaches of limits are reported to Treasury Committee together with details of the requirements to return to compliance.
| 124 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 119-134. qxp:B File 07 6 3 09 01:28 Page 125 Risk management 1 Liquidity risk management Key elements Liquidity management within the Group has several components.
Diversification of liquidity sources Sources of liquidity are regularly reviewed to maintain a wide Intraday liquidity diversification by currency, geography, provider, product and term.
In The need to monitor, manage and control intraday liquidity in real time is addition, to avoid reliance on a particular group of customers or market recognised by the Group as a critical process: any failure to meet specific sectors, the distribution of sources and the maturity profile of deposits are intraday commitments would have significant consequences, such as a also carefully managed.
Important factors in assuring liquidity are strength visible market disruption.
of relationships and the maintenance of depositors confidence.
Such The Group policy is that each operation must ensure that it has confidence is based on a number of factors including the Groups access to sufficient intraday liquidity to meet any obligations it may have reputation and relationship with those clients, the strength of earnings to clearing and settlement systems.
Major currency payment flows and and the Groups financial position.
payment system collateral are monitored and managed in real time to ensure that at all times there is sufficient collateral to make payments.
Structural liquidity In practice, the Group maintains a significant buffer of surplus intraday An important source of structural liquidity is provided by our core retail liquidity to ensure that payments are made on a timely basis.
The Group deposits in the UK, Europe and Africa, mainly current accounts and actively engages in payment system development to help ensure that new savings accounts.
Although current accounts are repayable on demand payment systems are robust.
and savings accounts at short notice, the Groups broad base of customers numerically and by depositor type helps to protect against unexpected Day to day funding fluctuations.
Such accounts form a stable funding base for the Groups Day to day funding is managed through limits on wholesale borrowings, operations and liquidity needs.
secured borrowings and funding mismatches.
These ensure that on The Group policy is to fund the balance sheet of the Retail and any day and over any period there is a limited amount of refinancing Commercial Bank together with Wealth and Head office functions on a required.
These requirements include replenishment of funds as they global basis with customer deposits and capital without recourse to the mature or are borrowed by customers.
The Retail and Commercial Bank wholesale markets.
This provides protection from the liquidity risk of together with Wealth maintain no reliance on wholesale funding.
The exception to this policy is Absa, which has Group maintains an active presence in global money markets through a large portion of wholesale funding due to the structural nature of the Barclays Capital and monitors and manages the wholesale money market South African financial sector.
capacity for the Groups name to enable that to happen.
In addition to cash flow management, Treasury also monitors term Scenario analysis and stress testing Stress testing is undertaken to assess and plan for the impact of various mismatches between assets and liabilities, as well as the level and type of undrawn lending commitments, the usage of overdraft facilities and the scenarios which may put the Groups liquidity at risk.
Treasury develops and monitors a range of stress tests on the Groups impact of contingent liabilities such as standby letters of credit and guarantees.
These stress scenarios include Barclays-specific scenarios such as an unexpected rating downgrade and operational problems, Liquid assets and external scenarios such as Emerging Market crises, payment system The Group maintains a portfolio of highly marketable assets including UK, disruption and macro-economic shocks.
The output informs both the US and Euro-area government bonds that can be sold or funded on a liquidity mismatch limits and the Groups contingency funding plan.
secured basis as protection against any unforeseen interruption to cash This is maintained by Treasury and is aligned with the Group and country flow.
The Group accesses secured funding markets in these assets on a business resumption plans to encompass decision-making authorities, regular basis.
The Group does not rely on committed funding lines for internal and external communication and, in the event of a systems failure, protection against unforeseen interruptions to cash flow.
the restoration of liquidity management and payment systems.
Wholesale depositor split by counterparty type Wholesale depositor split by geography 1 Asset managers 1 North America 2 Banks 2 UK 3 Corporates 3 Europe 4 Money funds 4 Japan 6 67 5 5 1 5 Governments 4 5 Far East excluding Japan 1 6 Central banks 6 Emerging Markets 4 3 7 Supra-national 2 3 2 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 125 C14170 Barclays B 119-134. qxp:B File 07 6 3 09 01:28 Page 126 Risk management Liquidity risk management Key elements The ability to raise funds is in part dependent on maintaining the Funding reliability is maintained by accessing a wide variety of Banks credit rating.
The funding impact of a credit downgrade is closely investors and geographies and by building and maintaining strong tracked.
Whilst the impact of a single downgrade may affect the price at relationships with these providers of liquidity.
which funding is available, the effect on liquidity is not considered material Unsecured funding in Group terms.
Additionally, unsecured funding is managed within specific term limits.
For further details see contractual obligations and commercial The term of unsecured liabilities has been extended, with average life commitments of the Group on page 33. improving by four months from eight months at the end of December Year end assessment of liquidity 2007 to 12 months at the end of December 2008.
Barclays maintained a strong liquidity profile in 2008, sufficient to absorb Our capital markets debt issuance includes issues of senior and the impact of a stressed funding environment.
The Group has access to a subordinated debt in US registered offerings and medium term note substantial pool of liquidity both in secured markets and from unsecured programmes and European medium term note programs.
Substantially depositors including numerous foreign governments and central banks.
all of our unsecured senior issuance is without covenants that trigger In addition, our limited reliance on securitisations as a source of funding increased cost or accelerate maturity.
Furthermore, between September has meant that the uncertainty in securitisation markets has not impacted and December 2008 we issued 11bn in government guaranteed debt, our liquidity risk profile.
9bn in maturities of one to three years and 2bn in under one-year Whilst funding markets were extremely difficult in the latter half maturities.
of 2008, and particularly since September 2008, Barclays was able to Secured funding increase available liquidity, extend the term of unsecured liabilities, and Barclays funds securities based on liquidity characteristics.
Limits are reduce reliance on unsecured funding.
Barclays has participated in various in place for each security asset class reflecting liquidity in the cash and government and central bank liquidity facilities, both to aid central banks financing markets for these assets.
Approximately 80% of assets funded implementation of monetary policy and support central bank initiatives, in repurchase and stock loan transactions are fundable within central bank where participation has enabled the lengthening of the term of our facilities excluding Bank of England Emergency facilities and the Federal refinancing.
These facilities have improved access to term funding, Reserve Primary Dealer Credit Facility.
and helped moderate money market rates.
For the Group, loans and advances to customers and banks are more Liquidity risk to secured funding is also mitigated by: than covered by the combination of customer deposits and longer term selecting reliable counterparties debt at 112% at 31st December 2008 2007: 125%.
 Global Retail and Commercial Banking The sum of liabilities in Global Retail and Commercial Banking, Barclays limiting overall secured funding usage Wealth and Head office functions exceeds assets in those businesses.
Readily available liquidity As a result they have no reliance on wholesale funding.
The balance sheet Substantial resources are maintained to offset maturing deposits and is modelled to reflect behavioural experience in both assets and liabilities, debt.
These readily available assets are sufficient to absorb stress level and is managed to maintain a positive cash profile table 1. losses of liquidity from unsecured as well as contingent cash outflows, Throughout 2008 Global Retail and Commercial Banking continued such as collateral requirements on ratings downgrades.
The sources to grow the amount of deposits despite competitive pressures table 2. of liquidity and contingent liquidity are from a wide variety of sources, Barclays Capital including deposits held with central banks and unencumbered securities.
Barclays Capital manages liquidity to be self-funding through wholesale In addition, the Group maintains significant pools of sources, managing access to liquidity to ensure that potential cash securitisable assets.
outflows in a stressed environment are covered.
a Secured Financing by Asset Class % of Total Secured Funding Sources of Readily Available Contingent Liquidity 1 Government 1 Deposits with central banks 2 Agy 2 Deposits with other financial 3 MBS institutions 4 ABS 3 Government guaranteed issuance 5 7 6 5 Corporate 4 Collateral eligible for repo 1 1 6 Equity 4 5 Other contingent liquidity 5 7 Other 4 3 2 2 3 Table 1: Expected Net Cash Inflows Outflows on a Behavioural Basis Table 2: Global Retail and Commercial Banking Deposit Balances Up to 1 yr 1-3yrs 3-5yrs Over 5 yrs As at As at As at As at As at bn bn bn bn 31.12.08 30.06.08 31.12.07 30.06.07 31.12.06 bn bn bn bn bn As at 31.12.08 20 34 14 95 Total customer deposits 235 218 211 200 190 Note a MBS includes only agency mortgages.
ABS includes private label issuance of residential mortgage backed securities.
|| 1 12 26 6 B Ba ar rc clla ay ys s P PL LC C A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 08 8 F Fiin nd d o ou ut t m mo or re e a at t w ww ww w.. b ba ar rc clla ay ys s.. c co om m a an nn nu ua allr re ep po or rt t08 B Bu us siin ne es ss s r re ev viie ew w C14170 Barclays B 119-134. qxp:B File 07 6 3 09 01:28 Page 127 Risk management 1 1 Capital risk management Organisation and structure Barclays operates a centralised capital management model, considering Treasury Committee manages compliance with the Groups capital both regulatory and economic capital.
The Committee reviews actual and forecast The Groups capital management objectives are to: capital demand and resources on a monthly basis.
The processes in place for delivering the Groups capital management objectives are: Maintain sufficient capital resources to meet the minimum regulatory capital requirements set by the FSA and the US Federal Reserve Banks Establishment of internal targets for capital demand and ratios requirements that a financial holding company be well capitalised.
Managing capital ratio sensitivity to foreign exchange rate movements Maintain sufficient capital resources to support the Groups risk Ensuring local entity regulatory capital adequacy appetite and economic capital requirements.
Allocating capital to the Groups strategic medium-term plan Support the Groups credit rating.
Economic capital management Ensure locally regulated subsidiaries can meet their minimum capital requirements.
In addition to the processes above, the Risk Oversight Committee and the Board Risk Committee annually review and set risk appetite see page 78 Allocate capital to businesses to support the Groups strategic and analyse the impacts of stress scenarios see page 79 in order to objectives, including optimising returns on economic and regulatory understand and manage the Groups projected capital adequacy.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 127 C14170 Barclays B 119-134. qxp:B File 07 6 3 09 01:28 Page 128 Risk management Capital risk management Key elements Internal targets capital requirements by reporting to local Asset and Liability Committees To support its capital management objectives, the Group sets internal with oversight by Treasury Committee, as required.
targets for its key capital ratios.
Internal targets are reviewed regularly by Injections of capital resources into Group entities are centrally Treasury Committee to take account of: controlled by Treasury Committee, under authorities delegated from the Group Executive Committee.
The Groups policy is for surplus capital held Changes in forecast demand for capital caused by accessing new in Group entities to be repatriated to Barclays Bank PLC in the form of business opportunities, including mergers and acquisitions dividends and or capital repatriation, subject to local regulatory Flexibility in debt capital issuance and securitisation plans requirements, exchange controls an tax implications.
Other than as indicated above, the Group is not aware of any material The possible impact of stress scenarios including: impediments to the prompt transfer of capital resources or repayment of Changes in forecast demand for capital from unanticipated intra-group liabilities when due.
drawdown of committed facilities or as a result of deterioration Allocating capital in the Groups strategic medium-term plan in the credit quality of the Groups assets Capital adequacy and returns on regulatory and economic capital form a Changes in forecast profits and other capital resources key part of the Groups annual strategic medium-term planning process.
Amongst other strategic objectives, the Group seeks to optimise returns Changes to capital resources and forecast demand due to foreign on economic and regulatory capital through the planning process.
achieve this, executive management consider returns on risk weighted Managing capital ratio sensitivity to foreign exchange rate movements assets and economic capital when setting limits for business capital demand.
The Group has capital resources capturing investments in subsidiaries Executive management will also review the forecast capital ratios to and branches, intangible assets, minority interests and debt capital and ensure internal targets continue to be met over the medium-term plan.
risk weighted assets denominated in non-Sterling currencies.
Changes in Treasury Committee reviews the limits on capital demand on a foreign exchange rates result in changes in the Sterling equivalent value monthly basis taking into account actual performance.
of non-Sterling denominated capital resources and risk weighted assets.
Economic capital management As a result, the Groups regulatory capital ratios are sensitive to foreign Economic capital is an internal measure of the minimum equity and exchange rate movements.
preference capital required for the Group to maintain its credit rating The Groups hedge strategy is to minimise the volatility of all capital based upon its risk profile.
ratios whilst taking into account the impact on hedging of non-Sterling Barclays assesses economic capital requirements by measuring the net investments, the cost of hedging, the availability of a suitable foreign Group risk profile using both internally and externally developed models.
exchange market and prevailing foreign exchange rates.
The Group assigns economic capital primarily within the following risks: To minimise volatility in the equity ratio, the Group aims over time Credit Risk, Market Risk, Operational Risk, Fixed Assets, Private Equity and to maintain the ratio of foreign currency equity capital resources to RWAs Pension Risk.
Group Risk owns the methodology and policy for economic the same as the Groups equity ratio.
To create equity capital resources capital while the businesses are primarily responsible for the calculation.
denominated in non-Sterling currencies, the Group leaves some The Group regularly enhances its economic capital methodology and investments in core non-Sterling subsidiaries and branches unhedged.
benchmarks outputs to external reference points.
The framework reflects The resultant change in the Sterling value of the investments is captured default probabilities during average credit conditions, rather than those in the currency translation reserve, resulting in an equity capital movement.
prevailing at the balance sheet date, thus removing some of the cyclicality Depending on the value of non-Sterling net investments, it may not from the economic capital calculation.
Economic capital for wholesale always be possible to maintain the ratio, leaving some capital ratio credit risk includes counterparty credit risk arising as a result sensitivity to foreign exchange movements.
of credit risk on traded market exposures.
The framework also adjusts The proceeds from equity accounted foreign currency preference economic capital to reflect time horizon, correlation of risks and risk shares are also used in the equity ratio hedge.
If a preference share is concentrations.
redeemed, the cumulative movement in the currency translation reserve Economic capital is allocated on a consistent basis across all of will be offset by an equal and opposite movement in other reserves Barclays businesses and risk activities.
A single cost of equity is applied reflecting the revaluation of the preference shares to prevailing foreign to calculate the cost of risk.
Economic capital allocations reflect varying exchange rates.
The exposure of the Tier 1 and total capital ratios to foreign exchange The total average economic capital required by the Group, as rate movements is managed by issuing, where possible, debt capital in determined by risk assessment models and after considering the Groups non-Sterling currencies such that the ratio of Tier 1 and total capital estimated portfolio effects, is compared with the average supply of capital resources to risk weighted assets is the same as the Groups Tier 1 and resources to evaluate economic capital utilisation.
This is primarily achieved by the issuance of debt The Groups economic capital calculations form the basis of its capital from Barclays Bank PLC in major currencies, but can also be Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP submission to achieved by subsidiaries issuing capital in local currencies.
the FSA under Pillar 2 of Basel II.
Local entity regulatory capital adequacy Capital Allocation The Group manages its capital resources to ensure that those Group In 2008, UK Retail Banking economic capital allocation increased 550m entities that are subject to local capital adequacy regulation in individual to 3,950m 2007: 3,400m, reflecting mortgage asset growth and jurisdictions meet their minimum capital requirements.
Local movements in benchmark house price indices.
management manages compliance with entities minimum regulatory | 128 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 119-134. qxp:B File 07 6 3 09 01:28 Page 129 Risk management 1 Capital risk management Barclays Commercial Bank economic capital allocation increased GRCB Absa economic capital allocation increased 200m to 300m to 3,500m 2007: 3,200m, primarily as a consequence of asset 1,100m 2007: 900m, reflecting balance sheet growth.
growth with some mitigation from portfolio management activity.
Barclays Capital economic capital allocation increased 3,050m to Barclaycard economic capital allocation increased 650m to 2,700m 8,250m 2007: 5,200m.
This was driven by growth in the investment 2007: 2,050m, driven by acquisitions, the redemption of securitisation portfolio, deterioration in credit quality, exposure to drawn leveraged deals and exposure growth, predominantly in the US.
finance underwriting positions and an increase in market volatility.
GRCB Western Europe economic capital allocation increased 650m Barclays Global Investors economic capital allocation increased to 1,900m 2007: 1,250m, primarily reflecting the weakening of 200m to 400m 2007: 200m.
This was primarily driven by an Sterling and underlying lending growth.
increase in the support for selected cash funds and some increase in GRCB Emerging Markets economic capital allocation increased proprietary investments.
650m to 1,100m 2007: 450m, reflecting broad-based retail and Barclays Wealth economic capital allocation in 2008 remained wholesale asset growth across the business, especially in India, UAE and unchanged at 500m, despite strong growth on the balance sheet.
the new markets of Russia and Pakistan.
This was due to the impact of greater geographical diversification and increased levels of collateralisation.
a The average supply of capital to support the economic capital framework 2008 2007 m m b Shareholders equity excluding minority interests less goodwill 17,650 14,150 Retirement benefits liability 1,050 1,150 Cash flow hedging reserve 100 250 Available for sale reserve 400 150 Gains on own credit 1,250 100 Preference shares 5,500 3,700 Available funds for economic capital excluding goodwill 23,450 19,000 b Average historic goodwill and intangible assets 9,450 8,400 c Available funds for economic capital including goodwill 32,900 27,400 d Average economic capital allocation by business m 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 UK Retail Barclays Barclaycard GRCB GRCB GRCB Barclays Barclays Barclays Head office Banking Commercial Western Emerging Absa Capital Global Wealth functions Bank Europe Markets Investors and other e operations Average economic capital allocation by risk type m 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 07 08 Wholesale Retail Operational Market Business Fixed asset Other f g credit risk credit risk risk risk risk risk risks Notes a Averages for the period will not correspond to period-end balances disclosed in the balance d Average EC charts exclude the EC calculated for pension risk average pension risk for sheet.
Numbers are rounded to the nearest 50m for presentational purposes only.
e Includes Transition Businesses and capital for central function risks.
g Includes investments in associates, private equity risk, insurance risk and residual value.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 129 6,050 3,400 8,350 3,950 5,650 3,200 7,250 3,500 1,800 2,050 1,900 2,700 1,250 1,250 2,350 1,900 800 450 900 1,100 600 900 1,000 1,100 1,250 5,200 1,700 8,250 200 400 500 500 1,850 50 C14170 Barclays B 119-134. qxp:B File 07 6 3 09 01:28 Page 130 Risk management Operational risk management Organisation and structure Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect losses resulting from human Barclays works closely with peer banks to benchmark our internal factors, external events, and inadequate or failed internal processes and operational risk practices and to drive the development of advanced systems.
Operational risks are inherent in the Groups operations and are operational risk techniques across the industry.
It is not cost effective to typical of any large enterprise.
Major sources of operational risk include: attempt to eliminate all operational risks and in any event it would not be operational process reliability, IT security, outsourcing of operations, possible to do so.
Events of small significance are expected to occur and dependence on key suppliers, implementation of strategic change, are accepted as inevitable: events of material significance are rare and the integration of acquisitions, fraud, human error, customer service quality, Group seeks to reduce the risk from these in a framework consistent with regulatory compliance, recruitment, training and retention of staff, and its agreed Risk Appetite.
Barclays is committed to the advanced Barclays has a Group Operational Risk Framework, which is consistent measurement and management of operational risks.
In particular, it has with and part of the Group Internal Control and Assurance Framework.
implemented improved management and measurement approaches for Minimum control requirements have been established for all key areas of operational risk to strengthen control, improve customer service and identified risk by Principal Risk owners see page 78.
The risk categories minimise operating losses.
Barclays was granted a Waiver to operate an relevant to operational risks are Financial Crime, Financial Reporting, Advanced Measurement Approach AMA under Basel II, which Taxation, Legal, Operations, People, Regulatory and Technology.
In commenced in January 2008. addition the following risk categories are used for business risk: Brand The Groups operational risk management framework aims to: Management, Corporate Responsibility, Strategic and Change.
Responsibility for implementing and overseeing these policies is Understand and report the operational risks being taken by the Group.
positioned with Group Principal Risk Owners.
The prime responsibility for Capture and report operational errors made.
the management of operational risk and the compliance with control requirements rests with the business and functional units where the risk Understand and minimise the frequency and impact, on a cost benefit arises.
Front line risk managers are widely distributed throughout the basis, of operational risk events.
They service and support these areas, assisting line managers in managing these risks.
Business Risk Directors in each business are responsible for overseeing the implementation of and compliance with Group policies.
Governance and Control Committees in each business monitor control effectiveness.
The Group Governance and Control Committee receives reports from the committees in the businesses and considers Groupsignificant control issues and their remediation.
In the Group Centre, each Principal Risk is owned by a senior individual who liaises with Principal Risk owners within the businesses.
In addition, the Operational Risk Director oversees the range of operational risks across the Group in accordance with the Group Operational Risk Framework.
Business units are required to report on both a regular and an event-driven basis.
The reports include a profile of the material risks to their business objectives, control issues of Group-level significance, and operational risk events.
Specific reports are prepared on a regular basis for the Risk Oversight Committee, the Board Risk Committee and the Board Audit Committee.
The Internal Audit function provides further assurance for operational risk control across the organisation and reports to the Board and senior management.
| 130 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 119-134. qxp:B File 07 6 3 09 01:28 Page 131 Risk management 1 Operational risk management Measurement and capital modelling Barclays applies a consistent approach to the identification and Barclays also uses a database of external public risk events and is a assessment of key risks and controls across all business units.
Managers in member of the Operational Risk Data Exchange ORX, an association of the businesses use self-assessment techniques to identify risks, evaluate international banks that share anonymised loss data information to assist control effectiveness and monitor performance.
Business management in risk identification, assessment and modelling.
determines whether particular risks are effectively managed within By combining internal data, including internal loss experience, risk and business Risk Appetite and otherwise takes remedial action.
The risk control assessments, key indicators and audit findings, with external loss assessment process is consistent with the principles in the integrated data and expert management judgement, Barclays is able to generate Key framework published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of Risk Scenarios KRSs, which identify the most significant operational risks the Treadway Commission COSO.
The KRSs are validated at business unit and at Group A standard process is used Group-wide for the recognition, capture, level to ensure that they appropriately reflect the level of operational risk.
assessment, analysis and reporting of risk events.
This process is used to These are the main input to our capital model.
Operational risk capital is help identify where process and control requirements are needed to allocated, on a risk sensitive basis, to business units in the form of reduce the recurrence of risk events.
Risk events are loaded onto a central economic capital charges, providing an incentive to manage these risks database and reported monthly to the Group Operational Risk Executive within appetite levels.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 131 C14170 Barclays B 119-134. qxp:B File 07 6 3 09 01:28 Page 132 Risk management Operational risk management Operational risk events A high proportion of Barclays operational risk events have a low financial cost Barclays has been granted a waiver by the FSA to apply an Advanced associated with them and a very small proportion of operational risk events Measurement Approach AMA for Group-wide consolidated and solus have a material impact.
In 2008, 73% of reported operational loss events had regulatory capital reporting.
Barclays has applied the AMA Group-wide.
a value of 50,000 or less 2007: 79% but accounted for 8% of the overall Areas where roll-out of AMA is still continuing and where the Standardised impact 2007: 15%.
In contrast, 2% of the operational risk events had a approach is currently applied are Barclays Bank Mozambique, National value of 1m or greater 2007: 2% but accounted for 66% of the overall Bank of Commerce Tanzania and the US Airways card portfolio impact 2007: 50%.
purchased from Bank of America.
Areas where roll-out of AMA is ongoing Analysis of Barclays operational risk events in 2008 by Basel II and where the Basic Indicator approach is applied are Banco Comercial category, as shown in figure 1, highlights that the highest frequency of Angolano, Woolworths Financial Services in South Africa, Barclays Bank events occurred in External Fraud 46% and Execution, Delivery and PLC Pakistan, Barclays Investment and Loans India Limited, Barclays Bank Process Management 42%.
These two areas also accounted for the LLC Russia and the Cash Equity, Municipal Bonds and M&A business majority of losses by value figure 2, with Execution, Delivery and Process acquired from Lehman Brothers.
In certain joint ventures and associates, Management accounting for 81% of total operational risk losses and Barclays may not be able to apply the Advanced Operational Risk External Fraud accounting for 10%.
Compared with 2007 we have seen a Framework.
reduction in External Fraud and an increase in Execution, Delivery and Barclays does not currently offset the expected loss or mitigating effect Process Management events, driven mainly by market volatility.
of insurances against its regulatory capital requirement.
However, Barclays has applied to the FSA to offset expected loss.
1: Operational risk events by risk category % of total risk events by count % of 07 loss events count % of 08 loss events count Business Clients, Damage to Employment Execution, External fraud Internal fraud disruptions products physical practices and delivery and and system and business assets workplace process failures practices safety management Fig.
2: Operational risk events by category % of total by value % of 07 total by value % of 08 total by value Business Clients, Damage to Employment Execution, External fraud Internal fraud disruptions products physical practices and delivery and and system and business assets workplace process failures practices safety management | 132 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 9 3.5 3 2.8 13 1.3 2 1.7 0.2 0.4 1 2.8 0.1 0.6 0 0.2 48 36.5 81 41.7 24 52.5 10 45.8 6 5.3 4 5.0 Business review C14170 Barclays B 119-134. qxp:B File 07 6 3 09 01:28 Page 133 Risk management 1 Financial crime risk management Anti-money laundering and sanctions risk Financial crime risk is a category of operational risk.
It arises from the risk Anti-money laundering and sanctions risk The Group assesses the implications of all emerging legal and regulatory that the Group might fail to comply with financial crime legislation and requirements that impact it and establishes and operates an AML Risk industry laws on anti-money laundering or might suffer losses as a result control framework and associated policies and minimum standards in of internal or external fraud, or might fail to ensure the security of respect of AML, terrorist financing, sanctions and bribery and corruption.
personnel, physical premises and the Groups assets.
The Group operates an AML oversight programme to ensure a system Barclays adopts an integrated approach to financial crime risk of effective controls comply with the overarching policies, providing management.
In line with the five-step risk management model, Group technical guidance and support to each business unit.
This is monitored Financial Crime Management GFCM has the responsibility to direct, via conformance testing both at the business units and the Group level.
In assess, control, report and manage challenge financial crime risks, 2008, Barclays Internal Audit completed a combined global audit of Know which are structured into three strands: anti-money laundering AML Your Customer, AML and Sanctions procedures.
and sanctions: fraud: and security.
GFCM collates and oversees the preparation of Group-wide Each business unit within Barclays develops its own capability to management information on AML and sanctions.
This information tackle financial crime, providing regular reporting on performance, includes risk indicators, such as volumes of suspicious activity reports incidents and the latest trends impacting business.
This integrated SARs and is supplemented by trend analysis, which highlights high-risk model allows us to: or emerging issues so that prompt action can be taken to address them.
Develop a clear profile of financial crime risk across the Group Three committees the AML Steering Committee, the Sanctions Cross-Cluster Operational Review Board and the Policy Review Forum, Share intelligence, adopt common standards and respond promptly to review business performance, share intelligence, develop and agree emerging issues controls, and discuss emerging themes and the implementation status of Drive forward law enforcement and other government initiatives policies and procedures.
All businesses contribute towards the Group Money Laundering Benchmark ourselves against other financial institutions facing similar Reporting Officers Annual Report, which is provided to Group senior challenges executive management and is available to the FSA.
Together with regular management information and conformance testing, this report updates senior management with evidence that the Groups money laundering and terrorist financing risks are being appropriately, proportionally and effectively managed.
During 2008, the Group augmented its sanctions capability by issuing a revised Sanctions Policy.
This enhances certain areas of control such as screening.
Barclays continues to upgrade its sanctions screening capabilities, in line with best international practice and changing regulatory requirements and has invested substantial resources to further enhance its monitoring capabilities in this area and will continue to do so.
Representatives of the Group attend industry fora such as the Wolfsberg Group, the British Bankers Associations Money Laundering Policy Group MLPG and the Money Laundering Advisory Panel MLAP, to ensure that Barclays is influential in discussing and interpreting new legislation.
In 2008, the Group continued to follow developments in the Single European Payments Area SEPA, with a view to developing its payments systems accordingly.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 133 C14170 Barclays B 119-134. qxp:B File 07 6 3 09 01:28 Page 134 Risk management Financial crime risk management Fraud risk and security risk Fraud risk Barclays overall reported fraud losses increased in 2008 in line with The Group establishes and operates a fraud risk framework which industry trends.
Whilst industry and proprietary initiatives online and measures overall fraud risk exposure and controls.
Together with the Chip PIN have continued to pay dividends and reduce exposure in some Group-wide policies and reporting, this structure directs how fraud is areas, fraud increased in other areas and in geographies that do not have managed.
In 2008, the Group implemented a new global fraud application GFCM is responsible for delivering the overall Group Fraud Strategy by providing oversight to Group and business units in the management system aimed at preventing first-party fraud.
Compromised customer details continue to be a significant threat of fraud risk.
The Group Fraud Strategy is designed to: globally.
GFCM continues to work closely with industry and other associated bodies to: Contain existing risks through effective measurement, monitoring and robust anti-fraud systems, in line with the expansion of the bank Protect any customer whose details may be compromised Identify emerging threats in order that effective fraud controls are Develop a standard approach for dealing with accounts that may be impacted by any data compromise or security breach embedded across the Group along with increased capability to manage risk Reassure customers and provide points of contact for help and Identify and manage fraud incidents, ensuring regulatory and legal guidance.
conformance, appropriate escalation and resolution of control issues Security risk to prevent further loss GFCM manages security risk.
Its fundamental objective is to allow Barclays to operate in a safe and secure manner in all existing and potential future Share fraud trends, intelligence and knowledge across the Group and between government bodies, law enforcement agencies, financial markets.
In pursuit of this objective, the security risk team gathers and shares institutions and other key stakeholders current threat assessments across business areas, using intelligence from GFCM assesses fraud risk across existing and emerging products, security and government agencies and in-country teams.
It ensures that channels, and jurisdictions.
It has embedded a robust fraud reporting suitable policies and control systems are in place to protect Group framework which tracks current exposure to identify risk and ensure business and high-risk personnel.
adequate risk management capability and controls.
Barclays has developed and continues to improve a robust GroupThe Groups business units identify their appetite for fraud loss which wide people-screening process to protect the Group from those people informs and determines the overall fraud plan.
Objectives are set around who want to harm the organisation, by either joining as staff members or these plans and performance is monitored through reporting and becoming involved with its operations.
oversight via appropriate Governance Committees at both business unit Security risk is regularly reported by the businesses and reviewed via and Group level.
the Security Risk Management Committee, whose objectives are to: Barclays undertakes regular benchmarking performance reviews with relevant peer groups and maintains a conduit to ensure a two-way Consider the latest management information and security threat exchange of information and intelligence at government, trade and assessments industry levels.
Drive forward mitigating action to protect the Group from potential The Barclays Group Fraud Risk profile is tracked regularly through the threats review and challenge of the net losses and key risk metrics: these are then viewed against the overall Fraud Risk Profile at the Fraud Risk Oversight Provide guidance to the design and effectiveness of the overall Barclays Committee.
Security Risk framework Aggregated fraud data is reported monthly to senior management.
Ensure all security risk workstreams have been effectively integrated The performance of the business in combating fraud losses is measured and implemented against plan in line with the Principal Risk Policy.
Key Risk Indicators are embedded in order that overall exposure can be established.
As a result Monitor corporate security profiles against the agreed plan, tracking of this process, fraud can be measured and appropriate action taken to issues in order that remedial action can be taken minimise or track significant issues.
| 134 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 135-150. qxp:B File 08 6 3 09 01:28 Page 135 Risk management 1 Statistical information Statistical and other risk information This section of the report contains supplementary information that is more detailed or contains longer histories than the data presented in the discussion.
For commentary on this information, please refer to the preceding text pages 80 to 118. Credit risk management Table 1: Risk Tendency by business 2008 2007 m m UK Retail Banking 520 470 Barclays Commercial Bank 400 305 Barclaycard 1,475 955 GRCB Western Europe 270 135 GRCB Emerging Markets 350 140 GRCB Absa 255 190 Barclays Capital 415 140 Barclays Wealth 20 10 a Head office functions and other operations 5 10 Risk Tendency by business 3,710 2,355 Table 2: Loans and advances 2008 2007 m m Retail businesses Customers 201,588 162,081 Total retail businesses 201,588 162,081 Wholesale businesses Banks 47,758 40,123 Customers 266,750 187,086 Total wholesale businesses 314,508 227,209 Loans and advances 516,096 389,290 Note a Head office functions and other operations comprises discontinued business in transition.
| 136 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
The industry classifications in Tables 7-9 have been prepared at the level of the borrowing entity.
This means that a loan to the subsidiary of a major corporation is classified by the industry in which the subsidiary operates, even though the parents predominant business may be in a different industry.
Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
The 2004 analysis excludes reverse repurchase agreements.
Table 10: Loans and advances to customers in the Rest of the World a 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 At 31st December m m m m m Loans and advances 37,421 22,702 14,207 13,407 10,520 Finance lease receivables 219 118 108 107 74 Loans and advances to customers in the Rest of the World 37,640 22,820 14,315 13,514 10,594 Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
| 138 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 139 C14170 Barclays B 135-150. qxp:B File 08 6 3 09 01:28 Page 140 Risk management Statistical information Table 13: Off-balance sheet and other credit exposures as at 31st December 2008 2007 2006 m m m Off-balance sheet exposures Contingent liabilities 66,310 45,774 39,419 Commitments 260,816 192,639 205,504 On-balance sheet exposures Trading portfolio assets 185,637 193,691 177,867 Financial assets designated at fair value held on own account 54,542 56,629 31,799 Derivative financial instruments 984,802 248,088 138,353 Available for sale financial investments 64,976 43,072 51,703 Table 14: Notional principal amounts of credit derivatives as at 31st December 2008 2007 2006 m m m a Credit derivatives held or issued for trading purposes 4,129,244 2,472,249 1,224,548 Table 15: Credit risk loans summary b 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 At 31st December m m m m m c Impaired loans 12,264 8,574 4,444 4,550 n a Non-accruing loans n a n a n a n a 2,115 Accruing loans where interest is being suspended with or without provisions n a n a n a n a 492 Other accruing loans against which provisions have been made n a n a n a n a 943 Subtotal 12,264 8,574 4,444 4,550 3,550 Accruing loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or interest 2,953 794 598 609 550 Impaired and restructured loans 483 273 46 51 15 Credit risk loans 15,700 9,641 5,088 5,210 4,115 Notes a Includes credit derivatives held as economic hedges which are not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
b 2004 does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005. c Includes 4,117m 2007: 3,344m of ABS CDO Super Senior exposures.
| 140 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 135-150. qxp:B File 08 6 3 09 01:28 Page 141 1 Table 16: Credit risk loans a 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 At 31st December m m m m m b Impaired loans: United Kingdom 3,793 3,605 3,340 2,965 n a Other European Union 1,713 472 410 345 n a United States 4,397 3,703 129 230 n a Africa 1,996 757 535 831 n a Rest of the World 365 37 30 179 n a Total 12,264 8,574 4,444 4,550 n a Non-accrual loans: United Kingdom n a n a n a n a 1,509 Other European Union n a n a n a n a 243 United States n a n a n a n a 258 Africa n a n a n a n a 74 Rest of the World n a n a n a n a 31 Total n a n a n a n a 2,115 Accruing loans where interest is being suspended with or without provisions: United Kingdom n a n a n a n a 323 Other European Union n a n a n a n a 31 Africa n a n a n a n a 21 Rest of the World n a n a n a n a 117 Total n a n a n a n a 492 Other accruing loans against which provisions have been made: United Kingdom n a n a n a n a 865 Other European Union n a n a n a n a 27 United States n a n a n a n a 26 Africa n a n a n a n a 21 Rest of the World n a n a n a n a 4 Total n a n a n a n a 943 Accruing loans which are contractually overdue 90 days or more as to principal or interest: United Kingdom 1,656 676 516 539 513 Other European Union 562 79 58 53 34 United States 433 10 3 1 Africa 172 29 21 17 1 Rest of the World 130 1 Total 2,953 794 598 609 550 Impaired and restructured loans: United Kingdom 367 179 52 Other European Union 29 14 10 7 United States 82 38 22 16 13 Africa 42 14 23 Rest of the World 5 Total 483 273 46 51 15 Total credit risk loans: United Kingdom 5,816 4,460 3,856 3,509 3,212 Other European Union 2,304 565 478 405 335 United States 4,912 3,751 154 246 298 Africa 2,168 828 570 871 117 Rest of the World 500 37 30 179 153 Credit risk loans 15,700 9,641 5,088 5,210 4,115 Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005. b Includes 4,117m 2007: 3,344m of ABS CDO Super Senior Exposures.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 141 C14170 Barclays B 135-150. qxp:B File 08 6 3 09 01:28 Page 142 Risk management Statistical information Table 17: Potential problem loans a 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 At 31st December m m m m m United Kingdom 883 419 465 640 658 Other European Union 963 59 32 26 32 United States 431 964 21 12 27 Africa 140 355 240 248 67 Rest of the World 39 33 14 b Potential problem loans 2,456 1,797 761 929 798 Table 18: Interest foregone on credit risk loans 2008 2007 2006 m m m Interest income that would have been recognised under the original contractual terms United Kingdom 244 340 357 Rest of the World 235 91 70 Total 479 431 427 Interest income of approximately 195m 2007: 48m, 2006: 72m from such loans was included in profit, of which 72m 2007: 26m, 2006: 49m related to domestic lending and the remainder related to foreign lending.
In addition, a further 159m 2007: 113m, 2006: 98m was recognised arising from impaired loans.
Following impairment, interest income is recognised using the original effective rate of interest which was used to discount the expected future cash flows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss.
54m 2007: 93m, 2006: 88m of this related to domestic impaired loans and the remainder related to foreign impaired loans.
Table 19: Analysis of impairment provision charges a 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 At 31st December m m m m m Impairment charge net specific provisions charge United Kingdom 1,817 1,593 1,880 1,382 1,021 Other European Union 587 123 92 75 102 United States 1,519 374 12 76 57 Africa 454 214 143 37 27 Rest of the World 207 2 53 4 103 Impairment on loans and advances 4,584 2,306 2,074 1,574 1,310 Impairment on available for sale assets 382 13 86 4 n a Impairment on reverse repurchase agreements 124 Impairment charge 5,090 2,319 2,160 1,578 1,310 Total net specific provisions charge n a n a n a n a n a General provisions release charge n a n a n a n a 206 Other credit provisions charge release 329 476 6 7 11 Impairment provision charges 5,419 2,795 2,154 1,571 1,093 Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005. b Includes nil 2007: 951m of ABS CDO Super Senior and SIV-lites exposures.
| 142 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 135-150. qxp:B File 08 6 3 09 01:28 Page 143 1 Table 20: Impairment provisions charges ratios Loan loss ratios a 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 % %% % % Impairment provisions charges as a percentage of average loans and advances for the year: Specific provisions charge n a n a n a n a 0.40 General provisions charge n a n a n a n a 0.07 Impairment charge 1.01 0.64 0.66 0.58 n a Total 1.01 0.64 0.66 0.58 0.33 Amounts written off net of recoveries 0.61 0.49 0.61 0.50 0.40 Table 21: Analysis of allowance for impairment provision for bad and doubtful debts a 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 m m m m m Impairment allowance Specific provisions United Kingdom 2,947 2,526 2,477 2,266 1,683 Other European Union 963 344 311 284 149 United States 1,561 356 100 130 155 Africa 857 514 417 647 70 Rest of the World 246 32 30 123 90 Specific provision balances n a n a n a n a 2,147 General provision balances n a n a n a n a 564 Allowance for impairment provision balances 6,574 3,772 3,335 3,450 2,711 Average loans and advances for the year 453,413 357,853 313,614 271,421 328,134 Table 22: Allowance for impairment provision balance ratios a 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 % %% % % Allowance for impairment provision balance at end of year as a percentage of loans and advances at end of year: Specific provision balances n a n a n a n a 0.62 General provision balances n a n a n a n a 0.16 Impairment balance 1.27 0.97 1.05 1.14 n a Total 1.27 0.97 1.05 1.14 0.78 Note a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 143 C14170 Barclays B 135-150. qxp:B File 08 6 3 09 01:28 Page 144 Risk management Statistical information Table 23: Movements in allowance for impairment provisions charge for bad and doubtful debts a 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 m m m m m Allowance for impairment provision balance at beginning of year 3,772 3,335 3,450 2,637 2,946 Acquisitions and disposals 307 73 23 555 21 Unwind of discount 135 113 98 76 n a Exchange and other adjustments 791 53 153 125 33 Amounts written off 2,919 1,963 2,174 1,587 1,582 Recoveries 174 227 259 222 255 b Impairment provision charged against profit 4,584 2,306 2,074 1,574 1,104 Allowance for impairment provision balance at end of year 6,574 3,772 3,335 3,450 2,711 Table 24: Amounts written off a 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 m m m m m United Kingdom 1,514 1,530 1,746 1,302 1,280 Other European Union 162 143 74 56 63 United States 1,044 145 46 143 50 Africa 187 145 264 81 15 Rest of the World 12 44 5 174 Amounts written off 2,919 1,963 2,174 1,587 1,582 Table 25: Recoveries a 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 m m m m m United Kingdom 131 154 178 160 217 Other European Union 4 32 18 13 9 United States 1 7 22 15 14 Africa 36 34 33 16 4 Rest of the World 2 8 18 11 Recoveries 174 227 259 222 255 Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005. b Does not reflect the impairment of available for sale assets or other credit risk provisions.
| 144 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 135-150. qxp:B File 08 6 3 09 01:28 Page 145 1 Table 26: Impairment allowances provision charged against profit a 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 m m m m m New and increased impairment allowance specific provision charge: United Kingdom 2,160 1,960 2,253 1,763 1,358 Other European Union 659 192 182 113 131 United States 1,529 431 60 105 85 Africa 526 268 209 109 47 Rest of the World 242 20 18 39 134 5,116 2,871 2,722 2,129 1,755 Reversals of impairment allowance specific provision charge: United Kingdom 212 213 195 221 120 Other European Union 68 37 72 25 20 United States 9 50 26 14 14 Africa 36 20 33 56 16 Rest of the World 33 18 63 17 20 358 338 389 333 190 Recoveries 174 227 259 222 255 b Net impairment allowance specific provision charge 4,584 2,306 2,074 1,574 1,310 General provision release charge n a n a n a n a 206 Net charge to profit 4,584 2,306 2,074 1,574 1,104 Table 27: Total impairment specific provision charges for bad and doubtful debts by industry a 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 m m m m m United Kingdom: Financial services 76 32 64 22 1 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 4 59 Manufacturing 118 72 1 120 28 Construction 15 14 17 14 10 Property 80 36 15 18 42 Energy and water 1 1 7 13 Wholesale and retail distribution and leisure 59 118 88 39 66 Transport 3 3 19 27 19 Postal and communication 15 15 3 1 Business and other services 234 81 133 45 64 Home loans 28 14 7 17 Other personal 1,178 1,187 1,526 1,142 894 Finance lease receivables 21 33 32 1,817 1,593 1,880 1,382 1,021 Overseas 2,767 713 194 192 289 Impairment specific provision charges 4,584 2,306 2,074 1,574 1,310 The category Other personal now includes credit cards, personal to the subsidiary of a major corporation is classified by the industry in loans, second liens and personal overdrafts.
which the subsidiary operates, even though the parents predominant The industry classifications in Tables 27, 28 and 29 have been business may be in a different industry.
prepared at the level of the borrowing entity.
This means that a loan Notes a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005. b Does not reflect the impairment of available for sale assets, reverse repurchase agreements or other credit risk provisions.
Note a Does not reflect the application of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4 which became effective from 1st January 2005.
| 146 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 135-150. qxp:B File 08 6 3 09 01:28 Page 147 1 Table 30: Total impairment allowance provision coverage of credit risk loans a 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 % %% % % United Kingdom 50.7 56.6 64.2 64.6 68.1 Other European Union 41.8 60.9 65.1 70.1 60.9 United States 31.8 9.5 64.9 52.8 57.0 Africa 39.5 62.1 73.2 74.3 68.4 Rest of the World 49.2 86.5 100.0 68.7 71.9 Total coverage of credit risk loans 41.9 39.1 65.6 66.2 66.9 Total coverage of credit risk loans excluding ABS CDO Super Senior exposure 48.0 55.3 65.6 66.2 66.9 Table 31: Total impairment allowance provision coverage of potential credit risk lending CRLs and PPLs a 2008 2007 2006 2005 2004 % %% % % United Kingdom 44.0 51.8 57.3 54.6 56.5 Other European Union 29.5 55.1 61.0 65.9 55.6 United States 29.2 7.6 57.1 50.4 52.3 Africa 37.1 43.4 51.5 57.8 43.5 Rest of the World 45.5 86.5 91.0 67.6 65.9 Total coverage of potential credit risk lending 36.2 33.0 57.0 56.2 56.0 Total coverage of potential credit risk lenders excluding ABS CDO Super Senior exposure 39.6 47.7 57.0 56.2 56.0 Allowance coverage of credit risk loans and potential credit risk loans excluding the drawn ABS CDO Super Senior exposure decreased to 48.0% 31st December 2007: 55.3% and 39.6% 31st December 2007: 47.7%, respectively.
The decrease in these ratios reflected a change in the mix of credit risk loans and potential credit risk loans: unsecured retail exposures, where the recovery outlook is relatively low, decreased as a proportion of the total as the collections and underwriting processes were improved.
Secured retail and wholesale and corporate exposures, where the recovery outlook is relatively high, increased as a proportion of credit risk loans and potential credit risk loans.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 147 C14170 Barclays B 135-150. qxp:B File 08 6 3 09 01:28 Page 148 Risk management Supervision and regulation The Groups operations, including its overseas offices, subsidiaries and Switzerland, Portugal and Italy local central banks and other regulatory authorities : Asia Pacific various regulatory authorities including the Hong associates, are subject to a significant body of rules and regulations that are a condition for authorisation to conduct banking and financial services Kong Monetary Authority, the Financial Services Agency of Japan, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission, the Monetary business and constrain business operations.
These include reserve and reporting requirements and conduct of business regulations.
These Authority of Singapore, the China Banking Regulatory Commission and the Reserve Bank of India : Africa and the Middle East various regulatory requirements are imposed by the relevant central banks and regulatory authorities that supervise the Group in the jurisdictions in which it authorities including the South African Reserve Bank and the Financial Services Board and the regulatory authorities of the United Arab Emirates operates.
The requirements reflect global standards developed by, among others, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and the International and the United States of America including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FRB, the Office of the Comptroller of the Organisation of Securities Commissions.
They also reflect requirements derived from EU directives.
Currency OCC and the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In Europe, the UK regulatory agenda is considerably shaped and In the UK, the FSA is the independent body responsible for the regulation of deposit taking, life insurance, home mortgages, general influenced by the directives emanating from the EU.
These form part of the European Single Market programme, an important feature of which insurance and investment business.
Barclays Bank PLC is authorised by the FSA to carry on a range of regulated activities within the UK and is is the framework for the regulation of authorised firms.
This framework is designed to enable a credit institution or investment firm authorised in subject to consolidated supervision by the FSA.
In its role as supervisor, the FSA seeks to ensure the safety and soundness of financial institutions one EU member state to conduct banking or investment business through the establishment of branches or by the provision of services on a crosswith the aim of strengthening, but not guaranteeing, the protection of customers.
The FSAs continuing supervision of financial institutions is border basis in other member states without the need for local authorisation.
Barclays operations in Europe are authorised and regulated conducted through a variety of regulatory tools, including the collection of information from statistical and prudential returns, reports obtained from by a combination of both home the FSA and host regulators.
Barclays operations in South Africa, including Absa Group Limited, are skilled persons, visits to firms and regular meetings with management to discuss issues such as performance, risk management and strategy.
supervised and regulated by the South African Reserve Bank SARB and the Financial Services Board FSB.
SARB oversees the banking industry The FSA adopts a risk-based approach to supervision.
The starting point for supervision of all financial institutions is a systematic analysis of and follows a risk-based approach to supervision whilst the FSB oversees the non-banking financial services industry and focuses on enhancing the risk profile for each authorised firm.
The FSA has adopted a homogeneous risk, processes and resourcing model in its approach to its consumer protection and regulating market conduct.
In the United States, Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays US supervisory responsibilities known as the ARROW model and the results of the risk assessment are used by the FSA to develop a risk mitigation banking subsidiaries are subject to a comprehensive regulatory structure involving numerous statutes, rules and regulations, including the programme for a firm.
The FSA also promulgates requirements that banks and other financial institutions are required to meet on matters such as International Banking Act of 1978, the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended BHC Act, the Foreign Bank Supervision Enhancement capital adequacy, limits on large exposures to individual entities and groups of closely connected entities, liquidity and rules of business conduct.
Act of 1991 and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001.
Such laws impose restrictions on the activities of Barclays, including its US banking Banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions in the UK are subject to a single financial services compensation scheme the subsidiaries and the Banks US branches, as well as prudential restrictions, such as limits on extensions of credit by the Banks US branches and the Financial Services Compensation Scheme where an authorised firm is unable or is likely to be unable to meet claims made against it because US banking subsidiaries to affiliates.
The Banks New York and Florida branches are subject to extensive federal and state supervision and of its financial circumstances.
Most deposits made with branches of Barclays Bank PLC within the European Economic Area EEA which are regulation by the FRB and the New York and Florida banking supervisors.
Barclays Global Investors, NA, a federally chartered trust company, is denominated in Sterling or other EEA currencies including the Euro are covered by the Scheme.
Most claims made in respect of investment subject to supervision and regulation by the OCC, and Barclays Bank Delaware, a Delaware-chartered commercial bank, is subject to business will also be protected claims if the business was carried on from the UK or from a branch of the bank or investment firm in another supervision and regulation by the Delaware banking supervisor and the EEA member state.
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation FDIC.
Only the deposits of Outside the UK, the Group has operations and main regulators Barclays Bank Delaware are insured by the FDIC.
located in continental Europe, in particular France, Germany, Spain, Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Group US Inc. are bank | 148 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
com annualreport08 Business review C14170 Barclays B 135-150. qxp:B File 08 6 3 09 01:28 Page 149 1 holding companies registered with the FRB.
Each has elected to be treated On 21st February 2009, the Banking Act 2009 came into force which provides a permanent regime to allow the FSA, the UK Treasury and the as a financial holding company under the BHC Act.
Financial holding companies may engage in a broader range of financial and related Bank of England the Tripartite Authorities to resolve failing banks in the UK.
The Banking Act aims to balance the need to protect depositors and activities than are permitted to banking organisations that do not maintain financial holding company status, including underwriting and dealing in all prevent systemic failure with the potentially adverse consequences that using powers to deal with those events could have on private law rights, types of securities.
To maintain the financial holding company status of each of Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC and Barclays Group US Inc. and, as a consequence, wider markets and investor confidence.
These powers, which apply regardless of any contractual restrictions, Barclays Bank PLC is required to meet or exceed certain capital ratios and to be deemed to be well managed, and Barclays Bank Delaware and include a power to issue share transfer orders pursuant to which there may be transferred to a commercial purchaser or Bank of England entity, Barclays Global Investors, NA must also meet certain capital requirements, be deemed to be well managed and must have at least a satisfactory all or some of the securities issued by a bank.
The share transfer order can extend to a wide range of securities including shares and bonds issued by rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977.
Barclays investment banking operations are subject to ongoing a UK Bank including Barclays Bank PLC or its holding company Barclays PLC and warrants for such and b the power to transfer all or some of supervision and regulation by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority FINRA and other government agencies and self-regulatory the property, rights and liabilities of the UK bank to a purchaser or Bank of England entity.
In certain circumstances encumbrances and trusts can organisations as part of a comprehensive scheme of regulation of all aspects of the securities business under the US federal securities laws.
Power also exists to override any default provisions in transactions otherwise affected by these powers.
Compensation may Barclays subsidiaries in the US are also subject to regulation by applicable federal and state regulators of their activities in the asset be payable in the context of both share transfer orders and property appropriation.
In the case of share transfer orders any compensation management, investment advisory, mutual fund and mortgage lending businesses.
The US operations and subsidiaries of Barclays are subject to will be paid to the person who held the security immediately before the transfer, who may not be the encumbrancer.
extensive laws and regulations designed to combat money laundering and terrorist financing and to enforce compliance with US economic sanctions.
The Banking Act also vests power in the Bank of England to override, vary or impose contractual obligations between a UK bank or its holding Regulatory Developments company and its former group undertakings as defined in the Banking In the wake of the financial crisis there will be regulatory change that will Act, for reasonable consideration, in order to enable any transferee or have a substantial impact on all financial institutions, including the Group.
successor bank of the UK bank to operate effectively.
There is also power The full extent of this impact is not yet clear.
Programmes to reform the for the Treasury to amend the law save for a provision made by or under global regulatory framework were agreed first by G8 Finance Ministers in the Banking Act by order for the purpose of enabling it to use the special April 2008 and subsequently by G20 Heads of Government in November resolution regime powers effectively, potentially with retrospective effect.
In the EU, Finance Ministers agreed a roadmap for regulatory reform The Banking Act also gives the Bank of England statutory responsibility in May 2008.
There is a substantial degree of commonality to these for financial stability in the UK and for the oversight of payment systems.
programmes covering issues of capital and liquidity regulation, risk Amendments are being made to the EU framework of directives, management and accounting standards.
These programmes will be including to the Capital Requirements Directive and to the Directive on further developed and implemented in 2009.
Further amendments to EU regulatory In the UK, in response to the financial crisis, the Chairman of the FSA requirements are likely as the EU develops its response to the financial has been requested by the Chancellor of the Exchequer to undertake a crisis, including the structure of the regulatory system in Europe as review of banking regulation.
The Chancellor has indicated that he will be proposed in the report of a high-level Commission group published on presenting a White Paper on the supervision of banking in spring 2009 25 February 2009. with the expectation that proposals for legislation will be presented to In the United States, as elsewhere, recent market disruptions and Parliament.
He has also commissioned Sir David Walker to review the economic conditions have led to numerous proposals for changes and corporate governance of the UK banking industry.
The results of this significant increases in the regulation of the financial services industry.
review are expected before the end of 2009.
The FSA has re-examined its However, given the current environment and status of such proposals, regulatory requirements and processes, substantially increasing regulatory it is difficult to determine the nature and form of any regulation that capital requirements in October 2008.
It has also been undertaking a may arise in the United States from any such proposals.
Supervisory Enhancement Programme that will increase both the resources devoted to supervision and the intensity of supervision.
Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 149 C14170 Barclays B 135-150. qxp:B File 08 6 3 09 01:28 Page 150 | 150 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2008 Find out more at www.
