Risk management Nicholas Furlonge Director, risk management What does risk management mean for Beazley?
At Beazley, we operate an enterprise wide risk management culture that is integral to the way we run our business.
Risk management is and always has been part of what we do and our risk framework facilitates communication and dialogue across each of our business areas to help achieve the groups overall strategic objectives.
Our business is based on controlled and informed risk taking across a diverse range of specialist classes of insurance.
Our risk appetite allocation methodology is clearly understood and articulated to ensure that where appropriate it is fully utilised to give maximum reward.
Our framework is centred on the following principles: t Transparency to ensure all risks are clearly understood, measured and controlled by setting limits and monitoring against these: t Accountability the organisational structure ensures all risks are owned by appropriate individuals and everyone takes responsibility for managing their risks: and t Culture to promote a risk aware culture and to ensure that every decision we take is based upon an evaluation of risk versus reward.
Risk governance and reporting During 2008, the risk management team combined with the actuarial team to further increase our focus on the management of insurance risk across the group.
The primary goal of the combined team remains to help the group achieve a consistent approach to identifying, measuring and managing risk.
We believe the combined function will enable us to more accurately analyse both the quantitative impact and effectiveness of key underwriting and operational controls and help us to focus our attention on those controls that really matter.
These benets, in addition to the work already performed in developing a market leading Individual Capital Assessment ICA framework, puts us in a strong position to implement the proposed Solvency II regulatory regime.
We will report progress as we work towards the 2012 deadline.
This is further demonstrated by our Strong Standard and Poors rating for risk management, which ranks our practices in the top 15% of companies rated by them.
The team uses an online risk management tool, the BeazleyRiskMatrix, to support its work.
This captures all key controls operating within the business and allows risk and control owners to sign off the controls they are responsible for on a regular basis.
Risk Management are able to monitor the effectiveness of these controls in real time across all worldwide locations.
Both the board of directors the Board and the Audit Committee have the responsibility for dening the groups risk appetite, with key individuals and committees accountable for day-to-day management of risks and controls.
Regular reporting and active participation by the risk management team in all board meetings and senior management committees ensures that risks are monitored and managed as they arise.
Beazley Annual Report 2008 43 Risk management continued Risk management Political risks and Accident and Life Marine Property Specialty lines Reinsurance contingency Market Cycle Risk Catastrophe Risk Asset Risk Credit Risk Operational Risk Liquidity Risk Risk Risk Risk Event Aggregate Limit Business Peer Rate Stress Reserving Matrix Policies Reporting monitoring Setting Planning Review Adequacy Testing RISK MANAGEMENT Exposure Management Operations Committee Underwriting Committee Claims Committee Investment Committee Committee EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE BOARD AUDIT COMMITTEE Areas for focus in 2009 are outlined in more detail below.
Managing the cycle Market cycle risk is characterised by the periodic rise and fall in insurance prices and is driven largely by changes in supply and demand rather than the actual cost of cover.
The cycle varies between a soft market where insurance is readily available and premium rates fall as a result of increased competition and a hard market, where clients nd insurance coverage more difficult to obtain and rates rise and terms and conditions become more restrictive.
Our focus on managing market cycle risk lies at the heart of our underwriting philosophy and this is demonstrated by our strong and consistent trading record.
On a day-to-day basis, market cycle risk is managed in the following ways: t Business planning transitioning the portfolio of business to ensure a sufciently diverse range of good quality products, whose profitability is aligned to the correct position in the cycle.
During a hard market we maximise profits by targeting growth on the best opportunities available and in a soft market we focus our portfolio on less volatile business: t Cascaded peer review monitoring of individual risks against limits allocated to each underwriter and performing a second pair of eyes check to ensure that there is sufficient oversight of the whole portfolio and that it remains in line with the business plan: t Reserving having a clear view of the underlying profitability of individual products with transparent links to capital allocation: and t Rate adequacy and benchmark pricing quantitative monitoring of risks to ensure that we are charging appropriate premiums for the risks we are taking.
Catastrophe risk Catastrophe risk is assessed both in terms of modelled losses and the risk of losing more than expected through poor exposure management.
Our portfolio is analysed for classes of business where accumulations of losses can result from a single large catastrophic event.
Risk appetite limits are set by the board and calculated on a probabilistic basis using external catastrophe models.
We acknowledge the uncertainty present within these models and therefore also monitor deterministic output using Lloyds Realistic Disaster Scenarios RDSs and our aggregate position.
Risk appetite is set based upon the impact on earnings and capital, whilst being mindful of potential opportunities that exist following the event.
The controls in place serve to ensure that we remain within these risk appetite levels set by the board.
Our largest risk appetite relates to a modelled probabilistic 1 in 250 year US natural catastrophe event, such as wind storm or earthquake, and in 2009 we will manage to a loss of $340m after reinsurance.
Asset risk Asset risk is viewed as the risk arising from adverse changes in the value of or income from assets and changes in exchange rates and interest rates.
Through setting comprehensive investment guidelines via the Investment Committee and monitoring against these, reviewing the performance of our investment managers and stress testing our investment portfolio we can assess if our overall risk and return targets are being met.
"com By category, key risks are mitigated as follows: t ""TTFU o JOWFTUNFOU NBOBHFS MJNJUT JO QMBDF DPNCJOFE XJUI DMFBS JOWFTUNFOU HVJEFMJOFT BOE t $BTI o MJNJUT JO QMBDF UP NJOJNJTF DPODFOUSBUJPO SJTL To minimise the risk of an event impacting both our claims liabilities and our investment portfolios, we endeavour to limit investments in areas which correlate with our insurance portfolios."
Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that we do not have sufficient financial resources to meet our obligations as they fall due.
Strategically, we seek to maintain sufficient liquid assets or assets that can be liquidated at short notice and without capital loss to meet our expected cash ow requirements.
Our RDSs are stress tested on a regular basis and results are monitored through the BeazleyRiskMatrix.
Credit risk Our exposure to credit risk is mitigated by the vetting of all of our key counterparties before trading with them.
Performance is closely monitored and managed through our committee structure.
We consider our key counterparties to be reinsurers and brokers as outlined below: t 3FJOTVSFST o FYQPTVSF NPOJUPSFE CZ UIF 3FJOTVSBODF 4FDVSJUZ $PN NJUUFF BOE SBUJOHT BTTJHOFE UP FBDI SFJOTVSFS according to internally agreed criteria: t #SPLFST o SPCVTU CSPLFS BQQSPWBM QSPDFTT VOEFSQJOOFE CZMPZE T BQQSPWBM QSPDFTT Operational risk Operational risk arises from the risk of losses due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems, service providers or from external events.
The group actively manages operational risks and minimises them where appropriate by implementing and communicating guidelines to staff and other third parties.
The impact of control failure is quantied and compared to the effectiveness of these controls to allow us to see where our attention should be focused.
Emerging risk identication We employ specialist teams to support our underwriters to help identify external trends and issues.
Using this research improves our underwriting risk selection, allows us to avoid markets in decline and improves our claims management capabilities.
Internal audit and compliance Our internal audit and compliance teams reinforce our comprehensive risk management strategies.
They work closely with the risk management team and the business to co-ordinate activity, avoid duplication and deliver a targeted risk-based approach.
