BlueBay Asset Management plc Risk Management and 48 Annual Report 2008 Internal Control The Board places a high priority on a strong The Management Committee relies on the Portfolio risk management risk management culture within the Group.
support provided by two internal committees Overall responsibility for portfolio risk rests The Board recognises that risk is inherent in to assist it in carrying out its responsibilities: with the Chief Investment Officer who the Groups business and the markets in retains responsibility for setting portfolio risk which it specialises.
Effective risk management The Investment Committee which is targets, in conjunction with the Investment and strong internal controls are therefore responsible for reviewing the investment Committee and senior portfolio managers.
central to the Groups business model.
strategies of each of the portfolio management teams and is described Each portfolio management team is The tone of BlueBays internal control in more detail in the Investment Risk responsible for ensuring its portfolio is in environment is set through: Management section below.
compliance with fund investment restrictions.
The Compliance and Control Committee To assist them in this task, the investment A clear definition of management and which is responsible for BlueBays restrictions which govern positions in staff responsibilities, with reporting lines operational risk management processes securities and relate to the majority of incorporating segregation of duties: and internal control framework and is the portfolios investment transactions Recruitment procedures to ensure that described in more detail in the Operational are programmed into BlueBays portfolio BlueBay recruits only staff of appropriate Risk Management section below.
management system, the Charles River calibre and background: Investment Management System the Transaction processing functions that The main risks and the way they are Portfolio Management System.
focus on timely processing and recording managed are described below: of investment transactions, including the Portfolio managers originate orders but do maintenance of consistent records and Investment risk management not execute trades.
This is done by the trade accurate reporting of holdings to clients: One of BlueBays key corporate objectives is execution desk, a team made up of dedicated Active and  to generate strong risk-adjusted investment traders with specialised market knowledge compliance and risk management teams: performance over the term of the credit cycle.
The execution team receives and The investment process is designed to help orders which are then traded in the market.
The encouragement of a culture of meet this objective see figure 8.
The segregation of the portfolio management openness and mutual trust between and trade execution functions is an integral colleagues.
The investment process combines a series of part of BlueBays risk management policy.
top-down inputs with bottom-up security The Board is ultimately responsible for the specific analysis.
The top-down inputs are The majority of the investment guidelines and risk management process at BlueBay.
This provided through the Investment Committee, restrictions are programmed into the Portfolio responsibility is primarily fulfilled by two of which comprises all senior portfolio managers Management System by the compliance its sub-committees: the Audit Committee, and the Chief Investment Officer.
Any guidelines or restrictions that which is responsible for the oversight of a regular basis to formulate a common view cannot be programmed into Charles River are the risk management process and for on the macro-economic backdrop and monitored using alternative methods adopted assessing its effectiveness for BlueBay: market conditions against which BlueBay or reviewed by the compliance team.
and the Management Committee, which is makes its investment decisions.
Each of the responsible for the identification, assessment portfolio management teams comprises a and management of risks.
number of dedicated credit analysts who are sub-asset class specialists.
Risk Management and Internal Control 49 When a portfolio manager enters an Market risk management The Groups liquidity risk is also monitored investment order in the Portfolio Management Risk is measured by calculating the sensitivity on a daily basis to ensure that it has the System, the system runs a compliance check of every trade or position to changes in the ability to meet its current and anticipated on the order before electronically passing it relevant risk factors.
On a daily basis, a set short and long-term financial liabilities.
The to the BlueBay trade execution team.
Trade of standard risk reports is produced and business has continued to be cash generative orders for certain securities, including loans distributed to the portfolio management under the stressed market conditions and swaps, are transmitted to the execution teams and the Management Committee.
experienced during the financial year.
team by Bloomberg or email, rather than These daily risk reports include sensitivities to in Charles River, which means that these relevant risk factors, an assessment of overall Counterparty credit risk management securities are not subject to pre-trade value at risk VaR and the VaR contribution BlueBay funds only enter into over-thecompliance checking in Charles River.
The of every position and a range of historical and counter OTC derivative transactions with post-executed trade details are input to customised stress tests.
On a regular basis the highly rated institutions with which they have Charles River by the trade execution desk.
results are back tested in order to validate the signed International Swap Dealers Association risk figures.
Each new If the executed order were to bring a counterparty requires the approval of both portfolio holding close to an investment limit, Independent risk monitoring is carried out the Chief Investment Officer and Compliance the Portfolio Management System would by the risk and performance team.
The team Officer before a trade with that counterparty issue a warning which the portfolio manager uses RiskManager, an application developed may be executed.
BlueBay calculates portfolio has to override in order to transmit the trade by the RiskMetrics Group.
RiskManager credit risk exposure to particular counterparties to the execution team.
If the executed order models every instrument as a function of on a daily basis, by taking into account were to cause a breach of an investment underlying risk factors, ie interest rates, current exposures and potential future restriction, the Portfolio Management System credit spreads, FX rates, equity prices and exposures due to changes in market rates.
would issue an alert which the portfolio implied volatilities.
manager would be unable to override The Group is exposed to credit risk with and transmission of the order to the trade Senior management monitor the Groups respect to its cash and cash equivalents execution team would be prevented.
exposure to foreign exchange risk on a being held with a single major UK bank.
Occasionally, there are circumstances where regular basis and take appropriate measures, The Group has actively placed its cash with a an alert may be justifiably overridden but this by way of derivative contracts, to mitigate well established institution which is externally can only be carried out by a member of the any such risk if it is considered necessary.
The cash is held in several accounts, compliance team.
As at 30 June 2008, no such contracts were with transactions and balances monitored outstanding.
The Group does not have any on a daily basis.
The return and risk The compliance team monitors the debt financing and is therefore not exposed associated with the accounts are reviewed compliance of portfolios with investment to interest rate risk.
by senior management in the light of guidelines on an ongoing post-trade basis available market information.
using Charles River and the alternative Liquidity risk management methods used to monitor for compliance Fund liquidity risk is managed by monitoring with guidelines that cannot be programmed the amount of available cash held in each into Charles River.
The post-trade checking fund on a daily basis and targeting an incorporates trades in security types that are amount that is deemed to be sufficient to input post-execution but not pre-trade.
cover the cash needs of the funds including margin payments and potential redemptions under stressed market conditions without being forced to liquidate assets.
Figure 8: BlueBays investment process Investment Committee Risk Management Non-Security Specific top-down inputs Emerging Market Debt Portfolio European Corporate Debt Portfolio Management long-only long short Management long-only long short Security Specific bottom-up inputs Execution & Financing Credit Research BlueBay Asset Management plc Risk Management and 50 Annual Report 2008 Internal Control The Group is also exposed to counterparty The purpose of the Committee is to: Compliance credit risk in regards to the settlement of In addition to maintaining the investment management and performance fees owed identify material compliance, operational, restrictions for each mandate in the Portfolio by related parties and segregated mandates.
control and other non-investment related Management System, the department In regards to the latter, as with fund risks to which BlueBay is subject: performs a monitoring role focusing on counterparty risk, each new counterparty review the effectiveness of the policies and procedures and controls in place to ensure requires the approval of both the Chief procedures to manage and mitigate those compliance with applicable legal and Investment Officer and Compliance Officer risks: and regulatory standards.
The compliance before a trade with that counterparty may be enhance staff awareness of the risks and arrangements which are designed to promote executed.
The Compliance Department mitigating policies and procedures.
compliance with regulations are set out in reviews the credit rating, financial condition BlueBays compliance manual.
The compliance and regulatory status of the counterparty: During the course of the financial year, the manual incorporates the code of ethics which details of any legal or regulatory action Committee carried out two major initiatives: includes policies on personal account dealing, based on publicly available information : and gifts and entertainment and insider trading the Financial Action Task Force status of the Review and update of the Groups internal policies.
All staff are required to sign an country in which the counterparty is situated.
In the UK, asset undertaking that they are familiar with and The Chief Investment Officer reviews all managers internal control procedures are will comply with the compliance manual.
information obtained and approves the now typically reviewed by external counterparty if he considers the counterparty reporting accountants in accordance with The key responsibilities of the compliance to be of sufficiently high standing.
the framework set out by the Audit and team are: Assurance Faculty of the Institute of Ensuring that business is conducted in The Groups counterparty credit risk exposure Chartered Accounts in England and accordance with FSA and other applicable is managed by the Financial Control Wales ICAEW in its Technical Release regulations through implementation of department.
AAF01 06 on Assurance Reports on policies designed to promote compliance Internal Controls of Service Organisations with regulations and education of Operational risk management Made Available to Third Parties.
This employees on those requirements: The Groups Compliance and Control framework, which applied to all reporting Ensuring that investment mandates are Committee is responsible for safeguarding periods starting on or after 31 March managed in accordance with applicable the capital of the Company by ensuring that 2007, requires asset managers to comply regulations and mandate restrictions: appropriate high level standards, systems and with demanding internal control Reviewing and monitoring changes in controls are established and maintained to procedures.
BlueBay has prepared its first regulations and laws and ensuring update enable the Company to minimise the risk AAF 01 06 report for the period 31 March of policies and communication of relevant of financial crime and breach of legal or 2007 to 31 March 2008.
The Company changes to the business units: regulatory requirements.
This is done by took the opportunity to review and Monitoring of business areas to determine identifying the major risks to which the Group improve its internal control environment.
whether compliance policies and is exposed and by developing cost-effective Review and update the Groups regulatory requirements have been policy proposals to manage those risks.
The compliance manual and procedures.
complied with: Committee is responsible for developing and During the financial year, the EU Markets Assisting in the resolution of rule breaches refining BlueBays internal control policies and in Financial Instruments Directive and client complaints and following up to procedures.
The Committee comprises the MiFID was implemented in the UK ensure that controls are amended to senior infrastructure managers, the head of regulations.
This prompted a review of prevent recurrence: the trade execution desk, the Compliance the BlueBay compliance manual to Keeping senior management informed of Officer, the Chief Operating Officer and is accommodate the additional and regulatory changes and issues impacting chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
the business: The BlueBay compliance manual is updated Working with senior management to on a regular basis to reflect changes in ensure that compliance arrangements are applicable legislation and regulations.
appropriate and that any regulatory issues arising are appropriately addressed: and Serving as the primary contact with external regulators.
Risk Management and Internal Control continued 51 Disaster recovery and backup procedures Internal control reviews: AAF Financial risk management IFRS 7 The Group operates a robust disaster recovery PwC acted as reporting accountant for the Under IFRS 7 Financial instruments: platform that is tested twice a year.
In the event first AAF 01 06 report for 31 March 2007 to Disclosure, the Company is required to provide of a local disaster, or failure to gain access to the 31 March 2008.
PwC reported on the design a quantitative and qualitative analysis of the Groups current location, SunGard Availability of control procedures and the achievement nature and extent of risks arising from financial Services provide a dedicated workspace for the of specified control objectives if the described instruments and the Companys approach to Groups use.
The Group currently has several control procedures were complied with.
This Risk Management methods of server and data recovery in place They also reported on the effectiveness of and Internal Control report in conjunction which vary depending on the nature of the the control procedures which were tested.
with the Business Risk Management section event.
This includes an off-site high availability on page 20 the Capital and Capital facility which hosts replicated services for core Internal audit reviews Management section on pages 25 to 26 and servers and trade systems.
Back-up servers for The Company appointed KPMG to provide the Audit Committee report on pages 38 to the Groups file server, email and core trading internal audit services to the Company.
39 provide the qualitative analysis required systems are resident at the high availability site.
KPMG completed a number of reviews during under IFRS 7.
The quantitative disclosure can Independent tape backups are also maintained.
the course of the financial year, the findings be found under note 9 on pages 71 to 75 of of which were presented to the Audit the Financial Statements.
The Group has uninterruptible power sources Committee.
at head office for all desktops, servers and Audit Committee communications equipment.
In case of any The Audit Committee conducted a review of power failures, a backup power generator is the Internal Control and Risk Management available for all the Groups systems and the procedures in accordance with the Turnbull head office, capable of running for a period guidance 2005.
For further details of the of at least eight hours.
The Group has invested activities of the Audit Committee please refer substantially in a robust server environment to the appropriate section on page 39. with redundant cooling, advanced monitoring, plus fire and leak detection and fire suppression.
