22 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2008 Directors report Business review Risks and uncertainties Caledonia has a risk management framework that provides Treasury and funding risk a structured process for identifying, assessing and managing risks Treasury risks principally comprise counterparty risk, uncertainty in associated with the companys business objectives and strategy.
market prices and rates and the requirement to access adequate funds to meet investment needs or other obligations as they fall due.
External risk The main funding risks faced by Caledonia are interest rate risk External risks arise from political, legal, regulatory and economic and exchange rate risk.
The level of these risks is addressed by the changes.
Failure to comply with regulations could result in the overall funding objective and the board regularly reviews and company losing its listing and or being subjected to UK corporation approves policies on the approach to each of these risks.
Caledonias foreign exchange risk management policy allows The company seeks to operate within applicable legal and for exposure to structural and transactional currency movements.
A Compliance Committee meets weekly In the event that there is an exit plan for a foreign currency and reviews Caledonias current business for regulatory compliance, denominated investment, a view will be taken of likely currency as well as considering investment proposals from a compliance movements over the period to expected realisation and part or all perspective.
The board receives and reviews regular reports on the of the exposure may be hedged using foreign currency contracts or controls in place to prevent non-compliance by the company with currency derivatives.
The exposure to interest rate movements on treasury assets is managed through the use of term deposits and money market Strategic risk funds.
Where there are group borrowings, exposure to interest rate Strategic risks arise from the conception, design and implementation movements is managed through the use of derivatives, such as caps of the companys business model and key decisions on investment and collars, where appropriate.
An inappropriate investment strategy Counterparty risk is managed through an approved list could result in poor returns for shareholders.
The board reviews of counterparties with maximum aggregate exposures agreed strategy periodically.
Investment risk Day-to-day management of treasury activities is delegated to Investment risk occurs in respect of specific investment decisions, executive directors and to the Group Treasurer.
A detailed report on subsequent performance of an investment or concentration of liquid assets and cash flow projections is submitted to the Executive exposure to an economic sector or geographical region.
Monthly reports on Caledonias In addition to financial, legal and market due diligence, funding position and cash flow forecasts are considered by the board.
Caledonias investment appraisal includes a rigorous assessment Operational risk of investee managements track record of success and commitment Operational risk arises from potentially inadequate or failed processes, to growing their business.
All potential investments are presented people and systems or from external factors.
to Caledonias Executive Committee, which comprises executive Inadequate or failed processes could result in the directors and other senior managers, and meets weekly.
Any misappropriation of assets, loss of income and debtor receipts and individual investment of 20m or more requires board approval.
misreporting of NAV per share.
The board regularly reviews statements Having made the investment decision, a process is put in place on internal controls and risk management procedures and subjects for managing the relationship with the investee company for the the books and records of the company to an annual audit.
This will usually include board The ability to recruit, develop and retain capable people is representation by a Caledonia investment executive.
The executive of fundamental importance to Caledonias strategy and the loss of will make regular reports to the Executive Committee on issues key staff could adversely affect investment returns.
The company relevant to the investments for which he or she is responsible and operates in a competitive industry and aims to remunerate staff in there is a process of cyclical reporting to the board.
line with market practice, to provide development opportunities Caledonia invests in a range of economic sectors and and to encourage staff motivation and retention.
The portfolio is monitored monthly against A business continuity strategy is in place to ensure that board approved guidelines to ensure that there is no undue exposure.
operations can continue in the event of disruption.
This strategy has been assessed against a detailed business impact analysis and is regularly tested.
