Business 18 Review Risk Management Risk management is the process of identifying the The composition and duties of the Audit Committee principal business risks, including regulatory compliance are described on page 26.
The GRCC is a committee risks, to the group achieving its strategic objectives, established by the chief executive to assist him in the establishing appropriate controls to manage those risks discharge of his responsibility for the group wide and ensuring that appropriate monitoring and reporting management of risk comprising the executives of the systems are in place.
The groups risk management group board supported by the head of Group Risk, the process balances cost against risk within the constraints head of Group Compliance and the head of Group Internal of the groups risk appetite and is consistent with the Audit.
It meets monthly and is responsible for: prudent management required of a large financial recommending for board approval the groups organisation.
risk appetite: The risk management framework is based on the concept the groups risk management strategy, approach of three lines of defence: and policy: Risk management: Primary responsibility for strategy, the approval of group wide policies in respect of performance and risk management lies with the board, risk management and regulatory compliance: and the chief executive and the heads of each division and operating business.
receiving regular reports on significant risk management, regulatory compliance and internal Risk oversight: Risk oversight is provided by the Group control issues and for monitoring their analysis Risk and Compliance Committee GRCC and the head and resolution.
of Group Risk working with counterparts in the divisions and operating businesses and with Group Compliance.
The heads of Group Risk and Group Compliance report to This is supplemented by a range of risk related the chief executive and are responsible for the oversight committees at divisional and operating business of risk management and regulatory compliance around levels which are described further below.
The head of Group Internal Audit has a primary Independent assurance: Independent assurance on functional reporting line to the chairman of the Audit the effectiveness of the risk management systems is Committee with a secondary reporting line to the chief provided by Group Internal Audit reporting to the executive for administrative purposes.
The board considers the principal risks and uncertainties There are clear reporting lines and defined areas of facing the group to comprise reputational, strategic, responsibility at board, divisional and business level.
This credit, market, liquidity, operational and regulatory structure is designed to ensure, amongst other things, compliance.
that key issues and developments are escalated on a timely basis.
The groups risk management framework requires Reputational Risk that all of the groups divisions and operating businesses The board considers a loss of reputation to be the most establish a process for identifying, evaluating and significant risk to a business operating in the financial managing the key risks that they face.
services sector but that this risk would crystallise only as a consequence of a failure in managing the groups other principal risks.
Close Brothers Annual Report 2008 19 Our policy is to be able to finance our customer loans and advances by capital and reserves, longer term deposits and committed facilities with only limited financing from shorter term deposits.
Strategic Risk Market Risk Strategic risk results from external factors and inadequate Market risk is the risk that arises from adverse movements senior management processes that could lead to a in equity, bond, interest rate, foreign exchange or other significant failure of the effectiveness of the strategy of the traded markets and arises primarily in our Securities group as whole, or of its divisions and businesses.
is mitigated by the group having a well established reporting structure for agreeing strategy, risk appetite, The Securities division is exposed to the market risk planning and budgets.
Detailed monthly group deriving from trading in equity and fixed income management accounts are produced and variances and securities.
Senior management is closely involved in its risk trends are closely monitored.
Divisional heads report to management process, which is also regularly monitored at the group board each month on the performance of, and group level.
There are controls, supplemented by cash key issues affecting, their division.
Detailed budgets and limits, on individual large or slow moving equity or fixed three year plans, which are based upon group strategy, are income positions.
Real time controls on the size and risk stress tested to take account of potential adverse profile of trading books and of individual books within conditions and are subject to rigorous challenge at these are maintained.
divisional and board level to ensure that the group has adequate capital to meet its business and regulatory Our treasury operations do not trade actively in money needs.
market instruments although they are held for liquidity and yield purposes.
Nor do we trade speculatively in Credit Risk derivatives as a principal.
Interest rate mismatch and Credit risk is the risk of loss if another party fails to perform currency exposure policies are established by the Treasury its obligations or fails to perform them in a timely fashion Committee with compliance monitored daily.
We continue and arises mainly from the lending and treasury activities our long established policy of broadly matching interest of our Banking division.
Our loan book is well spread, short rate liabilities whereby we swap variable rate financing into term, secured and with a low average loan size in order to fixed rate, particularly in regard to our asset financing avoid concentration risk.
Credit risk resulting from our book.
Returns from the groups capital and reserves are lending activities is controlled by a number of local credit necessarily subject to interest rate fluctuations and as a committees within centrally set limits of authority.
For matter of policy these are not hedged.
transactions above such limits, there is a group level credit committee.
The credit quality of our counterparties with We have immaterial currency exposures, since most of our whom we place deposits or whose certificates of deposit business is transacted in sterling.
Non-sterling financing is or floating rate notes we buy are monitored by the funded by liabilities in the relevant currency or swapped Treasury Committee which establishes specific limits.
into sterling to hedge currency exposure.
Most of the These counterparties have, almost exclusively, a credit groups activities are located in the British Isles.
Our rating of AA or better.
currency exposure resulting from our investment in overseas subsidiaries, although increased, is relatively Credit risk in our Securities division is limited as our small.
The extent to which the groups profit and businesses in that division trade in the cash markets with consolidated balance sheet is affected by movements in regulated counterparties on a delivery versus payment exchange rates is minimal.
basis such that any credit exposure is limited to price movements in the underlying securities.
Counterparty exposure and settlement failure monitoring controls are in place.
Business 20 Review Risk Management Liquidity Risk Our Asset Management division has a range of controls Liquidity risk is the risk of not being able to meet liabilities to support the quality of its product range and of the as they fall due and arises mainly in our Banking division.
investment process, including new product, asset Each of our operations is responsible for its own liquidity allocation and investment committees, in which its senior within specified guidelines.
Each is capitalised at a level central management participates where appropriate, and required to meet its business and regulatory needs and, regular reviews of investment performance.
These are where necessary, has appropriate borrowing facilities from backed up by rigorous controls to safeguard clients stock the company, treasury or external lenders.
The liquidity of and money.
each division is reviewed at its monthly board meeting and the overall funding position is reported to the group board The principal operational risks to which our Corporate each month.
Finance division is exposed are controlled and monitored by the Risk Committee in which senior management of In the Banking division our policy is to be able to finance both Corporate Finance and group participate.
our customer loans and advances by capital and reserves, longer term deposits and committed facilities with only Regulatory Compliance Risk limited financing from shorter term deposits.
This policy Regulatory compliance risk is the risk of material adverse is kept under review by the Treasury Committee with impact resulting from failure to comply with laws, compliance monitored daily.
regulations, codes of conduct or standards of good practice governing the financial services sectors in which we operate.
Operational Risk Each of our regulated businesses has a dedicated Operational risk is the risk of material adverse impact compliance officer reporting to the chief executive of that resulting from inadequate internal processes, people business who is responsible for supporting the business in or systems or from external events and is inherent in all meeting its regulatory compliance objectives and for our businesses.
Each of our main operations is managed executing risk-based monitoring programmes to confirm separately and has its own financial control, operations compliance.
The activities of these compliance professionals and IT departments with operational risk management is co-ordinated and overseen on a group-wide basis by the carried out by the local management.
Consequently there head of Group Compliance.
is little or no integration of systems, management or processes, which mitigates systemic operational risk.
Certain statements in the Overview and Business Review sections are forward looking statements.
By their nature, forward looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or assumptions that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those expressed or implied by those statements.
Forward looking statements regarding past trends or activities should not be taken as representation that such trends or activities will continue in the future.
Accordingly, undue reliance should not be placed on forward looking statements.
