BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review Periods of global recession could impact the demand for our products, Risk factors the prices at which they can be sold and affect the viability of the We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below.
If any of markets in which we operate.
these risks occur, our business, financial condition and results of Refining profitability can be volatile, with both periodic oversupply operations could suffer and the trading price and liquidity of our securities and supply tightness in various regional markets.
Sectors of the could decline, in which case you could lose all or part of your investment.
chemicals industry are also subject to fluctuations in supply and demand In the current global financial crisis and uncertain economic within the petrochemicals market, with a consequent effect on prices environment, certain risks may gain more prominence either individually and profitability.
Oil and gas prices and margins are likely to remain lower than in recent times due to reduced demand: the impact of Climate change and carbon pricing this situation will also depend on the degree to which producers reduce Compliance with changes in laws, regulations and obligations relating to production.
At the same time, governments will be facing greater climate change could result in substantial capital expenditure, reduced pressure on public finances leading to the risk of increased taxation.
profitability from changes in operating costs, and revenue generation These factors may also lead to intensified competition for market share and strategic growth opportunities being impacted.
and available margin, with consequential potential adverse effects on volumes.
The financial and economic situation may have a negative Socio-political impact on third parties with whom we do, or may do, business.
Any of We have operations in countries where political, economic and social these factors may affect our results of operations, financial condition transition is taking place.
Some countries have experienced political and liquidity.
instability, changes to the regulatory environment, expropriation or If there is an extended period of constraint in the capital markets, nationalization of property, civil strife, strikes, acts of war and with debt markets in particular experiencing lack of liquidity, at a time insurrections.
Any of these conditions occurring could disrupt or when cash flows from our business operations may be under pressure, terminate our operations, causing our development activities to be this may impact our ability to maintain our long-term investment curtailed or terminated in these areas or our production to decline and programme with a consequent effect on our growth rate, and may could cause us to incur additional costs.
In particular, our investments in impact shareholder returns, including dividends and share buybacks, or Russia could be adversely affected by heightened political and economic share price.
Decreases in the funded levels of our pension plans may also environment risks.
increase our pension funding requirements.
We set ourselves high standards of corporate citizenship and Our system of risk management provides the response to risks aspire to contribute to a better quality of life through the products and of group significance through the establishment of standards and other services we provide.
If it is perceived that we are not respecting or controls.
Inability to identify, assess and respond to risks through this and advancing the economic and social progress of the communities in which other controls could lead to an inability to capture opportunities, threats we operate, our reputation and shareholder value could be damaged.
materializing, inefficiency and non-compliance with laws and regulations.
The risks are categorized against the following areas: strategic: Competition compliance and control: and operational.
The oil, gas and petrochemicals industries are highly competitive.
There is strong competition, both within the oil and gas industry and with other Strategic risks industries, in supplying the fuel needs of commerce, industry and the Access and renewal home.
Competition puts pressure on product prices, affects oil products Successful execution of our group plan depends critically on marketing and requires continuous management focus on reducing unit implementing activities to renew and reposition our portfolio.
The costs and improving efficiency.
The implementation of group strategy challenges to renewal of our upstream portfolio are growing due to requires continued technological advances and innovation including increasing competition for access to opportunities globally.
Lack of advances in exploration, production, refining, petrochemicals material positions in new markets and or inability to complete disposals manufacturing technology and advances in technology related to energy could result in an inability to grow or even maintain our production.
Our performance could be impeded if competitors developed or acquired intellectual property rights to technology that we required or if Prices and markets our innovation lagged the industry.
Oil, gas and product prices are subject to international supply and demand.
Political developments and the outcome of meetings of OPEC Investment efficiency can particularly affect world supply and oil prices.
Previous oil price Our organic growth is dependent on creating a portfolio of quality options increases have resulted in increased fiscal take, cost inflation and more and investing in the best options.
Ineffective investment selection could onerous terms for access to resources.
As a result, increased oil prices lead to loss of value and higher capital expenditure.
may not improve margin performance.
In addition to the adverse effect on revenues, margins and profitability from any fall in oil and natural gas Reserves replacement prices, a prolonged period of low prices or other indicators would lead Successful execution of our group strategy depends critically on to further reviews for impairment of the groups oil and natural gas sustaining long-term reserves replacement.
If upstream resources are properties.
Such reviews would reflect managements view of long-term not progressed to proved reserves in a timely and efficient manner, we oil and natural gas prices and could result in a charge for impairment that will be unable to sustain long-term replacement of reserves.
could have a significant effect on the groups results of operations in the period in which it occurs.
Rapid material and or sustained change in oil, gas and product prices can impact the validity of the assumptions on which strategic decisions are based and, as a result, the ensuing actions derived from those decisions may no longer be appropriate.
A prolonged period of low oil prices may impact our ability to maintain our long-term investment programme with a consequent effect on our growth rate and may impact shareholder returns, including dividends and share buybacks, or share price.
12 BP Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Performance review Liquidity, financial capacity and financial exposure Operational risks The group has established a financial framework to ensure that it is able Process safety to maintain an appropriate level of liquidity and financial capacity and Inherent in our operations are hazards that require continuous oversight to constrain the level of assessed capital at risk for the purposes of and control.
There are risks of technical integrity failure and loss of positions taken in financial instruments.
Failure to operate within our containment of hydrocarbons and other hazardous material at operating financial framework could lead to the group becoming financially sites or pipelines.
Failure to manage these risks could result in injury or distressed leading to a loss of shareholder value.
Commercial credit risk loss of life, environmental damage, or loss of production and could result is measured and controlled to determine the groups total credit risk.
in regulatory action, legal liability and damage to our reputation.
Inability to determine adequately our credit exposure could lead to financial loss.
A credit crisis affecting banks and other sectors of the Personal safety economy could impact the ability of counterparties to meet their financial Inability to provide safe environments for our workforce and the public obligations to the group.
It could also affect our ability to raise capital to could lead to injuries or loss of life and could result in regulatory action, fund growth.
legal liability and damage to our reputation.
Crude oil prices are generally set in US dollars, while sales of refined products may be in a variety of currencies.
Fluctuations in Environmental exchange rates can therefore give rise to foreign exchange exposures, If we do not apply our resources to overcome the perceived trade-off with a consequent impact on underlying costs and revenues.
between global access to energy and the protection or improvement of For more information on financial instruments and financial risk the natural environment, we could fail to live up to our aspirations of no or factors see Financial statements Note 28 on page 142 and Note 34 minimal damage to the environment and contributing to human progress.
Security Compliance and control risks Security threats require continuous oversight and control.
Acts of Regulatory terrorism against our plants and offices, pipelines, transportation or The oil industry is subject to regulation and intervention by governments computer systems could severely disrupt business and operations and throughout the world in such matters as the award of exploration and could cause harm to people.
production interests, the imposition of specific drilling obligations, environmental and health and safety protection controls, controls over Product quality the development and decommissioning of a field including restrictions Supplying customers with on-specification products is critical to on production and, possibly, nationalization, expropriation, cancellation or maintaining our licence to operate and our reputation in the marketplace.
We buy, sell and trade oil and gas Failure to meet product quality standards throughout the value chain products in certain regulated commodity markets.
The oil industry is also could lead to harm to people and the environment and loss of customers.
subject to the payment of royalties and taxation, which tend to be high compared with those payable in respect of other commercial activities, Drilling and production and operates in certain tax jurisdictions that have a degree of uncertainty Exploration and production require high levels of investment and are relating to the interpretation of, and changes to, tax law.
As a result of subject to natural hazards and other uncertainties, including those new laws and regulations or other factors, we could be required to curtail relating to the physical characteristics of an oil or natural gas field.
The or cease certain operations, or we could incur additional costs.
cost of drilling, completing or operating wells is often uncertain.
We may For more information on environmental regulation, see be required to curtail, delay or cancel drilling operations because of a Environment on page 43. variety of factors, including unexpected drilling conditions, pressure or irregularities in geological formations, equipment failures or accidents, Ethical misconduct and non-compliance adverse weather conditions and compliance with governmental Our code of conduct, which applies to all employees, defines our requirements.
commitment to integrity, compliance with all applicable legal requirements, high ethical standards and the behaviours and actions we Transportation expect of our businesses and people wherever we operate.
Incidents of All modes of transportation of hydrocarbons contain inherent risks.
ethical misconduct or non-compliance with applicable laws and A loss of containment of hydrocarbons and other hazardous material regulations could be damaging to our reputation and shareholder value.
could occur during transportation by road, rail, sea or pipeline.
This is a Multiple events of non-compliance could call into question the integrity significant risk due to the potential impact of a release on the of our operations.
environment and people and given the high volumes involved.
For certain legal proceedings involving the group, see Legal proceedings on page 92.
Major project delivery Successful execution of our group plan see page 15 depends critically Liabilities and provisions on implementing the activities to deliver the major projects over the plan Changes in the external environment, such as new laws and regulations, period.
Poor delivery of any major project that underpins production market volatility or other factors, could affect the adequacy of our growth and or a major programme designed to enhance shareholder provisions for pensions, tax, environmental and legal liabilities.
value could adversely affect our financial performance.
Reporting Digital infrastructure External reporting of financial and non-financial data is reliant on the The reliability and security of our digital infrastructure are critical to integrity of systems and people.
Failure to report data accurately and in maintaining our business applications availability.
A breach of our digital compliance with external standards could result in regulatory action, legal security could cause serious damage to business operations and, in liability and damage to our reputation.
some circumstances, could result in injury to people, damage to assets, harm to the environment and breaches of regulations.
13 P Pe er rf formance re ormance revie view w
