authorise the Directors to allot up to 33,944,000 Certain strategic issues, including its role shares will also be proposed Resolution 11. as a global growth investment trust, acquisition opportunities and the rationale Borrowings for not introducing a continuation vote, are The Company has a 110 million 11.25% debenture considered at various meetings of the Board.
stock, which matures in December 2014, and a ii Investment policy, liquidity, gearing and 575,000 4.25% perpetual debenture stock.
currency inappropriate asset allocation, Information in relation to the debentures can be sector and stock selection, and use of gearing found in note 17 on the accounts.
The Company also leading to underperformance relative to the has the ability to utilise short-term borrowings by Companys benchmark index and peer group.
way of loans and overdrafts subject to the limits set Borrowing money to invest in markets has a out in the Companys objective and policy section negative impact on asset values if those above.
The Company maintains multi-currency credit markets subsequently fall.
The inability to renew facilities with Royal Bank of Scotland, ING Bank and borrowing facilities may cause the Company to Lloyds Banking Group totalling 200m 2007: 70m, have to repay borrowings via asset sales at a which will be subject to review between September disadvantageous time and value.
All the Companys short-term the investments and cash to foreign currencies borrowings, amounting to 110m, were repaid in will impact performance when those currencies February 2009.
Further reference is made on pages weaken against Sterling.
8 and 9 and in note 14 on the accounts.
In the management and mitigation of these risks, the Board maintains an asset Principal risks and their management allocation and gearing policy.
Investments The Companys assets consist mainly of listed are primarily in a diversified spread of equities and its principal risks are therefore market international publicly listed equities with related.
The Corporate Governance Statement on exposure to their underlying currencies.
At page 37 includes a summary of the risk management each meeting the Board reviews investment arrangements.
By means of the procedures set policy and investment performance with out in the summary, and in accordance with the the Fund Manager and monitors levels of Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the investment in illiquid securities, as well as Combined Code published by the Working Party for the appropriateness of the levels of cash the Institute for Chartered Accountants in England and borrowings.
The ability of the Company and Wales, the Board has established an ongoing to gear up via long-term and short-term process for identifying, evaluating and managing borrowings, in currencies matching those the significant risks faced by the Company, and has to which the portfolio is exposed, enables regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the internal it to take a long-term view of the countries, control systems for the period.
This process has markets and currencies in which it is been in place throughout the year under review, and invested, without having to be concerned to the date hereof, and will continue to be regularly about short-term volatility.
It is the Boards reviewed by the Board on an ongoing basis.
The policy to have one or more borrowing specific key risks faced by the Company, together facilities in place at all times to ensure the with our mitigation approach, are as follows: Company has the ability to provide liquidity i Objective and strategy inappropriate at short notice and at commercial rates, objective and strategy in relation to investor whether to pay back any loans that are demands in a rapidly changing financial maturing or to take advantage of perceived services and savings market.
Gearing The Board regularly reviews the Companys levels are currently set in the range of 0% position as a leading savings vehicle.
to 20% of net assets and the Board preReport and Accounts 2008 19 Directors Report and Business Review continued approves all borrowing facility agreements.
2008 has placed greater focus on counterparty The investment policy allows the use risk monitoring and oversight throughout the of derivatives for the purpose of hedging Financial Services industry.
The Board has foreign currencies, but to date the Company reviewed the process by which the Manager has not done so.
approves counterparties with which it will carry iii Private equity the majority of the underlying out transactions on behalf of the Company.
private equity investments are in unlisted This includes the level of due diligence and companies, some of which will be in the early monitoring applied on each new and existing stages of their development, may be losscounterparty, the limits set and sufficient making, highly geared and with no certainty diversification by number of counterparties with of survival.
Unlisted investments may prove which the Manager will operate.
All transactions difficult or impossible to realise.
The concept must be settled on the basis of delivery against of fair value of unlisted companies is an payment unless local market conditions dictate imprecise science, and the ultimate realisation otherwise.
The Company discontinued stock of such investments may be at a valuation lending in September 2008.
Further information significantly different from the valuation used in can be found on page 53. the accounts.
In addition, the timing of any such vi Discount volatility investment trust shares realisation is uncertain.
tend to trade at discounts to their underlying net Private equity risks are mitigated by investing asset values, which can fluctuate considerably.
in a spread of direct, secondary, venture The Company has a discount control capital, buyout and mezzanine fund of funds mechanism with the objective of maintaining and by the wide spread of underlying private a less volatile discount with a ceiling, in equity firms, which in turn have diversified normal market conditions, of 10% with debt investment portfolios and vintage years.
iv Safe custody of assets the failure of vii Operational and regulatory breach of section the Custodian to continue to provide a safe 842 could lead to the Company being subject to and secure custodian service or to continue capital gains tax on the sale of its investments, operating could put in jeopardy the assets and whilst serious breach of other regulations may ultimately the ongoing business of the Company.
lead to its shares being suspended by the Stock The Board regularly reviews the service Exchange or to a qualified audit report.
Other provided by the Custodian.
The service levels control failures, either by the Manager or any of are reviewed by the Manager which receives the service providers, may result in operational and reviews annually the SAS70 report on problems, incorrect disclosures or loss of assets the Custodian, which is produced by an through fraud, as well as breaches of regulations.
The Custodian is All investment movements and forecasts of monitored alongside other counterparties in income and expenditure are reported to the accordance with the process operated by Board as part of the process of monitoring the Manager and reviewed by the Board.
The compliance within the Section 842 criteria.
contractual provisions with the Custodian The Managers and other service providers include the ring-fencing of the Companys control policies and procedures are reviewed assets in its own client accounts.
v Counterparties the Company is exposed to viii Reputational damage any significant failing potential failures by counterparties to deliver could damage the reputation of the Company, securities for which it has paid, or to pay for leading to further adverse consequences.
securities which it has delivered.
The actions and controls relating to each of the The unprecedented market conditions following principal risks highlighted above serve to mitigate the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September against the risk of reputational damage.
20 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
