29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 16:00 Page 30 REVIEW OF THE YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY I MISSION AND VISION I CHAIRMANS STATEMENT I CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW I LEADERSHIP TEAM KEY RISKS WE KNOW THE RISKS AND MANAGE THEM We have processes in place to identify and manage risks at several levels within the Group.
Shown here are the high-level risks at Group and key business levels, together with the actions we take to manage them effectively.
GROUP UK LIFE AND PENSIONS Changes or volatility in UK and global economic factors Changes to the distribution landscape The ongoing economic turmoil and prospects of a continuing The announcement of our revised strategy in January 2008 recession affect consumers disposable incomes and appetite led to the suspension of our positions on some of the best for buying long-term financial products.
We are not able to advice and multi-tie panels of leading distributor firms.
We are monitoring the We have sought to regain those places through focusing on situation and we are seeking to ensure that we retain existing, our core strengths of delivering excellent service, products profitable business and work to build the confidence of our and technology.
We continue to monitor developments in the distributors to recommend our products to their customers.
distribution sector and are also monitoring the progress of At the same time we have taken and continue to take steps the FSAs Retail Distribution Review and its potential impacts to control our expense base.
on the future of distribution in the UK.
Changes or volatility in asset and credit markets Competitors develop more advanced Equity and credit markets have been experiencing extreme IT solutions and service capability volatility for more than 12 months, leading to downward Our operating platforms are highly regarded and our structure pressure on asset values and restrictions in the liquidity of is designed for continuous development to be achieved.
some assets and the markets capacity to provide credit.
We have recently announced the outsourcing of much of our These conditions have put pressure on insurers financial IT service delivery and are looking to develop our use of strength and on the markets perception of insurers.
outsourcing in IT development so that we can maintain and We actively reduced the With Profits Funds exposure to develop our IT solutions and service capability at optimal cost.
equities in the autumn of 2008 and we have enhanced Changes in volume or profitability in key market our processes for monitoring solvency and cashflows, segments or emergence of new markets including greater use of stress testing and scenario analysis.
The contraction of the housing market and rising levels of Through our reporting and disclosures we have sought to unemployment are risks for our key UK markets during 2009. give the market a clear picture of our financial condition and We will continue to monitor our product range and to maintain the confidence of our various stakeholders.
competitive position and analyse our new business volumes Implementation of our revised strategy and experience of policy claims and lapses.
We use this At the end of January 2008 we announced a revised strategy information to re-price our products or develop new ones.
for the Group, the implementation of which was the focus of For example, during 2008, we re-priced our range of protection much activity during the year.
A new CEO took office in July products to ensure their continuing competitiveness.
2008 and new senior management structures are in place, Changes to the funding requirements giving greater focus on the accountability of business leaders of the pension scheme for delivering against our agreed business plans.
We are The Group maintains a defined benefit pension scheme for increasingly confident that we are on track to deliver our past and current employees of the UK life and pensions expense savings targets.
As part of this, we are making business.
Given the current economic and financial market increasing use of outsourcing for support functions where it difficulties and the prospects for them to continue over the is effective to do so.
We have decided to retain the Lombard near and medium term, we keep the scheme under regular business and Pantheon Financial.
Our proposed demerger of review, balancing its positive impact on staff morale and F&C Asset Management is continuing.
retention against the implications any increased investment would have on our competitiveness.
30 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 29223 NEW Txt p1-74:29223 NEW Txt p1-74 2 4 09 16:00 Page 31 STRATEGY I KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS I PEOPLE AND PROCESSES I CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY I BUSINESS REVIEW KEY RISKS FINANCIAL REVIEW FRIENDS PROVIDENT INTERNATIONAL LOMBARD Increased regulation materially impacts costs, capital Regulation and or fiscal change materially impact requirements, distribution, regulatory responsibility or costs, capital requirements, distribution, regulatory the market for products responsibility or the market for products The implementation of directives and other changes in The implementation of directives and other legislative regulation is monitored, seeking to identify opportunities and changes is monitored, seeking to identify opportunities and ensure timely, compliant and cost-effective solutions.
ensure timely, compliant and cost-effective solutions.
We also put considerable efforts into managing the Detailed analyses of the impact on distribution relationships relationship with the various regulators so that we have and product offerings are undertaken to determine the as much warning as possible and the regulators know that required changes in distribution and product strategies.
we take compliance with regulation seriously.
Detailed Reliance on key territories, products analyses of the impact on distribution relationships and or distribution partners for business product offerings are undertaken to determine the required Diversification across territories, business lines and distribution changes in distribution and product strategies.
partners allows us to take advantage of opportunities Reliance on key territories, products to secure business volumes and profitability and respond or distribution partners for business to regulatory and or fiscal change and competitor activity.
Diversification across territories, business lines and distribution Expansions into new territories do partners allows us to take advantage of opportunities to not produce the expected results secure business volumes and profitability and respond to We are highly selective about new territories and plan regulatory and or legislative change and competitor activity.
our entry into any new territory by looking at the expected Expansions into new territories business volumes and mix, dealing with high-calibre reputation do not produce the expected results distribution partners, and considering the regulatory We plan our entry into any new territory by looking at environment and requirements.
Our emphasis is on business the expected business volumes and mix, dealing with highwith strong margins supported by excellent customer service.
calibre reputation partners, and considering the regulatory Mismatch of solutions and client expectations leads to environment and requirements.
Our emphasis is on business poor persistency, complaints or damage to reputation with strong margins supported by excellent customer service.
Due diligence on distribution partner firms helps ensure Our entry strategy is to adopt a phased approach, increasing that business is written through sound, appropriately resources as our understanding of the local market grows.
Our strategy is to distribute Availability of cash or capital through independent intermediaries who are authorised in restricts new business growth their respective markets.
Where introducers or agents are The business is inherently more profitable than UK life and used there are clear agreements on the scope of their pensions.
For example, in 2008, its internal rate of return activities, and appropriate training and support programmes was 15.3% and cash payback was 6 years.
Residual risk relates primarily to change of strain is more quickly recovered than in the UK.
Management regulations laws or client circumstances.
information is in place to track and forecast cash consumption from new business.
FPIs cash and capital needs can be met through its parent company and the business is confident that FPIs growth plans can be funded.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2008 31
