Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 13 Risk Management Each of the Divisions faces key risks and uncertainties in the Introduction execution of their strategy.
These are set out in the divisional During 2008, the global dislocation in financial markets has sections of the Business Review, where they can be read resulted in exceptional instability and volatility, impacting upon in conjunction with the Divisions strategy, and financial and market and investor con dence which has been characterised operating performance.
by a marked reduction in liquidity in the international money markets.
This crisis which started in 2007 and has impacted Credit Risk: The financial performance of the Group is upon financial markets since, led the UK Government to inject affected by borrowers ability and willingness to repay liquidity into the financial system and to require and participate amounts lent by the Group in recapitalisation of the banking sector to restore con dence to Credit risk arises in the Retail, Corporate & International divisions the market.
13 and the Treasury function, re ecting the risks inherent in the Groups lending activities.
Over the last year the banking crisis On 13 October 2008, as part of the co-ordinated package has impacted the financial services industry resulting in high of capital and funding measures for the UK banking sector, pro le losses and writedowns.
implemented by HM Treasury, the Group participated in the Government Funding Package and thereby facilitated access to The deteriorating economic outlook, both in the UK and the UK Government backed provision of liquidity.
overseas, is also leading to signi cant increases in impairments.
The Group is impacted by the economic downturn and a further Global market and economic conditions continue to pressurise worsening of the business environment could impact earnings the Group.
However, through the injection of capital and liquidity adversely.
This poses a major risk to the Group and its lending facilitated by the UK Government, both currently and going businesses in: forward, HBOS remains con dent it will navigate through this dif cult period, as it becomes part of the Lloyds Banking Group Retail, where rising unemployment impacts the ability LBG.
of customers to meet repayment dates on unsecured and secured lending and leads to a consequent increase in As a wholly owned subsidiary, HBOS is dependent on LBG for arrears.
Additionally, the downturn in the housing market funding.
reduces collateral values for residential property and this The key dependencies on successfully funding the enlarged impacts upon the pro tability of secured lending.
Groups balance sheet include the continued functioning Corporate, where companies are facing increasingly dif cult of the money and capital market at their current levels: the conditions, resulting in corporate default levels rising and continued access of the Group to central bank and Government leading to increases in corporate impairments.
sponsored liquidity facilities, including issuance under HMTs credit guarantee scheme CGS and access to the Bank of Liquidity Risk: The Group may be unable to meet its Englands various facilities, limited further deterioration in the financial obligations as they fall due or is unable to Groups credit ratings and no signi cant or sudden withdrawal raise suf cient funds to take full advantage of growth of deposits resulting in increased reliance on money markets or opportunities Government support schemes.
This is known as liquidity risk and arises from mismatches in the maturities and the timing of cash ows relating to assets, The Lloyds Banking Group was created on 16 January 2009. liabilities and off-balance sheet instruments.
HBOS relies Subsequently, HBOS has adopted LBG Risk practices.
This and intends to rely increasingly on customer savings and report discusses Risk practices in effect in HBOS during 2008. transmission balances, as well as ongoing access to the Key risks and uncertainties facing the Group wholesale lending markets, central bank liquidity facilities such This section describes the risk factors which are considered to as the Special Liquidity Scheme and the Extended Open Market be material in relation to the Group.
Operations operated by the Bank of England, and support from HM Treasurys guarantee scheme.
These risks should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
Further information about the approach to managing liquidity Additional risks and uncertainties that are not presently known, risk is explained on pages 25 to 28. or which are currently deemed immaterial, may also have an adverse effect on the Groups operating results, financial condition and prospects.
14 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Risk Management continued Market Risk: Changes in interest rates, credit spreads, Based upon projections by management, assuming the foreign exchange rates and commodity and equity availability of the existing and announced Government Funding prices and other market risks affect the HBOS Groups Package, the Group believes it has adequate resources to business and financial results continue in business for the foreseeable future.
This is referred to as market risk and is fide ned as the potential The Groups approach to the management of capital is set out loss in value or earnings of the HBOS Group arising from on pages 31 to 33. changes in external market factors such as interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates, commodity and equity prices Insurance and Investment Risk: The Groups earnings and the potential for customers to act in a manner which is may be affected by the potential for loss through inconsistent with business, pricing and hedging assumptions.
adverse claims, expense and persistency experience, Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and credit spreads from both life and general insurance contracts may affect the interest rate margin realised between lending and Insurance and investment risk and its management is described borrowing costs.
in more detail on pages 28 to 30.
Further information about the management of, and exposure to, Operational Risk: Operational risks exist in the normal market risk is set out on pages 22 to 25. course of the Groups business In a large organisation with many different processes, IT Capital: The Group may have insuf cient capital systems and colleagues, there is a risk that operational losses resources to meet the regulatory minimum can result.
Examples of the sources of such risks include fraud, requirements, to finance growth, or to support its credit systems reliability, human error, failure of key suppliers, IT rating security, change management, operational outsourcing or failure Capital discipline is a key element of the Groups strategy.
to comply with legislation or regulation.
Further information Capital is a scarce resource and the task is to deploy it to about the management of operational risk is set out on page 31. achieve sustainable returns and add value for shareholders.
To strengthen the Groups capital position, HBOS launched a Regulatory Risk: The Groups business and earnings wholly underwritten 4bn Rights Issue in May 2008.
However can be affected by changes in financial services laws further market pressures, the failure of Lehman Brothers in the and regulations in each of the locations in which it US and S&P downgrading of HBOS had a severe impact on the operates Group, ultimately resulting in the recommended acquisition of Any signi cant regulatory changes could affect how the Group HBOS plc by Lloyds TSB Group plc.
conducts business and its financial performance.
Regulatory risk is explained in detail on pages 31 to 33.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15 Management and Controls Governance The governance model comprises a well established and embedded committee structure and associated control environment across the Group.
The business and control environments of St. Jamess Place plc and Invista Real Estate Investment Holdings plc fall outwith the governance framework described in this section of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The framework discussed describes that in effect in HBOS for the financial year.
HBOS Board 1st Line of Defence 2nd Line of Defence 3rd Line of Defence 15 Group Chief Executive Divisional Executive Group Functions Audit Chief Executives Committee Committee supported by Group Capital Committee Group Divisional Risk Finance Committees Group Funding and Liquidity Director Share Market Activity Committee Divisional Risk Control Regulatory Capital Adequacy Committee Committees Group Credit Risk Committee Group Market Risk Committee Group Group Risk Internal Group Insurance Risk Committee Director Audit Group Operational Risk Committee The Risk Management Framework HBOS allocates speci c roles in the management of risk to executives and senior managers and to the Board and Executive Committees.
This is undertaken within an overall framework and strategy established by the Board.
The model is based on the concept of three lines of defence.
1st Line of Defence RISK MANAGEMENT Divisional CEOs Strategy Divisional Risk Specialists Performance Divisional Risk Committees Risk control 2nd Line of Defence RISK OVERSIGHT Group Chief Executive Executive Committee Centralised policy management Group Functions inc. Group Risk Independent oversight of risk and Group Finance Executive Risk Committees 3rd Line of Defence RISK ASSURANCE Audit Committee Divisional Risk Control Committees Independent assurance Group Internal Audit 16 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Risk Management continued Divisional management has primary responsibility for identifying Management of Key Risks and evaluating signi cant risks to the business and for designing The information set out below, up to and including the section and operating suitable controls.
Internal and external risks are entitled General Insurance on page 30 forms an integral part of assessed, including economic factors, control breakdowns, the audited financial statements as described in the Accounting disruption of information systems, competition and regulatory Policies section of the Financial Statements on page 48. requirements.
Credit Risk The four Group Executive Risk Committees - Group Credit Risk Credit Risk is the risk of financial loss from counterpartys Committee, Group Market Risk Committee, Group Insurance failure to settle financial obligations as they fall due.
Risk Committee and Group Operational Risk Committee develop the policies and parameters within which Divisions Credit Risk Performance are required to manage risk.
The Committees provide central During the second half of 2008 the pressures being experienced oversight by reviewing and challenging the work of the Divisions in wholesale and liquidity markets spread to become severe own risk committees and considering the application of economic deterioration in the UK.
This pressure accelerated appropriate risk management techniques.
signi cantly in quarter four 2008 and saw substantial issues arising in Corporate lending and Treasury investments.
The specialist Group Risk function, reporting to the Group Risk Director, supports these Committees.
Its responsibilities are: The Corporate Divisions Credit Risk Management was unable to react quickly enough to contain the deterioration, to recommend Group policies, standards and limits: exacerbated by HBOS historic levels of exposure concentration within property and property related sectors, giving little to monitor compliance with those policies, standards room for manoeuvre in a deteriorating market and resulting in and limits: impairment losses increasing dramatically.
to provide leadership in the development and implementation In addition, Treasury has been materially impacted by the of risk management techniques: and reduction in fair value of the ABS portfolio as a result of credit concerns, poor market sentiment and liquidity pressures.
This to aggregate risks arising in the Divisions and to monitor has been exacerbated following a strategic decision of moving the overall Group position independently from the Divisions away from using Government bonds to provide liquidity, instead own analysis.
relying on AAA rated Asset Backed Securities and investment grade bank FRNs, which whilst effective in liquidity terms, Consideration of capital, liquidity and balance sheet signi cantly increased the credit risk pro le of the Group.
management is undertaken on an integrated basis.
All capital and funding related activities are the responsibility of the Group The credit risk risk pro le within HBOS is susceptible to further Capital Committee, supported by three sub-committees, which increases in impairments if the UK economy continues to focus on the core aspects of overall Group requirements.
Additional pressure will also be evident in Treasurys Group Capital Committee is chaired by the Group Finance ABS portfolio if US real estate values fall further, resulting in Director and operates under delegated authority from the Board increasing fair value and impairment losses.
to oversee and manage the Groups Balance Sheet and Capital in accordance with the Board approved Group Business Plan Management of Credit Risk and within regulatory ratios.
The Group Credit Risk Committee GCRC, one of the Executive Risk Committees, is chaired by the Group Risk Director and In judging the effectiveness of the Groups controls, the Board comprises senior executives from across the business Divisions, reviews the reports of the Audit Committee and management.
Group Risk and Group Finance functions.
It meets monthly and reviews the Groups lending portfolio, approves Group credit Certain responsibilities are delegated to the Audit Committee standards, limits and divisional credit risk policies.
The Group including ensuring that there is regular review of the adequacy Credit Risk Policy Statement is approved by the Board on an and ef ciency of internal control procedures.
This role provides annual basis.
The GCRC also assists the Board in formulating independent assurance that there is an appropriate control the Groups credit risk appetite in respect of key products and structure throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee, supported by Divisional Risk Control Group Credit, a specialist support function within Group Committees, obtains assurance about the internal control and Risk, provides centralised expertise in the area of credit risk risk management environment through regular reports from measurement and management techniques.
In addition to Group Functions including Group Risk and Group Finance and reporting on the performance and forward looking risks of Group Internal Audit.
It also considers external auditors reports.
each divisional portfolio to the GCRC and other senior HBOS committees, Group Credit exercises independent oversight over the effectiveness of credit risk management practices and adherence to approved policies, standards and limits.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 17 Day to day management of credit risk is undertaken by Standards have been established across the Group for the specialist credit teams working within each Division in management of credit risk.
All Divisions are independently compliance with policies approved by divisional committees, rated against these internal standards by the Group Credit under lending authorities delegated by the Board via GCRC.
function on an annual basis and work together to continuously Typically, functions undertaken by these teams include credit improve credit risk management capability.
There continues sanctioning, portfolio management and management of high to be signi cant levels of investment in the development of risk and defaulted accounts and credit risk model build and credit risk rating tools, including enhancements to the portfolio governance.
risk measurement systems and in governance arrangements to support operations within the terms of the Basel II Accord.
To manage credit risk, a wide range of policies and techniques These include principles for development, validation and 17 are used across the Group: performance monitoring of credit risk models.
The approval process for credit models is dependant upon the materiality For retail portfolios, extensive use is made of credit scoring of the model, with all models impacting the regulatory capital in the assessment of new applications for credit.
In addition, calculation requiring approval by the Group Model Governance behavioural scoring is used to provide an assessment Committee GMGC, which is a sub-committee of GCRC, and of the conduct of a customers accounts in granting those deemed material to the Group being approved by the extensions to, and setting limits for, existing facilities and Group Capital Committee GCC.
in identifying customers at risk of default.
Affordability is a vitally important measure and is reviewed in combination Internal reporting has developed in response to the introduction with either application and or behavioural scores.
HBOS has of improved rating tools.
Senior Management across the Group been involved in data sharing initiatives within the industry are now provided with reports assessing the risk pro le in terms and makes extensive use of credit bureau les to inform the of Probability of Default and Expected Loss and will continue to assessment of customer risk and affordability and to aid do so under the Basel II environment going forward.
Small business customers are assessed for their credit-worthiness in a similar manner to retail Standard Technical fide nitions customers.
The probability that an obligor enters default in the next 12 months.
For corporate portfolios, a full credit assessment of the financial strength of each potential transaction and or EAD Exposure At Default.
The obligors credit exposure at customer is undertaken, including a stress test of key financial the point of default, assuming default occurs within the next aspects of the transaction, awarding an internal risk rating 12 months.
The same approach is also used LGD Loss Given Default.
The proportion of an obligors for larger SME small to medium enterprise customers.
exposure at default that the lender loses as a result of default, Within Treasury Division Treasury, which handles the assuming that default occurs within the next 12 months.
This Groups banking and sovereign related exposures, as well as is a percentage.
the Groups structured credit bond ABS portfolio held for EL Expected Loss.
The monetary amount expected to lose liquidity and proprietary purposes, focused credit risk policies from an obligor, arising from a default in the next 12 months.
are established and reviewed by the Group Wholesale Credit Committee GWCC, a sub-committee of the GCRC.
Basel Derived by the formula EL PD x EAD x LGD.
II Advanced IRB compliant models are used to rate banking and sovereign counterparties.
Structured credit bonds are Scope of HBOS IRB Permission reviewed individually by an independent credit function prior In the period to 31 December 2007 HBOS operated under what to purchase and an internal rating is applied to all exposures.
is commonly know as the Basel I regulatory capital regime.
Additional thresholds and limits are applied by rating and by Under Basel I the FSA required each bank and banking group asset class in line with the business strategy.
As part of an to maintain an individually prescribed ratio of total capital to ongoing portfolio review process, monitoring is performed risk-weighted assets, taking into account both balance sheet covering each bond holding, supplemented by stress assets and off-balance sheet transactions.
From 1 January analyses conducted on a periodic basis.
2008 HBOS, in common with UK peers, adopted the Basel II framework through application of the FSA BIPRU rules.
An additional measure within the credit risk framework is the establishment of product, risk pro le, industrial sector and Basel II seeks to augment arrangements and introduces a risk country limits to manage excessive concentrations of risk.
Basel II is structured to provide a choice Material portfolios, such as mortgages, have approved subof methodologies to determine credit risk regulatory capital sector limits to ensure that they remain within plan and tolerance requirements, with different levels of complexity.
All such limits are set and monitored by the GCRC.
18 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Risk Management continued HBOS makes use of the Standardised and Advanced Internal This is then calibrated to the historically identi ed and where Ratings Based AIRB approaches with no portfolios using the necessary appropriately adjusted default rate for the portfolio Foundation Internal Ratings Based approach.
EAD estimates are based on current exposures plus an additional proportion of the undrawn positions.
This is an extension of Basel I and component is estimated, taking account of the EAD less any requires banks to use external credit ratings to determine risk recognisable collateral.
Like Basel I, it groups other counterparties into broad categories and applies Specialised Lending Assets - This asset class predominantly regulatory determined risk weightings to these categories.
comprises property investment and property development transactions but also includes major asset nancing deals, such Advanced Internal Ratings Based approach AIRB.
This is the as shipping and aircraft.
This is a transaction based approach.
Banks use their own internal Where full models are in place, the methodology has been assessment of PD, EAD and LGD to determine risk weight to stochastically assess the transactions cash ows over its asset values.
lifetime and use this to calculate the 12 month EL.
HBOS is approved by the FSA to use the Advanced Internal Financial Institutions and Sovereign Assets - This comprises Ratings Based approach AIRB for regulatory capital purposes.
exposures to governments together with exposures to bank counterparties.
Given the historical limited default data for The scope of permission covers all Basel II asset classes, such portfolios the methodology for these assets has been to however, HBOS has a model roll-out schedule to complete, predict what rating would be provided by an External Credit predominately in relation to International and Corporate Assessment Institution ECAI should the obligor have sought businesses.
The roll-out plan and mandatory parallel run will run one.
This rating is then related to a PD value based upon until the end of 2010. the long run historic information associated with such ECAI ratings.
A transaction EAD is estimated based on the product Beside these, HBOS has a number of small portfolios where, characteristics while LGD is directly associated with the for economic reasons, it is not commercially viable to construct standing of the obligor.
These components are then combined AIRB models.
These are typically products which are no longer to produce the transaction EL.
sold and effectively in run off mode or new products where HBOS has yet to establish the critical mass of data necessary Within HBOS, all models have been developed internally and to construct AIRB models.
In such cases the Standardised there is no use of external models although there may be approach is applied.
reliance on external feeds such as bureau data, PD ratings for external third parties such as tenants, and feeds to Treasurys The models that are used in the regulatory capital calculation Bank rating models.
Minimum Standards for the development also underpin the credit risk measurement framework used by and monitoring of Credit Risk Models are in force across the HBOS.
It is a regulatory requirement that the models deployed Group.
in the capital calculations are used to inform credit related decisions.
In accordance with the HBOS federal structure, credit risk control units have been established within each divisional risk Internal Ratings Process function.
Divisional credit teams are independent from business For each IRB asset class the approach has been to build generation teams and are responsible for: internal models to generate PDs, LGDs and EADs for products within the asset class.
development, validation, implementation and recalibration of credit risk models: Retail Assets - Retail assets include residential mortgages, overdrafts, credit cards and unsecured personal lending monitoring of the ongoing performance of the credit risk exposures.
The methodology for Retail assets is transaction models: and based, with a foundation in the scorecards used for application decision and account management.
The regulatory EL is securing annual approval of all credit risk models from the mapped to a Lifetime Expected Loss LEL which is used in appropriate body.
wider business processes, including assessment of risk appetite and pricing.
The most material internal rating models are approved for use by Group Capital Committee with the remainder at Group Corporate Assets - Corporate assets include exposures Model Governance Committee, which is a sub-committee of to corporate and SME entities.
The methodology for non GCRC.
Group Credit Risk undertake independent technical specialised lending Corporate assets considers, individually, the review of Divisional credit risk models in accordance with the obligor PD, the transaction EAD and LGD then combines these Groups standards.
These reviews take place annually or when to produce the transaction EL.
The approach within HBOS to a model is materially changed and result in a recommendation estimating PD has been to undertake a statistical analysis of the to the GMGC or Group Capital Committee where the model is obligors financial statements with a supplementary qualitative approved for use.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 19 Use of Internal Estimates Divisional risk committees do not make individual credit The Group has introduced IRB models on a phased basis, decisions but are responsible for putting in place appropriate ensuring that full con dence in the outputs is built up within the governance arrangements, approving policies and standards credit areas before moving to full use in decisioning.
and credit risk rating systems and monitoring all aspects of credit risk within their respective divisions.
IRB parameters are being widely used in the divisions particularly in those that will experience the most material Pricing bene t under Basel II and for the most material requirements.
Transaction portfolio level pricing is set by the divisions who are increasingly basing these decisions on the outputs of the IRB Credit approval models.
19 Credit assessment and approval within HBOS is mainly conducted at the divisional level in line with the Group Credit For Retail, pricing and decisioning are intrinsically linked.
The Risk Policy Statement GCRPS and divisional credit policy lifetime expected losses are fed into the pro t model, along statements.
The GCRPS requires adherence to the canons of with other costs, to allow a price to be set that generates the lending appropriate for a financial institution of HBOSs size and required return.
All pricing decisions have been assessed using sophistication, and in relation to IRB inputs it speci cally requires the Basel lifetime expected loss to ensure that current pricing that: passes the required hurdle rates dependent on the risk involved.
each borrower must be assigned a credit rating or score, or For Corporate, the pricing model facilitates the incorporation of directly, a probability of default PD which is updated at least pricing infomation into the credit approval process.
annually: and For Treasury, the major activities are funding, liquidity and PD and EL should be considered as part of a credit hedging in external markets on behalf of the wider HBOS group.
Treasury is not normally a market maker in the markets within which it operates, and is therefore dependent on prices quoted The divisional processes can be broken down into two main to it by the market.
categories: Portfolio Reporting Portfolio level credit approval fide ned as low value, high volume Credit risk reporting is conducted at both Group and divisional automated credit processes and used primarily for assessing levels, embedding IRB parameters into management retail portfolios.
Typically, Lifetime EL and EL estimates information.
This includes analysing PD, LGD, EAD, and EL generated from by IRB models are used to set application measures.
Model performance and parameter assessment are scorecard cut-offs.
Therefore, the level of business accepted via also presented.
automated decision making processes is directly in uenced by IRB outputs.
Decisioning and pricing are linked and LEL outputs Factors Impacting Loss Experience are also fed into pro tability models that are used to make The deterioration in the loss experience generally re ects the pricing decisions.
increasing economic pressures over the year, characterised by declining economic activity, rising unemployment, the Transaction level credit approval fide ned as high value, low contraction of the mortgage market, reduced availability of volume exposures which are addressed directly by credit credit and the fall in house and commercial property values.
analysts - used for corporate, corporate SME, financial institution and sovereign asset classes.
The increase in mortgage losses was driven predominantly by increased affordability pressures and reduced attrition from In general, the process operates as follows: higher risk customers as well as the rise in Loan to Value ratios due to reduced housing values.
the relationship manager inputs the appropriate information into the models which return PD EL outputs: and The Corporate credit environment has suffered signi cant deterioration, with an increasing number of customers operating an independent credit risk management unit checks the under stressed conditions.
In particular, the exposure to the inputs to the model calculations for accuracy and plausibility construction and real estate sectors, where there has been and for outputs : and veri es that the correct model has been historically large concentrations of lending, have been impacted used.
more severely than other sectors.
In addition, HBOS strategy was to support relatively high levels of exposure to a small Credit Limits number of long term customer relationships, these single name The governance process for limits approval is: concentrations have placed the Group at risk of signi cant loss, should default occur.
The general deterioration of the credit at Group level, limits for products, sectors and countries are environment and associated market dislocation has limited set under the authority of GCRC: and the options available to Corporate to restructure or dispose of distressed assets.
As a result, not only has HBOS been within the divisions, sanctioning is conducted under a set of impacted earlier and more signi cantly than most of its peers, agreed delegated lending authorities granted to individuals it has been very dif cult to materially reduce the balance sheet or credit committees.
These delegated authorities have been risk pro le in reaction to the environment.
revised substantially in response to the deteriorating credit conditions.
20 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Risk Management continued Likewise, the loss experience within the International businesses Where the collateral is held by a third party, HBOS takes re ects the deteriorating economies within which it operates.
reasonable steps to try to ensure that the third party segregates the collateral from its own assets.
Losses experienced in Treasury are due to both the fair value impact of the market dislocation on the Asset Backed Where real estate is pledged as collateral the value of the Securities portfolio, including Alt A bonds and CDOs and the property is frequently assessed.
More frequent assessment is well publicised failure of certain bank counterparties resulting carried out where the market is subject to signi cant changes in in credit impairments.
The fall in value has been driven largely conditions.
by credit concerns, poor market sentiment and liquidity Statistical methods are used to monitor the value of the property requirements.
and to identify property that requires to be revalued.
The Credit Risk Mitigation property valuation is reviewed by an independent valuer when Collateral is the pledging of assets which in the event of default information indicates that the value of the property may have can be sold in order to realise some, or all, of the outstanding declined materially, relative to general market prices.
HBOS has documented policies in respect of the The value of other physical forms of collateral is assessed on criteria for recognition of collateral taken as credit risk mitigation.
a frequent basis and at a minimum once every year.
More HBOS employs a variety of credit risk mitigation techniques in frequent assessment is required where the market is subject to order to mitigate the credit risk faced.
These techniques include signi cant changes in conditions.
netting, collateral, guarantees and credit derivatives.
HBOS policy is to ensure it has the ability to liquidate the The Retail mortgage portfolios are formally secured on collateral, the ability to establish objectively a price or market residential properties.
Corporate exposures utilise a broad value, the frequency with which the value can readily be range of collateral types serving to reduce the loss in event of obtained including a professional appraisal or valuation, default.
Financial collateral is predominantly cash.
Other eligible and the volatility or a proxy of the volatility of the value of the collateral includes first charges on commercial and residential collateral.
Both initial valuation and revaluation take into account real estate and other physical assets such as aircraft, shipping, any deterioration or obsolescence of the collateral.
Particular commercial vehicles and car eets.
attention is paid in valuation and revaluation to the effects of the passage of time on fashion date-sensitive collateral.
On-balance sheet netting is recognised where the agreement is legally effective and enforceable and there is an intention and HBOS policy in recognising collateral is that there is the right to ability to settle on a net or simultaneous basis in all jurisdictions.
physically inspect the collateral, ensuring also that the collateral In recognising the netting agreements HBOS ensures it can taken as protection is adequately insured against damage.
determine at any time those assets and liabilities that are subject Guarantees exist when one entity commits to paying the to the netting agreement.
outstanding monies in event of default of another entity, which On-balance sheet netting is recognised in respect of mutual has entered into a transaction with HBOS.
The Group receives claims between HBOS and its counterparty.
This is limited to a variety of guarantee types, however, capital calculation reciprocal cash balances between HBOS and the counterparty.
recognition is only taken through the use of PD substitution for guarantees provided by appropriate sovereigns and institutions.
For master netting agreements covering repurchase transactions and or securities or commodities lending or Credit derivatives are an investment banking product whereby borrowing transactions and or other capital market driven HBOS pays a premium to a credit protection provider in order transactions to be recognised for the purposes of the calculation to receive the full amount of monies owed should a speci c of regulatory capital, they shall: counterparty default on their obligations.
In effect, this is a form of insurance policy and is used in Treasury to mitigate Credit be legally effective and enforceable in all relevant jurisdictions, Risk.
including in the event of the bankruptcy or insolvency of the counterparty: Counterparty Credit Risk Internal capital and credit limits give the non-defaulting party the right to terminate and closeBank and Sovereign AIRB rating predictor models are used out in a timely manner all transactions under the agreement to produce an internal rating for each counterparty within the upon the event of default, including in the event of the portfolio.
These ratings are mapped across to statistically bankruptcy or insolvency of the counterparty: and derived based upon Moodys history of default data PD and LGD tables.
When combined with EAD, these values determine provide for the netting of gains and losses on transactions EL.
To determine EAD exposure, values for derivative products closed out under a master agreement, so that a single net are calculated by using the mark-to-market methodology for amount is owed by one party to the other.
regulatory purposes and internally developed models for limit management.
EL is then used to calculate the minimum capital HBOS policy is to calculate the market value of collateral taken from which the Risk Weighted Asset RWA is derived.
Treasury and periodically reassess it.
Notwithstanding, revaluation is does not use economic capital models, thus RWAs are used to undertaken whenever HBOS has reason to believe that a determine regulatory capital.
signi cant decrease in market value has occurred.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 21 Securing collateral and establishing credit reserves Financial assets held for trading Treasury makes active use of collateral and risk mitigation As described above, full credit analysis is undertaken and, techniques to reduce credit risks in its portfolio.
These based upon that, an internal rating is derived which helps to include the use of collateral cash, government securities and establish a credit appetite for the issuer or asset intended to be guarantees, break clauses and netting.
notional control for repo and stock borrowing exists.
As Treasury manages the liquidity of the HBOS Group, its To recognise the effects of credit risk mitigation, the mitigation mandate is to try to maintain a high quality credit portfolio and agreements must be valid, enforceable, unconditional and actively uses portfolio techniques to manage and monitor the irrevocable.
In addition, collateral must be transferred to Bank of quality of its portfolios.
This includes the use of rating based 21 Scotland through the passing of title and should be netable on thresholds, established portfolio level thresholds, asset class a portfolio basis.
Once these and other conditions speci ed by limits and sub-limits.
the credit sanctioner are met, the effect of collateral received is There are also rules governing the types of assets that can be re ected in reductions to all applicable credit exposures and in held within Treasurys Liquidity portfolios, Trading and Banking capital adequacy calculations.
books and for individual Asset Backed Security ABS tranche Treasury Collateral Operations are required to actively monitor sizes.
There are also limits controlling the maximum weighted collateral using established best risk management practices.
Correlation risk Financial assets held for trading are predominantly investment Under the repo framework, the issuer of collateral held and grade investments with 98.8% 2007 99.6% of inter-bank and the counterparty the trade is transacted with should be neither structured investment portfolios rated A or above based on an the same nor connected.
The same rule applies for derivatives internal credit ratings scale that is, in general, aligned with the under collateral assets standards.
Treasury Credit has the ratings scales of the major credit ratings agencies Moodys, discretion to extend the rule to other cases where there is S&P and Fitch.
During the course of 2008 12.2bn of ABS and FRN assets Financial instruments subject to credit risk were transferred from the Trading Book to the AFS Book.
The table below sets out the Groups exposure to credit risk Subsequently, 35.4bn of ABS was transferred from the AFS relating to financial instruments before taking account of Book into the Loans & Receivables Book.
Policyholder assets are excluded from the analysis in the table as the underlying credit risks are As at As at for the account of the policyholders and have no direct impact 31.12.2008 31.12.2007 % % on the Groups results, as described further on pages 28 to 30.
A full reconciliation between the Groups consolidated balance AAA 67.4 51.5 sheet and financial instruments subject to credit risk is set out in AA 19.3 34.4 note 48 on page 123.
A 12.1 13.7 Below A 1.2 0.4 Financial Financial instruments instruments Debt securities subject subject Debt securities are primarily held within the Treasury or to credit risk to credit risk As at As at Insurance & Investment Divisions and are predominantly 31.12.2008 31.12.2007 invested in investment grade counterparties with 92.7% 2007 m m 96.5% of debt securities rated A or above, again based on the Loans and advances to customers 435,223 430,007 internal rating scale.
Financial assets held for trading 22,571 54,681 As at As at Debt securities 71,395 56,100 31.12.2008 31.12.2007 Other financial assets 69,392 24,256 % % 598,581 565,044 AAA 52.0 57.8 Contingent liabilities and commitments 61,217 78,904 AA 23.8 25.8 Total 659,798 643,948 A 16.8 12.9 Below A 7.4 3.5 Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances to customers are managed on a divisional Other financial assets basis.
Information about the credit quality of loans and Other financial assets include cash and balances at central advances to customers is set out in note 48 on page 124. banks, items in the course of collection, derivative assets, loans and advances to banks and sundry financial assets.
22 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Risk Management continued Market Risk Market risk within the insurance and investment businesses Market risk is fide ned as the potential loss in value or arises in a number of ways and, depending upon the product, earnings of the organisation arising from: some risks are borne directly by the customer and some by the insurance and investment companies.
Risk to customers is changes in external market factors such as interest controlled by adherence to and regular monitoring of investment rates interest rate risk, foreign exchange rates foreign mandates and, if appropriate, unit pricing systems and controls.
exchange risk, credit spreads, commodities and In the case of the risk to the companies, individual Boards equities: and approve overall risk appetites and policies against which exposure is monitored.
the potential for customers to act in a manner which is inconsistent with business, pricing and hedging Market risk principally interest rate, in ation and equity also assumptions.
arises from the Groups fide ned bene t pensions obligations.
These sensitivities are regularly measured and are reported to The objectives of the Groups market risk framework are to the Group Market Risk Committee every month.
ensure that: Interest Rate Risk Non-Trading market risk is taken only in accordance with the Boards A key market risk faced by the Group in its non-trading book is appetite for such risk: interest rate risk.
This arises where the Groups financial assets and liabilities have interest rates set under different bases or such risk is within the Groups financial capability, reset at different times.
management understanding and staff competence: The principal Board limit for structural interest rate risk is the Group complies with all regulatory requirements relating to expressed in terms of potential volatility of net interest income the taking of market risk: and in adverse market conditions.
Risk exposure is monitored using the quality of the Groups pro ts is appropriately managed the following measures: and its reputation safeguarded.
Net Interest Income sensitivity This methodology comprises Risk appetite is set by the Board which allocates responsibility an analysis of the Groups current interest rate risk position for oversight and management of market risk to the Group overlaid with behavioural assessment and re-pricing Market Risk Committee, an Executive Risk Committee chaired assumptions of planned future activity.
The change to by the Group Risk Director.
forecast NII is calculated with reference to a set of fide ned parallel interest rate shocks which measure how much current The Group devotes considerable resources to ensuring that projections would alter over a 12 month period.
market risk is captured, modelled and reported, and managed.
Trading and non-trading portfolios are managed at various Market Value sensitivity This methodology considers all organisational levels, from the HBOS Group overall, down re-pricing mismatches in the current balance sheet including to speci c business areas.
Market risk measurement and those beyond the time horizon of the NII measure.
It is also management methods are designed to meet or exceed industry calculated with reference to a set of fide ned interest rate standards, and the tools used facilitate internal market risk shocks.
The Board has delegated authority to the Group Market Risk Market risk is controlled across the Group by setting limits Committee to allocate limits to divisions as appropriate within using a range of measurement methodologies.
The principal the overall risk appetite approved by the Board each year.
In methodologies are Net Interest Income NII sensitivity and turn, the Group Market Risk Committee has granted limits which Market Value MV sensitivity for banking books and Value-atconstitute the risk tolerance for each Division.
Risk VaR for trading books.
Banking divisions are required to hedge all signi cant open All are supplemented by scenario analysis which is performed interest rate mismatch positions with Treasury and are not in order to estimate the potential economic loss that could arise permitted to take positions of a speculative nature.
A limit from extreme, but plausible stress events.
structure exists to ensure that risks stemming from residual and temporary positions or from changes in assumptions about Detailed market risk framework documents and limit structures customer behaviour remain within the Groups risk appetite.
have been developed for each Division.
These are tailored to the speci c market risk characteristics and business objectives Market risk in non-trading books consists almost entirely of of each Division.
Each divisional policy requires appropriate exposure to changes in interest rates.
This is the potential divisional sanction, and is then forwarded to the Group Market impact on earnings and value that could occur when, if rates fall, Risk Committee for approval on at least an annual basis.
liabilities cannot be re-priced as quickly as assets: or when, if rates rise, assets cannot be re-priced as quickly as liabilities.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23 Net Interest Income Sensitivity The primary source of basis risk exposure within the Group is The following table shows, split by major currency, the Groups in the UK, where HBOS has a net asset position referenced to sensitivities as at 31 December 2008 to an immediate up and Bank Rate and a net liability position referenced to short term down 25 basis points change to all interest rates.
Analogous Bank Rate LIBOR positions also exist in Ireland.
As at 31.12.2008 25 bps 25 bps The following table shows net assets for the Banking Divisions Impact of interest rate shift m m excluding Treasury by pricing basis and re ects the major Currency components of the Groups balance sheet as it relates to basis Sterling 82.4 119.6 risk.
23 US Dollar 2.9 2.7 Euro 8.0 8.1 2008 2007 AU Dollar 1.5 1.5 Bank Rate 97.9 113.0 Other 0.3 0.3 Variable Market Rates 79.5 58.6 Total 69.7 107.0 Administered Rates 29.4 62.3 Fixed including capital and low As at 31.12.2007 non-interest bearing 11.0 7.9 25 bps 25 bps Impact of interest rate shift m m Reserve Sensitivity Currency The following table shows the market value sensitivity, for a 25 Sterling 21.2 21.6 basis point shift, of those items in respect of which a change in US Dollar 0.6 0.5 market value is re ected in the equity of the Group principally available for sale assets and cash ow hedges.
Euro 4.3 4.3 AU Dollar 0.1 0.1 As at 31.12.2008 Other 0.1 0.1 25 bps 25 bps Impact of interest rate shift m m Total 25.9 26.2 Available for sale reserve 14.5 14.5 Cash ow hedge reserve 84.9 84.9 Base case projected NII is calculated on the basis of the Total 70.4 70.4 Groups current balance sheet, forward rate paths implied by current market rates and contractual re-pricing dates adjusted according to behavioural assumptions for some products : it As at 31.12.2007 also incorporates business planning assumptions about future 25 bps 25 bps balance sheet volumes and the level of early redemption fees.
Impact of interest rate shift m m The above sensitivities show how this projected NII would Available for sale reserve 15.7 15.7 change in response to an immediate parallel shift to all relevant Cash ow hedge reserve 116.1 116.1 interest rates market and administered.
Total 100.4 100.4 The principal driver of the risk is re-pricing mismatch but the Foreign Exchange Risk Non-Trading methodology also recognises that behavioural re-pricing The Group Funding & Liquidity Committee is responsible for assumptions for example, prepayment rates - are themselves the framework within which structural foreign currency risk is a function of the level of interest rates.
The Group Funding & Liquidity Committee manages foreign currency exposures based on forecast currency The measure, however, is simpli ed in that it assumes all interest information provided by the Divisions, and mandates Treasury rates, for all currencies and maturities, move at the same time to execute transactions and undertake currency programmes and by the same amount.
Also, it does not incorporate the to manage structural currency risk.
The actual risk position is impact of management actions that, in the event of an adverse monitored monthly by the Group Market Risk Committee.
rate movement, could reduce the impact on NII.
Transaction exposures arise primarily from pro ts generated in Basis Risk the overseas operations, which will be remitted back to the UK Major structural interest rate exposure will largely be addressed and then converted into sterling.
by quantifying re-pricing risk, however, there is potentially a material risk relating to basis, ie, the exposure relating to the Translation exposures arise due to earnings that are retained Groups net asset position repricing off a different index than within the overseas operations and reinvested within their own the net liability position.
Structural currency exposures arise from the Groups investments in overseas subsidiaries, branches and other investments and are noted in the table overleaf.
24 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Risk Management continued 2008 The Group employs several complementary techniques to Net Borrowing Remaining measure and control trading activities including: Value-at-Risk investments taken out to structural VaR, sensitivity analysis, stress testing and position limits.
in overseas hedge net currency Functional currency operations investments exposure of the operation m m m The VaR model, used as part of the Groups management of AU Dollar 2,015 2,015 trading activity, expresses market risk to 99% con dence using Euro 3,011 3,011 a one day holding period.
The number provides an indication US Dollar 191 181 10 of the maximum mark-to-market loss which, to this level of con dence, might be incurred on a single day given the size Other 23 23 of current trading positions.
It is computed using a historical Total 5,194 5,207 13 simulation approach and a one year history of price data.
The underlying assumption of VaR is that future price volatility 2007 and correlation will not differ signi cantly from that previously Net Borrowing Remaining observed.
It also implicitly assumes that all positions are investments taken out to structural in overseas hedge net currency suf ciently liquid to be realisable within the chosen one day Functional currency operations investments exposure holding period.
of the operation m m m AU Dollar 2,023 2,023 VaR gives no indication of the size of any loss that could occur Euro 1,888 1,613 275 from extreme adverse price changes ie, outside the chosen con dence level.
For these reasons, stress testing is employed US Dollar 97 97 to simulate the effect of selected adverse market movements.
Other 4 4 Three different types of stress tests are conducted: Total 4,012 3,733 279 historical scenarios: As at 31 December 2008 and 31 December 2007 there are no material net currency exposures in the nontrading book relating fide ned scenarios tailored to key vulnerabilities: and to transactional or non-structural positions that would give rise to net currency gains or losses.
extreme shocks to single risk factors.
Trading Such measures are particularly relevant when market conditions The Groups market risk trading activities are principally are abnormal and daily price movements are dif cult to source.
This Group activity is subject The Groups trading market risk exposure for the year ended 31 to a Trading Book Policy Statement, which is approved by the December 2008 is analysed below.
Board, and limits set by the Group Market Risk Committee.
Owing to the unprecedented level of volatility in the credit Treasury trading primarily centres around two activities: markets, VaR has been suspended as a measure for the credit proprietary trading and trading on the back of business ows.
Positions are now managed using sensitivity Both activities incur market risk, the majority being interest rate measures.
The large increase in VaR, relative to 31 December and foreign exchange rate exposure.
In addition, a number of 2007, is due principally to higher price volatility in wholesale marketable assets held as part of the liquidity risk management markets the size of underlying trading positions has not framework are also held in trading books.
Such activity gives changed materially.
rise to market risk as a result of movements in credit spread.
As at As at Average Highest Lowest 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 2008 2007 Exposure m m m m m m m m Total value at risk 8.4 13.2 12.2 7.6 18.3 13.9 5.0 4.0 Interest rates 8.4 4.7 5.5 3.0 9.1 5.9 2.8 1.7 Credit spread suspended 8.3 suspended 4.3 suspended 8.4 suspended 1.8 Foreign exchange 6.1 1.9 8.3 0.6 16.3 2.0 1.3 0.1 Equity risk factor 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 1.1 0.4 0.0 0.0 Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25 The regulatory capital charge for market risk trading exposures Policy is reviewed at least annually to ensure its continued represents only 0.85% 2007 1.87% of the Groups capital base.
relevance to the Groups current and planned operations.
Operational liquidity management is delegated to Treasury.
The For all signi cant exposures VaR is calculated on a daily basis authority to set speci c limits and guidelines and responsibility and is used by senior management to manage market risk.
On for monitoring and controlling liquidity is delegated by the GCC a more detailed desk and trader level, to increase transparency to the Group Funding & Liquidity Committee GLFC.
interest rate risk relating to the trading book is principally managed using sensitivity methodology to measure exposure The Groups banking operations in the UK should comply with and set limits.
This methodology calculates the present value the FSAs Sterling Stock Liquidity approach for sterling liquidity impact of a one basis point movement in interest rates on the management and regulatory reporting.
A key element of the 25 outstanding positions.
Credit spread risk is managed using FSAs Sterling Stock Liquidity Policy is that a bank should hold position limits based on credit spread sensitivity.
Foreign a stock of high quality liquid assets that can be sold or used via exchange risk is principally managed by the use of position repo, quickly and discreetly in order to replace funding that has limits.
Equity risk is managed through Equity Index VaR and been withdrawn due to an actual or perceived problem with position limits.
The objective is that this stock enables the bank to continue business, whilst providing an opportunity to arrange The VaR model was granted CAD2 recognition by the FSA more permanent funding solutions.
Limits on the five day in December 2007 for general market risk in London for the sterling net wholesale out ow and the minimum level of stock following risk factors: liquidity have been agreed with the FSA.
Interest Rate HBOS should also adhere to the requirements of other regulatory authorities including the Australian Prudential Foreign Exchange Regulatory Authority, the Irish Financial Regulator and the Of ce of the Comptroller of the Currency in the United States, in Equity whose jurisdictions the Group has branches or subsidiaries.
It is validated by daily backtesting against observed P&L both at The internal approach to liquidity management has been in the total diversi ed level and at sub-portfolio levels.
place for several years, operating within regulatory requirements.
The approach looks at the forecast cash ows across all Derivatives currencies and at longer timeframes than the regulatory In the normal course of business, the Group uses a limited norms.
At 31 December 2008, the Groups liquidity portfolio range of derivative instruments for both trading and non-trading of marketable assets was 77.3bn 2007 67.0bn, of which purposes.
The principal derivative instruments used are interest 39.5bn 2007 13.4bn has been used for repo.
The liquidity rate swaps, interest rate options, cross currency swaps, forward portfolio is recorded in Treasury and predominantly comprises rate agreements, credit derivatives, forward foreign exchange Treasury debt securities, excluding Grampian and Landale.
The Group uses derivatives as a risk management tool for hedging interest rate and foreign exchange Details of the Treasury debt securities portfolio are disclosed on rate risk.
The assets in the liquidity portfolio are treated in two forms.
The Groups activity in derivatives is controlled within risk management limits set by the Board and overseen by the Firstly, assets known to be eligible under normal arrangements relevant Group Risk Committees.
Details of derivative contracts with the Bank of England, the European Central Bank and the outstanding at the year end are included in Note 17 to the Federal Reserve.
Secondly, a substantial pool of high quality Accounts on pages 76 and 77. assets that allow us to manage through periods of stress taking into account the likely behaviours of depositors and wholesale Liquidity Risk markets.
These approaches are supported by a liquidity The risk that the Group does not have suf cient financial framework that includes: resources to meet its obligations when they are due or will have to do so at excessive cost.
funding diversity criteria focusing on retail, other customer and Liquidity Risk is governed by the Group Liquidity Policy wholesale sources: Statement which is approved by the Board and fide fines the core principles for identifying, measuring, managing and monitoring sight to one week and sight to one month mismatch limits liquidity risk across the Group.
Detailed liquidity risk framework as a percentage of total wholesale funding for all major documents and limit structures are in place for the Groups currencies and for all currencies in aggregate: operations, where liquidity is managed on a Group basis, and for overseas banking units subject to speci c regulatory targets on the appropriate balance of short to medium term requirements.
The responsibility for oversight and management wholesale funding: and of Liquidity Risk is delegated to the Group Capital Committee GCC.
criteria and limits on marketable assets, by asset class for Sterling, US Dollars, Euros, other currencies and for all currencies in aggregate.
26 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Risk Management continued Daily monitoring and control processes are in place to address widening the wholesale investor base and product set: both statutory and prudential liquidity requirements.
In addition, building and maintaining a term issuance programme the framework has two other important components.
- securitisation, covered bonds, Medium Term Note Firstly, HBOS stress tests its potential cash ow mismatch programmes: and position under various scenarios on an ongoing basis.
The utilising the geographic diversity of New York and Sydney as cash ow mismatch position considers on-balance sheet funding hubs for the Group.
cash ows, commitments received and granted and material derivative cash ows.
Speci cally, commitments granted The ability of the HBOS Group to access wholesale funding include the pipeline of new business awaiting completion as sources and raise retail deposits on favourable economic terms well as other standby or revolving credit facilities.
Behavioural is dependent on a variety of factors, including a number outside adjustments are developed evaluating how the cash ow of its control, such as general market conditions including position might change under each stress scenario to derive the state of UK and global finance markets, an increase in a stressed cash ow position.
Scenarios cover both HBOS competitive behaviour, and con dence in the UK banking name speci c and systemic dif culties.
The scenarios and the system in general or the HBOS Group in particular.
assumptions are reviewed at least annually to gain assurance they continue to be relevant to the nature of the business.
Following speculation on HBOSs future in mid-September, the HBOS Group suffered deposit out ows, further increasing Secondly, the Group has a Liquidity Contingency Plan the Groups reliance on wholesale funding markets.
The embedded within the Group Liquidity Policy Statement which majority of these deposit out ows were non-bank financial has been designed to identify emerging liquidity concerns at institutions and large corporates, rather than personal account an early stage, so that action can be taken to avoid a more customers.
In recent months this position has stabilised with serious crisis developing.
This is achieved through the use of net in ows evident following the announcement of the proposed Early Warning Indicators EWIs.
Clear guidelines are set out transaction with Lloyds TSB.
for the management escalation process in the event of EWIs triggering and the actions to be taken short and medium In wholesale markets, the HBOS Group has previously looked term, should such an event take place.
to achieve a geographically diverse investor base and product set of an appropriate maturity pro le to ensure it is not overly In response to the market dislocation that started in the second exposed to short-term market dislocation.
half of 2007 and intensi ed in September 2008, the Group has increased vigilance by operating under full contingency As a result of the increasingly turbulent conditions in the global arrangements including daily monitoring of funding and liquidity financial markets in the second half of 2008, there has been positions with GCC meeting on a weekly basis to monitor and a signi cant deterioration in the inter-bank and term funding manage the Group Balance Sheet.
markets and a consequent material reduction in the availability of longer-term funding.
As a result, HBOS has had to source Funding more shorter-term and overnight funding, with a consequent The wholesale funding capacity of the Group is dependent upon increase of re nancing risk.
factors such as the strength of the balance sheet, earnings, asset quality, ratings and market position, as well as market In recent months, the strain in the financial systems has sentiment and perception, most evident in share and debt price increased substantially, leading to a signi cant tightening in volatility.
market liquidity and the threat of a more marked deterioration As at As at in the global economic outlook, with a consequent increase in 31.12.2008 31.12.2007 recourse to liquidity schemes provided by central banks.
While bn bn various governments, including the UK Government, have taken Loans and advances to customers 435.2 430.0 substantial measures to ease the current crisis in liquidity, such Customer accounts 222.3 243.2 as the measures announced in the UK on 8 October 2008 and Customer lending less customer accounts 212.9 186.8 13 October 2008, there can be no assurance that these global measures will succeed in improving the funding and liquidity of Customer accounts as a % of loans the markets in which the major banks, including HBOS, operate.
and advances to customers 51.0% 56.6% HBOS, as a wholly owned subsidiary, will be dependent on Lloyds Banking Group for funding and expects reliance for the It has been the Groups policy to manage its balance sheet foreseeable future on the continued availability of central bank pro le to ensure customer deposits sourced outside Treasury liquidity facilities particularly those with the Bank of England as represent a signi cant component of overall funding, and GFLC well as HM Treasurys guarantee scheme for short and mediumdirects and co-ordinates the activities of the Divisions in raising term debt issuance.
liabilities from a range of sources.
The Groups wholesale funding sources are shown in the tables In order to strengthen the Groups funding position, HBOS has overleaf.
Tables are prepared on the basis that retail is fide ned over the last few years diversi ed its funding sources, and also using the current statutory fide nition, ie, administered rate lengthened the maturity pro le of market sensitive funding.
Wholesale funding, when issued in a foreign currency has been achieved through: but swapped into Sterling, is included at the swap exchanged amount.
Wholesale funding is shown excluding any Repo activity and the funding raised in the names of the conduits.
The following tables reconcile wholesale gures reported above with those in the Statutory Balance Sheet.
Interest Accruals and Other Statutory Risk Repos and Accounting Balance Report Conduits Adjustments Sheet Accounting Classi cation - as at 31.12.08 bn bn bn bn Debt Securities in Issue 170.5 3.0 14.9 188.4 Sub Debt and Other 29.8 0.3 30.1 Deposits by Customers 204.1 18.2 222.3 Bank Deposits 13.7 70.9 12.6 97.2 Total 418.1 92.1 Interest Accruals and Other Statutory Risk Repos and Accounting Balance Report Conduits Adjustments Sheet Accounting Classi cation - as at 31.12.07 bn bn bn bn Debt Securities in Issue 194.2 12.0 0.3 206.5 Sub Debt and Other 25.0 0.7 24.3 Deposits by Customers 243.2 243.2 Bank Deposits 33.1 7.8 0.6 41.5 Total 495.5 19.8 28 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Risk Management continued Conduits The Group Insurance Risk Committee, one of the Executive HBOS sponsors two conduits, Grampian and Landale, which Risk Committees described on page 16, considers regular are special purpose vehicles that invest in highly rated assets reports on speci ed aggregate insurance risks across all of the and funds via the Asset Backed Commercial Paper ABCP Groups insurance and investment businesses.
At 31 December 2008, investments held by Grampian development, implementation and maintenance of the overall totalled 21.7bn and 0.7bn of assets held by Landale were insurance risk management framework, covering insurance risk consolidated.
Grampian is a long established, high grade credit in each business individually, as well as in aggregate.
investment vehicle that invests in diversi ed Asset Backed As part of the overall Group risk management framework, the Securities of which over 75.9% are rated AAA by S&P and Aaa Group Insurance & Investment Risk team provides regular by Moodys.
Grampian has a liquidity line in place with HBOS support to the Group Market Risk Committee and to the which covers all of the assets and programme wide credit Group Credit Risk Committee on the inter-relationship between enhancement is also provided by HBOS.
Grampian has been insurance risk and investment risks market, credit and liquidity fully consolidated into the balance sheet.
Landale holds both risks respectively arising within these businesses, and the assets originated from the Group balance sheet and third party development of appropriate policies and standards for the transactions.
Landale has liquidity lines from HBOS and from management of those risks.
third party banks, and therefore the former, but not the latter, are consolidated into the balance sheet.
The majority of the Groups long term insurance and investment contract liabilities are managed within the HBOS Insurance & In 2008, there have been occasions when Grampian and Investment Division and Insight Investment with approximately Landale in respect of assets backed by HBOS liquidity lines 8% 2007 3% operated by the life businesses outside the UK.
have declined to issue Asset Backed Commercial Paper.
At Day to day management of insurance and investment risk these times the conduits were funded through the available is undertaken by management supported by specialist risk liquidity lines rather than through the ABCP market.
Use is made of the statutory actuarial roles, both to December 2008, HBOS had provided funding to the Grampian help ensure regulatory compliance in respect of the authorised and Landale conduits of 20.4bn.
insurance companies in the Group and to help meet Group risk General Insurance & Long Term Assurance Business management standards.
Risks Long Term Assurance The general insurance and long term assurance business The insurance and investment business that is transacted contracts underwritten by the Group expose HBOS to both by the life insurance companies within the Group comprises investment and insurance risk.
unit linked business, xed bene t business also known as Insurance risk is the potential for loss, arising out of non-pro t business and with-pro ts business described as adverse claims from both life and general insurance insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary contracts.
participating features DPF written within the with-pro ts fund.
Several companies within the insurance and investment Investment risk is the potential for financial loss business transact either unit linked and or other non-pro t arising from the risks associated with the investment business, but all with-pro ts business is underwritten by management activities of the Group.
Investment risk Clerical Medical Investment Group Limited Clerical Medical, a includes market, credit and liquidity risks.
The loss can be subsidiary of HBOS Financial Services Limited.
as a result of: Direct risks relating to changes in the value of Group The key characteristics of long term assurance that give rise assets in support of the general insurance and long term to insurance and investment risk are its long term nature, the insurance contracts: guarantees provided to policyholders, the dependency on the performance of investment markets and the extent to which Indirect risks arising from policyholder funds where the assets backing the contractual liabilities are matched.
assets and policyholder liabilities are matched: and Indirect risks associated with the management of assets held on behalf of third parties.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29 The quality, mix and volume of business have a signi cant The Group estimates that if the capital value of the unit linked in uence on the extent of insurance and investment risk funds, excluding consolidated collective investment schemes, assumed by the Group and resulting pro ts.
The quality of classi ed as investment contracts had been reduced, on business written is in uenced by variations in product terms as average by 10% for the year, the pro t before tax for the year well as the average premium size, age and term pro le within would have decreased by 20m 2007 22m.
For unit linked the particular products.
Accordingly, the mix in products written contracts classi ed as either insurance contracts or investment may impact on pro ts, depending on the nature, extent and contracts with DPF the Group has considered the sensitivities to pro tability of new business in addition to existing business.
This a number of risks in Note 28 to the Accounts on pages 87 to 89. risk is managed through the application of clear pricing policies Unit linked products provide some discretion for variation in that require full financial assessment for each new product, 29 annual administration charges, and therefore management of incorporating consideration of expected hurdle rates of return.
variations in expenses may be achieved through variation in Additionally, variations in administration and development charges.
costs may impact the available pro t margin within the product An additional risk the Group faces, in respect of unit linked charges.
To manage this risk, there is a regular process of business, is the risk that increases to surrender rates for both expense budgeting and reporting with appropriate targets set insurance and investment contracts reduce the value of future for new insurance and investment products that are developed.
Actions to control and The risks associated with particular sections of the long term monitor this risk include charges applicable on some products assurance business are set out below.
where the investor surrenders early, regular experience monitoring, consideration of the sensitivity of product pro tability Unit Linked Funds to levels of lapse rates at the product development stage: and For unit linked funds, including consolidated collective initiatives within the relevant businesses to encourage customer investment schemes, which comprise 79% 2007 77% of retention.
the Groups long term insurance and investment contract liabilities, investors bear the investment risk, with changes in Non-Pro t Business the underlying investments being matched by changes in the The Group has a diversi ed portfolio of life insurance and underlying contract liabilities.
Similarly, the Group manages a annuity policies within its portfolio of non-pro t insurance number of collective investment schemes where the investors contracts, which includes the insurance risk component of unit bear the investment risks.
The investor selects from a range linked policies classi ed as insurance contracts.
The principal of investment opportunities available from the Group in investment risk in respect of the non-pro t business is interest accordance with their personal risk appetite and circumstances.
rate risk which arises because assets and liabilities may exhibit differing changes in value as a result of changes in interest On a day-to-day basis, cash out ows which are necessitated rates.
This may potentially impact on the results and the capital by investors withdrawing their funds are generally met by cash position.
The investment risk also includes the risk of increases in ows from new investors.
In circumstances where funds are in corporate bond yield spreads over government risk free yields contracting, or to meet unusually high levels of withdrawals, or the ratings downgrade of certain securities, both of which the Group sells assets in the fund in order to meet the cash reduce the capital value of the bonds.
These risks are controlled demands with any dealing costs charged to the underlying by processes carried out to help ensure an appropriate level unit linked fund and consequently the policyholders.
The of matching is maintained in the funds so that changes in xed underlying assets in the unit linked funds are subject to credit interest assets backing the non-pro t business are substantially and market risks in the form of interest rate, equity prices, mitigated by offsetting changes in liabilities, as the discount foreign exchange and other market risks depending on the rate used in valuing the liabilities is linked to that of the matching fund, including movement in property values.
These processes include the use of and monitoring are matched by changes in the unit linked liabilities.
the Group is not directly exposed to signi cant liquidity, credit or market risks, although the investors bene ts will vary as The ultimate amounts payable under these policies are a consequence.
Decreases in the capital value of unit linked sensitive to general trends in mortality rates.
For annuitants funds as a result of falls in market values of equities, property comprising 3% 2007 3% of the Groups long term insurance or xed interest assets will however reduce the future annual and investment contract liabilities, there is a risk that increases investment management charges that will be earned from unit to life expectancy through medical advances will prove greater linked business.
For protection business, the risk is that an unforeseen event such as a natural disaster will cause a material increase in death rates.
The extent of the Groups exposure to insurance risks is set out in Note 30 to the Accounts on pages 90 to 93.
30 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Risk Management continued With-Pro ts Fund Accordingly, the insurance and other investment risks credit, The insurance and investment business includes the Clerical liquidity and market risks within the with-pro ts fund are Medical With-Pro ts Fund which comprises 17% 2007 17% generally expected to be borne by the with-pro ts insurance of the Groups long term insurance and investment contract and investment contracts with DPF policyholders except in the liabilities.
The with-pro ts fund takes some investment risks extreme scenarios.
The sensitivity of the Group result to certain with the aim of enhancing policyholder returns but aims to limit changes in key variables relating to insurance and investment payouts to policyholders to that supportable by the with-pro ts contracts with DPF within the with-pro ts fund have been funds assets.
included in Note 30 to the Accounts on pages 90 and 93.
For unitised with-pro ts contracts the Group receives an Additionally, in order to demonstrate the sensitivity of the withannual management charge.
For traditional with-pro ts pro ts fund to certain key market variables, and consequently contracts, which form the minority of the with-pro ts fund the ability of the with-pro ts fund to meet its policyholders business, the Group receives one ninth of bonuses declared to expectations, the Group has set out a sensitivity analysis of policyholders as long as there is a distributable surplus within unallocated divisible surplus in Note 32 to the Accounts on page the fund.
Ordinarily, variations in the capital value of the funds assets General Insurance would result in variations in the level of bene ts available to For general insurance household contracts the most signi cant the with-pro ts contract holders and accordingly a variation risks to claims experience arise from weather events.
For in the insurance and investment contracts with DPF liabilities.
repayment insurance contracts the most signi cant risks arise Included in the with-pro ts fund are certain contracts with from changes in economic conditions.
minimum payment guarantees at certain policy durations and The Group manages its exposure to insurance risk through on death.
Of these with-pro ts contracts issued between 1997 a strategy which includes limitation of the nature of the risks and 2001, a signi cant proportion have guaranteed bene ts underwritten and allowance within the price charged for the which are in the money at the balance sheet date.
This allowance for risks is based on both The costs of meeting these guarantees, up to a certain level, external information and HBOSs own experience data.
For all are met by charges to the bene ts for all with-pro ts contract classes of insurance there are pricing models that are regularly policyholders.
The amount of these guaranteed bene ts, net of adjusted for actual claims experience.
For household insurance charges to be levied on policyholder funds, was less than 2% the Group limits its exposure to large weather events through 2007 1% of the Groups long term insurance and investment the use of reinsurance.
Any reinsurance purchased must have contract liabilities at the balance sheet date.
Above this level a minimum credit rating, and if that rating is breached no further the costs are met by the free assets of the fund the assets business is placed with that provider.
maintained in the fund which are not held to meet contractual The majority of claims are reported and settled within 12 months liabilities.
There remains a risk that Clerical Medical may suffer and generally there is limited reserving uncertainty for events an additional charge in exceptional circumstances where before the balance sheet date.
even after management action, the fund is unable to meet the costs of guarantees within the fund.
This is set out in the For some renewable contracts household, travel and some Principles and Practices of the With-Pro ts Fund, available repayment insurance, the longer term exposure to risk is from the Clerical Medical Investment Group website www.
managed in conjunction with the ability to re-price contracts clericalmedical.
to take account of changes in the level of risk within those contracts.
As well as pooling of risks, the other important measures in controlling the investment risk within the with-pro ts fund Set out in Note 30 to the Accounts on page 93 are the Groups include having agreed management actions to adjust the nature general insurance claim provisions by policy type.
and extent of investment exposure in response to certain investment conditions: by recognising and holding appropriate End of information that forms an integral part of the audited levels of risk capital: by restricting holdings to assets which meet financial statements.
admissibility criteria: and by using derivative strategies to reduce downside risk.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 31 Operational Risk Regulatory Risk Operational Risk exists in the normal conduct of business The Financial Services Authority is the main regulator and is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed for HBOS, although the Groups international businesses internal processes or systems, or from people-related in the USA, Australia and Ireland are subject to direct or external events.
Examples of potential sources of scrutiny from the US Federal Reserve, APRA and The operational risk include fraud, system reliability, human Financial Regulator respectively.
error, failure of key suppliers, IT security, business HBOS understands that consumers have a choice of supplier continuity, change management, operational outsourcing and product and are more demanding of financial services and failure to comply with legislation or regulation.
The Group supports the FSAs Treating Customers The Board has approved an Operational Risk Policy that Fairly initiative and has set clear principles for doing business.
31 establishes the framework for managing operational risk.
The This is supported by ongoing maintenance of procedures main components of the Framework include risk and control across the Group, with associated enhancement and assessment, internal loss reporting, capture of risk event development where necessary.
The objective is to meet the information, key risk indicator monitoring and evaluation of requirements of shareholders through meeting customer needs.
HBOS is alert to the wider, cumulative picture of regulatory The Group Operational Risk Committee is one of the four change and utilises centralised expertise in the area of Executive Risk Committees chaired by the Group Risk Director.
regulatory and legal compliance, speci cally to: It is attended by senior executives from the Divisions and Group Identify and assess the impact of, respond to and where specialist areas.
The committee considers the management possible in uence the direction of regulatory developments on of issues and exposures, recommends the appropriate capital behalf of HBOS: requirement, approves policies and standards and provides oversight of the operational risk communities.
Lead the development and monitoring of the application of speci c Group-wide policies and standards: and A key enhancement to the infrastructure has been to focus on the explicit risk management of specialist areas that underpin Oversee the management, support and co-ordination of the the HBOS Operational Risk Framework.
Each specialist risk liaison and interaction with HBOS regulatory stakeholders area is supported by a relevant specialist Group Function.
The across all its international businesses.
specialists role is to ensure that appropriate risk management practice is operating across their community.
The key elements The impact of regulatory change is reported across all Executive of the Group specialists roles are: Risk Committees with speci c reference to the discipline affected and at Group level to Audit Committee and the Board.
The information set out below ending before the section entitled Provide opinion on the effectiveness of risk management for Capital Requirements on page 33 forms an integral part of the their area of specialism.
audited financial statements as described in the Accounting Policies section of the Financial Statements on page 48.
The Group Business Risk function co-ordinates the specialist areas, designs and maintains Group-wide risk systems and a Capital Management specialist portfolio management team undertakes the detailed Capital management within HBOS has Board visibility and is modelling required to assess risk exposure using internal and managed primarily through the capital planning process, which external loss event information.
External information is available in turn forms part of the overall Group Business Plan.
The capital through HBOS membership of the Operational Risk Data planning process assists in determining the optimal amount Exchange ORX.
ORX provides anonymous information from a of capital that should be held by the Group and the most number of international banks which assist in the identi cation, appropriate mix between the different components of capital, assessment and modelling of operational risk.
The day-to-day management of the Groups capital is delegated to the Group Capital Committee The FSA granted HBOS Advanced status under Basel II and with support from underlying committees, including the Group consequently the Group utilises the Advanced Measurement Regulatory Capital Adequacy Committee.
Approach AMA for regulatory capital reporting in most of its businesses.
HBOS does not currently use insurance or expected losses to offset its regulatory capital requirement.
32 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Risk Management continued The Group Capital Committee is responsible for establishing The capital plan is stressed under demanding economic the strategic and management framework for the assessment scenarios with both common and speci c univariate sensitivity and allocation of capital within the parameters set by the Board analysis undertaken.
through the agreed terms of the Group Business Plan and the The Group Capital Committee receives a monthly update approved Risk Appetite.
The committee monitors compliance and review of the capital position of the Group.
Summary MI with the capital plan, including stress and scenario analysis, is also passed to the Executive Committee and the Board.
contingency planning and capital management strategies.
A reconciliation of monthly actual data to forecast is also The Group Capital Committee supports wider business completed with commentary on variances and submitted to the planning and decisions by analysing business levels that are Group Capital Committee.
sustainable under internal capital generation, what options are Throughout 2008 the Group Capital Committee has met weekly available with regards to the levels of capital generated by the in order to maintain an up-to-date view of market conditions and business and also reviews and provides oversight on business key capital ratios and to ensure issues arising are identi ed and cases that are put forward for inorganic activity.
The Groups on-going capital strength has As part of its capital management remit, the Group Capital been a core focus of the Group Capital Committee during the Committee also ensures compliance with the Group Capital and year.
This policy is reviewed annually and approved The Group Regulatory Capital Adequacy Committee is by the Board.
responsible for supporting the Group Capital Committee in its The policy covers the following key areas: capital management role.
It achieves this through establishing policies and minimum standards to measure and monitor Capital planning management process and responsibilities: the financial capital resource requirements of the Group in accordance with the Groups risk pro le and appropriate The type and level of capital required and held by the Group: regulatory requirements.
The Committee relies on input from the specialist executive risk committees the Group Credit Risk Monitoring and controlling capital plans and forecasts: and Committee, the Group Market Risk Committee and the Group Operational Risk Committee.
Subsidiary regulated entities and capital transferability.
Where capital requires to be raised, it is the Groups policy to For the latter, the policy governs the transferability of capital issue capital in a range of different forms and also from diverse around the Group subject to guiding principles which require sources to spread the investor base.
HBOS plc raises the nonthat all subsidiary regulated entities within the Group must equity Tier 1 capital and subordinated debt for all the Groups hold suf cient capital to ensure that they continue to meet businesses, with the exception of Clerical Medical which is their individual regulatory capital ratios as imposed by the local permitted to raise capital separately as part of the overall Group regulator.
Each regulated entity is required to set out their capital capital plan to spread the investor base for subordinated debt.
plans for approval by the Group Capital Committee.
The types of capital held by the Group are subject to regulatory Surplus capital held at regulated entity levels may be released limits which have been established to ensure that restrictions are up to HBOS plc level in the form of dividends or capital placed on the extent to which certain types of capital, such as repatriation.
innovative Tier 1, are eligible for inclusion within a rms capital resources.
The capital planning process ensures Divisions and regulated legal entity owners commit to and are monitored against key The regulatory limits specify that: drivers, including: at least 50 per cent of Tier 1 Capital must be Core Tier 1: Risk Weighted Assets and Expected Losses: the amount of innoviate Tier 1 cannot exceed 15 per cent of Other deductions from capital: overall Tier 1 Capital: Non-equity capital and gearing: and qualifying Tier 2 Capital cannot exceed Tier 1 Capital: and Surplus capital and agreed utilisation.
qualifying dated subordinated loan capital may not exceed 50 per cent of Tier 1 Capital.
The capital plan is monitored on a continuous basis.
It is updated formally as part of the annual planning and quarterly There are also limitations on the amount of collectively assessed reforecasting cycles, in line with the Group Business Plan, impairment provisions which may be included as part of Tier 2 with additional revisions made in the intervening periods as Capital.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33 The principal forms of capital are included in the following In addition the excess of Expected Loss over and above any balances on the consolidated balance sheet: called up share accounting impairment provisions made is deducted 50% from capital, share premium account, other reserves, retained Tier 1 Capital and 50% from Tier 2 Capital.
Other regulatory earnings and other borrowed funds.
deductions made on a similar basis relate to securitisation positions held and material holdings.
In July 2008 HBOS raised 4.0bn net of capital through a rights issue.
Subsequent to the year end a further 11.3bn net of From the total of Tier 1 and Tier 2 Capital the carrying amounts capital was raised.
This comprised of 8.3bn of ordinary shares of unconsolidated investments including holdings in insurance raised through a Placing and Open Offer exercise supported operations, investments in the capital of other banks, and by the UK Government and 3.0bn of preference shares certain regulatory items are deducted.
Movements in Tier 1 Capital and the capital structure of the The latter capital raising exercise was made in support of the Group are given on page 136.
Proposed Government Funding initiative devised to stabilise the Pillar 2 Capital Requirements UK banking system and was conditional on the completion of In order to satisfy the requirements of Pillar 2, HBOS is required the acquisition of HBOS by Lloyds TSB Group plc.
to perform an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process End of information that forms an integral part of the audited ICAAP.
The HBOS ICAAP is based upon a Pillar 1 Plus approach Capital Requirements whereby the Pillar 1 regulatory capital requirements for Credit The FSA requires each bank and banking group to maintain Risk, Operational Risk and Market Risk Trading Book are adequate capital resources to meet their total capital supplemented by consistent assessments of the key risks not requirements Pillar 1 and Pillar 2 under the Basel II Framework.
captured under Pillar 1, of which the most material are Pension This includes any additional capital requirements identi ed Obligation Risk and Concentration Risk.
through the rms or groups Individual Capital Guidance.
The individual risk assessments are aggregated with no The FSA supervises HBOS on a regulatory consolidated basis allowance for inter-risk diversi cation, generating a total internal and as such receives information on the capital adequacy of, capital assessment which is incrementally greater than the and sets capital requirements for, HBOS as a whole.
The total minimum regulatory capital function is performed at sub-group levels within the business, requirement is set by the FSA taking into account this internal including at Bank of Scotland Group level.
A strong capital buffer, fide ned as the amount by which the total capital resources exceed the total capital Individual banking and insurance subsidiaries are directly requirement, is held.
regulated by either the FSA or their local supervisors, who set their capital adequacy requirements.
This includes supervision The current capital planning forecasts show a satisfactory on a solo consolidation basis.
capital buffer even in a deteriorating economic scenario, signi cantly bolstered by the post year end capital injection.
HBOS must at all times monitor and demonstrate compliance with the relevant regulatory capital requirements of the FSA.
Pillar 3 Disclosures The Group has in place, extensive processes and controls to The HBOS plc Basel II Pillar 3 Disclosures for the year ended monitor the Groups capital adequacy and frequent reporting of 31 December 2008 will be published online during the second the Groups capital position and associated data and analysis quarter of 2009. is made to the FSA under the Integrated Regulatory Reporting These disclosures will represent the first full set of Pillar 3 Regime.
disclosures to be published by HBOS under the Basel II Capital Structure Framework.
Tier 1 Capital comprises shareholders funds, innovative Tier The purpose of Pillar 3 is to communicate the rms risk 1 securities and minority interests, after adjusting for items management practices, its approach to capital management, re ected in shareholders funds which are treated differently its capital resources and Pillar 1 capital requirements and to for the purposes of capital adequacy.
The book values of provide a detailed analysis of its credit risk exposures.
goodwill and intangible assets are deducted in arriving at the Tier 1 Capital position.
Pillar 3 disclosures build on a number of equivalent disclosures made within the Annual Report and Accounts, providing greater Tier 2 Capital comprises qualifying subordinated loan capital, detail and analysis.
certain collectively assessed impairment provisions, and unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of equities held as available for sale.
