HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk Regulation and supervision Page Regulation and supervision 1 Unaudited Regulation and supervision....................... 188 1 Risk management...................................... 191 With listings of its ordinary shares in London, Credit risk................................................... 192 Hong Kong, New York, Paris and Bermuda, HSBC 2 Holdings complies with the relevant requirements Credit risk management........................ 192 3 for listing and trading on each of these exchanges.
In Credit exposure..................................... 197 the UK, these are the Listing Rules of the Financial 1 Areas of special interest......................... 208 Services Authority FSA : in Hong Kong, The 2 Renegotiated loans.................................. 216 Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The 3 Credit quality of financial instruments.. 217 Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited HKSE : 3 Impaired loans and advances................. 220 in the US, where the shares are traded in the form of 3 ADSs, HSBC Holdings shares are registered with Impairment allowances and charges...... 223 2 the US Securities and Exchange Commission HSBC Holdings..................................... 232 SEC.
As a consequence of its US listing, HSBC 1 Risk elements in the loan portfolio........ 233 Holdings is also subject to the reporting and other Liquidity and funding................................. 235 requirements of the US Securities Act of 1933, as 2 Policies and procedures......................... 235 amended, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as 2 Primary sources of funding................... 235 amended, and the New York Stock Exchanges 2 NYSE Listed Company Manual, in each case as HSBC Holdings..................................... 240 applied to foreign private issuers.
2 Non-trading portfolios........................... 245 A statement of HSBCs compliance with the 2 Defined benefit pension schemes............. 246 code provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate 1 Sensitivity of net interest income........... 246 Governance issued by the Financial Reporting 1 Structural foreign exchange exposures.... 248 Council and with the Code on Corporate Governance 3 Practices in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the HSBC Holdings..................................... 249 1 Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Residual value risk.................................... 252 Hong Kong Limited is set out in the Report of the 1 Operational risk......................................... 252 Directors: Governance on page 281.
These authorities impose a Risk management of insurance variety of requirements and controls designed to 2 operations.............................................. 255 improve financial stability and the transparency of 2 financial markets and their contribution to economic Life insurance business........................... 255 2 growth.
These regulations and controls cover, inter Non-life insurance business.................... 256 alia, capital adequacy, depositor protection, market 2 Insurance risk........................................ 256 liquidity, governance standards, customer protection 2 Financial risks....................................... 262 for example, fair lending practices, product design, Present value of in-force long-term and marketing and documentation standards, and 2 insurance business............................. 272 social responsibility obligations for example, antiCapital management and allocation............ 274 money laundering and anti-terrorist financing 2 measures.
In addition, a number of countries in Capital management.............................. 274 3 which HSBC operates impose rules that affect, or Capital measurement and allocation..... 275 place limitations on, foreign or foreign-owned or Risk-weighted assets by principal controlled banks and financial institutions.
The rules 1 subsidiary............................................ 280 include restrictions on the opening of local offices, branches or subsidiaries and the types of banking 1 Unaudited.
and non-banking activities that may be conducted by 2 Audited.
those local offices, branches or subsidiaries: 188 restrictions on the acquisition of local banks or businesses in the UK.
They also set out reporting regulations requiring a specified percentage of local and, as applicable, consent requirements with ownership: and restrictions on investment and other regard to large individual exposures and large financial flows entering or leaving the country.
The exposures to related borrowers.
In its capacity as supervisory and regulatory regimes of the countries supervisor of HSBC on a consolidated basis, the where HSBC operates will determine to some degree FSA receives information on the capital adequacy of, HSBCs ability to expand into new markets, the and sets requirements for, HSBC as a whole.
Further services and products that HSBC will be able to details on capital measurement are included in offer in those markets and how HSBC structures Capital management and allocation on pages 274 specific operations.
As a result of the recent to 280.
The FSAs approach to capital requirements government interventions in response to recent for UK insurers is to require minimum capital to be global economic conditions it is widely anticipated calculated on two bases.
First, firms must calculate that there will be a substantial increase in their liabilities on a prudent basis and add a statutory government regulation and supervision of the solvency margin pillar 1.
Secondly, firms must financial services industry, including the imposition calculate their liabilities on a realistic basis then add of higher capital requirements, heightened disclosure to this their own calculation of risk-based capital.
standards and restrictions on certain types of The sum of realistic reserves and risk-based capital transaction structures.
pillar 2 is agreed with the FSA.
Insurers are required to maintain capital equal to the higher of In June 2006, the Basel Committee on Banking pillars 1 and 2.
The FSA has the right to object, on Supervision introduced a new capital adequacy prudential grounds, to persons who hold, or intend to framework to replace the 1988 Basel Capital Accord hold, 10 per cent or more of the voting power of a in the form of a new Accord commonly known as financial institution.
Details of the way in which Basel II has been implemented by the FSA, the timing of the The regulatory framework of the UK financial change and the impact on HSBC are set out on services system has traditionally been based on page 275. co-operation between the FSA and authorised institutions.
The FSA monitors authorised The FSA supervises HSBC on a consolidated institutions through ongoing supervision and the basis.
In addition, each operating bank, finance review of routine and ad hoc reports relating to company or insurance operation within HSBC is financial and prudential matters.
The FSA may regulated by local supervisors.
The primary periodically obtain independent reports, usually from regulatory authorities are those in the UK, Hong the auditors of the authorised institution, as to the Kong and the US, the Groups principal areas of adequacy of internal control procedures and systems operation.
as well as procedures and systems governing records and accounting.
The FSA meets regularly with UK regulation and supervision HSBCs senior executives to discuss HSBCs UK banking and financial services institutions are adherence to the FSAs prudential guidelines.
They subject to multiple regulations.
The primary UK also regularly discuss fundamental matters relating statute is the Financial Services and Markets Act to HSBCs business in the UK and internationally, 2000 FSMA.
Additionally, data privacy is including areas such as strategic and operating plans, regulated by the Data Protection Act 1998.
Other UK risk control, loan portfolio composition and financial services legislation is derived from EU organisational changes, including succession directives relating to banking, securities, insurance, planning.
In light of current conditions, HSBC has investments and sales of personal financial services.
experienced an increased level of ongoing interaction with the FSA.
In addition to its role as HSBCs lead regulator, the FSA is responsible for authorising and Hong Kong regulation and supervision supervising all HSBCs businesses in the UK which require authorisation under FSMA.
These include Banking in Hong Kong is subject to the provisions deposit-taking, retail banking, life and general of the Banking Ordinance and to the powers, insurance, pensions, investments, mortgages, functions and duties ascribed by the Banking custody and share dealing businesses, and treasury Ordinance to the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and capital markets activity.
The principal function of the HKMA HSBCs principal authorised institution in the UK.
is to promote the general stability and effective working of the banking system in Hong Kong.
The FSA rules establish the minimum criteria for HKMA is responsible for supervising compliance authorisation for banks and financial services 189 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Regulation and supervision Risk management with the provisions of the Banking Ordinance.
The Currency the OCC and the Federal Deposit Banking Ordinance gives power to the Chief Insurance Corporation the FDIC govern many Executive of Hong Kong to give directions to the aspects of HSBCs US business.
HKMA and the Financial Secretary with respect to HSBC and its US operations are subject to the exercise of their respective functions under the supervision, regulation and examination by the Banking Ordinance.
Federal Reserve Board because HSBC is a bank The HKMA has responsibility for authorising holding company under the US Bank Holding banks, and has discretion to attach conditions to its Company Act of 1956 BHCA, as a result of its authorisation.
The HKMA requires that banks or control of HSBC Bank USA, N. A. Mclean, Virginia their holding companies file regular prudential HBUS : HSBC Trust Company Delaware, N. A. returns, and holds regular discussions with the Wilmington, Delaware HTCD : and Wells Fargo management of the banks to review their operations.
Trade Bank, N. A. San Francisco, California The HKMA may also conduct on-site examinations WFTB.
HSBC North America Holdings Inc. of banks and, in the case of banks incorporated in HNAH, formed to hold HSBCs US and Hong Kong, of any local and overseas branches and Canadian operations is also a bank holding subsidiaries.
The HKMA requires all authorised company.
Both HSBC and HNAH are registered as institutions to have adequate systems of internal financial holding companies FHCs under the control and requires the institutions external BHCA, and, accordingly, may affiliate with auditors, upon request, to report on those systems securities firms and insurance companies and engage and other matters such as the accuracy of in other activities that are financial in nature or information provided to the HKMA.
In addition, the incidental or complementary to activities that are HKMA may from time to time conduct tripartite financial in nature.
The ability of HSBC and HNAH discussions with banks and their external auditors.
to engage in expanded financial activities as FHCs depends upon HSBC and HNAH continuing to meet The HKMA has the power to divest controlling certain criteria set forth in the BHCA, including interests in a bank from persons if they are no longer requirements that their US depository institution deemed to be fit and proper, if they may otherwise subsidiaries be well capitalised and well threaten the interests of depositors or potential managed, and that such institutions have achieved at depositors, or if they have contravened any least a satisfactory record in meeting community conditions specified by the HKMA.
The HKMA may credit needs during their most recent examinations revoke authorisation in the event of an institutions pursuant to the Community Reinvestment Act.
non-compliance with the provisions of the Banking Ordinance.
These provisions require, among other In general, under the BHCA, an FHC would be things, the furnishing of accurate reports.
required, upon notice by the Federal Reserve Board, to enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve The HKMA implemented Basel II with effect Board to correct any failure to comply with the from 1 January 2007 for all Authorised Institutions requirements to maintain FHC status.
Until such incorporated in Hong Kong.
deficiencies are corrected, the Federal Reserve The marketing of, dealing in and provision of Board may impose limitations on the US activities of advice and asset management services in relation to an FHC and depository institutions under its control.
securities in Hong Kong are subject to the provisions If such deficiencies are not corrected, the Federal of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Reserve Board may require an FHC to divest its Kong Securities and Futures Ordinance.
Entities control of any subsidiary depository institution or to engaging in activities regulated by the Securities and desist from certain financial activities in the US.
Futures Ordinance are required to be licensed.
The The three US banks, HBUS, HTCD, and WFTB HKMA is the primary regulator for banks involved are subject to regulation and examination primarily in the securities business, while the Securities and by the OCC, secondarily by the FDIC, and by the Futures Commission is the regulator for non-banking Federal Reserve Board.
regulations restrict many aspects of their operations and administration, including the establishment and US regulation and supervision maintenance of branch offices, capital and reserve HSBC is subject to extensive federal and state requirements, deposits and borrowings, investment supervision and regulation in the US.
Banking laws and lending activities, payment of dividends and and regulations of the Board of Governors of the numerous other matters.
Federal Reserve System the Federal Reserve Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the In December 2007, US regulators published a final 190
