HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Management Risk function, which the Group Finance Director maintained at regional and customer group levels.
It represents on the Board.
operates through two key mechanisms: Global Risk has functional responsibility for the the framework itself defines the governance principal financial risk types, namely retail and bodies, processes, metrics and other features of wholesale credit, market, operational, security and how HSBC addresses risk appetite as part of its fraud risks.
For these it establishes Group policy, ongoing business: exercises Group-wide oversight and provides periodic risk appetite statements define, at reporting and analysis of portfolio composition on a various levels in the business, the desired level global and a regional basis to senior management.
of risk commensurate with return and growth Accountability and consistent control across the targets and in line with the corporate strategy Global Risk function is provided through the Global and stakeholder objectives.
Risk Management Board, chaired by the GCRO, the membership of which includes the Chief Risk Officers The risk appetite framework covers both the of HSBCs regions and the heads of risk disciplines beneficial and adverse aspects of risk.
Global Risk also co-ordinates the economic capital is the common currency through continued development of the Groups risk appetite, which risk is measured and used as the basis for risk economic capital and stress testing frameworks.
In evaluation, capital allocation and performance addition, the GCRO is a member of the Group measurement across regions and customer groups.
Portfolio Oversight Committee, chaired by the Group Risk appetite is executed through the operational Treasurer, which governs the Groups portfolio limits that control the levels of risk run by the management activities for the wholesale business Group, regions and customer groups and is measured sector.
Risk appetite Risk control culture HSBCs risk appetite framework describes the HSBCs risk management policies are encapsulated quantum and types of risk that HSBC is prepared to in the Group Standards Manual and cascaded in a take in executing its strategy.
It is central to an hierarchy of policy manuals throughout the Group and integrated approach to risk, capital and business communicate standards, instructions and guidance to management and supports the Group in achieving its employees.
They support the formulation of risk return on equity objectives, as well as being a key appetite and establish procedures for monitoring and element in meeting the Groups obligations under controlling risks, with timely and reliable reporting to pillar 2 of Basel II.
HSBC regularly reviews and updates its risk management policies, systems and methodologies The formulation of risk appetite considers to reflect changes in law, regulation, markets, HSBCs risk capacity, its financial position, the products and emerging best practice.
strength of its core earnings and the resilience of its reputation and brand.
It is expressed both It is the responsibility of all Group officers to qualitatively, describing which risks are taken and identify, assess and manage risk within the scope why, and quantitatively.
HSBC senior management of their assigned responsibilities.
Personal attaches quantitative metrics to individual risk types accountability, reinforced by the Groups governance to ensure that: structure and instilled by training and experience, helps to foster throughout the Group a disciplined and underlying business activity may be guided and constructive culture of risk management and control.
controlled, so that it continues to be aligned to the risk appetite framework: Credit risk key assumptions underpinning risk appetite can Credit risk management be monitored and, as necessary, adjusted Audited through subsequent business planning cycles: and Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer or counterparty fails to meet an obligation under a business decisions anticipated to be necessary to contract.
It arises principally from direct lending, mitigate risk are flagged and acted upon trade finance and leasing business, but also from promptly.
certain off-balance sheet products such as guarantees The risk appetite framework, governed by the and credit derivatives, and from the Groups Board and overseen in its implementation on an holdings of assets in the form of debt securities.
ongoing basis by GMB and RMM, is also HSBC has standards, policies and procedures 192 dedicated to monitoring and managing risk from Guiding HSBCs operating companies on the such activities.
Groups appetite for credit risk exposure to specified market sectors, activities and banking The credit risk governance structures and products.
GMO Risk controls exposures to control frameworks implemented by the Group are certain higher-risk sectors and closely monitors designed for all stages of economic and financial exposure to others, including real estate, the cycles, including the current economic environment.
automotive sector, certain non-bank financial No material changes were initiated to HSBCs risk institutions, structured products and leveraged management objectives, policies or procedures as a finance transactions.
When necessary, direct result of market turmoil.
Certain measures restrictions are imposed on new business or already undertaken, however, are helping the Group exposures, which may be capped at Group to manage the effects of that turmoil.
Such measures, and or entity level.
for example the reinforcement of central credit risk oversight and independent review activities, continue Undertaking independent review and objective to be implemented within a common operating assessment of risk.
GMO Risk assesses all model for the responsibilities and interaction of commercial non-bank credit facilities and GMO Risk, regionally integrated risk functions and exposures including those embedded in country-based management.
In addition, certain derivatives that are originated or renewed by operational processes have been invoked and applied HSBCs operating companies over designated in order to manage risks more intensively.
limits, prior to the facilities being committed to customers or transactions being undertaken.
Credit Risk is part of the Global Risk function, Operating companies may not confirm credit and the heads of its Retail and Wholesale risk approval without this concurrence.
disciplines within GMO, as well as regional Chief Risk Officers, certain country Chief Credit Officers Monitoring the performance and management of and the Head of Risk Strategy, report to the GCRO.
retail portfolios across the Group.
GMO Risk The regional governance bodies for key risk matters tracks emerging trends and conducts in-depth reflect those in place at the centre.
Functional units portfolio reviews, overseeing the effective at the entity and regional levels report to GMO management of any adverse characteristics.
GMO helps build the Groups credit risk Controlling centrally exposures to sovereign management capacity through staff selection, entities, banks and other financial institutions.
training, development, performance assessment and HSBCs credit and settlement risk limits to remuneration the GCRO is jointly responsible with counterparties in these sectors are approved and business heads for setting the performance goals of managed by GMO Risk to optimise the use of senior Global Risk officers.
credit availability and avoid excessive risk Across the Group, Credit Risk fulfils the role of concentration.
an independent credit control unit, while engaging Controlling exposure for all debt securities held: in dialogue with business teams to set priorities, where a security is not held solely for the refine risk appetite, and monitor and report higherpurpose of trading, a formal issuer risk limit is risk exposures.
Credit risk and risk capital established.
management policies and methodologies, including analytical model development review and Establishing and maintaining HSBCs policy on management information, are enhanced in the light large credit exposures, ensuring that of experience gained, for instance through the rollconcentrations of exposure by counterparty, out of the Groups advanced internal ratings-based sector or geography do not become excessive in IRB approach to Basel II.
See also Capital relation to the Groups capital base and remain Management on page 274. within internal and regulatory limits.
The approach is designed to be more conservative The Credit Risk function within GMO provides than internationally accepted regulatory high-level oversight and management of credit risk standards.
GMO Risk also monitors HSBCs for HSBC worldwide.
Its responsibilities include: intra-Group exposures to ensure they are Formulating Group credit policy.
Compliance, maintained within regulatory limits.
Plans are subject to approved dispensations, is mandatory being developed to adopt the FSAs new for all HSBCs operating companies, which Integrated Groups regime in accordance with must develop and record in local instruction the published transition timetable.
manuals their detailed credit policies and procedures, consistent with Group policy.
193 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Management Controlling cross-border exposures, through the Managing and directing credit risk management imposition of country limits with sub-limits by systems initiatives.
HSBC has constructed a maturity and type of business.
Country limits centralised database covering substantially all are determined by taking into account economic the Groups direct lending exposures, to deliver and political factors, and applying local business an increasingly granular level of management knowledge.
Transactions with countries deemed reporting.
A uniform credit application process to be higher risk are considered on a case by for banks is operational throughout the Group case basis.
and a similar corporate credit application system covers almost all Group corporate business by Maintaining and developing HSBCs risk rating value.
framework and systems, to classify exposures meaningfully and enable focused management Providing advice and guidance to HSBCs of the risks involved.
The GCRO chairs the operating companies, to promote best practice Credit Risk Analytics Oversight Committee, throughout the Group on credit-related matters which reports to the RMM and oversees risk such as sustainability risk, new products and rating model governance for both wholesale and training.
Rating methodologies, based Acting on behalf of HSBC Holdings as the upon a wide range of analytics and market dataprimary interface, for credit-related issues, with based tools, are core inputs to the assessment of external parties including the Bank of England, customer risk.
For larger facilities, while full use the FSA, rating agencies, corporate analysts, is made of automated risk-rating processes, the trade associations and counterparts in the ultimate responsibility for setting risk ratings worlds major banks and non-bank financial rests with the final approving executive.
Assisting the Risk Strategy unit in the Each HSBC operating company is required to development of stress-testing scenarios, implement credit policies, procedures and lending economic capital measurement and the guidelines that meet local requirements while refinement of key risk indicators and their conforming to Group standards.
Credit approval reporting, the tools for this being increasingly authorities are delegated by the Board of Directors of embedded within the Groups business planning HSBC Holdings to the most senior Chief Executive processes.
Officers, who receive commensurate delegations Reporting on aspects of the HSBC credit risk from their own boards.
In each major subsidiary, a portfolio to the RMM, the Group Audit Chief Risk Officer or Chief Credit Officer reports to Committee and the Board of Directors of HSBC the local Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating Holdings by way of a variety of regular and ad Officer on credit-related issues, while maintaining a hoc reports covering: direct functional reporting line to the GCRO.
risk concentrations: Each operating company is responsible for the quality and performance of its credit portfolios and retail portfolio performance at Group entity, for monitoring and controlling all credit risks in regional and overall Group levels: them, including those subject to central approval by specific higher-risk portfolio segments: Group Risk.
This includes managing its own risk concentrations by market sector, geography and a Risk Map of the status of key risk topics, product.
Local systems are in place throughout the with associated preventive and mitigating Group to enable operating companies to control and actions: monitor exposures by customer and retail product individual large impaired accounts, and segments.
impairment allowances charges for all Special attention is paid to problem exposures, customer segments: which are subject to more frequent and intensive country limits, cross-border exposures and review and reporting, in order to accelerate remedial related impairment allowances: action.
Where appropriate, HSBCs local operating companies maintain or establish specialist units to portfolio and analytical model performance provide customers with support in order to help them data: and avoid default wherever possible.
Periodic risk-based audits of operating companies credit processes and portfolios are 194 undertaken by HSBCs Internal Audit function.
Impairment assessment Audited Audits include consideration of the adequacy and clarity of credit policy procedure manuals: an When impairment losses occur, HSBC reduces the in-depth analysis of a representative sample of carrying amount of loans and advances through the accounts: an overview of homogeneous portfolios use of an allowance account.
When impairment of of similar assets to assess the quality of the loan available-for-sale financial assets and held-tobook and other exposures: consideration of any maturity financial investments occurs, the carrying oversight or review work performed by credit risk amount of the asset is reduced directly.
For further management functions and the adequacy of details on the accounting policy for impairment of impairment calculations: a review of analytical available-for-sale debt and equity securities, see model governance and implementation: a review of Accounting policies on page 350. management objectives and a check that Group and Impairment allowances may be assessed and local standards and policies are adhered to in the created either for individually significant accounts approval and management of credit facilities.
or, on a collective basis, for groups of individually Individually significant accounts are reviewed significant accounts for which no evidence of on a sample basis to ensure that risk ratings are impairment has been individually identified or for appropriate, that credit and collection procedures high-volume groups of homogeneous loans that are have been properly followed and that, when an not considered individually significant.
account or portfolio evidences deterioration, It is HSBCs policy that each operating impairment allowances are raised in accordance with company creates allowances for impaired loans the Groups established procedures.
Internal Audit promptly and consistently.
discusses with management any risk ratings it considers to be inappropriate: after discussion, its Management regularly evaluates the adequacy final recommendations for revised ratings must then of the established allowances for impaired loans by be adopted.
conducting a detailed review of the loan portfolio, comparing performance and delinquency statistics Credit quality with historical trends and assessing the impact of Audited current economic conditions.
HSBCs credit risk rating systems and processes differentiate exposures in order to highlight those Individually assessed impairment allowances with greater risk factors and higher potential severity These are determined by evaluating exposure to loss, of loss.
In the case of individually significant case by case, on all individually significant accounts accounts, risk ratings are reviewed regularly and any and all other accounts that do not qualify for the amendments are implemented promptly.
Within the collective assessment approach outlined below.
Groups retail businesses, risk is assessed and Loans are treated as impaired as soon as there is managed using a wide range of risk and pricing objective evidence that an impairment loss has been models to generate portfolio data.
The criteria used by HSBC to determine HSBCs historical, seven-grade risk rating that there is such objective evidence include: system based on a judgemental assessment of the known cash flow difficulties experienced by the likelihood and impact of delinquency was borrower: superseded in 2008 for financial reporting purposes, as for those of all significant risk management past due contractual payments of either principal decisions employing credit risk ratings, by a more or interest: risk-sensitive and granular methodology.
This breach of loan covenants or conditions: facilitates the IRB approach under Basel II adopted by the Group to support calculation of its minimum the probability that the borrower will enter credit regulatory capital requirement.
bankruptcy or other financial realisation: and The integration of this methodology into a significant downgrading in credit rating by an HSBCs risk processes and structures is well external credit rating agency.
advanced and supports reporting on the new basis to In determining the level of allowances on such senior management in line with the Groups IRB accounts, the following factors are typically obligations.
For further details, please see Credit considered: quality of financial instruments on page 217.
HSBCs aggregate exposure to the customer: 195 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Risk continued Credit risk Management Credit exposure the viability of the customers business model Incurred but not yet identified impairment and their capacity to trade successfully out of Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of financial difficulties, generating sufficient cash impairment has been specifically identified on an flow to service debt obligations: individual basis are grouped together according to the ability of the borrower to obtain, and make their credit risk characteristics.
A collective payments in, the currency of the loan if not impairment allowance is calculated to reflect denominated in local currency: impairment losses incurred at the balance sheet date which will only be individually identified in the the amount and timing of expected receipts and future.
recoveries: The collective impairment allowance is the extent of other creditors commitments determined having taken into account: ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and the likelihood of other creditors continuing to historical loss experience in portfolios of similar support the company: credit risk characteristics for example, by industry sector, risk rating or product segment : the complexity of determining the aggregate amount and ranking of all creditor claims and the estimated period between impairment the extent to which legal and insurance occurring and the loss being identified and uncertainties are evident: evidenced by the establishment of an appropriate allowance against the individual the value of security and likelihood of loan: and successfully realising it: managements experienced judgement as to the existence of other credit mitigants and the whether current economic and credit conditions ability of the providers of such credit mitigants are such that the actual level of inherent losses is to deliver as contractually committed: and likely to be greater or less than that suggested by when available, the secondary market price of historical experience.
The period between a loss occurring and its The level of impairment allowances on identification is estimated by local management for individually significant accounts that are above each relevant portfolio.
In general, the periods used defined materiality thresholds is reviewed at least vary between four and twelve months although, in semi-annually, and more regularly when exceptional cases, longer periods are warranted.
This normally encompasses The basis on which impairment allowances for re-assessment of the enforceability of any collateral incurred but not yet identified losses is established in held and of actual and anticipated receipts.
For each reporting entity is documented and reviewed by significant commercial and corporate debts, senior Finance and Credit Risk management to specialised loan work-out teams with experience in ensure conformity with Group policy.
insolvency and specific market sectors are used to manage the lending and assess likely losses.
Homogeneous groups of loans Individually assessed impairment allowances Two methodologies are used to calculate impairment are only released when there is reasonable and allowances where large numbers of relatively lowobjective evidence of a reduction in the established value assets are managed using a portfolio approach, loss estimate.
typically: Collectively assessed impairment allowances low-value, homogeneous small business accounts in certain countries or territories: Impairment is assessed on a collective basis in two circumstances: residential mortgages that have not been individually assessed: to cover losses that have been incurred but have not yet been identified on loans subject to credit cards and other unsecured consumer individual assessment: and lending products: and for homogeneous groups of loans that are not motor vehicle financing.
When appropriate empirical information is available, the Group uses roll rate methodology.
This employs a statistical analysis of historical trends of 196
