HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Impact of Market Turmoil continued Risk management Accounting policies Nature and extent of exposures Risk management return which is referenced to those assets.
CDOs Audited may feature exposure to sub-prime mortgage assets through the underlying assets.
As there is often The effect of the recent market turmoil on HSBCs uncertainty surrounding the nature of the underlying risk exposures, the way in which HSBC has collateral supporting CDOs, all CDOs supported by managed risk exposures in this context, and any residential mortgage-related assets, irrespective of changes made in HSBCs risk management polices the level of sub-prime assets, are classified as suband procedures in response to the market conditions prime.
are set out in the following sections: HSBCs holdings of ABSs and CDOs, and its Liquidity risk The impact of market turmoil direct lending positions, include the following on the Groups liquidity risk position see categories of collateral and lending activity: page 239. sub-prime: loans to customers who have Market risk The impact of market turmoil limited credit histories, modest incomes, high on market risk see page 242. debt-to-income ratios or have experienced credit Credit Risk Credit exposure see page 197. problems caused by occasional delinquencies, prior charge-offs, bankruptcy or other creditAccounting policies related actions.
For US mortgages, US credit Audited scores are primarily used to determine whether a loan is sub-prime.
US home equity lines of HSBCs accounting policies regarding the credit are classified as sub-prime.
For non-US classification and valuation of financial instruments mortgages, management judgement is used to are in accordance with the requirements of IAS 32 identify loans of similar risk characteristics to Financial Instruments: Presentation and IAS 39 sub-prime, for example, UK non-conforming Financial Instruments: Recognition and mortgages see below : Measurement, as described in Note 2 on the Financial Statements, and the use of assumptions and US home equity lines of credit HELoCs : a estimation in respect of valuation of financial form of revolving credit facility provided to instruments as described on page 63. customers, which is supported by a first or second lien charge over residential property.
Nature and extent of HSBCs Global Banking and Markets holdings of exposures HELoCs are classified as US sub-prime Audited residential mortgage assets: This section contains information on HSBCs US Alt-A: loans classified as Alt-A are regarded exposures to the following: as lower risk than sub-prime, but they share higher risk characteristics than lending under direct lending held at fair value through profit or normal criteria.
US credit scores, as well as the loss: level of mortgage documentation held such as ABSs including MBSs and CDOs: proof of income, are considered when determining whether an Alt-A classification is monoline insurers: appropriate.
Non-agency mortgages in the US credit derivative product companies CDPCs : are classified as Alt-A if they do not meet the and criteria for classification as sub-prime.
These are mortgages not eligible to be sold to the major leveraged finance transactions.
US Government agency, Ginnie Mae MBSs are securities that represent interests in a Government National Mortgage Association, group of mortgages.
Investors in these securities and government sponsored enterprises in the have the right to cash received from future mortgage mortgage market, Fannie Mae the Federal payments interest and or principal.
Where an MBS National Mortgage Association and Freddie references mortgages with different risk profiles, the Mac the Federal Home Loan Mortgage MBS is classified according to the highest risk class.
Corporation : Consequently, an MBS with both sub-prime and US government agency mortgage-related Alt-A exposures is classified as sub-prime.
assets: securities that are guaranteed by US CDOs are securities in which ABSs and or Government agencies, such as Ginnie Mae: certain other related assets have been purchased and US Government sponsored enterprises securitised by a third-party, or securities which pay a 150
