Key Group risk factors This section identifies the main risk other factors besides those listed may statement.
This section should also be factors that may affect the British affect the performance of its businesses.
read in the context of the cautionary American Tobacco Group.
The following Some risks may be unknown at present statement regarding forward-looking table provides a brief description of and other risks, currently regarded as statements at the end of this section.
the key risks to which the Groups immaterial, could turn out to be In 2008, a review of the Group risks, operations are exposed and identifies, material in the future.
including those arising from the in each case, their potential impact on The risk factors listed in this section current macroeconomic situation, the Group and the principal processes and the specific processes in place to and the mitigation plans in place to in place to manage the risk.
manage them should be considered address them was undertaken.
The It is not the intention to provide an in the context of the Groups internal Group risk register was reviewed by extensive analysis of all risks affecting control framework, which is addressed the Audit Committee in December the Group.
Not all of the factors listed in detail in the statement on internal 2008 and will continue to be reviewed are within the control of the Group and control in the Corporate governance by it at 6 monthly intervals.
Illicit trade Illicit trade in the form of counterfeit products, smuggled genuine products and locally manufactured products on which applicable taxes are evaded, represents a significant and growing threat to the legitimate tobacco industry.
Increasing excise rates can encourage more consumers to switch to illegal cheaper tobacco products and provide greater rewards for smugglers.
Competition from illicit trade Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal controls in place to address risk sudden and disproportionate excise erosion of brand equity: dedicated Anti-Illicit Trade AIT teams increases and widening excise differentials operating at global, regional, area and investment in trade marketing between markets: key market levels: and distribution is undermined: ineffective regulatory environment: active engagement with key stakeholders: product is commoditised: lack of enforcement and weak border global AIT strategy development supported lower volumes and reduced profits.
by a research programme to further the understanding of the size and scope of the problem: Brand Enforcement Group including a dedicated analytical laboratory supports law enforcement agencies in pursuit of priority targets and capacity building: strong internal business conduct and customer approval policies.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 30 Business review
