Key Group risk factors This section identifies the main risk other factors besides those listed may statement.
This section should also be factors that may affect the British affect the performance of its businesses.
read in the context of the cautionary American Tobacco Group.
The following Some risks may be unknown at present statement regarding forward-looking table provides a brief description of and other risks, currently regarded as statements at the end of this section.
the key risks to which the Groups immaterial, could turn out to be In 2008, a review of the Group risks, operations are exposed and identifies, material in the future.
including those arising from the in each case, their potential impact on The risk factors listed in this section current macroeconomic situation, the Group and the principal processes and the specific processes in place to and the mitigation plans in place to in place to manage the risk.
manage them should be considered address them was undertaken.
The It is not the intention to provide an in the context of the Groups internal Group risk register was reviewed by extensive analysis of all risks affecting control framework, which is addressed the Audit Committee in December the Group.
Not all of the factors listed in detail in the statement on internal 2008 and will continue to be reviewed are within the control of the Group and control in the Corporate governance by it at 6 monthly intervals.
Illicit trade Illicit trade in the form of counterfeit products, smuggled genuine products and locally manufactured products on which applicable taxes are evaded, represents a significant and growing threat to the legitimate tobacco industry.
Increasing excise rates can encourage more consumers to switch to illegal cheaper tobacco products and provide greater rewards for smugglers.
Competition from illicit trade Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal controls in place to address risk sudden and disproportionate excise erosion of brand equity: dedicated Anti-Illicit Trade AIT teams increases and widening excise differentials operating at global, regional, area and investment in trade marketing between markets: key market levels: and distribution is undermined: ineffective regulatory environment: active engagement with key stakeholders: product is commoditised: lack of enforcement and weak border global AIT strategy development supported lower volumes and reduced profits.
by a research programme to further the understanding of the size and scope of the problem: Brand Enforcement Group including a dedicated analytical laboratory supports law enforcement agencies in pursuit of priority targets and capacity building: strong internal business conduct and customer approval policies.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 30 Business review Risk factors go online at www.
com annualreport2008 Excise and tax Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise and sales taxes in most countries in which the Group operates.
In many of these countries, taxes are generally increasing but the rate of increase varies between countries and between different types of tobacco products.
Excise shocks from tax rate increases or structure changes Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal controls in place to address risk government initiatives to raise revenues: consumers reject the Groups legitimate requirement for Group companies to tax-paid products for products from illicit have in place formal pricing and excise increases advocated within the context sources: strategies and contingency plans to of national health policies.
manage significant excise changes: lower volumes or alteration of sales mix.
annual review of brand portfolio, brand health and equity.
Financial Further details on the Groups financial management and treasury operations can be found within the Financial review.
Liquidity risks, including capital structure and leverage Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal controls in place to address risk downturn in macroeconomic climate increased funding costs and requirement established and conservative financing and or failures in financial system globally to raise or issue equity or seek new sources principles, which target a minimum level or in individual markets: of capital: of liquidity, a minimum average maturity for the total debt portfolio and a maximum limited liquidity, access to cash and sources inability to fund strategic opportunities allowable proportion of total debt maturing of finance: or respond to threats: in any 1 year, with regular reporting against fluctuations in interest rates due to underperforming share price and erosion those principles: movements in international capital markets.
of shareholder value: targeted investment grade rating: damage to corporate reputation.
retained cash flow spread across a wide banking group: maintenance of a substantial committed bank facility which may be drawn at short notice and liquidity pooling structures to access operating company cash balances.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 31 Business review Key Group risk factors continued Financial continued Foreign exchange rate exposures Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal controls in place to address risk translational foreign exchange FX rate volatility in results, cash flow and the while translational FX exposure is not exposures for earnings cash flows from the balance sheet.
hedged, its impact is identified in results Groups global business, against sterling, presentations and financial disclosures: the Groups reporting currency: debt and interest are matched to assets transactional FX rate exposures generated and cash flows to mitigate volatility where from underlying operations across the possible: Groups global business.
transactional FX exposures from the Groups underlying operations are monitored and hedged under defined policies, procedures and limits: currencies that are illiquid, or where hedging is uneconomic, are not hedged.
Counterparty risks Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal controls in place to address risk failure of counterparties with whom the significant financial loss reflected in adverse risk is spread through a wide banking Group has dealings.
impact on Group assets, financial risk profile group focused on strong counterparties and liquidity: across the globe: exposure to each financial counterparty is monitored and risk is disruption to ongoing operations due limited according to the counterpartys to failure of a transactional banking credit rating: counterparty.
financing principles and treasury policy compliance monitoring reflect global counterparty risk strategy.
Increased cost base Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal controls in place to address risk macroeconomic conditions lead to high higher product costs and or increased multiple sources of key commodities and inflation of key commodity prices leaf, salary costs: development of new sources in low-cost wood pulp, energy and or wage inflation: countries: inability to manage costs leads to lower productivity programmes do not achieve profits: specification changes and production objectives due to lack of alignment and or efficiencies to reduce variable costs: ineffective structural changes restrict future insufficient resources: growth potential and increase short-term programme to achieve costs savings incomplete, inefficient or misaligned cost base: of 800 million by 2012: organisational changes.
regular tracking of actual productivity savings and forecast improvements in operating margin and supply chain, overheads and indirects projects: aggregation of planned productivity savings in the annual 2 year budget.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 32 Business review Risk factors go online at www.
com annualreport2008 Financial continued Missed or wrongly valued acquisition opportunities Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal controls in place to address risk lack of market intelligence: loss of opportunity: specialist and properly resourced mergers and acquisitions department: over-valuation of assets or understatement loss of volume, market share and profit: of liabilities.
transactions must meet defined financial damage to corporate reputation.
investment criteria: oversight by senior management or Board where appropriate.
Marketplace The Group has substantial operations in over 180 countries.
Its results are influenced by the economic, regulatory and political situations in the countries and regions in which it has operations, as well as by the actions of competitors.
Trading environment Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal controls in place to address risk downturn in macroeconomic climate price increases to cover cost rises are not regular regional and management reviews reduces consumers disposable incomes achieved: of budgeted pricing scenarios: and may lead to consumer downtrading: profit growth in short term falls below close monitoring of sales to detect changes competitors seek volume growth by price shareholders expectations: in consumer purchasing patterns: discounts.
reduction in funds for investment in development of strong brands and brand long-term growth.
Inability to manufacture product Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal controls in place to address risk natural disasters, including major impact loss of a key factory or multiple factories individual factories have contingency of climate change: and or constraints on cigarette production and disaster recovery plans in place and leads to insufficient manufacturing capacity insurance cover against relevant risks: reduced leaf availability as a result of to satisfy market demand or a significant competition for land use or government global standardisation of key product increase in demand: initiatives to move farmers away from attributes to improve short-term options growing tobacco: increased blend costs through lack of for alternative sourcing and reduce supply: variable costs: industrial action: potential deterioration in smoke quality global sourcing and globally integrated contamination or threat of contamination: impacting consumer: management of leaf supply chain: disruptions to the supply chain.
lower market share, volume, profit and long-term contracts with established cash flows.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 33 Business review Key Group risk factors continued Marketplace continued Trading performance in key markets Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal controls in place to address risk inability to predict consumers changing reduction in market share and volume: established innovations process behaviours through lack of market insights: and strategy: profit growth in the short term fails insufficient internal resources committed to meet shareholders expectations: standard methodology to address to develop, launch and maintain innovative consumer surveys and brand value reduction in funds for investment in products: segmentation: long-term growth: inability to capture growth opportunities regular reviews of key markets, diminished shareholder confidence in individual markets and or synergistic levels of investment, brand focus in the Groups growth prospects: benefits from strong brand portfolio.
erosion of consumer base: weakened brand portfolio.
Regulation The Groups businesses operate under increasingly stringent regulatory regimes around the world.
Further regulation is expected, particularly as a result of the World Health Organisations Framework Convention on Tobacco Control FCTC and increasingly active tobacco control activities outside the FCTC.
Regulation covering: packaging and labelling: advertising and promotion: design, contents and emissions of products: testing and measuring: public place and smoking: and industry participation Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal controls in place to address risk adoption of differing regulatory regimes cost complexity of meeting regulations: Group companies have regulatory in different countries groups of countries strategies in order to identify issues material generic or plain packaging leads to loss and or lack of consensus on to their operating environment and of brand equity and commoditisation: interpretation application: develop plans to address them in a manner reduced ability to communicate brand consistent with local law and Group policy: adoption of more stringent regulations portfolio and innovations, contributing on communications, such as point of sale engagement is sought with scientific and to an increase in illicit trade: display bans: regulatory communities and stakeholder reduced consumer acceptability of new engagement takes place at global, regional exclusion of industry from participating product specifications, leading to loss and individual market levels: in engagement with regulators: of volume: global monitoring of regulatory trends and contribution to denormalisation restriction on industry participation leads to developments and analysis of regulatory of smoking.
inability to mitigate other regulatory risks.
proposals to determine impacts, if any, on business: development of corporate positions, toolkits and best practice examples for markets to address regulation.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2008 34 Business review Risk factors go online at www.
com annualreport2008 Litigation The Group is involved in a number of legal and regulatory court proceedings in a number of countries.
These proceedings may be characterised as covering smoking and health issues and include claims for personal injury and claims for economic loss arising from the treatment of smoking and health related diseases.
Regulatory proceedings may result in a challenge to new regulations.
A fuller analysis of current legal proceedings to which the Group is subject is set out in note 30 in the Notes on the accounts.
Loss of a smoking and health related court case Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal controls in place to address risk outcomes of legal and regulatory court unfavourable outcome or settlement of a specialist centre of expertise, the Strategic proceedings in various jurisdictions.
pending or future litigation: Litigation Team SLT, has responsibility for directing and managing the litigation material impact on consolidated results of risk globally: operations, cash flows and financial position in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year.
Group companies are required to assess their litigation exposure and liaise with the SLT in connection with specific claims.
Information technology The Group is increasingly reliant on information technology systems for its internal communications, controls, reporting and relations with customers and suppliers.
Disruption to Groups information technology systems Principal potential causes Potential impact on Group Principal controls in place to address risk loss of wide area of communications: loss or delay in sales or cash collections all critical financial and planning systems and or inability to pay suppliers or staff: have secure back-up systems and disaster effects of computer virus: recovery plans: goods unable to be shipped: loss of operations in a major data centre.
largest systems have full back-up designs delays in meeting statutory or internal with dual-site hosting: reporting requirements: comprehensive anti-virus protection in loss of telephony or e-mail systems: place Group-wide: loss of data.
back-up communication links in place for data centres and major sites: strict security standards and firewall protection for external links.
Cautionary statement The Business review and certain other sections of this document contain forward-looking statements which are subject to risk factors associated with, among other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries and markets in which the Group operates.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
Annual Report 2008 British American Tobacco 35 Business review
