Additional risks and uncertainties of which development for all levels of Sky people.
we are not aware or which we currently believe are immaterial may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, prospects, liquidity or results of operations.
Effectiveness The Groups business is heavily regulated and changes in regulations, changes in Through the year, a number of restructuring projects, process and effectiveness interpretation of existing regulations or failure to obtain required regulatory approvals reviews have ensured that our organisation remains appropriately shaped and skilled or licences could adversely affect the Groups ability to operate or compete effectively.
The Group is subject to regulation primarily under UK and European Union legislation Health, Safety and Wellbeing and it is currently and may be in the future subject to proceedings, and or Our long-term Health, Safety and Wellbeing plan is integrated into all areas of our investigation and enquiries from regulatory authorities, from time to time.
Our occupational health system allows a robust approach to health which affect the Groups business include broadcasting, telecommunications, surveillance planning, and provides accurate and comprehensive health data, meaning competition antitrust, gambling and taxation laws and regulations.
Relevant our resources are best directed.
authorities may introduce additional or new regulations applicable to the Groups business.
The Groups business and business prospects could be adversely affected by Our employee wellbeing strategy also provides opportunities for active involvement by the introduction of new laws, policies or regulations or changes in the interpretation our employees.
The Sky health and wellbeing initiative Keeping Karma is now or application of existing laws, policies and regulations.
Changes in regulations relating embedded as a recognised programme that gives our people the tools, information to one or more of licensing requirements, access requirements, programming and understanding to lead a healthy lifestyle and utilise our health services transmission and spectrum specications, consumer protection, taxation, or other appropriately and efficiently.
aspects of the Groups business, or that of any of the Groups competitors, could have a material adverse effect on the Groups business and or the results of its operations.
Additionally, we offer employees a comprehensive support system to ensure they are equipped to best full their potential.
The Group cannot be certain that it will succeed in obtaining all requisite approvals and licences in the future for its operations without the imposition of restrictions Reward and benets which may have an adverse consequence to the Group, or that compliance issues will The Group offers an attractive and competitive reward and benets package.
This not be raised in respect of the Groups operations, including those conducted prior to includes the BSkyB Pension Plan, life cover and disability benets, the Sharesave thedateofthisling.
scheme, a healthcare plan and complimentary Sky for all employees.
Awards under the Management Long Term Incentive Plan share scheme are made to selected On 18 December 2007, Ofcom published a consultation document in relation to its employees, and the Sharesave scheme is open to all permanent employees.
ongoing investigation into the UK pay TV industry.
The consultation document outlined Ofcoms preliminary understanding of the operation of the pay TV industry in the UK.
Our Sky Choices programme allows employees to make tax and National Insurance Interested parties, including the Group, were invited to respond to the consultation savings in areas such as childcare payments and mobile phones.
It also supports the document by providing views on Ofcoms initial assessment of the operation of the pay environment, by providing savings for a bicycle for travel to work, travel season ticket TV industry, with a view to enabling it to examine whether there are competition loans and the costs of personal carbon offsetting.
The Sky Benets Extra programme issues that merit further action which could include a market reference to the CC.
offers negotiated discounts on a variety of products and services for our employees.
This consultation is now closed and on 13 May 2008 Ofcom published copies of all of the non-condential responses it had received on the consultation document including Involvement and Communication that of the Group.
Ofcom has announced that it will publish a further consultation We encourage the involvement of our people in discussions on both current business document by the end of summer 2008. initiatives and future plans.
Our Sky Forum an elected group of 71 employees continues to play a key role in communication, representing the views and ideas of On 17 November 2006, the Group acquired 696 million shares in ITV amounting to our employees, as well as consulting on health and safety.
Forum members allow us 17.9% of its issued share capital.
The Group paid 135 pence per share, totalling 946 to hear the views of our people through involvement in various interest groups.
The investment in ITV has been subject to an in-depth review by the CC.
management play an active role in responding to the topics raised through the Forum, and the Chief Executive officer CEO, other Senior Executives and relevant managers In December 2007 the CC completed its review and delivered the final report of its regularly attend Forum meetings to talk about Skys strategic priorities.
findings to the Secretary of State for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform SoS, for him to decide what action to take.
The CC concluded that a relevant Each year the Sky People Survey collects the views and opinions of all our people.
merger situation had been created, granting it jurisdiction, and that the creation of that This year 10,894 people took part.
Senior Executives and management teams look at situation may be expected to result in substantial lessening of competition arising from the results and feedback from this, and develop action plans.
We have developed new the loss of rivalry in an all-TV market between ITV and the Group which may be performance appraisals, recognition programmes, training, communications, and expected to operate against the public interest.
The CC recommended, by way of improved the working space in many areas.
Individual departments have also taken remedy, that the Group be required to divest part of its stake such that it holds less action to address specic issues to make the business more productive.
than 7.5% of ITVs issued share capital.
The SoS announced on 29 January 2008 his decision to make an adverse public interest nding taking account of the CCs decision Recognition that the transaction results in a substantial lessening of competition in the UK market Recognising and applauding the achievements of our people is an important part of for all-TV.
The SoS also decided to impose on the Group the remedies recommended how we work.
Our annual Team Sky awards allow employees to nominate by the CC to address the substantial lessening of competition identied in the CCs colleagues who have demonstrated Skys values, with the winners receiving significant report: divestment of the Groups shares in ITV down to a level below 7.5% within a prizes.
Additionally each business area looks at how they can best engage and specified period which has not been publicly disclosed, and behavioural undertakings recognise their people in a way that supports their business plans and we operate a from the Group requiring the Group not to dispose of the shares to an associated number of divisional recognition plans to support this.
person, not to seek or accept representation to the Board of ITV and not to reacquire shares in ITV.
Risk factors The Group has sought judicial review of the decisions of the SoS and CC before the This section describes the significant risk factors affecting our business.
These should Competition Appeal Tribunal CAT.
Virgin Media VM has also sought judicial be read in conjunction with our long-term operating targets, which are set out in review of the findings of the CC and SoS in relation to media plurality and the Financial Review Introduction Overview and Recent Developments.
The future demand and speed of take up of the Groups services will also continued depend upon the Groups ability to package its content attractively.
In addition, the Group operates in a geographic region which has experienced sustained economic proceedings of VM and VM was granted permission to intervene in the review growth for a number of years.
The effect of a possible slowdown in the rate of proceedings brought by the Group.
A tribunal hearing took place in early June 2008. economic growth and or a decline in consumer confidence on the Groups ability to The Group is awaiting the judgment of the CAT.
continue to attract and retain subscribers is uncertain.
Therefore, the Group cannot be certain that the current or future marketing and other activities it undertakes will The Group is not yet able to assess whether, or the extent to which, these matters will succeed in generating sufficient demand to achieve its operating targets.
have a material effect on the Group.
The Groups business is reliant on technology which is subject to the risk of failure, The Group operates in a highly competitive environment that is subject to rapid change and development.
change and it must continue to invest and adapt to remain competitive.
The Group is dependent upon satellites which are subject to significant risks that may The Group faces competition from a broad range of companies engaged in prevent or impair their commercial operations, including defects, destruction or communications and entertainment services, including cable operators, DSL providers, damage, and incorrect orbital placement.
If the Group, or other broadcasters who other DTH providers, digital and analogue terrestrial television providers, broadcast channels on the Groups DTH platform, were unable to obtain sufficient telecommunications providers, internet service providers, home entertainment products satellite transponder capacity in the future, or the Groups contracts with satellite companies, betting and gaming companies, companies developing new technologies, providers were terminated, this would have a material adverse effect on the Groups and other suppliers of news, information, sports and entertainment, as well as other business and results of operations.
Similarly, loss of the transmissions from satellites providers of interactive services.
The Groups competitors increasingly include that are already operational, or failure of the Groups transmission systems or up communication and entertainment providers that are offering services beyond those linking facilities, could have a material adverse effect on its business and operations.
with which they have traditionally been associated, either through engaging in new areas or by reason of the convergence of the means of delivery of communication and The Group is dependent on complex technologies in other parts of its business, entertainment services.
The Groups competitors include organisations which are including its customer relationship management systems, broadcast and conditional publicly funded, in whole or in part, and which full a public service broadcasting access systems, advertising sales, supply chain management systems and its mandate.
A change to such mandate could lead to an increase in the strength of telecommunications network infrastructure, including WAN, LLU, CISCO core IP network, competition from these organisations.
Although the Group has continued to develop its Marconi Alcatel optical network and complex application servers.
services through technological innovation and by licensing, acquiring and producing a broad range of content, the Group cannot predict with certainty the changes that may In terms of the delivery of the Groups broadcast services, the Group is reliant on a occur in the future which may affect the competitiveness of its businesses.
In third party telecommunications infrastructure to distribute the content between its particular, the means of delivering various of the Groups and or competing services head ofces at Isleworth and its primary and secondary uplink sites at Chilworth and may be subject to rapid technological change.
The Groups competitors positions may Fair Oak.
be strengthened by an increase in the capacity of, or developments in, the means of delivery which they use to provide their services.
In addition, the Groups network and other operational systems are subject to several risks that are outside the Groups control, such as the risk of damage to software and The Groups advertising revenue depends on certain external factors which include the hardware resulting from re and ood, power loss, natural disasters, and general overall value of advertising placed with broadcasters by third party advertisers as well transmission failures caused by a number of additional factors.
as the amount of such advertising that is placed with the Group and the channels on whose behalf the Group sells advertising space.
The Groups advertising revenue is Any failure of the Groups technologies, network or other operational systems or also impacted by the audience viewing share of the Sky Channels and the other hardware or software that results in significant interruptions to the Groups operations channels on whose behalf the Group sells advertising and, accordingly, such revenue is could have a material adverse effect on its business.
affected by the distribution of such channels.
The Group cannot be certain that these factors will always be favourable to the Group and therefore that any related There is a large existing population of digital satellite reception equipment used to developments or changes will not have a negative impact on the Groups advertising receive the Groups services, including set-top boxes and ancillary equipment, in which revenue.
Advertising revenue may also be dependent on the viewing behaviour of the the Group has made a significant investment and which is owned by its customers television audience.
For example, viewers of on-demand programming may choose not other than the smart cards, the hard disk capacity in excess of personal storage to view that programming on Sky Channels and other channels on whose behalf the capacity and the software in the set-top boxes, to which the Group retains title.
The Group cannot be certain that its advertising revenue will a significant proportion of this equipment to suffer failure, or were the equipment to not be impacted negatively by this behaviour or that advertising revenue for Sky be rendered either redundant or obsolete by other technology or other requirements Channels currently offered on other platforms will not be impacted negatively in the or by the mandatory imposition of incompatible technology, or should the Group need future by the offering of video-on-demand services by other operators.
to or wish to upgrade signicantly the existing population of set-top boxes and or ancillary equipment with replacement equipment, this could have a material adverse The Groups ability to compete successfully will depend on its ability to continue to effect on the Groups business.
acquire, commission and produce programme content that is attractive to its subscribers.
The programme content and third party programme services the Group The deployed set-top boxes contain nite memory resources that are used by the has licensed from others are subject to xed term contracts which will expire or may operating system and other software components such as the conditional access terminate early.
The Group cannot be certain that programme content or third party system, EPG, and interactive applications.
The Group estimates that around two million programme services whether on a renewal or otherwise will be available to it at all deployed set-top boxes have significant memory constraints and as such it has been or on acceptable financial or other terms including in relation to technical matters necessary to close the EPG launch queue.
To date, the Group has been able to carry such as encryption, territorial limitation and copy protection.
Similarly, the Group out software downloads from time to time to recongure the memory utilisation in cannot be certain that such programme content or programme services will be set-top boxes and to accommodate additional and increasingly complex services.
In the attractive to its customers, even if so available.
event that the Group wishes to carry out such software downloads in order to accommodate additional and increasingly complex services and this course of action is The future demand and speed of take up of the Groups DTH service, and the Groups no longer available to the Group, it may be limited in its ability to upgrade the broadband and telephony services will depend upon the Groups ability to offer such services available via the set-top boxes currently installed in subscribers premises.
