Operating Review Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Investment Committee, which The Global Operating Board is Risk management is the comprises our five Managing Directors responsible for management policy responsibility of the Board, and three of the senior executives.
and ensures the implementation and which has put in place It is responsible for reviewing and compliance with company standards the following key risk approving all investment proposals with regard to management, regulation, presented by investment executives in marketing and HR.
It includes our five management structures: accordance with the Investment Policy Managing Directors and some of the set by the Board.
The approval of the heads of our business lines.
The Executive Committee is comprised of Board is required for large investments.
It focuses on The Investment Committee also The Compliance Department is strategic issues including management reviews the quarterly reports on our responsible for ensuring that business of assets and liabilities, recruitment of portfolio companies and coordinates is conducted in accordance with senior staff and their remuneration.
management plans for individual assets relevant regulations.
Our key risks, and the ways in which we mitigate them, include: Business risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation The inability to conduct business normally Internal policies set by the Board determine how operations should IT failure, business could lead to losses and or damage be executed.
human errors We have a business continuity plan in place which ensures that our systems can be rebuilt in the event our premises suffer a disaster.
We employ high calibre staff who are trained to behave in a professional manner and deal with third parties accordingly.
We follow FSA guidelines and aim at adopting best practise whenever possible.
Internal checks and audits are designed to mitigate these risks.
ICG considers the use of appropriate insurance to be a mitigant against a number of operational risks such as fraud and third party claims.
The loss of key employees would be We have in place a number of incentive schemes designed to attract Loss of staff detrimental to our growth.
and retain high calibre executives.
We are committed to providing competitive remuneration packages for our staff.
Regulatory risk Our fund management business is the part ICG has a full-time compliance officer who reports to the Board of the business that is most exposed to and whose role is to ensure that the business complies with all current regulatory risk.
Enforcement action by FSA regulations.
the Financial Services Authority FSA could result in significant damage to the We also have thorough anti money laundering and know your Companys reputation, while withdrawal of customer procedures to comply with current legislation.
Each FSA approvals could result in the loss of its employee is asked to endorse our compliance manual on an annual fund management activity.
basis and undertake training on compliance matters.
26 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Operating Review Financial risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation Credit risk is the risk that unexpected losses ICG limits the extent of credit risk by diversifying its portfolio in terms of Credit risk may arise as a result of ICGs borrowers or geography, sector and size.
It has disciplined credit procedures both market counterparties failing to meet their before and during the period of investment to protect its portfolio.
investment receives an internal credit rating based on performance and risk to capital.
Lower rated assets are reviewed on a weekly basis by the relevant investment executive and country head.
Credit risk is limited by the Companys focus on high quality, third party relationships.
All Credit Fund counterparties are approved and FSA regulated.
Liquidity risk is the risk that ICG will be ICG funds assets with a combination of permanent capital and Funding and unable to meet its financial obligations medium and long term committed debt facilities.
liquidity risk as they fall due as assets held cannot be realised.
We have an active dialogue with our shareholders, bankers and other potential capital providers, and are committed to transparency in ICG recognises that there may be times order to build a trust and long term relationships.
when the equity and or credit markets are closed and it would not be possible to We are committed to maintaining diverse sources of medium term raise finance for what might be attractive finance and to ensure that we always have sufficient committed but investment opportunities.
A detailed review of our funding sources is available in the note of the accounts.
We operate prudent gearing and hedging policies and maintain headroom on our facilities based on future cash flow requirements and refinancing commitments.
Market risks Risk area Potential impact Mitigation When the supply of credit is readily During these periods ICG will be selective when making new Competition available, competition increases, not only investments and seek to maintain its credit discipline.
When credit is for mezzanine assets but also for all sub not readily available in the broader market, ICG aims to take investment grade debt, at times leading to advantage of new opportunities that emerge at a better risk reward a deterioration of the risk reward ratio.
ICG is exposed to movements in exchange ICG mitigates foreign exchange risk by financing its loans and Foreign rates for the translation of net assets investments by means of borrowings or synthetic borrowings in the exchange risk liabilities, the most significant being the respective currency invested.
In addition, derivative instruments are Euro and the US dollar.
used to hedge a proportion of unrealised income recognised on a fair value basis.
Derivative instruments are used on a limited basis to reduce the Companys exposure to foreign currency movements on transactions.
Interest rate risk is defined as the risk of The Company seeks to match the interest profiles of assets and Interest rate risk loss through adverse movements in liabilities in order to reduce interest rate risk.
ICG uses financial interest rates.
As a result, the Company does not have material financial exposure to interest rate movements.
Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27
