28 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 A resilient business model Principal risks Strategic risk Mitigation Economic downturn We have a resilient business model.
Our loan book is short-term, on The condition of the economies in which we operate and average just under six months repayments are outstanding, which means in particular changes in general levels of unemployment is we can quickly change the risk-return profile of our lending, and our close likely to have a significant impact on business performance.
customer relationships allow us to rapidly detect, and respond to, changes in customers circumstances.
Customers may be less willing to borrow and less able to repay loans.
Reduced demand, reduced revenue and Credit controls have been tightened, costs reduced and expansion plans increased impairment may result.
in new markets put on hold in the short-term.
Competition There are few providers of home collected credit in our markets.
Our Increased competition may reduce market share leading distinctive operating model engenders high levels of customer satisfaction.
to increased costs of customer acquisition and retention or Market research is continually undertaken to monitor satisfaction levels, reduced credit issued, lower revenue and lower profitability.
identify usage of other financial products and monitor competitor activity.
In addition, this risk has been reduced by diversification of customer acquisition channels, and less competition and reducing costs of media as a result of the economic downturn.
Business development A formal talent development programme aimed at delivering sufficient Failure to effectively develop the business and achieve high-quality managers to meet future plans is in place.
The Group has a clear strategic aims because management resources, IT strategy for the development of its IT systems and operational processes.
and operational systems or long-term funding prove The strategically important development of the Mexican business, proving the inadequate or insufficient.
ability to bring a large market in a new continent into profit, is progressing well.
Funding The business is well capitalised with equity representing 45.1% of net Insufficient liquid funds to meet the short-term or strategic customer receivables.
At 31 December 2008 there was headroom of requirements of the business.
This is particularly relevant 229.5 million on 663.8 million of syndicated and bilateral banking facilities, following the significant reduction in the general availability of which 422.8 million were extended in October 2008 to October 2011. of bank and capital markets funding.
The remainder expires with various maturing dates before then, the bulk expiring in March 2010.
At extreme this could lead to a breach of banking covenants causing all outstanding facilities to fall due for repayment This is forecast to be sufficient bank funding to meet the requirements or the going concern status of the business being called of the existing markets through to October 2011 but insufficient to allow into question.
entry into new territories or the roll-out of operations in the Russian market.
We will work to secure additional funding.
Counterparty risk Cash is held only with A3 rated financial institutions.
Institutions with The risk that a key supplier or operational partner ceases lower credit ratings can only be used with full board approval.
There are regular risk assessments of other key counterparties.
Banks: Loss of funding lines or cash balances for All of the banks who provide us with funding or other services have withdrawal by agents to use in providing loans continued to function.
Other: Business failure of a counterparty such as an IT services outsourcer that causes significant disruption or impact on our ability to operate.
Currency risk The foreign exchange rates used to translate the majority of reported Reported results and related assets and liabilities are earnings within a financial reporting period are hedged.
at risk of adverse exchange rate fluctuations.
No loans are issued in a currency other than the functional currency Earnings are adversely affected by currency movements.
Funds are borrowed in, or swapped into, the same local currencies as customer net receivables so far as possible.
Currently, the capital markets in Romania are not operating effectively with the result that the receivables in this market are partly funded in equity from the Parent Company which is denominated in Sterling.
co. uk Directors report and business review 29 Strategic risk Mitigation Tax risk External professional advice for all material transactions is taken and Adverse changes in, or conflicting interpretations of, the supported by strong internal tax experts both in-country and in the UK.
different countries tax legislation and practice may lead to an Where possible, tax treatments are agreed in advance with relevant authorities.
increase in the Groups taxation liabilities and effective tax rate.
Financial services regulation and legislation We foster open relationships with regulatory bodies and closely monitor Changes to the regulation of credit or the sale of credit developments in all markets in which the business operates, and in respect by intermediaries or other laws may impact the operation of the EU as a whole.
of the business and or result in higher costs.
We work proactively with opinion formers to ensure the businesses are Breaches of regulation may result in fines or the withdrawal well understood.
This is facilitated by membership of the British Chamber of operating licences.
of Commerce and or relevant local trade bodies along with the Consumer Credit Association in the UK.
We operate a legal affairs committee to oversee legal risks across the Group and take external legal advice to ensure we remain compliant.
Risk to reputation We have an established corporate social responsibility programme.
Our good reputation is adversely affected by ill-informed This includes continued investment in community initiatives to foster comment or malpractice.
Damage to our brand and good relations with customers and the areas in which they live along customer satisfaction ratings reduces customer demand.
with the implementation of the FSAs Treating Customers Fairly principles.
We have clear operating guidelines to ensure consistency and compliance with Group values.
An active communications programme is in place to foster a better understanding of the Groups products.
Credit risk We have effective credit management systems in place for evaluating and The failure to respond appropriately to changes in the credit controlling the risk from lending to new and existing customers.
This is risk profile of our target market and existing customer base.
supplemented by the weekly contact between our agents and customers allowing a regular assessment of credit risk.
Our agents are incentivised Performance not optimised through failure to lend to good to collect not lend.
Credit controls were tightened in October 2008 in anticipation of the impact Increased impairment impacts profitability and staff and of the downturn in world economies.
agent engagement leading to increased turnover.
Service disruption Robust business continuity process, procedures and reporting framework Day-to-day operations disrupted in the event of damage to, in place to enable us to continue trading in the event of such an occurrence.
or interruption or failure of, information and communication These are regularly tested and reviewed.
Continuous investment in, and development of, IT platforms.
Failure to provide quality service to customers and loss of data.
Disruption of activities increases costs or reduces potential net revenues.
Health and safety Health and safety policies in place.
The failure to provide an appropriate working environment Formal safety guidance provided to staff and agents as part of induction to our staff and agents.
programme together with ongoing safety awareness refreshers.
Staff and agents have safety concerns that impact engagement and productivity.
30 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Clear growth strategy Our business in Mexico Our strategy is clear and simple.
We intend to continue to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of our home credit business model and progressively enter and develop new emerging markets when the time is right.
We believe this will generate continued, long-term profitable growth.
