2008 Investec Annual Report 75 Risk and governance Risk and governance Risk management Risk disclosures provided in line with the requirements of International Financial Reporting Standard 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 7, and disclosures on capital required by International Accounting Standard 1 - Presentation of Financial Statements IAS 1 are included within this section of the annual report page 76 to page 145 with further disclosures provided within the financial statements section page 209 to page 287.
All sections, paragraphs, tables and graphs on which an audit opinion is expressed are marked as audited.
Philosophy and approach The group recognises that an effective risk management function is fundamental to its business.
Taking international best practice into account, our comprehensive risk management process involves identifying, understanding and managing the risks associated with each of our businesses.
Risk awareness, control and compliance are embedded in our day-to-day activities.
Group Risk Management part of Group Services independently monitors, manages and reports on our risk as mandated by the board of directors through the Board Risk and Capital Committee.
Business units are ultimately responsible for managing risks that arise.
We monitor and control risk exposure through credit, market, liquidity, operational and legal risk reporting teams.
This approach is core to assuming a tolerable risk and reward profile, helping us to pursue growth across our business.
Group Risk Management operates within an integrated geographical and divisional structure, in line with our management approach, ensuring that the appropriate processes are used to address all risks across the group.
Group Risk Management has specialist divisions in the UK, South Africa, Australia and smaller risk divisions in other regions to promote sound risk management practices.
Group Risk Management divisions with international responsibility are locally responsive yet globally aware.
This helps to ensure that all initiatives and businesses operate within our defined risk parameters and objectives.
Group Risk Management continually seeks new ways to enhance its techniques.
Group Risk Management's objectives Group Risk Management's objectives are to: Be the custodian of our risk management culture.
Set, approve and monitor adherence to risk parameters and limits across the group and ensure they are implemented and adhered to consistently.
Aggregate and monitor our exposure across risk classes.
Co-ordinate risk management activities across the organisation, covering all legal entities and jurisdictions.
Give the boards reasonable assurance that the risks we are exposed to are identified and, to the best extent possible, managed and controlled.
Facilitate various risk committees, as mandated by the board.
2008 Investec Annual Report 76 Risk and governance Risk management Risk management framework, committees and forums A number of committees and forums identify and manage risk at both a business unit level in various locations and at a group level, as described more fully below.
These committees and forums operate together with Group Risk Management and are mandated by the board.
A diagram of our governance and risk framework is provided on page 149.
Committee Function Board Risk and Capital Committee Members: executive and non-executive directors senior See pages 158 and 159. management by invitation Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: six times a year DLC Capital Committee Members: executive and non-executive directors and senior See pages 160 and 161. management Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: at least quarterly Executive Risk Review Forum Members: executive directors and senior management See pages 159 and 160.
Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO Frequency: every Friday except on Board Risk and Capital Committee dates Group Investment Committee Members: executive directors and senior management Is responsible for reviewing and approving: Chairman: Stephen Koseff CEO - Acquisitions or disposals of strategic investments in Frequency: weekly which we act as principal and retain an equity interest above predetermined thresholds.
- Capital expenditure or disposals above predetermined thresholds.
Group Credit Committee Members: executive and non-executive directors and senior Considers and approves the granting of credit to management counterparties in excess of the mandates granted to Chairman: Glynn Burger Group Risk and Finance director divisional and other credit forums on a global basis.
Frequency: twice a week Sets the level of our maximum acceptable counterparty, geographic, asset, concentration and industry exposures.
Reviews and approves changes to credit policy and methodologies, including: - Large exposure policy - dealing with the control of concentration risk and exposure measurement methodology.
- Provisioning policy - dealing with the classification of past due amounts and minimum acceptable provisions.
- Excess management policy - dealing with the classification of excesses and prescribed escalation procedures.
- Long dated exposure by counterparty and instrument type.
- Property valuation policy - specifies the framework for valuation of physical security.
Group Deal Forum Members: executive and non-executive directors and senior Considers, approves and mitigates the risks inherent in any management acquisition, disposal, new product or other non-standard Chairman: Glynn Burger Group Risk and Finance director transactions that we are considering.
Frequency: weekly 2008 Investec Annual Report 77 Risk and governance Risk management Committee Function Group Market Risk Forum Members: Global heads of risk, market risk and the trading Manages market risk by identifying and quantifying risks on desks: senior management: members of the market risk teams the basis of current and future expectations and ensuring and other members of Group Risk Management that trading occurs within defined parameters.
Chairman: Mark Trollip Global Head of Market Risk Reviews market risk limits.
Frequency: weekly Considers new business initiatives with a market risk element.
Asset and Liability Committee Members: executive, senior management, economist, treasurer, Sets our funding and liquidity policy and non-trading business heads and Head of Asset and Liability Management interest rate risk policy, which translates into a suite of limits Chairman: Glynn Burger Group Risk and Finance director that define our risk appetite.
Frequency: monthly or ad hoc if required Directs the implementation of the methodology, techniques, models and risk measures.
Reviews the structure of our balance sheet and business strategies, taking into account market conditions, including stress tests.
Operational Risk Committees Forums Members UK : Chief Risk Officer, Head of Operational Risk Promotes sound operational risk management practices.
Considers operational risk reports covering significant risk Chairman: Bharat Thakker UK events, information security, outsourcing and business Frequency: quarterly UK continuity.
In South Africa there is no formal committee in place and the Considers and recommends the upgrading of operational function reports directly to the Board Risk and Capital risk management techniques in line with sound operational Committee.
Group Legal Risk Forum Members: executive directors, senior management and Considers and manages legal risks throughout the group.
divisional legal managers Chairman: David Nurek Global Head of Legal Risk Frequency: half-yearly or ad hoc if required DLC Audit Committee Members: non-executive directors See pages 155 and 156.
Chairman: Sam Abrahams non-executive director The Internal Audit, Compliance and Operational Risk Frequency: minimum of three times a year Departments report to the Audit Committee.
Note: In the sections that follow the following abbreviations are used on numerous occasions: BRCC - Board Risk and Capital Committee ERRF - Executive Risk Review Forum FSA - Financial Services Authority SARB - South African Reserve Bank APRA - Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority 2008 Investec Annual Report 78 Risk and governance Risk management Integrated global risk management structure Group Risk and Finance Director - Glynn Burger Global Head of Risk - Ciaran Whelan Divisional and geographic roles Global UK and Europe South Africa Australia Credit Risk Ciaran Whelan Ian Wohlman Justin Cowley Mike Sargeant Market Risk Mark Trollip Boaz Schechter Adrienne Betts Adam Rapeport Balance Sheet Risk Management Cyril Daleski Wendy Robinson Cyril Daleski Peter Binetter Operational Risk Colin Fiddes Bharat Thakker Colin Fiddes Gavin Brandenburger Legal Risk David Nurek Lauren Ekon David Nurek Marie-Lyse Eliatamby Internal Audit Bradley Tapnack Noel Sumner Brigid Schrieder Aik Leow Compliance Bradley Tapnack Richard Brearley Geoff Cook Belinda Dorfan An overview of key risks, policies and procedures In our ordinary course of business we face a number of risks that could affect our business operations.
These risks are summarised briefly in the table below.
The sections that follow provide information on a number of these risk areas.
For additional information pertaining to the management and monitoring of these risks, see the references provided.
Key risks Reference Credit and counterparty risk exposes us to losses caused by financial or other problems See pages 81 to 110. experienced by our clients.
Liquidity risk may impair our ability to fund our operations.
Our net interest earnings and net asset value may be adversely affected by interest rate See pages 118 to 121 and risk.
Market conditions and fluctuations could adversely affect our businesses in a number of See pages 110 to 118. ways.
We may be unable to recruit, retain and motivate key personnel.
See our business responsibility website.
Employee misconduct could cause harm that is difficult to detect.
Operational risk may disrupt our business or result in regulatory action.
We may be vulnerable to the failure of our systems and breaches of our security systems.
We may have insufficient capital in the future and may be unable to secure additional See pages 132 to 141. financing when it is required.
The financial services industry in which we operate is intensely competitive.
See pages 6 to 9 and pages 16 and 80.
Legal and regulatory risks are substantial in our businesses.
We may be exposed to pension risk in our UK operations.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may in the future also impair our business operations.
Our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these risk factors.
2008 Investec Annual Report 79 Risk and governance Risk management Key markets indicators The table below provides on overview of some key statistics that should be considered when reviewing the developments within each area of risk.
31 March 31 March Average over Audited 2008 2007 the period period end period end Market indicators FTSE All share 2 927 3 283 3 245 JSE All share 29 588 27 267 28 978 Australia All ords 5 410 5 979 6 190 S&P 500 1 323 1 421 1 459 Nikkei 12 526 17 288 16 038 Dow Jones 12 263 12 481 13 163 Exchange rates Rand Pounds Sterling 16.17 14.20 14.31 Rand Dollar 8.09 7.26 7.12 US Dollar Euro 1.58 1.34 1.42 Euro Pounds Sterling 1.25 1.47 1.42 Australian Dollar Pounds Sterling 2.18 2.42 2.32 US Dollar Pounds Sterling 1.99 1.96 2.01 Rates UK overnight 5.55% 5.33% 5.63% UK 10 year 4.34% 4.97% 4.86% UK Clearing Banks Base Rate 5.25% 5.25% 5.54% LIBOR - 3 month 6.01% 5.62% 6.05% SA R153 2010 9.71% 8.18% 9.05% SA R157 2015 9.22% 7.84% 8.40% Rand overnight 10.60% 8.59% 9.70% SA prime overdraft rate 14.50% 12.50% 13.61% JIBAR - 3 month 11.38% 9.18% 10.38% Reserve Bank of Australia cash target rate 7.25% 6.25% 6.57% US 10 year 3.41% 4.65% 4.36% Commodities Gold $917 oz $664 oz $769 oz Gas Oil $969 $592 $429 Platinum $1 996 oz $1 243 oz 1 484 oz Macro-economic UK GDP % change over the period 2.9% 3.0% n c UK per capita GDP 22 712 21 521 South Africa GDP % real growth over the calendar year 5.1% 5.4% n c South Africa per capita GDP real value R 25 499 24 498 Australia GDP % change over the period 4.2% 2.9% n c Per capita GDP A$ 51 985 48 646 Source: Datastream, Bloomberg's, Office for National statistics, SARB Quarterly Bulletin, Australian Bureau of Statistics 2008 Investec Annual Report 80 Risk and governance Risk management Credit and counterparty risk management Audited Credit and counterparty risk description Credit and counterparty risk is defined as the current and prospective risk to earnings or capital arising from an obligor's typically a client's or counterparty's failure to meet the terms of any obligation to us or otherwise to perform as agreed.
Credit and counterparty risk arises when our funds are extended, committed, invested, or otherwise exposed through actual or implied contractual agreements, whether reflected on or off balance sheet.
Credit and counterparty risk arises primarily from three types of transactions: Lending transactions, giving rise to a direct exposure.
The risk is created that an obligor will be unable or unwilling to repay capital and or interest on advances and loans granted to it.
This category includes bank placements, where we have placed funds with other financial institutions: Issuer risk on financial instruments where payments due from the issuer of a financial instrument will not be received: Trading transactions, giving rise to settlement and replacement risk collectively counterparty risk.
- Settlement risk is the risk that the settlement of a transaction does not take place as expected, with one party effecting required settlements as they fall due but not receiving settlements to which they are entitled.
- Replacement risk is the risk following default by the original counterparty resulting in the contract holder having to enter into a replacement contract with a second counterparty in order to finalise the transaction.
Credit and counterparty risk can manifest as country risk as a result of the geopolictical and transfer risk associated with exposures arising from transactions with borrowers who are resident in a particular foreign country, or dependent on that country's economy.
Credit and counterparty risk may also arise in other ways and it is the role of the various independent credit committees, assisted by Credit Risk Management, to identify situations falling outside these definitions where credit risk may also be present.
Audited Credit and counterparty risk governance structure To manage, measure and mitigate credit and counterparty risk, independent credit committees exist in each geography where we assume credit risk.
These committees operate under board approved delegated limits, policies and procedures.
There is a high level of executive and non-executive involvement in the credit decision making forums.
It is policy that all sanctioning credit committees have a majority of voting members who are independent of the originating business unit.
All decisions to enter a transaction are based on unanimous consent.
In addition to the Group Credit Committee, the following structures assist in managing, measuring and monitoring credit and counterparty risk: Day to day arrears management and regular arrears reporting, ensures that individual positions and any potential trends are dealt with in a timely manner.
Watchlist and Impairments Committee, which reviews the management of distressed loans, potential problem loans and exposures in arrears that require additional attention and supervision.
Corporate Watch Forum, which reviews and manages exposures that may potentially become distressed as a result of changes in the economic environment or adverse share price movements, or that are vulnerable to volatile exchange rate or interest rate movements.
We do not have a separate country risk forum.
When applications are submitted to the local group credit committee, consideration of the country risk element forms part of the sanctioning process.
The local group credit committee has the power to recommend to the Global Credit Committee an appropriate country credit limit where undertaking a particular transaction could exceed the approved country limit.
The Global Credit Committee is responsible for approving country limits.
Credit and counterparty risk appetite We have a preference for exposure to EU countries, other G10 countries, Australasia, South Africa and specific countries where we have subsidiaries or branches.
Credit and counterparty risk is always assessed with reference to the aggregate exposure to a single counterparty or group of related parties to avoid or minimise over exposure and concentration risk.
Our assessment of our clients includes consideration of their character and integrity, core competencies, track record and financial strength.
A strong emphasis is placed on income and cash flow streams generated by the clients, third party income or cash flow streams derived from lease or rental agreements in support of property related transactions.
In this manner, we seek comfort in mitigating our risk by thoroughly assessing the ability of our borrowers to meet their payment obligations.
Furthermore we have very little appetite for unsecured debt and ensure that good quality collateral is provided in support of obligations refer page 110 for further information.
2008 Investec Annual Report 81 Risk and governance Risk management We typically originate loans with the intent of holding these assets to maturity, and thereby developing a hands on and longstanding relationship with our clients.
In certain instances we may elect to sell certain assets down and or securitise them refer to page 87 for further information.
In order to allow activity in all product areas and markets, pricing is motivated by the relevant business unit on a transaction by transaction basis, with consideration given to the manner of origination of the asset and the forward strategy for the asset.
Pricing recommendations are discussed and agreed at the appropriate credit committee to ensure that reward is appropriate to the risk and that pricing is not compromised in the pursuit of volume or relationship.
As a consequence of market behaviour, pricing for similar risk may differ from time to time.
Audited Management and measurement of credit and counterparty risk Fundamental principles employed in the management of credit and counterparty risk are: A clear definition of our target market.
A quantitative and qualitative assessment of the creditworthiness of our counterparties.
Analysis of all related risks, including concentration risk concentration risk considerations include asset class, industry, counterparty, and geographical concentration.
Regular monitoring and review of existing and potential exposures once facilities have been approved.
A high level of executive involvement in decision-making with non-executive review and oversight.
Consistent, regular reporting of credit and counterparty risk exposures within our operating units is made to management, the executives and the board.
The board regularly reviews and approves the appetite for credit and counterparty risk, which is documented in risk appetite statements and policy documents and implemented by our Group Credit division.
Despite strict adherence to the above principles increased default risk may arise from unforeseen circumstances particularly in times of extreme market volatility.
A large proportion of the book is not rated by external rating agencies.
As a result we mainly place reliance upon internal considerations of counterparties and borrowers, and use ratings prepared externally where available for support.
Within the credit approval process all available internal and external ratings are included in the assessment of the client quality.
Fitch, Standard and Poors and Moody's have been approved as eligible external credit assessment institutions ECAIs for the purposes of determining external credit ratings with the following elections: In relation to banks and securities firms, Fitch has been selected by us as the primary ECAI, with Standard & Poors being used as support where a Fitch rating is not available.
In relation to sovereigns, corporates and small to medium enterprises, both Standard & Poors and Moody's are considered to be eligible ECAIs.
Where the assessments of these two ECAIs differ, the more conservative rating will be applied.
Credit and counterparty risk in the UK and Europe The UK and European group comprises businesses in the UK, including a branch in Ireland and banking businesses in the Channel Islands and Switzerland.
Credit risk arises mainly through our Private Banking and Capital Markets activities, although some credit and counterparty risk does arise in other businesses.
Private Bank The Private Bank has businesses in the UK London and Manchester, including branches in Ireland, the Channel Islands and Switzerland.
Credit risk arises from the following activities which we undertake in the division: structured property finance, private client lending, specialised lending, growth and acquisition finance, and asset based lending on receivables and stock.
The Structured Property Finance area provides senior debt, mezzanine and equity funding for property transactions covering the residential and commercial markets.
Our exposure to the property market is well diversified with no individual concentration risk.
Our properties are well located residential or good quality commercial assets with recognised tenant covenant.
Our property assets are located in the UK, with limited exposure to retail property assets in Germany and Switzerland, which are anchored by major European retail covenants.
Client quality and expertise are at the core of our credit philosophy, ensuring a low probability of default.
Furthermore, robust debt service cover ratios and reasonable loan to values with the average below 80% ensure a low level of expected loss, which is supported by low historical actual losses.
Where a more commercial view is taken on debt structure and leverage, significantly increased returns are expected.
All facilities are reviewed at least annually and property values are monitored by our appointed panel valuation firms.
Committees review and monitor our mezzanine and equity property funding exposure on a quarterly basis.
2008 Investec Annual Report 82 Risk and governance Risk management Growth and Acquisition Finance provides mezzanine or composite debt funding to successful entrepreneurs, management teams, private equity houses and UK based mid-market companies that are implementing acquisition and organic growth strategies.
Deal sizes typically range between 8 million and 20 million.
Credit risk is assessed against the debt service coverage and robustness of the cash generation for the business both historically and against forecasts.
Other factors include the quality of the management team and the amortisation profile of the debt package.
Mezzanine exposures arising out of the transactions mentioned above range between 200 million to 300 million, against a total book of 3.3 billion as at 31 March 2008.
Asset Based Lending provides working capital and business loans secured on collateral or assets used in the conduct of the business, for example, account receivables, inventory, plant and machinery, and property.
We also provide advances against cash flow or other assets such as committed income or rights.
Lending includes variable funding on variable assets and term loans on fixed assets.
Specialised Lending provides bespoke credit facilities and hedging options to high net worth individuals and financially sophisticated clients.
This involves securities lending against holders of listed equities and transaction facilitation, where we work with clients, law firms and trust companies to facilitate financial planning and structuring for their clients.
We also provide funding secured on sports and media related cash flows, including intellectual property rights and sponsorship transactions where certainty of serviceability, client quality and expertise are key considerations.
Private Client Lending provides bespoke mortgages and secured lending to high net worth and high income individuals.
Loan sizes range between 0.5 million and 10 million with long-term durations.
Credit risk is assessed against robust debt servicing cover ratios.
Lending is underpinned by good quality assets, including residential and commercial property, bank guarantees, discretionary investment portfolios and cash deposits.
In determining serviceability, we also consider the liquidity of the client, including cash reserves and liquid asset holdings.
Funding is characterised by long-term annuity income and a historically low probability of default.
Property assets are located predominantly in the UK, with limited exposure to prime residential areas in France and Spain.
Capital Markets The bulk of Capital Markets activities are conducted from London and Ireland.
As part of the daily management of liquidity, the treasury function places funds with banks and other financial institutions.
These professional counterparties are highly rated with credit risk of a systemic nature.
Our trading book consists of positions in interest rates, foreign exchange, commodities and equities.
Credit risk arises from standard trading risks such as settlement, counterparty and replacement risk.
We maintain a thorough risk process that reviews and monitors all potential credit risks inherent in customer trading facilities.
These positions are marked to market daily with margin calls where necessary to mitigate credit exposure in the event of counterparty default.
Within the banking business, credit risk can arise from structured finance, project and resource financing, asset finance, acquisition finance, principal finance and corporate lending activities.
There are approved limits specifying the maximum exposure to each individual counterparty, to ensure there is no concentration risk.
Facilities are secured on the assets of the underlying corporate.
The credit appetite for each counterparty is based on the financial strength of the principal borrower, underlying security and cash flow.
While most of the activities of our Capital Markets division are concentrated in Europe, any exposure to counterparties outside this jurisdiction is mitigated through a stringent country risk approval and monitoring process, and covered by political risk insurance where deemed appropriate.
A summary of the nature of the lending within some of the key areas within the banking business is provided below: Structured and asset finance: loans leases against fixed assets linked to the success of the business they are employed in.
These transactions amortise from anticipated cash flows.
Project Finance: provides advisory, debt and equity arranging services to renewable energy projects and public private projects, e. g. roads, hospitals, prisons.
Loans are secured on the project themselves with a high degree of due diligence around both the delivery risks and the cash flow to repay any facilities.
Acquisition Finance: participation in senior debt facilities in the leveraged buy-out market relating to medium to large corporates.
Maximum exposure is circa 20 million per entity, giving portfolio diversity.
The credit process in this asset class focuses on a good business value proposition ie.
relevance, brand, good management, good sponsors underpinned by cash flow and a charge over the enterprise.
Principal Finance: securitisation of our assets, predominantly residential and commercial mortgages.
There is modest investment and trading in structured credit investments see page 88 for further information.
Commodities and Resource Finance: working capital lending and commodity price risk hedging to base and precious metalproducing entities.
Provable reserves and good cash flow generation is paramount in the credit decision process.
2008 Investec Annual Report 83 Risk and governance Risk management Investment Banking Counterparty risk in this area is modest.
All share underwriting is fully sub underwritten with well known market counterparties.
The business also trades approved shares and makes markets where we are appointed broker under pre agreed market risk limits.
Settlement trades are all on a delivery versus payment basis, through major share exchanges.
Credit risk only occurs in the event of counterparty failure and would be linked to any mark to market losses on the underlying security.
Asset Management Investec Asset Management Limited regularly transact with well known rated market counterparties.
These are all on an exchange traded delivery versus payment basis and exposure is to a move in the underlying security in the unlikely event a counterparty fails.
Credit and counterparty risk in South Africa Credit and counterparty risk is assumed mainly through the Private Bank, Capital Markets, and Asset Finance ReichmansCapital divisions.
Private Banking Lending products are primarily offered through our structured property and growth and acquisition finance activities, and are targeted to meet the requirements of our clients.
Central to our credit philosophy is the concept of sustainability of income through the cycle.
As such, the client base has been defined to include high net worth clients who through diversification of income streams will reduce income volatility and individuals with a profession which has historically supported a high and sustainable income stream irrespective of stage in the economic cycle.
The combination of low probability of default clients due to our niche focus and appropriate loan to value ratios results in a low level of expected loss which has been borne out by historical experience of actual losses.
Residential mortgages and commercial property make up the bulk of the lending exposure.
Exposure to commercial and retail properties is at conservative loan to value ratios.
Income producing assets are generally substantially let with good quality anchor tenants.
Exposure to the South African property market is regionally diversified Pretoria, Johannesburg, Cape Town, Durban and Port Elizabeth.
Serviceability of a loan advanced against property and not only asset value and quality of the client are primary considerations in the credit assessment process.
Capital Markets Investec Corporate Treasury provides money market and foreign exchange products to corporates and institutions.
We are an active market maker in the spot and forward US Dollar Rand interbank markets.
Trading transactions giving rise to issuer, settlement and replacement risk were among the primary areas of potential credit and counterparty risk in the year under review.
Simulation based methodologies have been implemented for the majority of the corporate treasury product offering, the benefit of which is the identification of increases in exposures as a result of changes in volatility and prices and the identification of roll-off risk.
The Specialised Finance, Project Finance and Resource Finance businesses lend money on a structured basis to corporates, government and institutions, with full recourse to either a suitable asset or to the balance sheet of the entity to which the funds are advanced.
Typical assets that are funded include property, plant and equipment, infrastructure and movable assets.
Credit limits are set for each counterparty and monitored to ensure risk is mitigated.
The credit appetite for each counterparty is based on the financial strength of the principal borrower, underlying security, cash flow and, in the case of trading products, the nature of the underlying security traded.
The Resource Finance business may be exposed to countries presenting complex legal and political risks.
Extensive knowledge of Africa which represents the bulk of the exposure in this business unit, good technical and financial skills and strong adherence to prudent country risk limits ensure that concentration risks are well managed.
Most of the Resource Finance business activities form part of the corporate asset class as defined by Basel ll, since recourse in the event of default will be to the total assets of the corporate and not merely the resources being financed.
Transactions are structured so that scenarios resulting in increased exposure coincide with increased profitability of the entity being financed and thus a relatively stable expected loss.
Due to the relative illiquidity of the credit derivative market in South Africa, counterparty exposures and mitigation benefits obtained as a result of credit derivative transactions are negligible.
2008 Investec Annual Report 84 Risk and governance Risk management ReichmansCapital ReichmansCapital is an asset finance business which operates on a premium margin business model for small and medium sized corporates.
The business is a relatively small portion of the overall group credit exposure.
Credit and counterparty risk in Mauritius Investec Bank Mauritius Limited offers various banking services and its primary business activities are corporate lending, property finance, resource finance and structured finance.
Target market includes both corporate and private clients.
Prudential limits have been set and are monitored daily.
Investec Bank Mauritius Limited is a subsidiary of Investec Bank Limited.
It has a decentralised credit approval and management process in compliance with our group credit philosophy, policy and procedures.
Credit and counterparty risk in Australia Investec Bank Australia Limited operates within a clearly defined framework for managing credit risk.
The policies and procedures for credit risk management are consistent with those of the group and comply with the prudential standards issued by the APRA.
Credit and counterparty risk is assumed through transacting with target private and corporate clients, project and resource finance, and the placement of surplus liquidity with highly rated domestic banks and financial institutions.
Details with respect to the nature of the credit and counterparty risk assumed is similar to that of the activity conducted within our UK operations.
Audited Asset quality analysis - credit risk classification and provisioning policy It is a policy requirement that each operating division overseen by central credit management makes provision for specific impairments and calculates the appropriate level of portfolio impairments promptly when required and on a consistent basis.
This is in accordance with established group guidelines and in conjunction with the Watchlist and Impairments Committee policy and process.
In the financial statements, credit losses and impairments are reported in accordance with IFRS.
The information provided below reflects the guidelines and definitions that have been applied in assessing the asset quality of credit exposures see page 101.
The impairment definitions and guidelines are consistent with IFRS.
IFRS differs from the requirements laid out in the International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital standards Basel II framework which has been adopted by the banking regulators in all of the locales in which we have operations.
IFRS focuses on the concept of incurred loss, whereas Basel ll centres on the concept of expected loss.
The reconciling differences are primarily due to the fact that IFRS impairments only reflect a decrease in the value of credit risky assets where a loss trigger event has occurred, and only that portion of the expected loss which has actually been incurred at the reporting date.
A loss trigger event is an event which exhibits a high correlation to the crystallisation of loss.
2008 Investec Annual Report 85 Risk and governance Risk management Regulatory and IFRS impairment treatment Arrears, Description economic capital default and classification recoveries classification category Performing assets For assets which form part of a homogenous Past due Accounts greater than zero and less portfolio a portfolio impairment is required which than or equal to 60 days past due the recognises asset impairments that have not been contractual credit agreed payment due individually identified.
Management is not concerned and The portfolio impairment takes into account past there is confidence in the events and does not cover impairments to counterparty's ability to repay the past exposures arising out of uncertain future events.
Special Counterparty is considered to be By definition, this impairment is only calculated mention experiencing difficulties that may for credit exposures which are managed on a threaten its ability to fulfil its credit portfolio basis and only for assets where a loss obligation to the group i. e. Credit trigger event has occurred.
The following reasons may result in an exposure being classified as Special mention: - Covenant breaches - There is a slowdown in the counterparty's business activity - An adverse trend in operations that signals a potential weakness in the financial strength of the counterparty Ultimate loss is not expected, but may occur if adverse conditions persist.
Supplementary reporting categories: - Credit exposures overdue 1 to 60 days and management concerned - Credit exposures overdue 61 to 90 days, although management may not be concerned Assets in default Specific impairments are evaluated on a Sub-standard Credit exposure reflects an underlying, case-by-case basis where objective evidence of well defined weakness that may lead to impairment has arisen.
In determining specific probable loss if not corrected.
impairments, the following factors are considered: The risk that such credit exposure may Business unit's exposure to the customer.
become an impaired asset is probable.
Capability of the client to generate sufficient The bank is relying, to a large extent, cash flow to service debt obligations and the on available collateral.
ongoing viability of the client's business.
The primary sources of repayment are Likely dividend or amount recoverable on insufficient to service the remaining liquidation or bankruptcy.
contractual principal and interest Nature and extent of claims by other amounts, and the bank has to rely on creditors.
Amount and timing of expected cash flows.
These secondary sources may include Realisable value of security held or other collateral, the sale of a fixed asset, credit mitigants.
Ability of the client to make payments in the Credit exposures overdue for more foreign currency, for foreign currency than 90 days will at a minimum be denominated accounts.
included in Sub-standard or a lower quality category.
Doubtful Credit exposure is considered to be impaired but not yet considered a final loss due to some pending factors such as a merger, new financing or capital injection which may strengthen the quality of the relevant exposure.
In addition specific impairments may be raised.
2008 Investec Annual Report 86 Risk and governance Risk management Regulatory and IFRS impairment treatment Arrears, Description economic capital default and classification recoveries classification category Assets in default Loss Credit exposure is considered to be uncollectible once all efforts, such as realisation of collateral and institution of legal proceedings, have been exhausted.
Ultimately these items will be written off, but the asset will be held until it is appropriate to write off.
These assets should carry an appropriate impairment.
Securitisation principal finance activities and exposures UK and Europe The UK has developed a Principal Finance business over the last three years.
As mentioned above the business focuses on securitisation of our assets, predominantly residential and commercial mortgages.
We also undertake trading and investment in structured credit investments where we have invested in rated and unrated debt instruments largely within the UK and Europe and to a lesser extent in the US.
During the year Investec plc acquired Kensington.
We retain residual exposures amounting to 229 million to the assets originated, warehoused and securitised by Kensington.
Further information is provided on pages 49 to 51.
South Africa In South Africa, our securitisation business, which forms part of our Structured Finance unit, was established approximately seven years ago when the debt capital markets commenced development.
Over this time, we have arranged a number of corporate bond and commercial paper programmes and third party securitisations.
In certain of these transactions we act as liquidity provider.
We have also recently focused on the development of securitisation platforms with external third party originating intermediaries.
At present we have provided limited warehouse funding lines to these intermediaries.
Furthermore, we have securitised assets we have originated in our Private Banking business in South Africa.
The primary motivations for the securitisation of assets within our Private Banking division are to: Provide an alternative source of funding.
Act as a mechanism to transfer risk.
Leverage returns through the retention of equity tranches in low default rate portfolios.
Total assets that have been originated and securitised by the Private Bank amount to R9.2 billion 2007: R8.6 billion and include auto loans R1.1 billion, residential mortgages R6.9 billion and commercial mortgages R1.2 billion.
These securitisation structures have all been rated by Moody's.
Australia As mentioned on page 17, Investec Bank Australia Limited acquired Experien.
As is the case in the South African Private Banking division assets originated by the business have been securitised.
These amount to A$756 million and include leases and instalment debtors A$373 million, residential mortgages A$15 million, commercial mortgages A$186 million and other loans, for example overdrafts A$182 million.
These securitisation structures have all been rated by Standard and Poor's.
Audited Accounting treatment Refer to page 249.
2008 Investec Annual Report 87 Risk and governance Risk management Credit analysis In terms of our analysis of our credit and counterparty risk, exposures arising from securitisation principal finance activities reflect only those exposures to which we consider ourselves to be at risk notwithstanding accounting conventions.
In addition, assets that have been securitised by our Private Banking division are reflected as part of our core lending exposures and not our securitisation principal finance exposures as we believe this reflects the true nature and intent of these exposures and activities.
Summary of exposures and activity over the course of the year Nature of exposure activity Exposure Exposure Credit analysis Asset quality Capital treatment as at as at internal risk - relevant comments 31 March 31 March classification 2008 2007 - 'mn - 'mn Structured credit investments On-balance sheet During the year we Risk-weighted or Rated 121 37 securitisation wrote off 48.9 million supervisory Unrated 91 141 principal finance against these deductions against Other 19 - exposure.
exposures as discussed primary and on page 47. secondary capital.
Kensington - mortgage assets Net exposures to the securitised book i. e. those 101 - On-balance sheet Refer to page 50.
Risk-weighted or assets that have been securitisation principal supervisory securitised finance exposure.
We deductions are required to fully against primary and consolidate all assets secondary capital.
"However, only those assets to which we are at risk are reflected in this analysis with the balance reflected under ""no credit exposures""."
Net exposures to the warehouse book i. e. those 128 - On-balance sheet Refer to page 50.
assets that have been securitisation principal originated and placed in special finance exposure.
We purpose vehicles awaiting are required to fully securitisation consolidate all assets acquired from Kensington.
Irish warehouse funding facility 238 - Average loan to value Risk-weighted.
i. e. where we are the funding of the assets to which provider to the assets these funding lines support is 70%.
2008 Investec Annual Report 88 Risk and governance Risk management Summary of exposures and activity over the course of the year continued Nature of exposure activity Exposure Exposure Credit analysis Asset quality Capital treatment as at as at internal risk - relevant comments 31 March 31 March classification 2008 2007 - 'mn - 'mn UK - residual investments in other 29 - On-balance sheet Risk-weighted or assets which have been securitised securitisation principal supervisory by us finance exposure.
We deductions against are required to fully primary and consolidate these secondary capital.
South Africa - warehouse funding 28 - On-balance sheet During the year we Risk-weighted lines provided to, and investment in securitisation principal created a specific depending on rating third party intermediary originating finance.
platforms mortgage and auto 3.9 million largely loans against the net investments within these platforms.
"Private Banking division assets 914 605 On-balance sheet Analysed as part of We apply which have been securitised exposure - reclassified the group's overall securitisation rules: from ""accounting asset quality on core either risk-weighted securitsed assets"" to loans and advances as or supervisory core loans and reflected on page 101. deductions against advances for credit In South Africa we primary and analysis purposes."
have only written off secondary capital.
During the year we R79 000 in relation to acquired Experien in the assets we have Australia.
South Africa - liquidity facilities 299 316 Off-balance sheet Unutilised facility that provided to third party corporate credit exposure as is risk-weighted.
securitisation vehicles these facilities have remained undrawn and reflect a contingent liability of the bank.
2008 Investec Annual Report 89 Risk and governance Risk management Audited Credit risk mitigation Collateral is always assessed with reference to the sustainability of value and the likelihood of realisation.
Acceptable collateral generally exhibits characteristics that allow for it to be held physically and valued relative to the market.
The bulk of collateral taken by the Private Bank, which makes up a substantial portion of on balance sheet assets, is commercial and residential real estate.
Commercial real estate generally takes the form of good quality property underpinned by strong third party leases.
Residential property is also generally of a high quality, reflecting clients' appetite for investments in desirable locations.
In the period under review, there was downward pressure on the value of commercial and residential real estate as a result of the global economic slowdown in all our key operating jurisdictions UK, South Africa and Australia.
This has resulted in an increased focus on residential and commercial property valuations.
It is our policy to obtain a formal valuation, performed by an approved valuer, of every property offered as collateral for a lending facility before advancing funds under the credit facility and to revalue all commercial properties held as collateral on a regular basis, at the discretion of the credit committee.
Other common forms of collateral in the retail asset class are motor vehicles, cash, shares and share portfolios.
Property is split between residential and commercial classes with commercial consisting of investment and development sub classes.
Development property is further analysed into Residential land, Residential buildings, Commercial Industrial, Commercial Retail and Commercial Office.
We maintain strict liquidity policies with respect to financial collateral, which is thus considered to be liquid.
There has been a decline in the liquidity of real estate markets albeit that the concentration of the underlying property collateral is in areas which have historically exhibited resistance to adverse economic conditions.
The majority of credit mitigation within our Treasury activities is in the form of netting primarily International Swap Dealers Association, Global Master Securities Lending Agreement and International Securities Master Agreement and margining agreements primarily through Credit Support Agreements.
Where netting agreements have been signed and the enforceability is supported by external legal opinion within the legal jurisdiction of the agreement, the exposures for all product categories covered by such agreements is stated net of any liabilities owing by Investec to the agreement counterparty for those product categories.
Set-off has been applied between assets subject to credit risk and related liabilities in the financial statements where: A legally enforceable right to set-off exists: and There is an intention to settle the asset and liability on a net basis, or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
In addition to the above accounting set-off criteria, banking regulators impose the following additional criteria: Debit and credit balances relate to the same obligor counterparty.
Debit and credit balances be denominated in the same currency and have identical maturities.
Exposures subject to set-off are risk managed on a net basis.
For this reason there will be instances where credit and counterparty exposures are displayed on a net basis in these financial statements but reported on a gross basis to regulators.
An analysis of collateral is provided on page 110. Credit and counterparty risk year in review Basel II As of 1 January 2008 Investec Limited and Investec plc have been reporting to banking regulators in accordance with Basel II under the Standardised Approach for credit risk.
Internally the focus towards the end of the financial year has shifted from compliance to entrenching internal capital processes at all levels in the organisation.
We have leveraged off the changes required in terms of Basel II and taken the opportunity to refine and improve some of our risk management techniques.
UK and Europe The financial year started with a fair amount of activity in the credit markets although margins began to narrow as a result of competitive pressures across the financial services industry.
By September 2007 the credit landscape had changed dramatically as a result of the severe downgrade in the US of sub prime mortgage loans.
As financial institutions took stock of their own balance sheets, market activity and liquidity diminished evidenced by repricing and lower market activity.
Against this backdrop the core loan book grew by 33.0% to 5.3 billion.
This growth has not been at the expense of risk or pricing and our overall philosophy has been to decline transactions rather than compromise price or quality.
2008 Investec Annual Report 90 Risk and governance Risk management We have witnessed an increase in impairments and defaults, notably in the Private Bank.
Residential mortgages have however, performed satisfactory and assets have not shown a worrying trend.
Future performance continues to be monitored against the general economy and data on home prices.
Generally there has been a slowing of asset activity however, client quality and proactive management has ensured that arrears are well controlled.
Gross defaults as a percentage of gross core loans and advances increased from 1.0% to 2.6%.
As mentioned above the UK Capital Markets Principal Finance division has certain exposures to US structured credit investments.
We have taken a market write down of 48.9 million against the US positions largely as a result of rating agency downgrades and US house price performance related to these portfolios.
As at 31 March 2008 the on balance sheet value of the US portfolio is 71 million of which 16 million is dependent on the performance of the US sub-prime markets.
These residual exposures represent less than 0.6% of the UK bank's balance sheet.
During the year Investec plc acquired Kensington as discussed on page 17.
South Africa Over the past financial year, a number of financial market trends had an impact on the assessment of our credit and counterparty risk.
These trends include: Continued upward pressure on interest rates the prime lending rate increased from 12.5% at 31 March 2007 to 14.5% at 31 March 2008.
High levels of Rand volatility and a depreciation in the Rand against the US Dollar despite the US Dollar losing ground against the Euro.
Highly volatile and high real prices of oil and metals both base and precious.
Volatile equity markets and low or negative real growth of residential and commercial property.
While the South African property market has been more resilient than that of the more established first world economies it has come under pressure towards the end of the year under review.
We are conscious of the potential effect of the combination of a slowdown of growth in the property market both global and local and upward pressure on interest rates.
The high net worth and or stable income streams of our target market clients provides a level of protection from decreases in property values, should a declining trend continue to occur in the future.
Over the past few years as property values increased, these clients built an effective equity buffer, resulting in lower average loan to value ratios which have reduced potential losses on depreciation of values.
For assets put on book during the current year there has been strict adherence to lower loan to value lending.
As at 31 March 2008 average loan to value ratios within the property development book were around 55% to 60% in line with the prior year.
As detailed above, the Rand has devalued against the US Dollar over the past year and has shown higher levels of volatility compared to the prior year.
An increase in client flow, together with greater hedging activity due to higher levels of volatility, has resulted in increased profitability and exposure in the Treasury Foreign Exchange business.
For both interest rate and foreign exchange products rate simulation methodologies are employed which enable us to identify more accurately the level of potential exposures to counterparties for these trading activities.
The methodologies recognise volume of trading, volatility of products traded, deal tenor and credit mitigants in deriving granular counterparty exposure profiles and, in so doing, allow for roll-off risk assessments.
The core loan portfolio increased by 33.5% to R103.6 billion.
The quality of the overall loan portfolio in Southern Africa remains satisfactory with gross default loans as a percentage of total loans of decreasing from 1.3% to 1.0%.
Australia The core loan portfolio increased by 59.6% to A$2.6 billion, bolstered by the acquisition of Experien and good growth across our business particularly in the first half of the year.
The quality of the overall portfolio remains satisfactory with gross defaults as a percentage of gross core loans and advances decreasing from 2.8% to 1.6%.
However a disciplined approach to risk remains a key area of focus in a weaker trading environment.
2008 Investec Annual Report 91 Risk and governance Risk management Credit and counterparty risk information Pages 81 to 110 describe where and how credit and counterparty risk is exists in our operations.
The tables that follow provide an analysis of our credit and counterparty exposures.
An analysis of gross credit and counterparty exposures 000 31 March 31 March % change Average for Audited 2008 2007 the year ended 31 March 2008 On-balance sheet exposures 21 661 399 19 058 446 13.7% 20 359 924 Securitisation exposures arising from securitisation principal finance activities - and amounts not reflected in core loans and advances 861 766 177 358 100.0% 519 562 Rated instruments 121 127 36 554 100.0% 78 841 Unrated instruments 291 665 140 804 100.0% 216 235 Other 448 974 - 100.0% 224 487 Debt instruments NCDs, bonds held, debentures 1 594 676 2 241 358 28.9% 1 918 017 Bank placements 2 438 631 2 474 482 1.4% 2 456 557 Sovereign, government placements 1 002 781 491 870 100.0% 747 326 Call facilities non-bank entities 493 257 571 627 13.7% 532 442 Trading exposures positive fair value excluding potential future exposures 2 056 412 2 909 303 29.3% 2 482 858 Other credit exposures 306 109 58 111 100.0% 182 110 Gross core loans and advances to customers before impairments 12 907 767 10 134 337 27.4% 11 521 052 Off-balance sheet exposures 3 374 450 1 937 227 74.2% 2 655 839 Guarantees 435 098 429 684 1.3% 432 391 Contingent liabilities, committed facilities and other 2 939 352 1 507 543 95.0% 2 223 448 Total gross credit and counterparty exposures pre collateral or other credit enhancements 25 035 849 20 955 673 19.2% 23 015 761 Where the average is based on a straight line average.
31 March 2008 31 March 2007 1.5% 6.5% 9.5% 9.9% 17.3% 8.4% 7.4% 6.9% 4.9% 0.3% 9.2% 42.5% 21.1% 2.2% 52.1% 0.5% Securitisation principal finance exposures Debt instruments Bank placements Sovereign, government placements Call facilities non-bank entities Trading exposures Other credit exposures Gross core loans and advances to customers Off-balance sheet exposures 2008 Investec Annual Report 92 Risk and governance Risk management A further analysis of our on-balance sheet credit and counterparty exposures The table below indicates in which class of asset on the face of the consolidated balance sheet our on-balance sheet credit and counterparty exposures are reflected.
Not all assets included in the balance sheet bear credit and counterparty risk.
000 Securitisation exposures arising from Debt Audited securitisation principal finance activities instruTotal Rated Unrated Other ments instruments instruments NCDs, bonds held, debentures As at 31 March 2008 Cash and balances at central banks - - - - - Loans and advances to banks - - - - 712 Cash equivalent advances to customers - - - - - Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed - - - - - Trading securities 154 872 57 563 87 332 9 977 548 917 Derivative financial instruments 8 995 - - 8 995 - Investment securities 3 850 - 3 850 - 1 045 047 Loans and advances to customers 443 238 13 236 - 430 002 - Securitised assets 250 811 50 328 200 483 - - Deferred taxation assets - - - - - Other assets - - - - - Interests in associated undertakings - - - - - Property and equipment - - - - - Investment property - - - - - Goodwill - - - - - Intangible assets - - - - - Insurance assets - - - - - Total 861 766 121 127 291 665 448 974 1 594 676 As at 31 March 2007 Cash and balances at central banks - - - - - Loans and advances to banks 3 947 - 3 947 - - Cash equivalent advances to customers 23 154 - 23 154 - - Reverse repurchase agreements and cash collateral on securities borrowed - - - - - Trading securities 97 741 - 97 741 - 546 277 Derivative financial instruments 8 582 - 8 582 - - Investment securities 7 380 - 7 380 - 1 695 081 Loans and advances to customers 36 554 36 554 - - - Securitised assets - - - - - Deferred taxation assets - - - - - Other assets - - - - - Interests in associated undertakings - - - - - Property and equipment - - - - - Investment property - - - - - Goodwill - - - - - Intangible assets - - - - - Insurance assets - - - - - Total 177 358 36 554 140 803 - 2 241 358 Relates to impairments.
Further information is provided on page 248.
2008 Investec Annual Report 96 Risk and governance Risk management Breakdown of gross credit and counterparty exposures by industry 000 HNW and Agriculture Electricity, Public and Business professional gas and nonservice individuals water business utility services services As at 31 March 2008 On-balance sheet exposures 8 220 078 116 206 133 532 301 709 475 772 Securitisation exposures arising from securitisation principal finance activities - and amounts not reflected in core loans and advances - - - - - Rated instruments - - - - - Unrated instruments - - - - - Other - - - - - Debt instruments NCDs, bonds held, debentures - - 2 639 3 278 - Bank placements - - - - - Sovereign, government placements - - - 12 591 - Call facilities non-bank entities - 17 437 3 818 941 72 682 Trading exposures positive fair value excluding potential future exposures 28 486 648 1 162 8 794 1 428 Other credit exposures 243 665 - - 220 23 028 Gross core loans and advances to customers 7 947 927 98 121 125 913 275 884 378 634 Off-balance sheet exposures 2 181 447 828 5 428 24 209 23 241 Guarantees 285 865 83 3 551 5 319 259 Contingent liabilities, committed facilities and other 1 895 582 745 1 877 18 890 22 982 Total gross credit and counterparty exposures pre collateral or other credit enhancements 10 401 525 117 034 138 960 325 917 499 013 As at 31 March 2007 On-balance sheet exposures 6 088 243 72 809 173 492 358 365 385 970 Securitisation exposures arising from securitisation principal finance activities - and amounts not reflected in core loans and advances - - - - - Rated instruments - - - - - Unrated instruments - - - - - Other - - - - - Debt instruments NCDs, bonds held, debentures - - 36 6 296 - Bank placements - - - 38 532 21 Sovereign, government placements - - - 6 844 - Call facilities non-bank entities - 19 829 5 725 111 148 41 208 Trading exposures positive fair value excluding potential future exposures 1 064 - 8 259 - 56 366 Other credit exposures - - - - - Gross core loans and advances to customers 6 087 179 52 980 159 472 195 545 288 375 Off-balance sheet exposures 1 236 996 19 380 47 519 11 387 3 787 Guarantees 339 433 6 950 3 418 4 833 112 Contingent liabilities, committed facilities and other 897 563 12 430 44 101 6 554 3 675 Total gross credit and counterparty exposures pre collateral or other credit enhancements 7 325 239 92 189 221 011 369 752 389 757 Largely relating to our principal finance securitisation activities.
We believe that these adjustments are necessary in order to derive a value that reflects actual core lending activities.
In this regard the following methodology has been applied: Loans and advances which have been originated by us and securitised primarily to provide an alternative source of funding are added to loans and advances.
Warehouse funding facilities and warehouse assets arising out of our securitisation and principal finance activities have been deducted.
The risks associated with our securitisation and principal finance activities are discussed in detail on pages 87 to 89.
Calculation of core loans and advances to customers 000 31 March 31 March Audited 2008 2007 Loans and advances to customers per balance sheet before impairments 14 125 466 9 566 871 Less: warehouse facilities and warehouse assets arising out of our Securitisation and Principal Finance activities 2 131 513 36 555 Add: own-originated securitised assets 913 814 604 020 Gross core loans and advances to customers before impairments 12 907 767 10 134 336 The tables that follow provide information with respect to the asset quality of our core loans and advances to customers.
Overall asset quality 000 31 March 31 March Audited 2008 2007 Gross core loans and advances to customers 12 907 767 10 134 336 Total impairments 54 011 39 791 Portfolio impairments 6 695 6 662 Specific impairments 47 316 33 129 Net core loans and advances to customers 12 853 756 10 094 545 Current loans and advances to customers 12 182 609 9 605 688 Total gross non-current loans and advances to customers 725 158 528 647 Past due loans and advances to customers 1-60 days and management not concerned 400 764 308 942 Special mention loans and advances to customers 103 978 86 667 Default loans and advances to customers 220 416 133 038 Gross core loans and advances to customers 12 907 767 10 134 336 Total gross non-current core loans and advances to customers actual capital exposure 725 158 528 647 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but not impaired 567 802 425 375 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired 157 356 103 272 Total gross non-current core loans and advances to customers actual amount in arrears 69 020 71 533 Bad debts written off during the period 20 752 13 960 Gross default loans and advances to customers 220 416 133 038 Collateral and other credit enhancements 210 217 128 100 Specific impairments 47 316 33 129 Net default loans and advances to customers limited to zero - - Ratios: Specific impairments as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 0.37% 0.33% Portfolio impairments as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 0.05% 0.07% Total impairments as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 0.42% 0.39% Specific impairments as a % of gross default loans 21.47% 24.90% Gross defaults as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers 1.71% 1.31% Net defaults as a % of gross core loans and advances to customers - - 2008 Investec Annual Report 101 Risk and governance Risk management An age analysis of gross non-current core loans and advances to customers 000 31 March 31 March Audited 2008 2007 1 - 60 days 465 095 374 478 61 - 90 days 72 977 51 340 91 - 180 days 167 898 84 826 181 - 365 days 8 221 5 401 365 days 10 967 12 602 Total gross non-current core loans and advances to customers actual capital exposure 725 158 528 647 1 - 60 days 27 913 33 869 61 - 90 days 4 309 2 094 91 - 180 days 25 641 23 558 181 - 365 days 3 268 3 571 365 days 7 890 8 441 Total gross non-current core loans and advances to customers actual amount in arrears 69 021 71 533 A further age analysis of gross non-current core loans and advances to customers 000 1 - 60 days 61 - 90 days 91 - 180 181 - 365 365 days Total Audited days As at 31 March 2008 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but not impaired Total capital exposure 432 330 70 059 60 705 1 180 1 509 565 783 Amount in arrears 25 724 2 715 1 322 786 114 30 661 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired Total capital exposure 32 765 2 918 107 193 7 041 9 458 159 375 Amount in arrears 2 189 1 594 24 319 2 482 7 776 38 360 As at 31 March 2007 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are past due but not impaired Total capital exposure 340 957 50 974 16 525 458 4 161 413 075 Amount in arrears 32 077 1 491 880 258 - 34 706 Gross core loans and advances to customers that are impaired Total capital exposure 33 521 366 68 301 4 943 8 441 115 572 Amount in arrears 1 792 603 22 678 3 313 8 441 36 827 2008 Investec Annual Report 102 Risk and governance Risk management An age analysis of gross non-current core loans and advances to customers as at 31 March 2008 based on total capital exposure 000 1 - 60 days 61 - 90 days 91 - 180 181 - 365 365 days Total Audited days Past due 1-60 days and management not concerned 400 764 - - - - 400 764 Special mention 30 742 70 020 527 1 180 1 509 103 978 Special mention 1 - 60 days in arrears and management concerned 4 359 - 527 1 180 1 509 7 575 Special mention 61 - 90 days and item well secured - 53 679 - - - 53 679 Special mention - watchlist 26 383 16 341 - - - 42 724 Default 33 589 2 957 167 371 7 041 9 458 220 416 Sub-standard 8 269 425 138 357 2 978 3 595 153 624 Doubtful 23 858 2 532 12 925 4 063 5 846 49 224 Loss 1 462 - 16 089 - 17 17 568 Total 465 095 72 977 167 898 8 221 10 967 725 158 An age analysis of gross non-current core loans and advances to customers as at 31 March 2008 based on actual amount in arrears 000 1 - 60 days 61 - 90 days 91 - 180 181 - 365 365 days Total Audited days Past due 1-60 days and management not concerned 25 691 - - - - 25 691 Special mention 27 2 715 249 786 114 3 891 Special mention 1 - 60 days in arrears and management concerned 14 57 249 786 114 1 220 Special mention 61 - 90 days and item well secured 13 2 657 - - - 2 670 Special mention - watchlist - 1 - - - 1 Default 2 195 1 594 25 392 2 482 7 776 39 439 Sub-standard 669 43 5 524 728 3 009 9 973 Doubtful 1 360 1 551 3 779 1 754 4 750 13 194 Loss 166 - 16 089 - 17 16 272 Total 27 913 4 309 25 641 3 268 7 890 69 021 Relates to solvent deceased estates and bonds under registration at the deeds office.
Due to the lengthy external process with respect to these exposures, which is out of the control of Investec, our regulatory audit partner has agreed that these exposures could be classified as special mention and remain there until settled or their credit quality deteriorates.
As at 31 March 2008 Collateral held against Total '000 Gross core Other loans and credit and advances and counterparty exposures Eligible financial collateral 1 634 954 755 038 2 389 992 Cash 580 331 25 004 605 335 Debt securities issued by sovereigns 8 474 241 876 250 350 Shares 1 046 149 488 158 1 534 307 Mortgage bonds 13 741 822 698 188 14 440 010 Residential property collateral 6 012 933 696 750 6 709 683 Commercial property collateral 7 728 889 1 438 7 730 327 Other collateral 5 007 861 187 165 5 195 026 Bonds other than mortgage bonds 321 049 - 321 049 Asset finance collateral 358 404 18 436 376 840 Guarantees 603 953 - 603 953 Credit derivatives 27 350 - 27 350 Other 3 697 105 168 729 3 865 834 Total collateral 20 384 637 1 640 391 22 025 028 A large percentage of these exposures for example bank placements are to highly rated financial institutions where limited collateral would be required due to the nature of the exposure.
Equity and investment risk in the banking book Audited Equity and investment risk description Equity and investment risk in the banking book arises primarily from the following activities conducted within the group: Investment Banking Principal Investments Private Equity and Direct Investments :We actively seek and select expansion and buy-out investments as principal in unlisted companies.
Investments are selected based on the track record of management, the attractiveness of the industry and the ability to build value for the existing business by implementing an agreed strategy.
In addition, as a result of our local market knowledge and investment banking expertise, we are well positioned to take direct positions in listed shares where we believe that the market is mispricing the value of the underlying portfolio of assets.
These investment positions are carefully researched with the intent to stimulate corporate activity.
In South Africa, we also continue to pursue opportunities to help create and grow black owned and controlled companies.
Lending transactions within the Private Banking and Capital Markets divisions :The manner in which we structure certain transactions results in equity, warrant and profit shares being held, predominantly within unlisted companies.
Property Activities:We source development, investment and trading opportunities to create value and trade for profit within agreed risk parameters.
Central Funding: In South Africa the Central Funding division is the custodian of certain equity and property investments, which have largely arisen from corporate acquisitions made, notably in the early 2000s.
Management of equity and investment risk As equity and investment risk arise from a variety of activities conducted by us, the monitoring and measurement thereof varies across transactions and or type of activity.
2008 Investec Annual Report 110 Risk and governance Risk management Nature of equity and investment risk Management of risk Listed equities Investment Committee and Market Risk Management Investment Banking Principal Finance investments Investment Committee and the Investment Bank Limited Direct Investments Division Investment Committee Embedded derivatives, profit shares and investments arising Credit Risk Management Committees from lending transactions Investment and trading properties Investment Committee and Investec Property Group Investment Committee in South Africa Central Funding investments DLC Capital Committee and Investment Committee We have recently implemented a central database to store all quantitative and qualitative information with respect to our equity, profit share, embedded derivatives and property investments.
Stress testing scenario analyses are performed regularly and reported to ERRF, BRCC and the board.
As a matter of course, concentration risk is avoided and investments are well spread across geographies and industries.
Valuation and accounting methodologies For a description of our valuation principles and methodologies refer to page 215 and pages 242 to 245 for factors taking into consideration in determining fair value.
The table below provides an analysis of income and revaluations recorded with respect to these investments.
Revaluations that are posted directly to equity are excluded from capital within Investec Limited and included in Tier 2 capital within Investec plc.
2008 Investec Annual Report 111 Risk and governance Risk management Summary of investments held and stress testing analyses The balance sheet value of investments is indicated in the table below.
Stress test values applied Unlisted investments 15% Listed equities 25% Trading properties 15% Investment properties 5% Warrants, profit shares and other embedded derivatives 35% Stress testing summary Based on the information above we could have a 110.7 million reversal in revenue which assumes a year in which there is a worst case scenario.
This would not cause the group to report a loss but could have a significantly negative impact on earnings for that period.
The probability of all these asset classes in all geographies in which we operate being negatively impacted at the same time is very low, although the probability of listed equities being negatively impacted at the same time is very high.
Capital requirements In terms of Basel II capital requirements, unlisted and listed equities within the banking book are represented under the category of Equity Risk and investment properties, profit shares and embedded derivatives are considered in the calculation of capital required for credit risk.
Refer to page 140 for further detail.
2008 Investec Annual Report 112 Risk and governance Risk management Traded market risk management Audited Traded market risk description Traded market risk is a measure of potential change in the value of a portfolio of instruments as a result of changes in the financial environment resulting in changes in underlying market risk factors such as interest rates, equity markets, bond markets, commodity markets, exchange rates and volatilities between now and a future point in time.
The Market Risk Management team identifies, quantifies and manages the effects of these potential changes in accordance with Basel ll and policies determined by the board.
Within our trading activities, we act as principal with clients or the market.
Market risk, therefore, exists where we have taken on principal positions, resulting from proprietary trading, market making, arbitrage, underwriting and investments in the commodity, foreign exchange, equity, capital and money markets.
The focus of these businesses is primarily on supporting client activity.
Our philosophy is that proprietary trading should be limited and that trading should be conducted largely to facilitate clients in deal execution.
Audited Traded market risk governance structure To manage, measure and mitigate market risk, we have independent market risk management teams in each geography where we assume market risk.
Local limits have been set to keep potential losses within acceptable risk tolerance levels.
A Global Market Risk Forum mandated by the various boards of directors manages the market risks in accordance with pre-approved principles and policies.
Risk limits are reviewed and set at the Global Market Risk Forum and ratified at the ERRF.
Limits are reviewed either annually, in the event of a significant market event e. g. 11 September 2001, or at the discretion of senior management.
Management and measurement of traded market risk Market risk management teams review the market risks on our books.
Detailed risk reports are produced daily for each trading desk.
These reports are distributed to management and the traders on the desk.
Any unauthorised excesses are recorded and require a satisfactory explanation from the desk for the excess.
The production of risk reports allows for the monitoring of every instrument traded against prescribed limits.
Trading is also limited to the most liquid instruments and each traded instrument undergoes various stresses to assess potential losses.
Each trading desk is monitored on an overall basis as an additional control.
Trading limits are generally tiered with the most liquid and least risky instruments being assigned the largest limits.
The market risk teams perform a profit attribution, where our daily traded income is attributed to the various underlying risk factors on a day-to-day basis.
An understanding of the sources of profit and loss is essential to understanding the risks of the business.
Measurement techniques used to quantify market risk arising from our trading activities include sensitivity analysis, Value at Risk VaR and Expected Tail Loss ETL.
Stress testing and scenario analysis are also used to simulate extreme conditions to supplement these core measures.
VaR numbers are monitored at the 95%, 99% and 100% maximum loss confidence intervals.
ETLs are monitored at the 95% and 99% levels.
Scenario analysis considers the impact of a significant market event on our current trading portfolios.
We consider the impact for the 10 days after the event, not merely the instantaneous shock to the markets.
Included in our scenario analysis are for example the following: October 1987 Black Monday, 11 September 2001 and the December Rand crisis in 2001.
All VaR models, while forward-looking, are based on past events and depend on the quality of available market data.
The accuracy of the VaR model as a predictor of potential loss is continuously monitored through back testing.
This involves comparing the actual trading revenues arising from the previous day's closing positions with the one-day VaR calculated for the previous day on these same positions.
If the revenue is negative and exceeds the one-day VaR, a back testing breach is considered to have occurred.
2008 Investec Annual Report 113 Risk and governance Risk management VaR Investec plc Investec Audited IBUK IBAL Limited 95% one-day 99% one-day 95% one-day '000 A$'000 R'million 31 March 2008 Commodities 93 - 0.4 Equity derivatives 275 - 4.0 Foreign exchange 23 34 1.8 Interest rates 397 343 0.4 Consolidated 434 374 3.8 High 951 374 10.8 Low 130 59 1.9 Average 385 178 6.2 31 March 2007 Commodities 79 72 0.4 Equity derivatives 124 - 6.5 Foreign exchange 5 30 0.9 Interest rates 77 132 0.6 Consolidated 179 234 7.0 High 539 500 13.9 Low 130 105 2.8 Average 238 279 6.5 The consolidated VaR for each desk and each entity is lower than the sum of the individual VaRs.
This arises from the correlation offset between various asset classes.
Where: IBUK is Investec Bank UK Limited and IBAL is Investec Bank Australia Limited The graphs below show total daily VaR and profit and loss figures for our trading activities over the reporting period.
The values are for the 99% one-day VaR i. e. 99% of the time, the total trading activities will not lose more than the values depicted below.
Based on these graphs, we can gauge the accuracy of the VaR figures.
Investec Bank UK Limited 99% 1-day VaR backtesting GBP 1 500 000 1 000 000 500 000 0 -500 000 -1 000 000 -1 500 000 -2 000 000 pnl VaR There have been seven exceptions i. e. where the loss is greater than the VaR.
This exceeds the expectations at the 99% level.
All exceptions arose on the Fixed Income desk.
These exceptions arose largely in November and December 2007, a particularly volatile period in the markets with extreme moves across most asset classes and in particular interest rates.
The model would expect around 2 to 3 exceptions per annum.
Investec Bank Australia Limited 99% 1-day VaR backtesting A$ 200 000 100 000 0 -100 000 -200 000 -300 000 -400 000 pnl VaR There have been no exceptions over the past year.
Stress testing The table below indicates the potential losses that could arise if the portfolio is stress tested under extreme market conditions 15 standard deviations.
Investec plc Investec Audited IBUK IBAL Limited Using VaR Using VaR Using VaR '000 A$'000 R'million 31 March 2008 Commodities 712 - 3.1 Equity derivatives 2 105 - 30.6 Foreign exchange 176 200 13.8 Interest rates 3 038 1 995 3.1 Consolidated 6 031 2 195 50.6 31 March 2007 Commodities 602 420 2.8 Equity derivatives 946 - 49.8 Foreign exchange 37 175 7.2 Interest rates 587 767 4.9 Consolidated 2 172 1 362 65.0 Where: IBUK is Investec Bank UK Limited and IBAL is Investec Bank Australia Limited 2008 Investec Annual Report 116 Risk and governance Risk management Traded market risk mitigation The Market Risk Management team is located outside the dealing room, thereby ensuring independence.
The risk management software runs independently from source trading systems and values all trades separately.
The values from the two systems are compared daily.
The values from the risk system are also used for profit attribution, another risk management tool.
Risk limits are set according to guidelines set out in our risk appetite policy and are calculated on a statistical and non-statistical basis.
Statistical limits include VaR and ETL analyses at various confidence intervals as well as disaster scenarios where the 15 standard deviation adverse market move is considered.
Historical VaR is used 500 days of un-weighted data, where every risk factor is exposed to daily moves over the past year.
With the equity markets for example, every share and index is considered independently as opposed to techniques where proxies are used.
Non-statistical limits include product limits, tenor, notional, liquidity, buckets and option sensitivities greeks.
When setting and reviewing these limits, current market conditions are taken into account.
Bucket limits are set on time buckets, generally at threemonth intervals out to two years and then, on a less granular basis, out to 30 years.
Traded market risk year in review In South Africa, we use our internal models for market risk measurement which in effect puts us at the level of the advanced approach for Basel II.
In terms of this model, trading capital is calculated as a function of the 99% 10-day VaR.
Backtesting results and a detailed stress testing pack will be submitted to the regulator on a monthly basis.
In the UK, all desks are currently at the Capital Adequacy CAD l level and will be applying for CAD ll later in the year.
The past year was characterised by strong, albeit volatile, growth in the equity, commodity and bond markets.
These market conditions, coupled with good client flows and product sales, resulted in strong performances from the South African trading operations.
The model of concentrating on client flow proved very successful with the good results being obtained with relatively low risk taking.
In the UK, the bank continues to build its customer base in an attempt to replicate the South African model.
The new structured equity desk has commenced trading and is expected to produce good income through its product suite and hedging strategies for clients.
The fixed income desk, which makes markets in short Sterling, Euribor and Euro Dollar options and futures, ended the year marginally down on the back of difficult market conditions, especially in the second half of the year on the back of the sub-prime crisis and subsequent liquidity squeeze.
The Irish equity trading businesses performed well.
Australia continues to grow although trading activity remains modest with the focus being mainly commodity hedging.
Revenue from trading activities within our Capital Markets division mn 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 UK and Europe South Africa Australia Total trading revenue 2008 Investec Annual Report 117 Risk and governance Risk management Audited Market risk - derivatives We enter various derivatives contracts, both as principal for trading purposes and as customer for hedging foreign exchange, commodity, equity and interest rate exposures.
These include financial futures, options, swaps and forward rate agreements.
The risks associated with derivative instruments are monitored in the same manner as for the underlying instruments.
Risks are also measured across the product range to take into account possible correlations.
Information showing our derivative trading portfolio over the reporting period on the basis of the notional principal and the fair value of all derivatives can be found on page 247.
The notional principal indicates our activity in the derivatives market and represents the aggregate size of total outstanding contracts at year end.
The fair value of a derivative financial instrument represents the present value of the positive or negative cash flows which would have occurred had we closed out the rights and obligations arising from that instrument in an orderly market transaction at year end.
Both these amounts reflect only derivatives exposure and exclude the value of the physical financial instruments used to hedge these positions.
Non-traded currency risk Fluctuations in exchange rates against Pounds Sterling can have an impact on our financial results.
Information in this regard is provided on page 80.
Balance sheet risk management Balance sheet risk description Balance sheet risk management encompasses the financial risks relating to our asset and liability portfolios, comprising market liquidity, funding, concentration and non-trading interest rate risks on balance sheet.
Balance sheet risk governance structure Management believes that a centralised framework permits global identification and coordination of Balance Sheet risk.
Asset and liability oversight is centralised within each geography, using regional expertise and local market access as appropriate.
Regional Asset and Liability Management Committees ALCOs are mandated by their respective boards of directors and the group to manage the balance sheet risks on a consistent basis with pre-approved principles and policies.
Detailed policies cover both domestic and foreign currency funds and set out sources and amounts of funds necessary to ensure the continuation of our operations without undue interruption.
The size, materiality, complexity, maturity and depth of the market as well as access to stable funds determine the risk appetite for the region.
Each region further ensures that the liquidity management framework is compatible with local regulatory requirements.
Group liquidity policy requires each geography to be self-funding so that there is no reliance on inter-group lines either from or to other group entities.
Branches and subsidiaries have no responsibility for contributing to group liquidity.
We continue to improve risk measurement processes and methodologies in line with Basel II requirements.
The Balance Sheet Risk Management team independently identifies, quantifies and monitors risks, providing independent governance and oversight of the Treasury activities within the Capital Markets division and the execution of our policy to management, ALCO, ERRF, BRCC and the board.
In carrying out its duties the Balance Sheet Risk Management team monitors historical liquidity trends, tracks prospective onand off-balance sheet liquidity obligations, identifies and measures internal and external liquidity warning signals which permit early detection of liquidity issues including identification and testing of various company-specific and market-driven stress scenarios through daily liquidity reporting and scenario analysis which quantify our positions.
The governance framework adopted for the management of structural interest rate risk in the banking book mirrors that of liquidity risk.
The risk is transferred to and managed within our Treasury operations.
Balance sheet risk mitigation The Treasury function centrally directs the raising of wholesale liabilities, establishes and maintains access to stable funds with the appropriate tenor and pricing characteristics, and manages liquid securities and collateral.
The Treasury function is the sole interface with the wholesale market for both cash and derivative transactions, and actively manages the liquidity mismatch and non-trading interest rate risk arising from our asset and liability portfolios.
The Treasury function is required to exercise tight control over funding, liquidity, concentration and non-trading interest rate risk within defined parameters.
2008 Investec Annual Report 118 Risk and governance Risk management Balance Sheet Risk Management combines traditional gap analysis and quantitative models, including stress tests.
This is designed to measure the range of possible future liquidity needs and potential distribution of net interest income and economic value under various scenarios covering a spectrum of events in which we could find ourselves and prepare accordingly.
The modelling process is supported by ongoing technical and economic analysis.
The result is formally reported to management, ERRF, BRCC and the board on a regular basis.
The entire process is underpinned by a system of extensive internal and external controls.
An active presence is maintained in professional markets and each jurisdiction manages the wholesale money market capacity for our name, supported by efforts in relationship management with corporate and institutional clients.
Important factors in assuring liquidity are competitive rates, the maintenance of depositors' confidence and our reputation.
Non-trading interest rate risk description Non-trading interest rate risk is the impact on net interest earnings and sensitivity to economic value, as a result of increases or decreases in interest rates arising from the execution of our core business strategies and the delivery of products and services to our customers.
Sources of banking-related risk exposures include potential adverse effect of volatility and changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads.
These affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs, when applied to our rate sensitive asset and liability portfolios, which has a direct effect on future net interest income and the economic value of equity.
The mix of interest rate repricing characteristics is influenced by the underlying financial needs of customers.
Management and measurement of non-trading interest rate risk Non-trading interest rate risk in the banking book is a normal part of banking and can be an important source of shareholder value.
We are exposed to repricing risk due to timing differences in the fixed rate maturity and floating rate repricing of bank assets, liabilities and derivative positions.
Additionally we are exposed to curve and basis risk, due to the difference in repricing characteristics of two floating-rate indices.
We are not materially exposed to optionality risk, as contract breakage penalties on fixed-rate advances specifically cover this risk.
Non-trading interest rate risk is measured and managed from an earnings perspective over a specified time horizon and economic value.
Economic value measures have the advantage that all future cash flows are considered and therefore can highlight risk beyond the earnings horizon.
The aim is to protect and enhance net interest income and economic value in accordance with the boardapproved risk management framework and risk appetite.
The standard tools that are used to measure the sensitivity of earnings to changes in interest rates are the repricing gap, net interest income sensitivity, economic value sensitivity and stress-testing to macroeconomic movement or changes, which provides senior management with an assessment of the financial impact of identified rate changes on potential future net interest income and economic value.
This is consistent with the standardised interest rate measurement recommended by the Basel II framework for assessing banking book non-trading interest rate risk.
Operationally, non-trading interest rate risk is transferred from the originating business to the Treasury function and aggregated or netted.
The Treasury function implements appropriate balance sheet strategies to achieve a cost-effective source of funding and mitigates any residual undesirable risk.
Policy requires that interest rate risk arising from fixed interest loans risk is transferred from the originating business to Treasury by match-funding.
In turn, Central Treasury hedges all fixed rate assets with a term of more than one year on a deal-by-deal basis to within 3-months repricing with the use of variable vs. fixed interest rate swaps.
The market for these vanilla swaps is deep, with the result that such hedging is efficient.
Likewise, Treasury hedges all fixed rate deposits with a term of more than one year to within 3-months repricing.
Limits exist to ensure there is no undesired risk retained within any business or product area.
The process is supported by technical interest rate analysis and economic review of fundamental developments by geography taking global trends into account.
Treasury have a mandate to take advantage of opportunities which may arise during changing interest rate cycles, by tactically responding to market opportunities, within our statutory and surplus liquid assets portfolios.
Although these portfolios also form part of the non-trading book, they are marked-to-market and are risk managed within predefined risk limits.
Interest rate sensitivity gap The tables below show our non-trading interest rate mismatch.
These exposures affect the interest rate margin realised between lending income and borrowing costs.
The tables below reflect our economic value sensitivity to a 2% parallel shift in interest rates i. e. the numbers represent the change in our net asset value should such a scenario arise.
UK and Europe million GBP USD EUR Other AUD ZAR All GBP GBP 200bp Down 4.3 3.2 3.2 0.8 0.1 - 9.3 200bp Up 4.3 3.2 3.2 0.8 0.1 - 9.3 South Africa million GBP USD EUR Other AUD ZAR All GBP ZAR 200bp Down 326.3 0.2 3.2 - 0.3 0.1 293.2 200bp Up 228.1 0.2 3.6 - 0.3 0.1 194.0 Australia million AUD 200bp Down 3.3 200bp Up 3.3 2008 Investec Annual Report 121 Risk and governance Risk management Liquidity risk description Liquidity risk is the risk that we have insufficient capacity to fund increases in assets, or are unable to meet our payment obligations as they fall due, including repaying depositors or maturing wholesale debt.
This risk is inherent in all banking operations and can be impacted by a range of institution-specific and market-wide events.
Risk management has become more sophisticated with liquidity risk being no exception and we consider both funding liquidity risk and market liquidity risk.
Sources of liquidity risk include unforeseen withdrawals of demand deposits, restricted access to new funding with appropriate maturity and interest rate characteristics, inability to liquidate a marketable asset timeously with minimal risk of capital loss, unpredicted customer non-payment of a loan obligation and a sudden increased demand for loans.
Management and measurement of liquidity risk Liquidity management is vital for protecting our depositors, preserving market confidence, safeguarding our reputation and ensuring sustainable growth.
Through active liquidity management, we seek to preserve stable, reliable and cost-effective sources of funding.
To accomplish this, management uses a variety of liquidity risk measures that consider market conditions, prevailing interest rates, liquidity needs and the desired maturity profile of liabilities.
These metrics are used to measure and manage the proportion of our external assets which are funded by customer liabilities, wholesale debt, equity and loan capital thus maintaining an appropriate mix of term funding and strong balance sheet liquidity ratios within approved risk limits.
We are an active participant in the global financial markets.
We have instituted various offshore syndicated loan programmes to broaden and diversify term-funding in supplementary markets and currencies, enhancing the proven capacity to borrow in the money markets.
These markets serve as a cost-effective source of funds and are a valuable component of our overall liquidity management.
Decisions on the timing and tenor of accessing these markets are based on relative costs, general market conditions, prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile.
We place great value on the establishment of strong relationships with all our investors and we maintain an active presence in the money markets in each region within which we operate.
We benefit from stable wholesale liability balances through the normal course of business.
These liability balances are a consistent source of funding due to the nature of the businesses from which they are generated.
We target a diversified funding base, avoiding undue concentrations by investor type, maturity, market source, instrument and currency.
This demonstrates our ability to generate funding from a broad range of sources in a variety of geographic locations, which enhances financial flexibility and limits dependence on any one source.
We acknowledge the importance of our private clients as the principal source of stable and well diversified funding for our Private Bank risk assets.
We continue to develop products to attract and service the investment needs of our Private Bank clients.
Although the contractual repayments of many customer accounts are on demand or at short notice, expected cash flows vary significantly from contractual maturity.
For this reason, behavioural profiling is applied to liabilities with an indeterminable maturity.
This process is used to identify sources of structural liquidity in the form of core deposits that exhibit stable behaviour.
Our Private Bank continued to successfully raise private client deposits through a period of strong asset growth.
We engage in transactions that involve the use of both special purpose entities and asset securitisation structures in connection with the sale of certain mortgages.
Securitisation represents a relatively modest proportion of our current funding profile, but provides additional flexibility and source of liquidity.
These entities form part of the consolidated group balance sheet as reported.
We maintain a liquidity buffer in the form of unencumbered, cash, high quality liquid assets and near cash in excess of the statutory requirements as protection against unexpected disruptions in cash flows.
These portfolios are managed within limits and, apart from acting as a buffer under going concern conditions, also form an integral part of the broader liquidity generation strategy in the unlikely event of a liquidity crunch.
From October 2007 to 31 March 2008 average cash and near cash balances over the period amounted to 5.3 billion 2.2 billion in UK and Europe: R40 billion in South Africa and A$0.9 million in Australia.
2008 Investec Annual Report 122 Risk and governance Risk management A key component of our liquidity management framework is assumptions-based planning and scenario modelling to estimate the funding requirement to meet expected growth.
Anticipated onand off-balance sheet cash flows are subjected to a variety of scenarios in order to evaluate the impact of both likely outcomes and unlikely but plausible events on liquidity positions.
Scenarios and liquidity stress tests are designed to measure and manage the liquidity position such that payment obligations can be met under both normal and stressed conditions.
Operationally the preparation of cash flow projections for assets and liabilities and funding requirements corresponding to the forecasted cash flow mismatch are translated into shortand long-term funding strategies within each legal entity and globally.
This ensures the smooth management of the day-to-day liquidity position within conservative parameters and further validates that, in the event of either a firm-specific or general market event, we are able to generate sufficient liquidity to withstand short term liquidity stress.
We are currently unaware of any circumstances that could significantly detract from our ability to raise funding appropriate to our needs.
We maintain liquidity contingency plans and the identification of alternative sources of funds in the market.
This is to ensure that cash flow estimates and commitments can be met in the event of general market disruption or adverse business and economic scenarios, while minimising detrimental long-term implications for the business.
Our liquidity management processes encompass principles set out by the regulatory authorities in each jurisdiction, namely the FSA, the SARB and APRA.
Liquidity mismatch The tables that follow show our liquidity mismatch across our core geographies.
With respect to the contractual liquidity mismatch: No assumptions are made, and we record all asset and liabilities with the underlying contractual maturity as determined by the cash flow profile for each deal.
As an integral part of the broader liquidity generation strategy as mentioned above, we maintain a liquidity buffer in the form of unencumbered, cash, high quality liquid assets and near cash as a buffer against both expected and unexpected cash flows.
As the actual contractual profile of this asset class is of little consequence, we have: - Set the time horizon to one month to monetise our cash and near cash portfolio of available for salediscretionary treasury assets, where there are deep secondary markets for this elective asset class.
- Set the time horizon to on demand to monetise our statutory liquid assets for which liquidity is guaranteed by the central bank.
- Reported the contractual profile by way of a note to the tables.
With respect to the behavioural liquidity mismatch: The new funding we would require under normal business circumstances is shown in the behavioural mismatch.
To this end, behavioural profiling is applied to liabilities with an indeterminable maturity, as the contractual repayments of many customer accounts are on demand or at short notice but expected cash flows vary significantly from contractual maturity.
In addition, re-investment behaviour, with profile and attrition based on history, is applied to term deposits in the normal course of business.
Pound Sterling interest rates - the financial year began with the Monetary Policy Committee MPC still tightening monetary policy to rein in excessive economic growth.
It increased rates by 0.25% in both May and July, taking the Bank Rate to 5.75%.
In August, financial market disruption began, originating from US sub-prime mortgage related losses.
Interbank markets froze and continued to exhibit varying degrees of dislocation for the rest of the year, worsening towards quarter ends.
The initial problems prompted the collapse of the UK bank Northern Rock in September.
These developments halted the MPC's tightening phase and concerns over the economy prompted two rate cuts of 0.25% each in December 2007 and February 2008, taking rates back down to 5.25%.
The MPC has also supplemented reductions with additional liquidity provisions at times throughout the financial year notable announcements included September, December and March.
Further operations to address market illiquidity seem likely.
Euro interest rates - the European Central Bank ECB was also raising the key refinance rate at the start of the financial year, worried that above trend growth would generate medium-term inflation pressures.
The ECB hiked rates by 0.25% in June to 4.00% and announced its intention to raise them again in September.
However, the onset of the financial crisis saw this intention disappear.
While the Eurozone economy has slowed gradually over the past few quarters, the financial system has borne the brunt of the global credit problems which have included multiple bail-outs of German lender IKB Deutsche Industriebank AG and a rescue of Landesbank Sachsen.
The ECB has been very active providing additional liquidity to markets.
Despite inflation rising to 3.5% in March, the highest under monetary union, it has not felt able to support the wider economy with monetary policy easing.
Rand interest rates - the SARB hiked interest rates by 50bp in August, October and December 2007.
CPIX inflation at year end was approximately 9.4% year on year, having risen from 6.3% year on year in April 2007, and is well above the upper limit of the SARB's 3%-6% inflation target range.
CPIX inflation left the inflation target range at the start of our financial year due to the sharp rise in food price inflation and rising petrol prices.
Australian interest rates - strong global demand continued to support commodity production, while Australia also benefited from strong domestic demand.
The Reserve Bank of Australia RBA hiked the Cash Rate Target by 0.25% to 6.50% on 8 August 2007 immediately before the financial market disruption started.
Continued growth pressures subsequently led the central bank to raise the Target by 0.25% a further three times over the course of second half of the financial year November, February and March to 7.25%.
However, after the latest increase the RBA governor noted tentative signs of a moderating in domestic demand growth, which suggest that 7.25% might prove to be the peak of the current cycle.
Short term wholesale domestic interest rates have increased significantly beyond where the RBA has been targeting for the cash rate, and the major banks have broken with tradition in raising mortgage rates higher than the corresponding increase in the Cash Rate.
These impacts have the effect of a defacto further tightening in monetary conditions without which it is likely that the RBA would have raised rates further and faster.
USD interest rates - the Federal Reserve had left interest rates on hold since 2006, with evidence that the economy was slowing from a fast pace of expansion in previous years.
With the US mortgage market the epicentre of the big financial quake, the US authorities were quick to respond, providing liquidity to financial markets in August.
The Fed started cutting interest rates in mid-September, reducing the target by 0.50% to 4.75%.
It cut rates twice more in 2007, both times by a more gentle 0.25% taking rates down to 4.25% by the end of 2007.
However, as evidence continued to mount of credit market dislocation, and equity markets collapsed on signs of a faltering economy, the Fed stepped up a gear in 2008.
An emergency rate cut of 0.75% in mid-January was followed up by a 0.50% cut at the end of that month.
This was the most aggressive easing of interest rates in the US since 1982.
It was followed up by a further 0.75% reduction, taking rates to 2.25% in March.
We expect further easing over the coming meetings.
The Fed has also introduced a number of special operations in an attempt to alleviate credit market tensions, including cutting the Discount Rate, expanding the list of those it can lend to, providing term money tenders and introducing a facility for 28-day mortgage backed security for US Treasury swaps.
The Fed also oversaw the rescue of Bear Stearns in March, facilitating the buy-out by JP Morgan by guaranteeing certain Bear Stearns positions.
Balance sheet risk year in review The financial year exhibited two extremes globally.
The beginning of the year started with continued spread compression in credit markets to historically tight levels.
Asset growth was strong and all forms of funding were freely available.
There was extremely active uptake in capital markets for Financial Institution paper.
July saw the beginning of the dramatic unwinding of the excessive levels of gearing that characterised the last five years of activity in international financial markets.
In the UK, Interbank lending ceased, overnight rates rose dramatically over official rates and secured lending through non-gilt repo markets ended.
All capital markets activities came to a halt.
Banks that had underwritten leveraged buy-out debt could not sell down, forcing them to fund on-balance sheet.
Off-balance sheet conduits were unable to roll maturing commercial paper funding, forcing distressed selling of assets and draw-down of bank lines.
In this environment, banks in general were unable to issue paper in the capital markets.
In addition, funding through securitisation all but dried up.
Although financial markets continue to deteriorate in certain respects, some stability has returned to the interbank market: deposits have rolled over showing evidence of a certain measure of calm having returned to the market.
2008 Investec Annual Report 127 Risk and governance Risk management The credit markets dislocation has seen a fundamental change to issuance in the domestic Australian debt capital markets.
This has most directly affected structured investment vehicles relying on asset backed commercial paper and term debt securities funding.
The domestic major banks have successfully undertaken senior debt issues, albeit at dramatically wider credit spreads.
Investec Bank Australia Limited IBAL has continued to maintain a strong liquidity position, with consistent funding flow from wholesale relationships particularly in the middle market client base.
IBAL's Private Bank has been a beneficiary of the current environment with a significant inflow of funds from private clients over this period.
On the Rand funding side, Investec Bank Limited IBL experienced strong organic growth in balance sheet, deposit and surplus cash valuer.
During the financial year the balance sheet benefited from our books being well positioned for multiple rate hikes in the Rand and several rate cuts in the US Dollar.
However, the key feature of the latter part of the year was the slow impact of the global credit crisis on local markets increasing the cost of Rand deposits across the board.
In response to the global liquidity crunch IBL instituted a policy of holding higher levels of cash and near cash.
Markets remain challenging and it is anticipated that these conditions will remain in force at least until the end of 2008.
We successfully embarked on several term debt funding initiatives.
This allowed us to maintain liquidity well above internal and external liquidity targets, while growing our profitable lending portfolios.
Decisions concerning timing of issuance and the tenor of liabilities are based upon relative costs, general market conditions, prospective views of organic balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile.
Investec Bank UK Limited: -A e240 million 3-year Schuldschein issue was completed in October 2007 at LIBOR 0.25% and a market related upfront arrangement fee.
- During the period of market dislocation we successfully arranged substantial bi-lateral facilities through long-standing historical relationships maintained with other banks.
- In addition we were able to arrange a one year syndicated loan in an amount of e300 million, to start in April 2008 at the lower end of market terms.
Investec Bank Australia Limited: - A new Debt Issuance Programme was established with a programme capacity of A$2.5 billion.
An inaugural debt issuance by IBAL of A$250 million of floating rate medium term notes comprising A$100m of 3 year MTNs at BBSW 0.35% and A$150m of 5year MTNs at BBSW 0.45% was successfully completed in June, prior to the dislocation in credit markets.
Operational risk management Operational risk definition Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss or earnings volatility arising from failed or inadequate internal processes, people and technology, or from external events.
We recognise operational risk as a significant risk category, and strive to manage this within acceptable levels through the promotion of sound operational risk management practices.
Operational risk governance structure A common understanding of the definition of operational risk and its impact throughout the organisation is key to the successful management of operational risk.
The governance structure for Operational Risk Management is outlined below: Board The board through the BRCC and Audit Committees approve, monitor and review the operational risk framework, policies and practices of the group.
Group Operational Risk Management An independent specialist Group Operational Risk Management function promotes consistent and sound operational risk management practices and processes across the group to meet regulatory and stakeholder expectations in managing the group's operational risk.
2008 Investec Annual Report 128 Risk and governance Risk management Group Operational Risk Management monitors and reports on enterprise wide risk programmes including Business Continuity Risk, Change Control Risk, Information Security Risk, Operational Risk, Technology Risk and Fraud Risk.
The operational risk committee and working groups monitor the effectiveness of the operational risk management framework and develop and implement practices supporting operational risk policies and practices.
Business unit senior management Business unit senior management is responsible for the implementation of the operational risk management framework, policies and practices, as well as for the management of the operational risk within their business units through a network of embedded risk managers.
Operational risk management framework We have implemented an operational risk management framework as well as policies and practices, and a technology system to provide a comprehensive means of identifying, assessing and mitigating operational risk management throughout the group.
The framework sets out a structured and consistent approach for implementing a systematic, effective and efficient process to manage operational risk across the group.
Internal Audit conducts reviews of the operational risk management framework as well as business unit implementation.
Operational risk identification and risk assessments The risk assessment process is central to the operational risk management framework.
A qualitative risk assessment is conducted using an identified universe of operational risks contained in a risk assessment framework.
The risk assessment framework deals with key operational risks such as people, process and technology risks.
- People risks considered include recruitment, remuneration, employment practices, training and competence, legal compliance and behavioural expectations.
- Process risk factors considered include the origination, execution and operation of processes.
- We use the CoBit standards to assess our Information Technology environment risks.
These risk assessments and resulting treatments are conducted according to our Operational Risk methodology.
The assessment of risks and controls is conducted at business unit level and is subject to treatment and escalation in terms of our operational risk appetite policy, which sets out the operational risk exposure that we are willing to accept or retain.
There is an ongoing review of the risk assessments based on the internal and external events, changes in the business environment, and new products introduced.
Operational risk events We respond to internal risk events with appropriate analysis and actions to mitigate and minimise losses and improve controls.
Processes are in place for the monitoring and escalation of recorded events, which are in line with the risk appetite policy.
The recording and analysis of external events that occur in institutions similar to the group allow for enhancement or improvements to the control environment through the lessons learnt by these events in the same manner as internal events.
Operational risk indicators We track indicators to monitor the operational risk exposures and to highlight potential issues.
Reporting Reports to senior management and the Board include operational risk exposures as well as risk events.
Group Operational Risk reports to the board, BRCC, Audit Committee and Operations Integration Forum on a regular basis.
These reports are based on monitoring performed by Group Operational Risk Management and input received from the business units.
Other key operational risks Business continuity risk Business continuity encompasses the planning, design, operation and management of business processes and technologies to minimise the disruption caused in the event of a disaster or business interruption.
Senior management is responsible for maintaining a crisis management as well as a business continuity capability for each of our geographical locations.
A network of business continuity coordinators has responsibility for embedding our business continuity capability.
This capability is subject to independent monitoring, review and assessment by both Group Operational Risk Management and Internal Audit.
The effectiveness of the business continuity line is tested on a regular basis.
2008 Investec Annual Report 129 Risk and governance Risk management Business continuity risk practices continue to mature throughout the group.
Attention to continuous improvement of our operational resilience allowed us to respond effectively to incidents such as power load shedding, without disruption to the business.
We also focused on heightening the general awareness of business continuity amongst all staff.
Information security risk Our information security process is based on the international standard ISO 17799, which promotes common processes and standards across all business units and country operations.
Information security risk is assessed as part of the risk assessment framework.
Information security is overseen by our Group Information Security Officer.
During the year, information security risk practices focused on mitigating the constant threat of attack on our information systems, and were able to thwart all known attempts to disrupt business.
Technology and IT change management Change management includes all system changes to live and business continuity environments.
Changes follow approval and adequate testing before implementation.
A consistent process, in terms of group policy, is followed to ensure a smooth transition during implementation and to minimise business disruption resulting from the changes.
The change management process is implemented and managed at business unit level in accordance with global policy.
Financial crime Financial crime is considered a key operational risk.
The focus is on risk identification, loss investigation, recovery and prosecution, and recommending enhanced practices to mitigate this risk.
Incidents of fraud are investigated, recovery initiated and legal action implemented.
It is our policy to take conclusive action on all financial crime that is identified as being perpetrated against us.
Case information is collected and compiled by the specialists in the correct manner, to facilitate the legal process and obtain the necessary convictions.
In order to assess client quality, regular reviews of the client database are conducted with comparisons to an international database of undesirable persons.
Suspicious and unusual transactions are monitored, assessed, investigated and reported as required by legislation in the jurisdictions in which we operate.
A number of reports were made during the year.
The Group Information Officer deals with all requests for information received from regulatory and investigatory agencies and emerging trends in financial crime through these requests are monitored.
During the year, various internal and external incidents were identified, investigated and reported, in order to minimise losses and recover assets and to report suspicious transactions to the relevant authorities.
Initiatives to improve awareness and internal processes were undertaken.
Outsourcing Operational risk management personnel review existing and proposed outsourcing arrangements to ensure that we adopt a consistent approach to mitigating the attendant risks, and comply with any related regulatory requirements.
The policy on Outsourcing has been reviewed during the current financial year in order to incorporate recent changes in best practice and to address regulatory requirements.
Insurance We maintain adequate insurance to cover key insurable risks.
Our insurance process and requirements are managed by the Group Insurance Manager.
Developments As part of our Basel II programme, approval, where required, was obtained from regulators for the implementation of the Standardised Approach.
The process included engagements with regulators and assessments of our operational risk practices against the regulations to ensure compliance with the requirements.
2008 Investec Annual Report 130 Risk and governance Risk management Operational risk management practices continue to be addressed and reported.
Our processes provide for continuous development and monitoring to ensure that our framework and practices are appropriate, adequate, in line with regulatory requirements and sufficiently embedded in our business.
We continue to develop and enhance our framework, policies and practices in line with developing practice and regulations.
Industry developments are monitored through active participation in industry forums.
We are evaluating measurement approaches in order to enhance the management of operational risk.
Reputational and strategic risk Reputational risk is the risk caused by damage to an organisation's reputation, name or brand.
Such damage may result from a breakdown of trust, confidence or business relationships.
Reputational risk may also arise as a result of other risks manifesting and not being mitigated.
One of the largest single potential causes of reputational risk is strategic risk.
Strategic risk is the risk of unexpected losses arising as a result of incorrect decisions taken by senior management or an internal event having an adverse effect on the perception of Investec by its clients and customers.
We have various policies and practices to mitigate reputational and strategic risk, including strong values that are regularly and proactively reinforced.
We also subscribe to sound corporate governance practices, which require that activities, processes and decisions are based on carefully considered principles.
We are aware of the impact of practices that may result in a breakdown of trust and confidence in the organisation.
We regularly reinforce our policies and practices through transparent communication, accurate reporting, continuous group culture and values assessment, internal audit and regulatory compliance review, and risk management practices.
Governance structures and processes in operation throughout the group assist in mitigating this risk.
Legal risk management Legal risk is the risk of loss resulting from any of our rights not being fully enforceable or from our obligations not being properly performed.
This includes our rights and obligations under contracts entered into with counterparties.
Such risk is especially applicable where the counterparty defaults and the relevant documentation may not give rise to the rights and remedies anticipated when the transaction was entered.
Our objective is to identify, manage, monitor and mitigate legal risks throughout the group.
We seek to actively mitigate these risks by identifying them, setting minimum standards for their management and allocating clear responsibility for such management to legal risk managers, as well as ensuring compliance through proactive monitoring.
The scope of our activities is continuously reviewed and includes the following areas: Relationship contracts.
The legal risk policy is implemented through: Identification and ongoing review of areas where legal risk is found to be present.
Allocation of responsibility for the development of procedures for management and mitigation of these risks.
Installation of appropriate segregation of duties, so that legal documentation is reviewed and executed with the appropriate level of independence from the persons involved in proposing or promoting the transaction.
Ongoing examination of the inter-relationship between legal risk and other areas of risk management, so as to ensure that there are no gaps in the risk management process.
Establishing of minimum standards for mitigating and controlling each risk, including the nature and extent of work to be undertaken by our internal and external legal resources.
Establishing of procedures to monitor compliance, taking into account the required minimum standards.
Establishing of legal risk forums, bringing together the various legal risk managers, to ensure we keep abreast of developments and changes in the nature and extent of our activities, and to benchmark our processes against best practice.
Overall responsibility for this policy rests with the board.
The board delegates responsibility for implementation of the policy to the Global Head of Legal Risk.
The Global Head assigns responsibility for controlling these risks to the managers of appropriate departments and focused units throughout the group.
2008 Investec Annual Report 131 Risk and governance Risk management A Legal Risk Forum is constituted in each significant legal entity within the group.
Each forum meets at least half-yearly and more frequently where business needs dictate, and is chaired by the Global Head of Legal Risk or an appointed deputy.
Minutes of the meetings are circulated to the Chief Executive Officer of each legal entity.
Pension risk Pension risk arises from defined benefit schemes, where Investec plc is expected to provide funds to reduce any deficit in the schemes.
There are two defined benefit schemes within Investec plc and both are closed to new business.
Pension risk could arise if the net present value of future cash outflows is greater than the current value of the asset pool set aside to cover those payments.
Primary causes of any deficit include: A mismatch in the duration of the assets relative to the liabilities.
Increased life expectancy of individuals leading to increased liabilities.
Investec plc monitors the position of the funds closely, assessing potential adverse movements in the schemes and ensuring that the risk to our capital does not exceed board approved levels.
Further information is provided on pages 260 and 261.
Capital management and allocation Our capital management approach is driven by our strategy and associated risk appetite, taking into account the regulatory and economic environment applicable to the group.
We seek to balance our capital consumption to ensure that we are prudently capitalised to meet our risks, but are also able to optimise shareholder returns.
Discipline in selection of markets, deals and investments are key to the processes by which we operate to ensure that returns are commensurate with the risk taken.
Our approach to capital is tied to a group-wide discipline that links capital allocation and structuring, performance measurement, investment decisions, risk management and capital-based incentive compensation into one integrated framework.
Capital is managed on both a regulatory and an internal economic capital basis.
Philosophy and approach The Investec group comprises Investec plc and its subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its subsidiaries.
The DLC structure considers the two groups as independent entities from a credit perspective and hence capital is managed on a separate basis.
The BRCC via the Investec DLC Capital Committee is a board sub-committee with ultimate responsibility for the capital sufficiency for both Investec plc and Investec Limited.
The legal and regulatory treatment of capital is independent of existing shareholder arrangements that are in place to ensure that shareholders have common economic and voting interests as if Investec plc and Invested Limited were a single unified enterprise.
Investec plc is regulated by the UK FSA and Investec Limited is regulated by the SARB.
Consequently, the management of capital is undertaken on a silo basis at the lowest level but considered in aggregate from a group perspective.
Regardless of the statutory entity, the objectives of capital management are to: Support a target level of financial strength aligned with a long-term rating of at least A: Maintain sufficient capital to satisfy the board's risk appetite across all risks faced by the group: Maintain sufficient capital to meet regulatory requirements: Support our growth strategy: Allow the exploration of acquisition opportunities where such opportunities are consistent with our strategy and risk appetite: Provide protection to depositors against losses arising from risks inherent in the business: Provide sufficient capital surplus to ensure that the group is able to retain its going concern basis under relatively severe operating conditions and support growth in assets.
2008 Investec Annual Report 132 Risk and governance Risk management In order to achieve these objectives, we have adopted the following approach to the integration of risk and capital management: Risk Risk Risk modelling Internal Pricing and assessment identification and Captial performance quantification measurement Ongoing risk management Managed by each Managed by Group Risk policy Capital Group Business Unit, and Capital Management Managed by and appetite management strategy Group Risk with oversight by each Business departments with DLC Captial and planning Unit with oversight by Committee oversight by ERRF BRCC BRCC Group Risk Risk reporting Risk specific Macro and business scenario economic as usual risk testing scenario testing management Risk assessment and identification We review the business annually to map our universe of key risks, which are ultimately reviewed and agreed by BRCC.
This is a bottom up process initially performed by each business unit across the group.
Key risks are then debated and agreed at senior management level and ultimately by BRCC.
The assessment of the materiality of risks is directly linked to the board's stated risk appetite and approved risk management policies covering all key risks.
Risk reporting Ongoing, identified key risks are monitored by Group Risk Management and by Internal Audit to ensure that risks are managed to an acceptable level of risk.
Performance and control of these risks is also reported to ERRF and BRCC on a weekly and monthly basis respectively, including the results of scenario testing for the following risks: Credit and counterparty risk: Traded market risk: Equity risk in the banking book: Balance sheet liquidity and non-trading interest rate risk: Liquidity risk: and Operational risk.
Risk modelling and quantification Each identified risk is considered in the context of our internal capital model, however, we believe in a holistic approach to the management of risk and as such, capital forms only one of the methods at our disposal for ensuring that the risk is adequately managed.
In addition, we have extensive embedded risk management policies and appetites as well as robust processes that consider the risk attached to each transaction at an incremental and portfolio wide level.
Only those risks which are not mitigated entirely by the use of policy are considered in terms of capital requirements.
The potential impact of risk on our capital adequacy is considered on an annual basis.
Internal capital On 1 January 2008, we began operating under the Basel II regulatory regime across all of its regulated entities.
We have adopted the Standardised Approach under Pillar 1 to determining our minimum capital requirements.
2008 Investec Annual Report 133 Risk and governance Risk management While capital requirements under Pillar 1 form the minimum capital for Investec plc, Investec Limited and their various regulated subsidiaries, our capital management framework places emphasis on the determination of internal capital.
Internal capital is derived through analysis of the potential magnitude of key risks.
Internal capital requirements are supported by an annual, board approved, risk assessment across the group.
Based on our internal capital, we target a capital adequacy ratio of 12% to 15% and a Tier 1 ratio of greater than 9% on a consolidated basis for Investec plc and Investec Limited.
The principles of internal capital have been in place within Investec for a number of years, however, given the greater flexibility allowed under Basel II, the use of internal capital has been enhanced since the adoption of Basel II.
The internal capital model will incorporate the transition to more sophisticated models for the measurement of risk over time, with the eventual regulatory approval of a move to more advanced approaches to Pillar 1.
Irrespective of their regulatory status, however, internal models will form the basis of internal capital targets.
Capital management, planning and scenario testing A group capital plan is prepared three times annually considering the impact of business strategy and market conditions on our capital sufficiency.
This plan is designed to determine capital sufficiency under a range of economic and internal conditions for the medium term 3 years.
The impact on both earnings and asset growth are considered.
The plan provides the board via the BRCC with a basis for which to align strategy given constraints on capital where these exist.
This plan is revised based on actual results and presented to the BRCC twice annually.
Each capital plan assesses the impact on our capital adequacy of a range of scenarios based on an expected case and an upturn and downturn scenarios, designed to provide an illustration of capital sufficiency under stressed market conditions.
On the basis of the results of this analysis, the DLC Capital Committee and the BRCC are presented with the potential variability in capital adequacy and are responsible for consideration of the appropriate response.
Pricing and performance measurement We use our internal capital as the basis to determine risk sensitive capital on a transactional basis.
As such, internal capital forms a number of roles within the business, including: An input to risk sensitive economic pricing: A basis of comparison for risk adjusted returns across the group: and A basis for the determination of Economic Value Added at a transactional level, and hence the basis for discretionary variable remuneration.
The use of internal capital in this way means that all transactions we conduct are considered in the context of the implication on capital, and hence on the basis of their contribution to risk adjusted return on capital.
This is to ensure that target returns are earned with sufficient consideration as to the inherent risk generated for a given transaction.
This approach allows us to embed risk and capital discipline at the level of deal initiation.
This compels a wider population beyond the formal governance committees to understand the capital implications of business activity and ensure that risk is priced appropriately.
These processes have been embedded across the business with the process designed to ensure that risk and capital management form the basis for key processes at both a group and a transactional level.
Responsibility for oversight for each of these processes ultimately falls to the BRCC.
This process forms the fundamental structure of our capital adequacy assessment process.
Responsibility for the risk and capital management process The Investec plc and Investec Limited boards of directors are ultimately responsible for the respective silo's capital management.
At the highest level, the boards have delegated direct responsibility for capital management to the BRCC, and in turn the DLC Capital Committee, to oversee the effective control and use of capital.
These forums have been in place for several years and their roles and responsibilities are discussed on pages 158 to 161.
In order to feed into this forum, Investec plc convenes a separate capital committee on a weekly basis to monitor the capital positions of its various subsidiaries, in particular the businesses in the UK and Australia.
A formally constituted capital management committee also exists in Australia.
The Southern African operations meet monthly through the Regulatory Forum, which analyses regulatory information, including capital use in Investec Bank Limited and Investec Bank Mauritius Limited.
This structure ensures that capital is actively managed from the lowest reporting level and cascades up to the ultimate responsible body - the BRCC.
2008 Investec Annual Report 134 Risk and governance Risk management Organisational structure The following areas within the structure of the business have capital management responsibilities: Business units, especially those which conduct their business out of a regulated entity and use large amounts of capital Private Bank and Capital Markets : - The transactional consultants within the business units consider the capital implications on a deal-by-deal basis as this ultimately affects the internal capital used and, hence, the pricing and profitability of the transaction, - Each business unit is responsible for translating their detailed individual strategies into a 'bottom-up capital usage projection for incorporation into the group capital plan.
Risk Management: - For transactions based on an establishment of credit risk, the capital implications of transactions are considered independently through the approval process to ensure that each transaction is accurate and reasonable.
This serves as an additional verification of the capital implication of the particular transaction, - For exposures which generate market risk, the market risk management team performs the quantification of trading capital used by the trading activities throughout the group.
This is tested for reasonableness at the various capital management forums explained above, - As part of operational risk management, a process managed by centralised operational risk management and embedded risk managers within each business unit identifies, assesses and quantifies key operational risks arising from Investec's operations.
Quantification is then used as the basis for the operational risk capital used within the internal capital framework, - Underpinning all risk management functions is their IT support division, which ensures that all applications used to calculate and report risk are functioning properly and reconcile to underlying source systems.
Group Finance: - Financial control, through the capital management function, includes responsibility for the development and implementation of the internal capital framework and to manage and report on regulatory capital requirements.
The development of the internal capital framework includes the result of analysis performed by Risk Management, - Group Finance is also responsible for co-ordinating, with business units, the development of the Groups capital plan, - As part of the responsibility for the internal capital framework, the allocation of capital is managed centrally by Group Finance, - As with Risk Management, the Group Finance IT division plays a critical role in ensuring the integrity of the ledger and all supporting applications which contribute to the regulatory and business intelligence reporting processes.
Board and Group Executive: - The BRCC has ultimate responsibility for the oversight of day to day risk management, capital management and ensuring that both risk and capital are managed commensurate with our strategy and risk appetite.
- The BRCC has delegated management of capital to the DLC Capital Committee and risk management to ERRF.
Conclusion We optimise the use of capital through a rigorous risk based approach to pricing, performance and remuneration.
Capital is managed closely for return and risk from the inception of a transaction.
This approach ensures that the linkage of risk to target capital sufficiency is entrenched in our transactional processes.
This results in a capital management process driven by capital adequacy goals which are closely monitored by strategic capital plans.
These strategic capital plans, as with all elements of internal capital, are subject to a robust approval process involving senior business unit managers, Group Executive and the board.
Capital disclosures in terms of Basel II The tables that follow provide information as required in terms of Basel II.
Accounting and regulatory treatment of group subsidiaries Investec plc and Investec Limited are the two listed holding companies in terms of the DLC structure.
Investec Bank UK Limited IBUK and Investec Bank Limited IBL are the main banking subsidiaries of Investec plc and Investec Limited, respectively.
Investec Bank Australia Limited IBAL is a subsidiary of IBUK.
2008 Investec Annual Report 135 Risk and governance Risk management Investec plc Identity of investment interest held Regulatory treatment Regulator % interest Fully Entities Country of Restrictions and held consolithat are operations major impediments dated given a on the transfer of deduction funds and treatment regulatory capital within the group Bank controlling company Investec plc Subject to consolidated supervision UK None Investec 1 Limited Subject to consolidated supervision 100% Yes UK None Regulated subsidiaries Banking and securities trading Investec Bank Australia Limited Australian 100% Yes Australia Subject to regulatory Prudential rules Regulation Authority Investec Bank UK Limited FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Investec Bank Channel Islands Limited Guernsey 100% Yes Guernsey Subject to regulatory Financial rules Services Commission Investec Bank Switzerland AG Swiss 100% Yes Switzerland Subject to regulatory Federal rules Banking Commission Investec Ireland Limited Irish 100% Yes Ireland Subject to regulatory Financial rules Services Regulatory Authority Investec Trust Guernsey Limited Guernsey 100% Yes Guernsey Subject to regulatory Financial rules Services Commission Investec Trust Jersey Limited Jersey 100% Yes Jersey Subject to regulatory Financial rules Services Commission Investec Securities US LLC Securities 100% Yes USA Subject to regulatory and rules Exchange Commission and Financial Industry Regulatory Authority Kensington Mortgage Company Limited FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Kensington Personal Loans Limited FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Rensburg Sheppards Investment FSA 47.3% ProportioUK Subject to regulatory Management Limited nately rules consolidated Rensburg Fund Management Limited FSA 47.3% ProportioUK Subject to regulatory nately rules consolidated Rensburg Sheppards Trustees Limited FSA 47.3% ProportioUK Subject to regulatory nately rules consolidated 2008 Investec Annual Report 136 Risk and governance Risk management Investec plc continued Identity of investment interest held Regulatory treatment Regulator % interest Fully Entities Country of Restrictions and held consolithat are operations major impediments dated given a on the transfer of deduction funds and treatment regulatory capital within the group Mayflower Management Limited FSA 47.3% ProportioUK Subject to regulatory nately rules consolidated Hargreave Hale Limited FSA 35% ProportioUK Subject to regulatory nately rules ProportioEuropean Capital Company Limited FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Asset Management Investec Asset Management Limited FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Investec Asset Management US Limited FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Investec Management Ltd FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Investec Fund Managers Ltd FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Investec Investment Management Ltd FSA 100% Yes UK Subject to regulatory rules Investec Asset Management Asia Ltd Hong Kong 100% Yes Hong Kong Subject to regulatory Securities rules and Futures Commission Investec Asset Management Guernsey Guernsey 100% Yes Guernsey Subject to regulatory Limited Financial rules Services Commission Investec Asset Management Ireland Irish 100% Yes Ireland Subject to regulatory Limited Financial rules Services Regulatory Authority Unregulated subsidiaries Not regulated subject to consolidated supervision Investec Holdings UK Limited 100% Yes UK None Investec Group UK PLC 100% Yes UK None Investec Asset Finance PLC 100% Yes UK None Investec Finance plc 100% Yes UK None Investec Group Investments UK Limited 100% Yes UK None Investec Investment Holdings AG 100% Yes Switzerland None Investec Trust Switzerland S. A.
100% Yes Switzerland None Kensington Group plc 100% Yes UK None Kensington Mortgages Limited 100% Yes UK None Newbury Park Mortgage Funding Limited 100% Yes UK None St James's Park Mortgage Funding Limited 100% Yes UK None Start Mortgages Limited 65.1% Yes Ireland Minority interests Experien Pty Limited 100% Yes Australia None Guinness Mahon & Co Limited 100% Yes UK None Global Ethanol Holdings Limited 44.4% No Deduction USA Minority interests Global Ethanol LLC 26.6% No Deduction USA Minority interests Ida Tech plc 73.1% No Deduction USA Minority interests 2008 Investec Annual Report 137 Risk and governance Risk management Investec Limited Identity of investment interest held Regulatory treatment Regulator % interest Fully Entities Country of Restrictions and held consolithat are operations major impediments dated given a on the transfer of deduction funds and treatment regulatory capital within the group Bank controlling company Investec Limited SARB SA None Regulated subsidiaries Banking and securities trading Investec Bank Limited SARB 100% Yes SA None Investec Bank Mauritius Bank of 100% Yes Mauritius None Mauritius Investec Securities Limited JSE, FSB, 100% Yes SA None BESA, SAFEX Asset Management Investec Asset Management Holdings Pty FSB SAFEX 100% Yes SA None Ltd Insurance Investec Employee Benefits Holdings Pty FSB 100% deconsoliSA None Ltd dated Investec Assurance Limited FSB and 100% deconsoliSA None Long Term dated Insurance Act Inbox Investments Limited FSB 100% Yes SA None Unregulated subsidiaries Not regulated subject to consolidated supervision Reichmans Holdings Limited 100% Yes SA None AEL Investment Holdings Pty Ltd 100% Yes SA None Investpref Ltd 100% Yes SA None KWJ Investments Pty Ltd 100% Yes SA None Securities Equities pty Ltd 100% Yes SA None Sechold Finance Services Pty Ltd 100% Yes SA None Investec Personal Financial Services Pty 100% Yes SA None Ltd HSBC Fedsure International Ltd 100% Yes SA None Investec Employee Share Incentive Scheme 100% Yes SA None Services Pty Ltd Investec International Holdings Gibraltar 100% Yes SA None Ltd Sibvest Ltd 100% Yes SA None SIB Investments Ltd 100% Yes SA None Grayinvest Ltd 100% Yes SA None Westrust Pty Ltd 100% Yes SA None Quyn Martin Asset Management Pty Ltd 100% Yes SA None Investec Trust Pty Ltd 100% - Yes SA None dormant Investec Hong Kong Pty Ltd 100% Yes SA None Investec Group Data Pty Ltd 100% Yes SA None 2008 Investec Annual Report 138 Risk and governance Risk management Investec Limited continued Identity of investment interest held Regulatory treatment Regulator % interest Fully Entities Country of Restrictions and held consolithat are operations major impediments dated given a on the transfer of deduction funds and treatment regulatory capital within the group Unregulated subsidiaries continued Not regulated subject to consolidated supervision APA Network Consultants Pty Ltd 100% Yes SA None Fuzztique Pty Limited 100% Yes SA None MTEL Rentals PTY Ltd 100% Yes SA None Hugh's Haven Pty Ltd 100% Yes SA None Cordatus Capital Pty Ltd 100% Yes SA None Investec Properties Group Holdings Ltd 100% Yes SA None Capital structure Summary information on the terms and conditions of the main features of all capital instruments is provided on pages 265 to 270.
As at 31 March 2008 Investec plc Investec Limited '000 R'000 Regulatory capital Tier 1 Share capital 131 148 Share premium 651 023 3 918 743 Non-redeemable, non-cumulative, non-participating preference shares 129 558 3 277 549 Retained income 299 345 6 507 782 Treasury shares 16 511 - Other reserves 89 522 47 996 Minority interests in subsidiaries 159 420 - Less: impairments goodwill and other deductions 376 675 642 022 935 813 13 110 196 Tier 2 Aggregate amount 735 462 5 289 667 Less: deductions 69 015 203 912 666 447 5 085 755 Tier 3 Aggregate amount 18 087 - Less: deductions - - 18 087 - Other deductions from Tier 1 and Tier 2 66 838 - Total eligible capital 1 553 509 18 195 951 2008 Investec Annual Report 139 Risk and governance Risk management Capital requirements As at 31 March 2008 Investec plc Investec Limited Capital Risk-weighted Capital Risk-weighted requirements assets requirements assets '000 '000 R'000 R'000 Credit risk - standardised approach 675 140 8 439 250 10 579 149 111 359 465 Equity risk - standardised approach 11 363 142 038 360 829 3 798 204 Market risk 29 717 371 463 194 398 2 046 288 Capital requirements for portfolios subject to internal models approach - Interest rate 20 380 254 749 9 011 94 850 - Foreign exchange 1 041 13 013 17 491 184 113 - Commodities 2 657 33 213 3 432 36 125 - Equities 5 639 70 488 164 464 1 731 200 Operational risk - standardised approach 96 749 1 209 363 1 260 648 13 269 977 Total 812 969 10 162 114 12 395 024 130 473 934 2008 Investec Annual Report 140 Risk and governance Risk management Capital adequacy At 31 March 2008 Investec plc IBUK IBAL Investec IBL million million A$million Limited Rmillion Rmillion Primary capital Tier 1 1 005 894 637 13 752 12 628 Other capital Tier 2 and 3 754 620 118 5 290 5 006 1 759 1 514 755 19 042 17 634 Less:impairments 205 248 213 846 607 Net qualifying capital 1 554 1 266 542 18 196 17 027 Risk-weighted assets banking and trading 10 162 8 687 2 933 130 474 118 792 Credit risk 8 439 7 174 2 509 111 360 105 593 Equity risk 142 138 102 3 798 3 645 Market risk 372 371 18 2 046 605 Operational risk 1 209 1 004 304 13 270 8 949 Capital adequacy ratio 15.3% 14.6% 18.5% 13.9% 14.3% Tier 1 ratio 9.2% 9.1% 15.3% 10.0% 10.3% Capital adequacy ratio - pre operational risk 17.4% 16.5% 20.6% 15.5% 15.5% Tier 1 ratio - pre operational risk 10.5% 10.3% 17.1% 11.2% 11.1% Where: IBUK is Investec Bank UK Limited: IBAL is Investec Bank Australia Limited and IBL is Investec Bank Limited Basel I vs Basel II The most material difference in calculating our minimum capital requirements under Basel II vs Basel I regimes arises from capital to be held with respect to operational risk.
There are a number of other adjustments which result in higher or lower adjustments to capital, but these are relatively immaterial in nature and substantially net off against one another.
However, under the principles of Basel II, Pillar 2, a significant difference between the two regimes has been introduced.
Pillar 2 has led to the introduction and use of the Internal Capital framework.
The Internal Capital framework as discussed in the capital management section seeks to utilise the identification and quantification of all key risks as described in this section to internally derive capital requirements across the group.
This has led to a regime where capital is increasingly allocated on a risk basis rather than utilising regulatory capital as a proxy for risk.
ROE and economic capital For an assessment of ROE and our return on economic capital utilised refer to page 26.
2008 Investec Annual Report 141 Risk and governance Internal Audit Internal Audit provides objective and independent assurance to management and the board that group processes are adequate for identifying the significant risks to which we are exposed and that the control environment is effective enough to manage these risks.
Internal Audit recommends enhancements to risk management, control and governance processes where weaknesses are identified.
An Internal Audit charter, approved by the Group Audit Committees and reviewed annually, governs our internal audit activity.
The charter defines the role, objectives, authority and responsibilities of the function.
As a result of the silo specific regulatory responsibilities arising from our DLC structure, there are two group Internal Audit departments located in London and Johannesburg, responsible for Investec plc and Investec Limited respectively.
An Internal Audit function reporting into Investec plc also exists in Sydney.
The combined functions cover all of the geographies in which we operate.
These departments use similar risk based methodologies and co-operate technically and operationally.
The heads of Internal Audit report at each Audit Committee meeting and have a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
They operate independently of executive management but have access to their local Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
For administrative and co-ordination purposes, they also report to the Global Head of Corporate Governance and Compliance.
This year we have adopted and will comply with the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing.
Annually, Internal Audit conducts a formal risk assessment of all businesses, incorporating management's assessment of risk, which is documented within the Enterprise Risk Assessor Operational Risk system.
A comprehensive risk based annual audit plan is derived from this assessment, which identifies areas of focus.
These are then confirmed with executive management and approved by the responsible Audit Committee.
High risk businesses and processes are audited annually, with other areas covered at regular intervals based on their risk profile.
There is an ongoing focus on identifying fraud risk as well as auditing technology risks given our dependence on IT systems.
In the past year, there was continued focus on reviewing and providing assurance on our readiness for Basel II and other new regulatory requirements.
We also liaise with the external auditors to enhance efficiencies.
The annual plan is reviewed regularly to ensure that it remains relevant and responsive, given changes in our operating environment.
The Audit Committee approves any changes to the plan.
Internal Audit proactively reviews its practices and resources for adequacy and appropriateness, to meet our increasingly demanding corporate governance and regulatory environment.
Audit teams comprising well-qualified, experienced staff ensure that the function has the competence to match our diverse requirements.
Where specific specialist skills or additional resources are required, these will be obtained from third parties as appropriate.
The Internal Audit resources are subject to review by the respective Audit Committees at least once a year.
Significant control weaknesses are reported, in terms of an escalation protocol, to the Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums, where rectification procedures and progress are considered and monitored at a detailed level by management.
The Audit Committee receives a report on significant issues and actions taken by management to enhance controls.
2008 Investec Annual Report 142 Risk and governance Compliance Compliance risk is the risk that we fail to comply with the letter and spirit of all statutes, regulations, supervisory requirements and industry codes of conduct which apply to our businesses.
We seek to bring the highest standard of compliance best practice to all our jurisdictions.
In keeping with our core values, we also endeavour to comply with the highest professional standards of integrity and behaviour, which builds trust.
We are subject to extensive supervisory and regulatory governance in the countries in which we operate.
The SARB is our lead regulator.
Significant business developments in any of our operations must be approved by the Reserve Bank as well as by the business's home country regulatory authority.
Under the DLC structure, both Investec plc and Investec Limited maintain separate Compliance structures.
Each Compliance structure operates under terms of reference which are approved by its listed company board and Audit Committee.
Each Compliance structure is headed by a Group Compliance Officer, who operates independently from operational management and is responsible for ensuring adequate management of compliance risk within their silo.
Each Group Compliance Officer reports to the Chief Executive Officer of their listed company as well as to the Global Head of Compliance, who is ultimately responsible for management of the Compliance function of both listed groups.
The Group Compliance Officers have unrestricted access to the Chairman of their Audit Committee.
The Compliance divisions operate under matrix management reporting structures and are decentralised throughout the businesses.
Under these arrangements, Compliance Officers are appointed to all significant business units and report to the business heads, but remain under the general supervision of Group Compliance.
Where appropriate, certain cross-enterprise compliance functions, such as Compliance Monitoring, are centralised and report directly to the Group Compliance Officer.
Compliance risk is managed through internal policies and processes, which include legal, regulatory and other technical requirements relevant to the business.
The Compliance Officers provide regular training to ensure that all employees are familiar with regulatory obligations.
They also provide advice on regulatory issues.
Compliance staff independently monitor the business units to ensure adherence to policies and procedures and other technical requirements.
Compliance staff work closely with business and operational units to ensure consistent management of compliance risk.
The group's Compliance Officers are charged with developing and maintaining constructive working relationships with regulators and supervisors in all our geographies.
UK and Europe - year in review Regulatory activity in the UK and Europe continued to be focused on the implementation of various European directives and initiatives of the UK's FSA.
These included: More principles based regulation.
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID.
Management and control of inside information.
Anti-money laundering AML and financial crime.
More principles based regulation We continue to monitor the FSA's Better Regulation Action Plan, which aims to improve future regulation in the UK.
This plan is underpinned by the FSA's objective to become a more principles based regulator by moving the balance of financial services regulation towards high-level principles rather than detailed rules and guidance.
Our Compliance function is closely involved with the development of more principles based regulation.
The business has dealt effectively with practical issues arising out of the principles based initiatives to date.
These include TCF, the deletion of the Money Laundering sourcebook in favour of high level principles and proposals to delete the Training and Competence sourcebook.
MiFID MiFID came into force across Europe on 1 November 2007 and aims to create a single set of rules for certain investment services and activities for a defined list of financial instruments MiFID business.
Where firms carry on MiFID business, a number of new requirements have come into force in relation to matters such as conflicts of interest, outsourcing, client categorisation, inducements, best execution and transaction reporting.
We ran a cross-divisional project to implement MiFID across our European jurisdictions.
2008 Investec Annual Report 143 Risk and governance Compliance TCF At the forefront of the more principles based regulation agenda has been an initiative to ensure that the principle of TCF is embedded in an organisation's culture.
In addition, the FSA requires organisations to have practical arrangements in place that measure and demonstrate that customers are consistently being treated fairly.
Principle 6 states that A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The FSA's approach is focused on the culture that an organisation has and, for us, the TCF agenda is closely aligned to our core values.
We have met the March 2008 deadline which required authorised firms to have management information in place to test whether they are delivering against the TCF consumer outcomes.
The next step is to ensure that by the end of December 2008 we are able to prove that this management information demonstrates that we are consistently treating customers fairly.
Management and control of inside information Since 2005 one of the FSA's key objectives has been the prevention and combating of what they call institutional market abuse, i. e. the exploitation of information that financial institutions legitimately receive for illegitimate purposes.
In mid-2007 the FSA published a document outlining good practice guidelines in relation to the management and control of inside information which it expected financial institutions to adopt.
We subsequently conducted a group-wide review of our flows of inside information and the controls we have to manage them.
Our work included enhancing policies and procedures and an extensive training and awareness programme for employees.
AML and financial crime There has been considerable focus on implementing new directive and legislative requirements related to anti-money laundering and financial crime across the European businesses.
On 15 December 2007 the UK adopted the 3rd EU Money Laundering Directive through the implementation of the Money Laundering Regulations 2007.
The UK bank's policies and procedures have been reviewed for compliance with the new regulations.
On the same date the EU Wire Transfer Directive came into force requiring originator names, address details and account numbers to be quoted on incoming and outgoing payments.
We have implemented procedures to ensure compliance with this directive.
On 15 December 2007 Guernsey introduced the amended Criminal Justice Regulations and Money Laundering handbook.
On 4 February 2008 Jersey introduced the new Money Laundering Order 2008 and a new Money Laundering Handbook and on 19 February 2008 they also introduced new Proceeds of Crime Regulations.
South Africa - year in review Anti-money laundering The implementation of the Financial Intelligence Centre Act FICA and Protection of Constitutional Democracy against Terrorist and Related Activities is ongoing.
In response to international best practice standards of anti-money laundering and anti-terror financing and in particular to Guidance Note 3 issued by the Financial Intelligence Centre, which permits an accountable institution to adopt a risk based approach, we have developed and implemented a centralised AML system that has the capability to: Risk weight clients according to the money laundering and or terror financing risks they may potentially pose.
Compare client lists to databases of adverse client information issued by regulatory authorities which includes persons named on the United Nations lists.
Administer in a central repository the ongoing maintenance of a client's identification and verification and risk weighting.
A further enhancement to the AML system to more adequately address the legislative requirements of suspicious activity reporting is planned for implementation by the end of 2008.
These systematic developments are supported by an enhanced Group AntiMoney Laundering and Anti-Terror Financing Policy which incorporates a Client Acceptance Policy to accommodate this risk weighting and the screening of clients.
Consumer law The National Credit Act was successfully implemented during June 2007 in affected entities which have been registered as credit providers.
The Act imposes strict requirements on credit providers including affordability assessments, disclosure to consumers, advertising and marketing practices, complaints, pricing and reporting to the National Credit Regulator.
2008 Investec Annual Report 144 Risk and governance Compliance The past year saw further regulatory reform pertaining to the financial services industry, particularly relating to legislation aimed at consumer protection in the form of progress made towards the Consumer Protection Bill.
The Bill aims to provide a legal framework for consumer protection by attempting to codify the common law with specific regard to the rights of consumers and the obligations of those providing services and products to them.
The developments are being closely monitored to assess the impact on affected entities.
Conflicts of interest Conflicts of interest are inherent in our business.
We are not required to avoid conflicts but rather to ensure that they are managed appropriately.
Accordingly we have engaged in a group-wide initiative for identifying and managing the conflicts of interest that exist across our various businesses.
Following the implementation of an enhanced framework in the United Kingdom, this initiative has commenced in South Africa with a project to identify all conflicts of interest within and between the South African areas of business as well as a review of all existing mitigations and controls.
Mitigations and controls will be in line with international best practice in this area, including policies and procedures, information flow management, disclosure and declining to act.
Risk based monitoring A project was initiated in October 2006 to align the existing compliance monitoring process with the operational risk processes.
The project entails the adoption of the Enterprise Risk Assessor risk based methodology used by the Operational Risk division.
The project is due for completion by 30 September 2008.
The first phase of the project involved a comprehensive analysis of all acts, regulations, guidance notes and codes of conduct affecting each of the operating units, the performance of a risk assessment of each underlying regulatory risk and the identification and recording of all controls the operating units have adopted to mitigate such risks.
The first phase of the project was completed in March 2008.
The second phase of the project involves the review of compliance monitoring programmes used within the operating units and the design and migration of a fully comprehensive risk based monitoring programme onto the Enterprise Risk Assessor software.
The second phase of the project is due for completion by 30 September 2008.
Mauritius - year in review There were no major compliance developments in the region during the period under review.
The Mauritian entities strongly align themselves with the policies and procedures adopted by the broader group.
Australia - year in review The main areas of regulatory focus were: Anti-Money Laundering Counter Terrorism Financing Act 2006 AML CTF Act This year has seen the continued roll out of anti-money laundering counter terrorism financing procedures as a number of AML obligations came into effect on 12 December 2007.
The AML CTF Act, which is being implemented in stages, includes obligations such as customer identification and verification, record-keeping and the establishment and maintenance of an AML CTF programme.
Part A of the programme outlines the framework which we use to identify, mitigate and manage the risks which we may reasonably face should the provision of our products and services, whether inadvertently or otherwise, involve or facilitate money laundering or financing of terrorism.
Part B, encompasses our ongoing customer due diligence procedures and takes into account the risk profiles and types of clients we deal with.
Licensing Various Investec Australian Financial Services Licenses have been amended to reflect recent changes in our activities.
All jurisdictions - Basel II capital requirements The new Basel Accord was implemented and came into effect on 1 January 2008.
As discussed in the various risk sections we have implemented these requirements across the group.
