Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Group is subject to a variety of risks which could have a negative impact on its performance and financial condition.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This section describes some of the risks that Supplier Risk Dened benefit Pension Scheme could materially affect the Groups business.
The Group has a number of major suppliers and Funding The factors below should be considered in who work in partnership with BSS to deliver The Group is required by law to maintain connection with any financial and forward value to our customers.
The Commercial a minimum funding level in relation to its looking information and the cautionary teams within our Divisions monitor supplier ongoing obligation to provide current and statement contained on the inside of the performance and are aware of the financial future pensions for members of its pension front cover.
This understanding schemes who are entitled to dened benets.
forms part of the negotiations process in If any scheme of the Group is wound-up the Health and Safety setting commercial terms.
To ensure that Group could become statutorily liable to The Group sets a high priority on the best value is achieved, alternative sourcing make an immediate payment to the trustees welfare, health and safety of our employees.
strategies are considered and pursued to bring the funding of these dened benets Considerable time and energy is spent on where appropriate.
to a level which is higher than this minimum.
ensuring that there is awareness and Some of the issues which could adversely understanding of the risks inherent within Technology and Systems affect the funding of these dened benets our trading and distribution operations, and The Group is reliant on its trading and include poor investment performance of that we undertake our work in a way that operating systems.
Considerable investment pension fund investments, which is substantially minimises the risk involved.
The emphasis has been made in upgrading the hardware, weighted towards equity markets, and longer is on prevention: training all our employees, network and infrastructure that hosts the life expectancy of members.
The three Group making people aware of how we should Groups systems.
The systems platform that dened benefit schemes have been closed to approach our daily tasks, monitoring, recording underpins the Group is reliable and robust.
The three incidents that do occur and learning from our The systems are run from the Groups Head schemes have benefited in recent years from experiences.
Good progress is being made.
Ofce and full disaster recovery procedures the high equity weighting, and the trustees are in place and have been tested to ensure are looking at ways to minimise the downside Economic Development that they provide a reliable fall back position.
risk of this investment strategy.
Assumptions The Group has benefited from a substantial The Group will continue to invest in in respect of expected costs are set after period of economic growth and stability in modernising its systems.
As the economy has expanded, public and private revenues have Employees Litigation Risk increased and the increased prosperity has Retention and development of our employees During the past year there has been no been a key contributor to investment in is a key feature in ensuring the continued significant litigation against the Group and the infrastructure, both public and private, as success of the Group.
Staff turnover of 19% Directors are not aware of any pending action.
well as the supporting growth in repair and is low relative to the industry and the Group maintenance activity.
The Group has exposure places emphasis on identifying the individuals to the risks of deterioration or downturn in the developing in the Company that have the UK economy but continue to grow share of aptitude and ability to grow within the Group.
The Group does not, A number of senior executives, within the however, have a direct exposure to consumer Group, commenced their employment with spending, and a high proportion of Group the Company serving on trade counters, revenue is generated from non discretionary and their understanding of our customers' purchasing.
needs is of great benefit to the management of the business.
Customer Risk The Group has a broad customer base that Acquisitions is spread throughout the UK and Ireland.
Acquisitions are formally assessed prior to The largest single customer represents the Company committing funds.
This involves around 3% of Group sales and is covered by a process that includes setting out the financial a three year contract.
Credit insurance is in criteria against which the acquisition is place to minimise the exposure to bad debts, targeted and judged, plus a due diligence and credit vetting and control procedures are process that covers commercial, financial applied to minimise risk.
and legal aspects of the target company.
The Group uses external advisers to support the Company through the due diligence process.
Return on capital employed represents a key measure against which investment decisions are assessed.
The BSS Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 18
