RISKS The management of the business and the execution of The inability to anticipate and respond to changes in the Groups growth strategies are subject to a number of consumer demand and product category trends on risks, the occurrence of any one of which may adversely a timely basis could adversely impact sales affect the management of the Group and the execution The Groups business depends, in part, on the ability to of growth strategies.
shape, stimulate and anticipate consumer demand by The key business risks affecting the Group are set out below.
producing innovative, fashionable and functional products.
The steps the Group takes to address these risks, where Categories are cyclical, so it is critical the Group builds they are matters within its control, are also described.
Such responsive product teams to exploit trending categories, steps will mitigate but not eliminate these risks.
Some of the launch new categories and balance core apparel and risks relate to external factors which are beyond the Groups non-apparel categories.
The Burberry check and outerwear control.
The order of the risks is in no way an indication of are both an integral part of the brands success.
their relative importance, and each of the risks should be Burberry continues to protect its classic core market by considered independently.
If more than one of the events adding innovation to further stimulate sales to current contemplated by the risks set out below occurs, it is customers, while attracting new customers to the brand.
possible that the combined overall effect of such events The Group balances and plans all categories and brand may be compounded.
icons through a strict product hierarchy.
The Group is Risks are formally reviewed by a Risk Committee of executive also increasing the frequency of its collections so as management including the Chief Executive Officer, Chief to be more responsive to fashion and consumer trends Financial Officer, General Counsel and Secretary and also by and implementing a replenishment programme to protect the Audit Committee.
Key business risks are also considered the core.
generally as part of the Groups strategy development and To continue brand momentum, and to protect market ongoing business review processes.
share in apparel and non-apparel, the Group features The cumulative change and significant growth within the outerwear and the Burberry check icons as part of business places a significant pressure on resources seasonal marketing initiatives.
The combination of the significant business growth, the Burberrys operating results are subject to seasonal development of the Groups IT infrastructure and the fluctuations and vary based on the weather development of the global supply chain combine to exert In recent years, the world has seen more unpredictable significant pressure on the business.
Governance processes global weather patterns.
Burberrys business, particularly have been put in place for each major programme and these with respect to apparel, broadly operates on a seasonal are supplemented by monthly operational meetings with basis Spring Summer and Autumn Winter and the Group senior management to review operational performance.
The has experienced, and expects to continue to experience, senior management team has been strengthened to further substantial seasonal fluctuations in sales and operating support these key initiatives and external consultants are results.
In particular, results vary based on the weather used to supplement internal skills where required.
because of the large proportion of outerwear products Burberry faces increasingly intense competition Burberry offers and the effect of the weather on retail markets Competition in the luxury goods sector has intensified generally.
As a result of these fluctuations, comparisons in recent years and Burberry is faced with increasing of sales and operating results between different periods competition in many of our product categories and markets.
within a single financial year are not necessarily meaningful.
The Group competes with international luxury goods groups In addition, these comparisons cannot be relied on as who control a number of luxury brands and may have greater indicators of the Groups future performance.
financial resources and bargaining power with suppliers, The economic downturn could affect consumers purchases wholesale accounts and landlords.
If Burberry is unable of discretionary luxury items which could adversely affect to compete successfully, operating results and growth may Burberrys sales be adversely impacted.
In common with all Burberrys competitors, there are many factors which affect the level of consumer spending on discretionary luxury items.
During a recession, when disposable income is lower, a downturn in our key markets may adversely affect Burberrys sales.
A significant proportion of the Groups sales are generated by customers, in particular Middle Eastern, Russian, Japanese, 66 Chinese and other Asian customers who purchase products constraints and prioritise their actions accordingly.
Whilst the while travelling either overseas or domestically.
As a result, Group works closely with customs and other law shifts in travel patterns or a decline in travel volumes could enforcement bodies, ultimately we cannot direct their actions.
There is a risk of over-reliance on key product manufacturers Burberry is exposed to foreign currency fluctuations In a number of key product categories Burberry is reliant Burberry derives a significant percentage of its profits from on a small number of suppliers.
During the year, the Group its Japanese licensing arrangements.
As a consequence, has further strengthened its supply chain management the Group is exposed to a significant risk associated with team to enable us to continue to evolve and develop our the Yen to Sterling exchange rate.
manufacturing base to further mitigate the risk associated In addition, the Group is continuing to expand its operations with over-reliance on key product suppliers.
Where suitable in the US and Europe as part of its strategy to accelerate alternatives exist, the Group has reduced volumes with key retail expansion in key under-penetrated markets.
As the suppliers on whom the Group is over-reliant and continues Groups presence in the US and Europe increases, it will be to look for suitable additional suppliers to further reduce exposed to an increased risk associated with the US Dollar such over-reliance.
to Sterling exchange rate and Euro to Sterling exchange rate.
Burberry could suffer if its supply chain is unable to The Group manages a significant proportion of the foreign produce and deliver goods at a competitive price, on time currency exposures by the use of forward exchange and to our specification contracts.
Currency fluctuations affecting the Yen, Euro and Burberry continues to evolve its sourcing strategy, refining the US Dollar will nevertheless affect results and profitability.
its selection of suppliers to maintain and enhance product quality whilst improving sourcing efficiency.
Burberry has Burberry is dependent on the strength of its trademarks already realigned its organisational design to help facilitate and other intellectual property rights this.
There are further opportunities to develop more robust Burberrys trademarks and other proprietary rights are supplier management processes and these will help ensure fundamentally important to the success and competitive that the Group continues to produce merchandise of the right position of the business.
Unauthorised use of the Burberry quality, in accordance with our ethical policy, and delivered name, the Burberry check and the Prorsum horse logo as in accordance with our requirements.
This process may well as the distribution of counterfeit products damage the adversely affect relationships with existing suppliers during Burberry brand image and profits.
If a third-party registers the transition period.
If Burberry suppliers fail to ship products one of the Groups trademarks or similar trademarks, in a on time, or quality is substandard, this could lead to the country where we do not currently trade, this would create Group missing delivery dates to its customers, potentially a barrier to commencing trade under those marks in that resulting in cancelled orders or price reductions.
In addition, if a third-party publishes harmful material such a failure could affect wholesale customers confidence using our trademarks, Burberrys brand image could suffer.
which could adversely affect subsequent seasons.
The The Group has a dedicated team operating internationally Group has evolved its design calendar to enable increased to establish and protect its trademarks and other intellectual product refreshment and replenishment.
This will enable the property rights.
Where infringements are identified, the Group Group to respond more efficiently to changing circumstances resolves these through a mixture of criminal and civil legal and to reduce the risks associated with placing excessive action and negotiated settlement.
capacity with key product suppliers.
The Group has also increased the capacity of our distribution centres.
Nevertheless, it is not possible to guarantee that the actions taken to establish and protect the Groups trademarks and If Burberry loses key management or is unable to attract other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation and retain the talent required for its business, its operating results could suffer of Burberrys products by others.
Trademarks and intellectual property rights, while subject to international treaties, are Burberrys performance depends largely on its senior largely driven by national law and the protection of intellectual managers and design teams.
The resignation of key property rights varies from one jurisdiction to another.
The individuals and the inability to recruit people with the right Group cannot therefore necessarily be as effective in all experience and skills to facilitate future business growth jurisdictions in addressing counterfeit products.
In many could adversely impact Burberrys results.
To mitigate these territories the Group is dependent upon the vigilance and issues the Remuneration Committee regularly benchmarks the Groups incentive schemes against the market and responsiveness of law enforcement bodies whose priorities considers the framework in place to recruit, incentivise and may differ from our own.
They are also subject to budgetary 67 RISKS retain key individuals.
In addition, there is an ongoing In key emerging markets, particularly China, Burberry is recruitment programme overseen by the EVP Corporate largely dependent upon third-party operators with the Resources and Chief Executive Officer to ensure that we associated lack of direct control and transparency strengthen and develop our senior management team by In key emerging markets, Burberry operates through identifying, developing and nurturing high potential talent.
In particular, a third-party retail operation has been developed in China.
The Group largely A substantial proportion of the Groups revenue and profits is reliant upon business in Japan and key depends upon the expertise of these franchisees given our global licensees relative lack of experience in this region.
During the year, the Group has strengthened its resources internally, and where A significant source of profit is derived from the royalties appropriate have our own staff based within these operations received from licensees, specifically the Groups licensees in who work closely with our franchisees to further develop Japan, and the fragrance licensee InterParfums S. A. Burberry operational models to enable greater control and visibility.
relies upon licensees, among other things, to maintain operational and financial control over their businesses.
Burberry has a number of key customers whose business Should these licensees fail to effectively manage their represents a substantial portion of our sales operations the Groups income from royalties would decline.
The Group dedicates resources to these customers and Failure to manage these key relationships effectively could maintains close relationships with such customers so we have a material impact on the sales, profitability and can understand and respond to their needs.
To minimise the risks in Japan, Burberry relies upon our licensees, suppliers, franchisees, Burberry has established its own offices and operations distributors and agents to comply with relevant legislation in Tokyo.
The Group expects its licensees, suppliers, franchisees, A number of the Groups licences have been renegotiated distributors and agents to comply with employment and to give improved control over the brand, and more active other laws relating to their country of operation and to product development is being undertaken with key operate to good ethical standards.
We are, however, unable licensees.
The Group regularly implements royalty reviews to guarantee that this is the case, although we are improving of licensees, but cannot guarantee that they will reveal any our processes to gain assurance that our licensees, non-compliance with the terms of the relevant licence.
suppliers, franchisees, distributors and agents comply with our terms and conditions and relevant local legislation and Burberry may be unable to control its wholesale and licence distribution channels satisfactorily good practice.
The Group relies upon the ability to control its distribution Major incident networks and licensees to ensure that products are sold A significant incident such as a terrorist attack at one of the in environments consistent with the Groups luxury image.
Groups key locations could significantly impact the operation An action by any significant wholesale customer or licensee, of our businesses.
In such circumstances, we cannot ensure such as presenting Burberry products in a manner the uninterrupted operation of the business, particularly in the inconsistent with our preferred positioning, would be short-term.
Business continuity plans are in place to mitigate damaging to our brand image.
If, due to regulatory, legal or but not eliminate the operational risks.
other constraints, we are in any way unable to control our wholesale distribution networks and licensees, the Burberry brand image, and therefore results and profitability, may be adversely affected.
