Our Group Principal Risks and Uncertainties A significant part of the Groups business involves the acceptance and management of risk.
Principal risks and uncertainties may be categorised and the retention of existing business.
Fundamental changes as follows: in regulation, such as the proposed requirements of the EUs Legislation and Regulation Solvency II Directive or those that may arise from market Financial Market and Economic Conditions events, may also impact the strategies of the Group.
Counterparty and Third Party Risks Confidence in the Financial Services Sector Financial Market and Economic Conditions Reputation and Contagion Risks The earnings and profitability of Legal & Generals businesses Mortality and Catastrophe Risks are influenced by a broad range of factors including the Other Insurance Assumption Uncertainties performance and liquidity of investment markets, interest Future Development of Savings Market rate movements and inflation.
The Group uses a range of Resources.
risk management strategies including inflation, interest and credit default swaps to manage volatility from these factors.
A detailed review of the Groups inherent exposures to However, extreme market events, over which the Group market, credit, insurance, liquidity and operational risks, has no direct influence, can impact the execution of these together with the framework for their management and strategies exposing the Group to unanticipated loss.
Examples control, is set out at Note 50 to the Financial Statements.
of events include those causing widespread default amongst An overview of the Groups risk management structure is issuers of corporate debt or default amongst counterparties to given as part of the review of Corporate Governance swap agreements.
As well as impacting the value of assets Statement on pages 50 to 57. backing the obligations and capital of the Group, significant falls in equity markets, property values and other classes of Legislation and Regulation investment asset can also impact earnings from Investment The financial services markets in which the Group operates management: the flows of funds to and from the Groups are highly regulated, with regulation defining the overall Investment management businesses: and the cost of framework for the design, marketing and distribution of guarantees in certain long term products.
The value of products: the acceptance and administration of business: investments denominated in currencies other than sterling and the prudential capital that regulated companies should and holdings in overseas subsidiaries can also be impacted hold.
Government fiscal policy may also influence the by fluctuations in exchange rates.
General economic design of products distributed by the Group, retention conditions also influence customer behaviour in terms of existing business and the required reserves for future of timing and frequency of purchase of financial services liabilities.
Additionally, there is a continuing growing products and the lapse rates for products.
international dimension, with the pace and volume of regulatory and legislative change increasing.
Counterparty and Third Party Risks In addition to default risk associated with issuers of The Groups activities and strategies are based upon prevailing corporate debt and financial instruments, the Group is legislation and regulation, with continuous monitoring to exposed to counterparty credit risk in respect of money ensure that the Group meets its regulatory obligations.
The market and reassurance transactions.
The Group applies potential for change is continuously identified and analysed.
defined criteria in selecting counterparties with which it Where appropriate the Group engages with regulatory and deals, sets exposure limits relative to the risks associated legislative authorities to assist in the evaluation of change on with each type of transaction and monitors both exposures the sector and its stakeholders.
Sudden, unanticipated changes and limits relative to the broader economic environment.
in fiscal policy or legal and regulatory regimes without However, potential remains in extreme conditions consultation or advanced notification to the sector, or the for a material impact on the Groups profitability should differing interpretation and application of regulation over time, a significant banking or reassurance counterparty fail.
may have a detrimental effect on the Groups strategy and A significant level of financial failure among the Groups profitability both in terms of the generation of new business product distributors may also impact the earnings of the Group.
Risk also arises from reliance on external suppliers 14 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
com Our Group of certain administration and IT development services.
risk premium is applied to this business, taking account The Group seeks to mitigate the potential for, and impact of all known risk factors.
Significant unforeseen and rapid of, supplier failure through performing due diligence medical advances may result in the requirement to increase at the outset of new relationships, monitoring the ongoing reserves for these lines of business.
With regard to the performance of key contracts and where necessary Groups Protection business, while the risk of adverse claims maintaining contingency arrangements in the event that experience is fully assessed and reserved for, an event bespoke services cease to be available.
Dependencies causing widespread mortality or morbidity, coupled with also exist on the provision of banking infrastructure, a reinsurer default, may also impact the capital available the availability of security dealing and custody services.
Similarly, a series of extreme weather events Unforeseen events leading to the loss of any of these may impact earnings to the Group from its General services may impact operational effectiveness.
Confidence in the Financial Services Sector Other Insurance Assumption Uncertainties The Group has followed a strategy of offering value-forIn addition to pricing for mortality and catastrophe risks, money products to its customers and continually improving as part of the processes to determine its long term liabilities, customers overall experience of doing business with the Group makes assumptions in respect of other factors Legal & General.
However, earnings and profitability are including persistency, interest rate and credit defaults within also influenced by the perception and confidence of the its investment portfolio.
Assumptions are subject to critical retail and wholesale investor in relation to the financial challenge, with potential variances from assumptions being services sector as a whole, a number of these drivers stress tested as part of the Groups processes to assess are beyond the Groups control.
Such factors include the adequacy of prudential capital.
However, extreme shifts in adverse performance of investment markets, actions by financial markets and in the broader economic environment regulators within the sector and shock events such may require certain assumptions to be recalibrated, as significant market failures, although the Group seeks impacting the profitability of the Group.
wherever practicable to mitigate the effects of these risks.
Future Development of the Savings Market Reputation and Contagion Risks A number of Legal & Generals businesses are focused on As well as the factors outlined above, the Groups reputation the long term savings and retirement markets.
The reasons can be affected by events impacting parties with which customers save and make provision for old age are influenced the Group has a relationship, internal process failures and by a number of factors including government policy, social the consequences of external events.
The Group seeks to conditions and the general economic environment.
The maintain a control environment to ensure that for those Group seeks to participate actively in debate to highlight factors it can control, the potential for financial loss and those matters which are key to encouraging consumers to reputational damage is minimised to a commercial level.
save and make adequate provision for old age.
However, However, extreme events that cannot be readily controlled consumer uncertainty in any of the above factors may have may affect the reputational consequences of the earning a detrimental effect on these markets.
A protracted period streams of the Group.
As well as impacting reputation, the of low growth in asset values or low interest rate returns, failure of other financial services organisations can have may lead to a re-assessment by consumers of the way they a direct impact on the Group through its participation in plan for retirement and their requirements for long term the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
In the event saving products.
of a significant level of market failure, the Group may be obliged to provide additional funding over a sustained Resources period of time, reducing capital available to the Group.
The Group actively focuses on recruiting and retaining Similarly, pools such as the Pension Protection Fund can high quality individuals.
It ensures that key dependencies result in calls for funds on the Group through its defined do not arise, through employee training and development benefit pension schemes.
programmes, remuneration strategies and succession planning.
However, the sudden unanticipated loss of teams Mortality and Catastrophe Risks of expertise may, in the short term, impact certain segments Legal & General writes significant levels of immediate of Legal & Generals businesses.
The Group uses its pricing capability for longevity risks to ensure that an appropriate www.
com Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 15
