42 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 AUDITED INFORMATION RISK MANAGEMENT risk as a strategiC differentiator The Group seeks to optimise performance by allowing divisions and OUR APPROACH business units to operate within capital and risk parameters and the Groups policy framework.
They must do so in a way which is consistent with realising the Groups strategy and meeting agreed business TO RISK performance targets.
The Groups approach to risk management seeks The Lloyds TSB approach to risk is founded on strong corporate governance to ensure the business remains accountable for risk whilst also ensuring practices whereby the board takes the lead in establishing the tone at the there is effective independent oversight.
top and approving professional standards and corporate values for itself, The Group has continued to focus on enhancing its capabilities in senior management and other colleagues.
The board ensures that senior providing both qualitative and quantitative data to the board on risks management implements strategic policies and procedures designed to associated with strategic objectives and facilitating more informed and promote professional behaviour and integrity.
The board also ensures that effective decision making.
The Groups ability to take risks which are well senior management implements risk policies and risk appetites that prohibit and, where appropriate, limit activities, relationships, and situations, that understood and consistent with its strategy and plans, is a key driver of might diminish the quality of corporate governance.
All colleagues from the shareholder return.
group chief executive down are assessed against a balanced scorecard that The maintenance of a strong control framework remains a priority explicitly addresses their risk performance.
and is the foundation for the delivery of effective risk management.
This board-level engagement, coupled with the direct involvement Risk analysis and reporting capabilities support the identification of of senior management in group-wide risk issues at group executive opportunities as well as risks and provide an aggregate view of the committee level, ensures that issues are escalated on a timely basis and overall risk portfolio.
Risk mitigation strategies clearly aligned with appropriate remediation plans are put in place.
The interaction of the responsibilities and timescales are monitored at group and divisional executive and non-executive governance structures relies upon a culture level.
Risk continues to be a key component of routine management of transparency and openness that is encouraged by senior management.
Key decisions are always taken by more than one person.
Within Lloyds TSB there is a strong culture of command and control from the Reflecting the importance the Group places on risk management, risk is centre with short lines of communication between divisions and functions.
included as one of the five principal criteria within the Groups balanced The group business risk committee and the group asset and liability scorecard on which individual staff performance is judged.
Business committee are chaired by the group chief executive and include all executives have specified risk management objectives, and incentive members of the group executive committee.
The aggregate groupwide schemes take account of performance against these.
risk profile and portfolio appetite are discussed at their respective monthly meetings.
This is a key component of the Lloyds TSB approach to risk market disloCation management and provides oversight on behalf of the board to line management in specific business areas and activities.
It is supported by During 2008, the global dislocation in financial markets has resulted in the chief risk officer being a full member of the group executive committee exceptional instability and volatility impacting upon market and investor and reporting to the group chief executive with direct access to the confidence which has been characterised by a marked reduction in chairman and the risk oversight committee.
This crisis in the financial markets led the UK Government to Table 1.1 sets out the role of the second line of defence and in particular inject liquidity into the financial system and to require and participate that of the risk oversight committee and its interaction with the chief in recapitalisation of the banking sector to restore confidence to the risk officer, the group risk directors and the divisional risk officers.
structure which has been in place for a number of years, has evolved with the risk oversight committee reviewing regular reports on the Groups risk During October 2008, as part of the co-ordinated package of capital exposures as well as taking a keen interest in the adequacy and capability of and funding measures for the UK banking sector, implemented by resources within the risk functions.
HM Treasury, the Group participated in the Government Funding Package and thereby facilitated access to the UK Government backed Lloyds TSB has a conservative business model and risk culture.
The focus provision of liquidity.
has been and remains on building and maintaining long-term relationships with customers.
This involves taking a through the cycle view whereby There can be no assurance that the measures so far announced by the the sustainability of a relationship through good and bad economic times Government, will be sufficient to prevent any future strain on the Groups is taken into account.
The approach is supported by a through the cycle ability to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The recovery of approach to risk with strong central control and monitoring.
wholesale and capital markets will depend upon renewed confidence There is a matrix approach to risk management which includes group risk in the UK banking system particularly if market conditions revert to directors being responsible for individual risk types in aggregate across the reduced levels of wholesale market liquidity and the availability of the Group and divisional risk officers being responsible for the aggregate traditional sources of funding become more limited.
risk profile within their respective divisions.
The group risk directors and divisional risk officers all have a direct reporting line to the chief risk officer.
The key dependencies on successfully funding the Groups balance This matrix approach enables the group executive committee members to sheet include the continued functioning of the money and capital fulfil their accountabilities for risk management and enables the chief risk markets at their current levels: the continued access of the Group to officer to inform the risk oversight committee of the aggregate risk profile central bank and Government sponsored liquidity facilities, including of the Group.
issuance under HMTs credit guarantee scheme CGS and access to the Bank of Englands various facilities: limited further deterioration The paragraphs that follow set out the risk management policies, practices in the Groups credit ratings: and no significant or sudden withdrawal and structures that applied during the past year to Lloyds TSB Group plc.
These policies, practices and structures were adopted by Lloyds Banking of deposits resulting in increased reliance on money markets or Group from the date of completion of the HBOS plc transaction.
overview Business review governanCe finanCial statements shareholder information Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 43 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 AUDITED INFORMATION Based upon projections by management, which take into account Board and Committees the acquisition on the 16 January 2009 of HBOS plc, and assume The board, assisted by its committees, the risk oversight committee, the the availability of the existing and announced Government Funding group executive committee, and the group audit committee, approves Package, the Group believes it has adequate resources to continue the Groups overall risk management framework.
The board also reviews in business for the foreseeable future.
the Groups aggregate risk exposures and concentrations of risk to seek to ensure that these are consistent with the boards appetite for risk.
resPonses to market disloCation and Banking Crisis The role of the board, audit committee and risk oversight committee are shown in the corporate governance section on pages 70 to 72, and During the market dislocation there has been even more rigorous focus further key risk oversight roles are described below.
on the governance, accountabilities and execution capabilities to ensure adherence to an even lower risk profile.
It is part of the Lloyds TSB There is strong cross membership of non-executive directors between approach to learn from adverse situations regardless of whether there has remuneration, audit and risk oversight committees.
been any direct business impact.
Accordingly, lessons learned exercises The group executive committee, assisted by the group business risk form part of normal activity and have been carried out during this turbulent committee and the group asset and liability committee, supports the period.
The Lloyds TSB risk culture has manifested itself in some clear and group chief executive in ensuring the effectiveness of the Groups risk critical pre crunch wholesale and capital markets policy actions that served management framework and the clear articulation of the Groups risk to limit exposure.
policies, whilst also reviewing the Groups aggregate risk exposures The Group has developed its credit, liquidity and market risk control and concentrations of risk.
The group executive committees duties are frameworks.
Particular focus has been placed on the control of credit described in greater detail on page 71.
The group executive committee spread risk, associated stress testing and modelling.
The Group during members are also members of the group business risk committee and the year has further strengthened its oversight of liquidity, funding, capital the group asset and liability committee, both of which are chaired by the and asset liability management issues with the upgrading of membership group chief executive.
The group business risk committee is supported of the group asset and liability committee.
Membership consists of group by the following: executive committee members and the treasurer, and it is chaired by the The group compliance and operational risk committee is responsible chief executive.
A senior asset and liability committee has been created for proactively identifying current and emerging significant compliance to support the group asset and liability committee.
There have also been and operational risks or accumulation of risks and control deficiencies a number of further developments to our liquidity control frameworks across the Group and reviewing associated oversight plans to ensure that have been instituted including further developments of stress pre-emptive risk management action.
The committee also seeks testing.
During the height of the crisis, daily meetings with the group to ensure that adequate divisional engagement occurs to develop, chief executive were held to assess the Groups position which has held implement and maintain the Groups compliance and operational risk up well during the worst aspects of the market dislocation.
In respect of credit risk, Lloyds TSB has reduced exposure via timely exit The group credit risk committee is responsible for the development or scaling back of positions.
In wholesale and capital market exposure, and effectiveness of the Groups credit risk management framework: the Group has restricted investment policy for the Lloyds TSB conduit clear description of the Groups credit risk appetite: setting of high level Cancara for example: no CDOs of asset backed securities : restricted Group credit policy: and compliance with regulatory credit requirements.
exposure to monolines and leveraged loans: reviewed liquidity risk On behalf of the group business risk committeee, the group credit appetite and enhanced liquidity reporting: reduced holdings of equities risk committee monitors and reviews the Groups aggregate credit risk in the insurance companies: progressed its pension scheme fide-risking exposures and concentrations of risk.
strategy and tightened policy parameters for US sub-prime mortgages.
Also, all exposures were sanctioned on the basis of Lloyds TSB being The group model governance and approvals committee is responsible content to hold the risk to maturity.
In retail banking, risk mitigation for setting the control framework and standards for models across the activities and a prudent lending stance were maintained in the context Group, including establishing appropriate levels of delegated authority: the approval of models that are considered to be material to the Group of the changing environment: tightening of maximum loan to value including credit risk rating systems : and the principles underlying the criteria on all mortgage books: withdrawal of higher risk mortgage Groups economic capital framework.
products: tightening of credit card eligibility criteria and tightening of policy rules and scorecard cut offs across all retail portfolios.
The group change management committee is responsible for ensuring Consistent with our through the cycle approach, Lloyds TSB has a that the aggregate risks associated with the Groups project portfolio are proactive and supportive approach to assist customers through difficult identified, assessed and mitigated, thereby ensuring that the portfolio periods.
We have also invested significantly in our highly successful remains deliverable within an acceptable level of risk.
collections and recoveries and business support units.
The group asset and liability committee is supported by the senior asset and liability committee, which is responsible for the review and risk governanCe struCtures escalation of issues of group level significance to the group asset and liability committee relating to the strategic management of the Groups The Group maintains a risk governance structure that is intended to assets and liabilities and the profit and loss implications of balance sheet strengthen risk evaluation and management, whilst also positioning the management actions.
It is also responsible for the risk management Group to manage the changing regulatory environment in an efficient framework for market risk, liquidity risk, capital risk and earnings volatility.
This structure has been tried and tested by Lloyds TSB and will remain the same for Lloyds Banking Group.
The risk Supporting the chief risk officer, the risk forum consists of the divisional governance structure for Lloyds TSB is shown in Table 1.1. risk officers and the group risk directors.
The risk forum regularly reviews a summary of risks across the risk management spectrum to determine areas of focus for remedial action across the Group.
Director of IT & Operations 44 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION Table 1.1: RISK GOVERNANCE STRUCTURES 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Business Management The Lloyds TSB Group Board Group and Divisional Group Audit Oversight Functions Group Chief Group Executive Nominations Executive Committee Committee Remuneration Group Audit Committee Committee Group Asset Group Business & Liability Risk Committee Committee Risk Oversight Committee Senior Asset & Group Compliance Group Model Group Change Group Credit Liability and Operational Governance Management Risk Committee Committee Risk Committee Committee Committee Group Executive Director of Chief Risk Group Executive Group Executive Group Human Director Wholesale Group Officer Group Audit Director Insurance Director UK Resources and International Finance Director and Investments Retail Banking Director Banking Risk Forum Divisional Divisional Divisional Divisional Divisional Divisional Risk Officer Risk Officer Risk Officer Risk Officer Risk Officer Risk Officer Group Risk Directors BU Risk BU Risk BU Risk BU Risk BU Risk BU Risk Governance Business Oversight Committees functions Reporting line Functional reporting line from BU risk officer or function to divisional risk officers Functional reporting line to support the committees Group executive directors have primary responsibility for measuring, Group risk directors are allocated responsibility for specifi c risk types and monitoring and controlling risks within their areas of accountability are responsible for ensuring the adequacy of risk resources as well as the and are required to establish control frameworks for their businesses oversight of the risk profi le across the Group.
that are consistent with the Groups high level policies and within the Divisional risk offi cers provide oversight of risk management activity for parameters set by the board, group executive committee and group all risks within each of the Groups divisions.
Reporting directly to the risk.
Compliance with policies and parameters is overseen by the risk group executive directors responsible for the divisions and the chief risk oversight committee, the group business risk committee, the group offi cer, their day-to-day contact with business management, business asset and liability committee, group risk and the divisional risk offi cers.
operations and risk initiatives seeks to provide an effective risk oversight mechanism.
risk management oversight The director of group audit provides the required independent The chief risk offi cer, a member of the group executive committee and assurance to the audit committee and the board that risks within the reporting directly to the group chief executive, oversees and promotes Group are recognised, monitored and managed within acceptable the development and implementation of a consistent group wide risk parameters.
Group audit is fully independent of group risk, seeking to management framework.
The chief risk offi cer, supported by the group ensure objective challenge to the effectiveness of the risk governance risk department and the divisional risk offi cers, provides objective framework.
challenge to the Groups senior management.
The chief risk offi cer also reports independently to the risk oversight committee see page 72 that comprises non-executive directors and is chaired by the Group chairman.
overview Business review governanCe finanCial statements shareholder information Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 45 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 AUDITED INFORMATION Table 1.2: RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK The Lloyds TSB Group business strategy and objectives Risk Policy framework and accountabilities Risk Identification Reporting Control Risk & Control Risk Independent Monitoring Activities Assessment Measurement Reviews Action plans and tracking People Systems and tools Business risk management transferring risk, where appropriate: and exploit risks to gain competitive advantage, thereby seeking to increase shareholder value.
The principal Line management are directly accountable for the management of elements of the risk management framework are shown in Table 1.2. risks arising from the Groups business.
A key objective is to ensure that business decisions strike an appropriate balance between risk The risk management framework above comprises 10 interdependent and reward, consistent with the Groups risk appetite.
The senior activities which map to the components of the internal controlexecutive team and the board receive regular briefings and guidance integrated framework issued by the committee of Sponsoring from the chief risk officer to ensure awareness of the overarching Organisations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
risk management framework and a clear understanding of their The framework is dynamic and allows for proportionate adjustment accountabilities for risk and internal control.
of policies and controls where business strategy and risk appetite is All business units, divisions and group functions complete a amended in response to changes in market conditions.
control self-assessment annually described on page 73, reviewing the lloyds tsB group business strategy is used to determine the the effectiveness of their internal controls and putting in place Groups high level risk principles and risk appetite measures and metrics enhancements where appropriate.
Managing directors and group for the primary risk drivers see Table 1.3.
A key focus has been to executive directors certify the accuracy of their assessment.
develop earnings volatility measures to complement existing capital Business risk management forms part of a tiered risk management model, measures for risk appetite.
The risk appetite is proposed by the group as shown on page 44, with the divisional risk officers and group risk chief executive and reviewed by various governance bodies including providing oversight and challenge, as described above, and the chief risk the group executive committee and the risk oversight committee.
officer and group committees establishing the group-wide perspective.
Responsibility for the approval of risk appetite rests with the board.
The approved high level appetite and limits are delegated to individual This approach seeks to provide the Group with an effective mechanism for group executive directors by the group chief executive.
developing and embedding risk policies and risk management strategies which are aligned with the risks faced by its businesses.
It also seeks to The more detailed description of the risk principles and distribution of facilitate effective communication on these matters across the Group.
the risk appetite measures amongst the divisions and businesses are determined by the group chief executive, in consultation with the group business risk committee and the group asset and liability committee.
risk management framework The risk principles are executed through the policy framework and The Groups risk management principles and risk management framework accountabilities.
These principles are supported by the policy levels cover the full spectrum of risks that a group, that encompasses both below: banking and insurance businesses, would encounter.
Principles high level principles for the six primary risk drivers The Group uses an enterprise-wide risk management framework for the identification, assessment, measurement and management of risk, high level group policy policy for the main risk types aligned to the designed to meet its customers needs.
It seeks to maximise value for risk drivers shareholders over time by aligning risk management with the corporate detailed group policy detailed policy that applies across the Group strategy, assessing the impact of emerging risks from legislation, new technologies or the market, and developing risk tolerances and divisional policy local policy that specifically applies to a division mitigating strategies.
The framework seeks to strengthen the Groups Business unit policy local policy that specifically applies to a ability to identify and assess risks: aggregate group wide risks and business unit define the corporate risk appetite: develop solutions for reducing or 46 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION Table 1.3: RISK DRIVERS Business Credit Market Insurance Operational Financial Primary risk drivers Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Soundness Legal and regulatory Capital Mortality Business process risk Liquidity Interest rate Longevity and funding Financial Strategy setting Foreign Morbidity crime risk Retail Financial & exchange prudential Detailed risk types Execution of Persistency Security risk Wholesale Equity regulatory strategy Property reporting People Credit spread Expenses Disclosure Change Unemployment Tax Governance Customer treatment Divisional and business unit policy is only produced by exception and is exposures concerned and regular information is provided to group risk not necessary unless there is a specific area for which a particular division for review and aggregate reporting.
Any significant issues identified in or business unit requires a greater level of detail than is appropriate for the monitoring process are appropriately reported, and an escalation group level policy.
The governance arrangements for development of, process is in place to report significant losses to appropriate levels of and compliance with, group, divisional and business unit policy and the management.
Group risk reports on risk exposures and material issues associated accountabilities are clearly outlined.
All staff are expected quarterly to the group asset and liability committee, group business to be aware of the policies and procedures which apply to them risk committee, group executive committee, risk oversight committee and their work and to observe the relevant policies and procedures.
Line management in each business area has primary responsibility At group level a consolidated risk report is produced which is reviewed for ensuring that group policies and the relevant local policies and and debated by the group business risk committee, group executive procedures are known and observed by all staff within that area.
committee, risk oversight committee and the board to ensure senior Group and divisional risk functions have responsibility for overseeing management and the board are satisfied with the overall risk profile, effective implementation of policy.
Group audit provides independent risk accountabilities and mitigating actions.
The consolidated risk report assurance to the board about the effectiveness of the Groups control provides a regular assessment of the aggregate residual risk for the framework and adherence to policy.
Policies are reviewed annually to primary risk drivers, comparing the assessment with the previous quarter ensure they remain fit for purpose.
and providing a forecast for the next 12 months.
Proportionate control activity strategy is in place to design mitigating risk drivers controls, to transfer risk where appropriate and ensure executives are The Groups risk language is designed to capture the Groups principal content with the residual level of risk accepted.
risks referred to as the primary risk drivers.
A description of each risk, risk and control assessments are undertaken to assess the including definition, appetite, control and exposures, is included below.
effectiveness of current mitigations and whether risks taken are These are further broken down into 28 more granular risk types to consistent with the Groups risk appetite this includes the annual control enable more detailed review and facilitate appropriate reporting and self-assessment exercise.
monitoring, as set out in Table 1.3.
The impact of risks and issues including financial, reputational and Through the Groups risk management processes these risks are regulatory capital are determined through effective risk measurement assessed on an ongoing basis to ensure optimisation of risk and reward including modelling and stress testing.
and that, where required, appropriate mitigation is in place.
Both quantitative and qualitative factors are considered in assessing the The outcomes of independent reviews including internal and external Groups current and potential future risks.
audit and regulatory reviews are integrated into risk management activities and action plans.
PrinCiPal risks risk reporting is standardised through the use of standard definitions At present the most significant risks faced by the Group are: when reporting, to enable risk aggregation.
Divisions monitor their risk People risk: the Groups recent improvement to its people risk exposure, levels against their risk appetite, seeking to ensure effective mitigating driven by leadership development and succession planning strategies, action is being taken where appropriate.
Divisional risk reports are is now challenged by integration events and market disruption.
External reviewed by divisional executive committees to ensure that respective pressure on incentivisation in the banking industry increases the risk of senior management are satisfied with the overall risk profile, risk losing specialist resources.
The Group is addressing these pressures and accountabilities and progress on any necessary mitigating actions.
taking the necessary steps to retain resources.
Reporting, including that of performance against relevant limits or policies, is in place to provide a level of detail appropriate to the overview Business review governanCe finanCial statements shareholder information Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 47 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 AUDITED INFORMATION Credit risk: arising in the Retail and Wholesale and International market risk: In terms of potential impact on economic value, the Banking divisions and the Treasury function reflecting the risks inherent principal market risks are a fall in equity markets reducing the value in the Groups lending activities.
Over the last year the banking crisis has of assets in the Groups pension schemes and in the Insurance and impacted the financial services industry resulting in high profile losses Investments division, and exposure to a fall in real interest rates and writedowns.
The deteriorating economic outlook, both in the UK increasing the value of liabilities in the Groups pension schemes.
In and overseas, is also leading to significant rises in impairments.
The terms of potential impact on earnings, the principal market risks are Group is impacted by the economic downturn and a further worsening exposure to a fall in equity markets reducing the value of assets in the of the business environment could adversely impact earnings.
This poses Insurance and Investments division, and exposure to a widening of credit a major risk to the Group and its lending businesses in: spreads reducing the value of assets in the Insurance and Investment division and in the Trading Book.
Also, in the retail banking businesses, Retail, where rising unemployment impacts the ability of customers to there is a potential impact on earnings arising from margin compression meet repayment dates on unsecured and secured lending and leads in a lower base rate environment.
All risks are subject to regular review to a consequent increase in arrears.
Additionally, the downturn in the and mitigation activity via specific initiatives monitored by the group and housing market reduces collateral values for residential property and senior asset and liability committees, including engagement with the this impacts upon the profitability of secured lending.
Wholesale, where companies are facing increasingly difficult insurance risk: arising in Insurance and Investments division and the conditions, resulting in corporate default levels rising and leading to Groups pension schemes reflecting the exposure to increasing longevity increases in corporate impairment.
The main mitigation option open to the The Group follows a through the economic cycle, relationship based, Group is to hedge the risk in the reinsurance or the capital markets and business model with robust risk management processes, appropriate the Group actively monitors the attractiveness of potential opportunities appetites and experienced staff in place.
liquidity and funding: arising in the banking business of the Group legal and regulatory risk: arising in all divisions and reflecting the and impacting the Retail and Wholesale and International Banking legal and regulatory environment in which the Group operates and divisions reflecting the risk that the Group is unable to attract and the volume and pace of change from within the UK and the rest of the retain retail wholesale deposits or issue debt securities.
This impacts the Group, both operationally in terms of cost of banks, the Group is dependent on confidence in the short and longer compliance with uncertainty about legal and regulatory expectations, term wholesale funding markets: should the Group, due to exceptional and strategically through pressure on key earnings streams.
The latter circumstances, be unable to continue to source sustainable funding and could potentially result in changes to business and pricing models, provide liquidity when necessary, it could impact its ability to fund its particularly in the UK retail and smaller business markets.
Throughout the market dislocation, the Group has planning processes continue to reflect change to the legal and maintained a robust liquidity position based on its significant retail and regulatory environment.
Major current legal and regulatory reviews and corporate deposit base and has funded strongly in the wholesale markets.
proceedings are described on page 35.
In addition, the Group faces risk Since completion of the HBOS transaction, the Group has been able to where legal or regulatory proceedings are brought against it.
Regardless fund the Enlarged Group in the wholesale markets at rates comparable of whether such claims have merit, the outcome of such proceedings is to the period prior to completion.
In addition the Group has reinforced its inherently uncertain and could result in financial loss.
strong funding position by actively participating in the support initiatives integration risk: A further risk arises as a result of the acquisition introduced by the Bank of England and HM Treasury.
Prior to the year end of HBOS plc by Lloyds TSB Group plc reflecting the risk that Lloyds 2008 additional liquidity resilience was built up to mitigate the potential Banking Group may fail to realise the business growth opportunities, for hightened liquidity risk faced by Lloyds TSB Group plc upon the revenue benefits, cost synergies, operational efficiencies and other acquisition of HBOS plc.
The recent down grade by rating agencies has benefits anticipated from, or may incur unanticipated costs and losses not had a material impact on the cost of short term wholesale funding.
associated with, the acquisition of HBOS plc.
As a consequence Lloyds Capital: during the year there was unprecedented turbulence in global Banking Group results may suffer as a result of operational, financial, financial markets which led to the UK Government taking action to management and other integration risks.
The Group has created an stabilise the UK banking system.
After discussion with HM Treasury on integration committee as a sub-committee to the group executive the additional capital required by the UK Government if the Group was committee to oversee the integration process.
to continue to have access to the Government backed provision of imPaCt of lloyds tsB risk management PraCtiCes on hBos liquidity, the board decided it was in the best interests of shareholders Following completion of the HBOS plc transaction, Lloyds Banking for the Group to participate in the industry wide recapitalisation exercise Group has moved swiftly to apply its risk management practices to the which took place in October 2008.
However, should the economic HBOS Group.
As part of the completion process, we have amended downturn worsen and consequently the Group sustain further sudden Lloyds TSB Group high level policies so that they could be introduced and significant shocks to its capital base, it could be necessary to raise for Lloyds Banking Group.
additional capital to remain above the FSAs minimum target ratios.
Any additional capital raised which was not taken up by existing shareholders The way we manage risk is central to the success of Lloyds Banking would be dilutive to their earnings.
The board takes its responsibility for risk management very seriously and all of the Groups senior executives are actively involved in overseeing the risk profile for Lloyds Banking Group.
48 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION On the completion date the Lloyds TSB governance structure became Revenue and capital investment decisions require additional formal the overriding governance structure for Lloyds Banking Group.
Formal risk assessment is conducted as part represented a change to the committee structures and delegated of the financial approval process.
Significant mergers and acquisitions by authorities for the heritage HBOS businesses.
The major areas of change business units require specific approval by the board.
In addition to the included material event escalation, sanctions, conflicts of interest, standard due diligence conducted during a merger or acquisition, group delegated authorities for expenditure and the credit sanctioning process risk conducts, where appropriate, an independent risk assessment of the where authorities were changed to align with those within the heritage target company.
Lloyds TSB Group plc businesses.
monitoring Business risk The Groups strategy is reviewed and approved by the board.
Regular reports are provided to the group executive committee and the board on the progress of the Groups key strategies and plans.
Group definition risk conducts oversight to seek to ensure that business plans remain Business risk is defined as the risk to economic profit in the Groups consistent with the Groups strategy.
budget and over the medium-term plan arising from a sub optimal business strategy or the sub optimal implementation of the plan as agreed by the board of directors.
In assessing business risk, Credit risk consideration is given to internal and external factors.
definition risk aPPetite The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or Business risk appetite is encapsulated in the Groups budget and reputational loss, as a result of the failure of the party with whom the Group medium-term plan, which are sanctioned by the board on an annual has contracted to meet its obligations both on and off balance sheet.
Divisions and business units subsequently align their plans to the Groups overall business risk appetite.
risk aPPetite Credit risk appetite is expressed both in terms of credit risk economic exPosures equity and in terms of the impact of credit risk on earnings volatility.
The Groups portfolio of businesses exposes it to a number of internal Credit risk appetite is set by the board and is described and reported and external factors: through a suite of metrics derived from a combination of accounting internal factors: resource capability and availability, customer and credit portfolio model parameters which in turn use the various treatment, service level agreements, products and funding and the risk credit risk rating systems as inputs.
These metrics are supplemented by appetite of other risk categories: and a variety of policies, sector caps and limits to manage concentration risk at an acceptable level.
external factors: economic, technological, political, social and ethical, environmental, legal and regulatory, market expectations, reputation exPosures and competitive behaviour.
The principal sources of credit risk within the Group arise from loans and measurement advances to retail customers, financial institutions and corporate clients.
An annual business planning process is conducted at group and The credit risk exposures of the Group are set out in note 49 to the business unit level which includes a quantitative and qualitative financial statements.
assessment of the risks that could impact the Groups plans.
Within the In terms of loans and advances, credit risk arises both from amounts planning round, the Group conducts both scenario analysis and stress lent and commitments to extend credit to a customer as required.
tests to assess risks to future earning streams.
Over the last few years, These commitments can take the form of loans and overdrafts, or the Group has made significant progress with embedding stress testing credit instruments such as guarantees and standby, documentary and and scenario analysis into its risk management practice with the dual commercial letters of credit.
With respect to commitments to extend objectives of adding value to the business whilst also meeting regulatory credit, the Group is potentially exposed to loss in an amount equal to requirements.
The Group assesses a wide array of scenarios including the total unused commitments.
However, the likely amount of loss is economic recessions, regulatory action scenarios, pandemics and less than the total unused commitments, as most retail commitments to scenarios specific to the operations of each part of the business.
extend credit can be cancelled and the credit worthiness of customers A common approach is applied across the Group to assess the creation is monitored frequently.
In addition, most wholesale commitments to of shareholder value.
This is measured by economic profit the profit extend credit are contingent upon customers maintaining specific credit attributable to shareholders, less a notional charge for the equity invested standards, which are regularly monitored.
The focus on economic profit allows the Group to Credit risk can also arise from debt securities, derivatives and foreign compare the returns being made on capital employed in each business exchange activities.
Note 17 to the financial statements shows the on a consistent basis.
During the year, as a result of the market dislocation total notional principal amount of interest rate, exchange rate, credit and banking crisis, economic profit fell by 994 million to 731 million.
derivative and equity and other contracts outstanding at 31 December 2008.
The notional principal amount does not, however, represent mitigation the Groups credit risk exposure, which is limited to the current cost of As part of the annual business planning process, the group develops a set replacing contracts with a positive value to the Group.
Such amounts of management actions to prevent or mitigate the impact on earnings in the are reflected in note 49 on page 168. event that business risks materialise.
Additionally, business risk monitoring, through regular reports and oversight, results in corrective actions to plans Credit risk exposures in the insurance businesses arise primarily from and reductions in exposures where necessary.
holding investments and from exposure to reinsurers.
overview Business review governanCe finanCial statements shareholder information Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 49 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 AUDITED INFORMATION measurement Counterparty limits: Limits are set against all types of exposure in a counterparty name, in accordance with an agreed methodology for In measuring the credit risk of loans and advances to customers and to each exposure type.
This includes credit risk exposure on individual banks at a counterparty level, the Group reflects three components: derivative transactions, which incorporates potential future exposures i the probability of default by the client or counterparty on its from market movements.
Aggregate facility levels by counterparty are contractual obligations: ii current exposures to the counterparty considered and limit breaches are subject to escalation procedures.
and their likely future development, from which the Group derives the exposure at default: and iii the likely loss ratio on the defaulted Individual credit assessment and sanction: Credit risk in wholesale obligations the loss given default.
portfolios is subject to individual credit assessments, which consider the strengths and weaknesses of individual transactions and the The Group assesses the probability of default of individual counterparties balance of risk and reward.
Exposure to individual counterparties, using internal rating models tailored to the various categories of groups of counterparties or customer risk segments is controlled counterparty.
For its retail lending, and a growing number of wholesale through a tiered hierarchy of delegated sanctioning authorities.
lending portfolios, exposure at default and loss given default models Approval requirements for each decision are based on the transaction are also in use.
All material rating models are authorised by executive amount, the customers aggregate facilities, credit risk ratings and the management.
They have been developed internally and use statistical nature and term of the risk.
The Groups credit risk appetite criteria for analysis, combined, where appropriate, with external data and subject counterparty underwriting are the same as that for assets intended matter expert judgement.
Each rating model is subject to a rigorous to be held over the period to maturity.
validation process, undertaken by independent risk teams, which includes benchmarking to externally available data, where possible.
Credit scoring: In its principal retail portfolios, the Group uses statistically-based decisioning techniques primarily credit scoring.
Each probability of default rating model segments counterparties into a Divisional risk departments review scorecard effectiveness and approve number of rating grades, each representing a defined range of default changes, with material changes to scorecards that form part of a probabilities.
Exposures migrate between classifications if the assessment probability of default rating system subject to group risk approval.
of the obligor probability of default changes.
Each rating system is required to map to a master scale, which supports the consolidation Controls over rating systems: The Group has established a robust and of credit risk information across portfolios through the adoption of a independent process built on a set of common minimum standards common rating scale.
Given the differing risk profiles and credit rating designed to challenge the discriminatory power of the systems, considerations, the underlying risk reporting has been split into two accuracy of calibration and ability to rate consistently over time distinct master scales, a retail master scale and a wholesale master scale.
The internal rating systems are developed and Note 49 to the financial statements provides an analysis of the portfolio.
implemented by independent risk functions either in the business units or divisions with the business unit managing directors having The rating systems described above assess probability of default, ownership of the systems.
They also take responsibility for ensuring exposure at default and loss given default, in order to derive an the validation of the respective internal rating systems, supported and expected loss.
In contrast, impairment allowances are recognised for challenged by specialist functions in their respective division.
financial reporting purposes only for losses that have been incurred at the balance sheet date based on objective evidence of impairment see Cross-border and cross-currency exposures: Country limits are note 20 to the consolidated financial statements on page 129.
Due authorised by Country Limits Panel and managed by a dedicated unit to the different methodologies applied, the amount of incurred credit taking into account economic and political factors.
losses provided for in the financial statements differs from the amount Concentration risk: Credit risk management includes portfolio controls determined from the expected loss model that is used for internal on certain industries, sectors and product lines to reflect risk appetite.
operational management and banking regulation purposes.
Credit policy is aligned to the Groups risk appetite and restricts The Groups debt securities holdings, which are the subject of external exposure to certain high risk and more vulnerable sectors.
Note 19 to agency ratings, are marked to market and independently checked by the accounts provides an analysis of loans and advances to customers by the middle office function within the products and markets business.
industry for wholesale and product for retail.
Exposures are monitored Similarly, debt security investments within Scottish Widows are to prevent excessive concentration of risk.
These concentration risk independently marked to market.
controls are not necessarily in the form of a maximum limit on lending but may instead require new business in concentrated sectors to fulfil The Group also employs a statistically-based credit portfolio model, additional hurdle requirements.
The Groups large exposures are which models portfolio credit risk based on defaults and calculates the reported in accordance with regulatory reporting requirements.
economic equity employed and credit value at risk for each portfolio.
Stress testing and scenario analysis: The credit portfolio is also mitigation subjected to stress-testing and scenario analysis, to simulate outcomes The Group uses a range of approaches to mitigate credit risk.
and calculate their associated impact.
Events are modelled at a group wide level, at divisional and business unit level and by rating model INTERNAL CONTROL and portfolio, for example, for a specific industry sector.
Credit principles and policy: group risk sets out the Group credit Specialist expertise: Credit quality is maintained by specialist units principles and policy according to which credit risk is managed, providing, for example: intensive management and control: security which in turn is the basis for divisional and business unit credit policy.
perfection, maintenance and retention: expertise in documentation for Principles and policy are reviewed regularly and any changes are lending and associated products: sector-specific expertise: and legal subject to a review and approval process.
Divisional and business unit services applicable to the particular market place and product range policy includes lending guidelines, which define the responsibilities of offered by the business.
lending officers and provide a disciplined and focused benchmark for credit decisions.
Credit policy also specifies maximum holding period limits for the credit trading portfolios.
50 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION Daily settlement limits: Settlement risk arises in any situation where a OTHER CREDIT RISK TRANSFERS payment in cash, securities or equities is made in the expectation of a The Group also undertakes asset sales, securitisations and credit  receipt in cash, securities or equities.
Daily settlement based transactions as a means of mitigating or reducing credit risk, taking limits are established for each counterparty to cover the aggregate of into account the nature of assets and the prevailing market conditions.
all settlement risk arising from the Groups market transactions on any single day.
monitoring Portfolio monitoring and reporting: In conjunction with group risk, Risk assurance and oversight: Divisional and group level oversight businesses and divisions identify and define portfolios of credit and teams monitor credit performance trends, review and challenge related risk exposures and the key benchmarks, behaviours and exceptions to planned outcomes and test the adequacy of credit risk characteristics by which those portfolios are managed in terms of infrastructure and governance processes throughout the Group.
This entails the production and analysis of regular includes tracking portfolio performance against an agreed set of key portfolio monitoring reports for review by senior management.
Risk assurance teams are engaged where appropriate to risk in turn produces an aggregated review of credit risk throughout conduct further credit reviews if a need for closer scrutiny is identified.
the Group, including reports on significant credit exposures, which are COLLATERAL presented to the group business risk committee.
The principal collateral types for loans and advances are: The performance of all rating models is comprehensively monitored mortgages over residential properties: on a regular basis, to ensure that models continue to provide charges over business assets such as premises, inventory and accounts optimum risk differentiation capability, the generated ratings remain receivable: as accurate and robust as possible and the models assign appropriate risk estimates to grades pools.
All models are monitored against a charges over financial instruments such as debt securities and equities: and series of agreed key performance indicators.
In the event that monthly guarantees received from third parties.
monitoring identifies material exceptions or deviations from expected The Group maintains guidelines on the acceptability of specific classes outcomes, these will be escalated.
Collateral held as security for financial assets other than loans and market risk advances is determined by the nature of the instrument.
Debt securities, treasury and other eligible bills are generally unsecured, with the definition exception of asset-backed securities and similar instruments, which The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or are secured by portfolios of financial assets.
Collateral is generally not reputational loss, arising from unexpected changes in financial prices, held against loans and advances to financial institutions, except where including interest rates, exchange rates, credit spreads and prices for securities are held as part of reverse repurchase or securities borrowing bonds, commodities, equities, property and other instruments.
It arises transactions or where a collateral agreement has been entered into in all areas of the Groups activities and is managed by a variety of under a master netting agreement.
Collateral or other security is also different techniques.
not usually obtained for credit risk exposures on derivative instruments, except where the Group requires margin deposits from counterparties.
risk aPPetite It is the Groups policy that collateral should always be realistically valued Market risk appetite is defined with regard to the quantum and by an appropriately qualified source, independent of the customer, composition of market risk that exists currently in the Group and the at the time of borrowing.
Collateral is reviewed on a regular basis in direction in which the Group wishes to manage this.
accordance with business unit credit policy, which will vary according This statement of the Groups overall appetite for market risk is reviewed to the type of lending and collateral involved.
In order to minimise and approved annually by the board.
With the support of the group the credit loss, the Group may seek additional collateral from the asset and liability committee, the group chief executive allocates this risk counterparty as soon as impairment indicators are identified for the appetite across the Group.
Individual members of the group executive relevant individual loans and advances.
committee ensure that market risk appetite is further delegated to an The Group considers risk concentrations by collateral providers and appropriate level within their areas of responsibility.
collateral type, as appropriate, with a view to ensuring that any potential undue concentrations of risk are identified and suitably managed by exPosures changes to strategy, policy and or business plans.
The Groups banking activities expose it to the risk of adverse movements in interest rates, credit spreads, exchange rates and equity MASTER NETTING AGREEMENTS prices, with little or no exposure to commodity risk.
Where it is efficient and likely to be effective generally with counterparties with which it undertakes a significant volume of Most of the Groups trading activity is undertaken to meet the transactions, the Group enters into master netting agreements.
requirements of wholesale and retail customers for foreign exchange Although master netting agreements do not generally result in an offset and interest rate products.
However, some interest rate, exchange of balance sheet assets and liabilities, as transactions are usually settled rate and credit spread positions are taken using derivatives and other on a gross basis, they do reduce the credit risk to the extent that, if an on-balance sheet instruments with the objective of earning a profit from event of default occurs, all amounts with the counterparty are terminated favourable movements in market rates.
and settled on a net basis.
The Groups overall exposure to credit risk on derivative instruments subject to master netting agreements can change substantially within a short period since it is affected by each transaction subject to the agreement.
overview Business review governanCe finanCial statements shareholder information Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 51 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 AUDITED INFORMATION Market risk in the Groups retail portfolios and in the Groups capital BANKING TRADING AND OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FAIR and funding activities arises from the different repricing characteristics VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS of the Groups non-trading assets and liabilities.
Interest rate risk arises Based on the commonly used 95 per cent confidence level, assuming predominantly from the mismatch between interest rate insensitive positions are held overnight and using observation periods of the liabilities and interest rate sensitive assets.
preceding 300 business days, the VaR for the years ended 31 December 2008 and 2007 based on the Groups global trading positions was as Foreign currency risk also arises from the Groups investment in its detailed in table 1.4. overseas operations.
The risk of loss measured by the VaR model is the potential loss in The Groups insurance activities also expose it to market risk, encompassing earnings.
The total and average trading VaR does not assume any interest rate, exchange rate, property, credit spreads and equity risk: diversification benefit across the four risk types.
The maximum and The management of the With Profit Fund within Scottish Widows minimum VaR reported for each risk category did not necessarily occur involves mismatching of assets and liabilities with the aim of generating on the same day as the maximum and minimum VaR reported as a whole.
a higher rate of return on assets to meet policyholders expectations.
VaR numbers have increased during 2008 due to the significant rise in market volatility reflected in all the Groups VaR models across all markets.
Unit-linked liabilities are matched with the same assets that are used to define the liability but future fee income is dependent upon the taBle 1.4: Banking trading and other finanCial assets at performance of those assets.
fair value through Profit or loss For other insurance liabilities the aim is to invest in assets such that the 31 december 2008 cash flows on investments will match those on the projected future Close average maximum minimum liabilities.
It is not possible to eliminate risk completely as the timing m m m m of insured events is uncertain and bonds are not available at all of the Interest rate risk 6.73 3.36 14.67 0.96 required maturities.
As a result the cash flows cannot be precisely matched Foreign exchange risk 2.95 1.22 4.06 0.08 and so sensitivity tests are used to test the extent of the mismatch.
Equity risk 0.00 0.25 2.67 0.00 Surplus assets are held primarily in three portfolios: the surplus in Credit spread risk 7.97 4.94 8.08 4.14 the non-profit fund within the long term fund of Scottish Widows plc, assets in shareholder funds of life assurance companies and an Total VaR 17.65 9.77 24.95 5.35 investment portfolio within the general insurance business.
31 December 2007 Close Average Maximum Minimum The Groups defined benefit staff pension schemes are exposed to m m m m significant risks from the constituent parts of their assets and from the present value of their liabilities, primarily equity and real interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk 1.63 2.20 4.66 1.27 For further information on pension scheme assets and liabilities please Foreign exchange risk 0.08 0.23 0.53 0.04 refer to note 37.
Equity risk 0.00 0.29 3.02 0.00 Credit spread risk 4.21 3.60 8.30 2.06 measurement The primary market risk measure used within the Group is the Value Total VaR 5.92 6.32 11.00 4.28 at Risk VaR methodology, which incorporates the volatility of relevant market prices and the correlation of their movements.
This is used for BANKING NON-TRADING determining the Groups overall market risk appetite and for the high The estimated impact of an immediate 25 basis point increase in level allocation of risk appetite across the Group.
interest rates on economic value for the years ended 31 December Although an important measure of risk, VaR has limitations as a result 2008 and 2007 is shown below in the 2007 accounts a 200 basis point of its use of historical data, assumed distribution, holding periods and increase was used.
Economic value is defined as the present value of frequency of calculation.
In addition, the use of confidence levels does the non-trading portfolios concerned.
Impacts have only been shown not convey any information about potential loss when the confidence in one direction but can be assumed to be reasonably symmetrical.
Where VaR models are less well suited to the nature No currency breakdown has been provided as most of the exposure of positions, the Group recognises these limitations and supplements is in pounds sterling.
These calculations are made monthly using its use with a variety of other techniques.
These reflect the nature of assumptions regarding the maturity of interest rate insensitive assets and the business activity, and include interest rate repricing gaps, open liabilities.
The portfolio is updated monthly to reflect any changes in the exchange positions and sensitivity analysis.
Stress testing and scenario relationship between customer behaviour and the level of interest rates.
analysis are also used in certain portfolios and at group level, to simulate This is a risk based disclosure and the amounts below would be amortised extreme conditions to supplement these core measures.
in the income statement over the duration of the portfolio.
During the During the year the Group introduced group wide stress testing to year, management reviewed the basis of reporting banking non-trading measure exposure to credit spread widening across all businesses in to a value at risk measure to reflect better the internal measurement used response to the market dislocation that has impacted the observable to control this exposure.
The decrease compared to the previous year is inputs to asset pricing.
due to the impact on retail balances of significant cuts in base rate during the last few months of 2008.
In view of the unprecedented low interest rate environment in 2009, the assumptions underlying this particular risk measure are under review and likely to change.
52 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION taBle 1.5: Banking non-trading BANKING ACTIVITIES Trading is restricted to a number of specialist centres, the most 31 december 31 December 2008 2007 important centre being the products and markets business in London.
m m These centres also manage market risk in the wholesale non-trading Reduction in value 158 8 portfolios, both in the UK and internationally.
The level of exposure is strictly controlled and monitored within approved limits.
Active management of the wholesale portfolios is necessary to meet customer INSURANCE PORTFOLIOS requirements and changing market circumstances.
The Groups market risk exposure in respect of insurance activities described above is measured using European Embedded Value EEV Market risk in the Groups retail portfolios and in the Groups capital and as a proxy for economic value.
The pre-tax sensitivity of EEV to funding activities is managed within limits defined in the detailed Group standardised market stresses is shown below for the years ended policy for interest rate risk in the banking book, which is reviewed and 31 December 2008 and 2007.
Foreign exchange risk arises approved annually.
predominantly from overseas equity holdings.
Impacts have only been INSURANCE ACTIVITIES shown in one direction but can be assumed to be reasonably Market risk exposures from the insurance businesses are controlled symmetrical.
Opening and closing numbers only have been provided via approved investment policies and limits set with reference to the as this data is not volatile or tracked on a daily basis.
Groups overall risk appetite and regularly reviewed by the senior asset taBle 1.6: insuranCe Portfolios and liability committee: 31 december 31 December The With Profit Fund is managed in accordance with the relevant 2008 2007 funds principles and practices of financial management and legal m m requirements.
Equity risk impact of 10% fall pre-tax 236 248 The investment strategy for other insurance liabilities is determined Interest rate risk impact of 25 basis by the term and nature of the underlying liabilities and asset liability point reduction pre-tax 59 58 matching positions are actively monitored.
Actuarial tools are used to project and match the cash flows.
Credit spread risk impact of 25 basis point increase pre-tax 82 110 Investment strategy for surplus assets held in excess of liabilities takes account of the legal, regulatory and internal business requirements for mitigation capital to be held to support the business now and in the future.
Various mitigation activities are undertaken across the Group to manage The Group also agrees strategies for the overall mix of pension assets portfolios and ensure they remain within approved limits.
with the pension scheme trustees.
BANKING NON-TRADING ACTIVITIES Interest rate risk arising from the different repricing characteristics of insuranCe risk the Groups non-trading assets and liabilities, and from the mismatch definition between interest rate insensitive liabilities and interest rate sensitive assets, is managed centrally.
Matching assets and liabilities are offset The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or against each other and internal interest rate swaps are also used.
reputational loss, due to fluctuations in the timing, frequency and severity of insured underwritten events and to fluctuations in the timing The corporate and retail businesses incur foreign exchange risk in the and amount of claim settlements.
This includes fluctuations in profits due course of providing services to their customers.
All non-structural foreign to customer behaviour.
exchange exposures in the non-trading book are transferred to the trading area where they are monitored and controlled.
risk aPPetite INSURANCE ACTIVITIES Insurance risk appetite is defined with regard to the quantum and composition of insurance risk that exists currently in the Group and the Investment holdings are diversified across markets and, within markets, direction in which the Group wishes to manage this.
Holdings are diversified to minimise specific risk and the relative size of large individual exposures is monitored closely.
For exPosures assets held outside unit-linked funds, investments are only permitted in The major sources of insurance risk within the Group are the insurance countries and markets which are sufficiently regulated and liquid.
businesses and the Groups defined benefit staff pension schemes.
The nature of insurance business involves the accepting of insurance risks monitoring which relate primarily to mortality, longevity, morbidity, persistency, The senior asset and liability committee regularly reviews high level expenses, property damage and unemployment.
The prime insurance market risk exposure including, but not limited to, the data described risk carried by the Groups staff pension schemes is related to longevity.
It also makes recommendations to the group chief executive concerning overall market risk appetite and market risk policy.
Exposures measurement at lower levels of delegation are monitored at various intervals according Insurance risks are measured using a variety of techniques including stress to their volatility, from daily in the case of trading portfolios to monthly and scenario testing: and, where appropriate, stochastic modelling.
or quarterly in the case of less volatile portfolios.
Levels of exposures compared to approved limits are monitored locally by independent Current and potential future insurance risk exposures are assessed and risk functions and at a high level by group risk.
Where appropriate, aggregated using risk measures based on 1-in-20 year stresses and other escalation procedures are in place.
supporting measures where appropriate, for example those set out in Note 33. overview Business review governanCe finanCial statements shareholder information Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 53 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 AUDITED INFORMATION mitigation oPerational risk A key element of the control framework is the consideration of insurance risk by a suitable combination of high level committees boards.
For the definition life assurance businesses the key control body is the board of Scottish The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or Widows Group Limited with the more significant risks also being subject reputational loss, from inadequate or failed internal processes and to approval by the group executive committee and or Lloyds TSB systems, or from people related or external events.
For the general insurance businesses the key control There are a number of categories of operational risk: body is the Lloyds TSB General Insurance Limited board with the more significant risks again being subject to group executive committee and LEGAL AND REGULATORy RISK or Lloyds TSB Group board approval.
All Group staff pension schemes The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or issues are covered by the group asset and liability committee and the reputational loss, or from failing to comply with the laws, regulations group business risk committee.
The overall insurance risk is mitigated through pooling and through CUSTOMER TREATMENT RISK diversification across large numbers of uncorrelated individuals, The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or geographical areas, and different types of risk exposure.
reputational loss, from inappropriate or poor customer treatment.
Insurance risk is primarily controlled via the following processes: BUSINESS PROCESS RISK Underwriting the process to ensure that new insurance proposals The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or are properly assessed reputational loss, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes Pricing-to-risk new insurance proposals would usually be priced in and systems, people-related events and deficiencies in the performance accordance with the underwriting assessment of external suppliers service providers.
Claims management FINANCIAL CRIME RISK Product design The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or Policy wording reputational loss, associated with financial crime and failure to comply Product management with related legal and regulatory obligations, these losses may include The use of reinsurance or other risk mitigation techniques.
censure, fines or the cost of litigation.
In addition, limits are used as a control mechanism for insurance risk PEOPLE RISK at policy level.
The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or reputational loss, from inappropriate staff behaviour, industrial action At all times, close attention is paid to the adequacy of reserves, solvency or health and safety issues.
Loss can also be incurred through failure management and regulatory requirements.
to recruit, retain, train, reward and incentivise appropriately skilled staff General insurance exposure to accumulations of risk and possible to achieve business objectives and through failure to take appropriate catastrophes is mitigated by reinsurance arrangements which are action as a result of staff underperformance.
broadly spread over different reinsurers.
Detailed modelling, including CHANGE RISK that of the potential losses under various catastrophe scenarios, supports the choice of reinsurance arrangements.
Appropriate reinsurance The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial arrangements also apply within the life and pensions businesses with or reputational loss, from change initiatives failing to deliver to significant mortality risk and morbidity risk being transferred to our requirements, budget or timescale or failing to implement change chosen reinsurers.
effectively or realise the desired benefits.
Options and guarantees are incorporated in new insurance products only GOVERNANCE RISK after careful consideration of the risk management issues that they present.
The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or reputational loss, from poor corporate governance at group, divisional In respect of insurance risks in the staff pension schemes, the Group or business unit level.
Corporate governance in this context embraces ensures that effective communication mechanisms are in place for the structures, systems and processes that provide direction, control and consultation with the trustees and that risk management is in line with accountability for the enterprise.
SECURITy RISK monitoring The risk of reductions in earnings and or value, through financial or Ongoing monitoring is in place to track the progression of insurance reputational loss, resulting from theft of or damage to the Groups risks.
This normally involves monitoring relevant experiences against assets, the loss, corruption, misuse or theft of the Groups information expectations for example claims experience, option take up rates, assets or threats or actual harm to the Groups people.
persistency experience, expenses, non-disclosure at the point of sale, as well as evaluating the effectiveness of controls put in place to risk aPPetite manage insurance risk.
Operational risk appetite is defined as the quantum and composition of operational risk identified in the Group and the direction in which the Group wishes to manage it.
The Group has developed an impact on earnings approach to operational risk appetite.
This involves looking at how much the Group could lose due to operational risk losses at various levels of certainty.
54 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION In setting operational risk appetite, the Group looks at both impact operational risk framework across Lloyds TSB Group plc.
The waiver on solvency and the Groups reputation, including customer service allowed the Group to calculate its own regulatory capital charge for requirements.
operational risk from its capital model with effect from 1 January 2008.
For legal and regulatory risk the Group has minimal risk appetite and The intention is to extend the same methodology to the insurance seeks to operate to high ethical standards.
The Group encourages and businesses within the Group where regulatory capital is currently maintains an appropriately balanced legal and regulatory compliance determined under the ICA requirements.
culture and promotes policies and procedures to enable businesses and their staff to operate in accordance with the laws, regulations and mitigation voluntary codes which impact on the Group and its activities.
The Groups operational risk management framework consists of five key components: exPosures Identification of the key operational risks facing a business area.
The main sources of operational risk within the Group relate to Evaluation of the effectiveness of the control framework covering each uncertainties created by the changing business, in particular the legal of the key risks to which the business area is exposed.
and regulatory environment in which financial firms operate both in Evaluation of the non-financial exposures e. g. reputational risk for the UK and overseas.
As a result the most significant operational risk each of the key risks to which the business area is exposed.
exposures are legal and regulatory.
For material risks identified, an estimate of the exposure to financial Legal and regulatory exposure is driven by the significant volume of losses that could result within the coming financial year, together with current legislation and regulation with which the Group has to comply, an estimate of losses in a stressed environment.
along with new legislation and regulation which needs to be reviewed, For material risks identified, an estimate of exposure to high impact, assessed and embedded into day-to-day operational and business low frequency events through a scenario.
practices across the Group as a whole.
Further uncertainties arise where regulations are principles-based without the regulator defining supporting The Group purchases insurance to mitigate certain operational risk events.
minimum standards either for the benefit of the consumer or firms.
This gives rise to both the risk of retrospection from any one regulator and also monitoring to the risk of differing interpretation by individual regulators.
Business unit risk exposure is aggregated at divisional level and reported to group risk where a group-wide report is prepared.
The report is For legal and regulatory issues there are significant reputational discussed at the monthly group compliance and operational risk impacts associated with potential censure which drive the Groups committee.
This committee can escalate matters to the chief risk officer, stance on appetites referred to above.
There are clear accountabilities or higher committees if appropriate.
and processes in place for reviewing new and changing requirements.
Each business has a nominated individual with compliance oversight The insurance programme is monitored and reviewed regularly, with responsibility under FSA rules.
The role of such individuals is to advise recommendations being made to the Groups senior management and assist management to ensure that each business has a control annually prior to each renewal.
Insurers are monitored on an ongoing structure which creates awareness of the rules and regulations, to which basis, to ensure counterparty risk is minimised.
A process is in place to the Group is subject, and to monitor and report on adherence to these manage any insurer rating changes or insolvencies.
The Group has adopted a formal approach to operational risk event escalation.
This involves the identification of an event, an assessment of measurement the materiality of the event in accordance with a risk event impact matrix Throughout 2008, there was ongoing development of operational and appropriate escalation.
risk appetites and metrics to ensure both current and potential future operational risk exposures are understood in terms of both risk and reward potential.
The Group has a comprehensive and consistent operational risk management framework for the timely identification, measurement, monitoring and control of operational risk.
Integral to this operational risk management framework is a hybrid approach to calculating capital to support unexpected losses.
The capital model calculations are driven by internal data which captures past losses, and forward looking scenarios which value potential future risk events.
External industry-wide data is collected to help with validating scenarios.
The capital model outputs are used to determine the internal capital charge for the Group which is then allocated to the businesses within the Group.
Following review and approval of the operational risk management framework and capital model, the FSA has granted the banking businesses within the Group an Advanced Measurement Approach AMA Waiver which recognises the embedding of the overview Business review governanCe finanCial statements shareholder information Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 55 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 AUDITED INFORMATION the Groups balance sheet structure.
Longer term is defined as having finanCial soundness an original maturity of more than one year.
definition The Groups funding and liquidity position is underpinned by its Financial soundness risk has three key risk components covering liquidity significant retail deposit base, accompanied by appropriate funding and funding risk: capital risk: and financial & prudential regulatory from the wholesale markets.
A substantial proportion of the retail reporting, disclosure and tax risk.
deposit base is made up of customers current and savings accounts which, although repayable on demand, have traditionally in aggregate liquidity and funding provided a stable source of funding.
Additionally, the Group accesses the short-term wholesale markets to raise inter-bank deposits and to Liquidity risk is defined as the risk that the Group does not have issue certificates of deposit and commercial paper to meet short-term sufficient financial resources to meet its commitments when they fall due, obligations.
The Groups short-term money market funding is based or can secure them only at excessive cost.
Funding risk is further defined on a qualitative analysis of the markets capacity for the Groups credit.
as the risk that the Group does not have sufficiently stable and diverse The Group has developed strong relationships with certain wholesale sources of funding or the funding structure is inefficient.
market segments, and also has access to central banks and corporate In recent months, the strain in the financial systems has increased customers, to supplement its retail deposit base.
substantially, leading to a significant tightening in market liquidity with The ability to deploy assets quickly, either through the repo market the threat of a more marked deterioration in the global economic or through outright sale, is also an important source of liquidity for outlook and a consequent increase in recourse to liquidity schemes the Groups banking businesses.
The Group holds sizeable balances provided by central banks.
Whilst various governments, including of high grade marketable debt securities set out on page 172 of the the UK Government, have taken substantial measures to ease the financial statements which can be sold to provide, or used to secure, current crisis in liquidity, such as the measures announced in the UK on additional short term funding should the need arise from either 8 October 2008 and 13 October 2008, there can be no assurance that market counterparties or central bank facilities ECB, Federal Reserve, these global measures will succeed in improving the funding and liquidity Bank of England.
During the year the Group increased its stock of liquid of the markets in which the major banks, including Lloyds Banking assets by 47 billion to 63 billion 2007: 16 billion, which includes Group, operate.
government securities, mortgage backed securities, corporate and other Consistent with regulatory requirements, the Banking and Insurance parts debt securities.
of the Group manage their liquidity independently on a standalone basis.
MONITORING Liquidity for all UK based banking business is managed centrally.
Liquidity for International banking entities are managed on a standalone basis Liquidity is actively monitored at business unit and Group level at Liquidity risk in the Insurance business is managed at business unit level an appropriate frequency.
Routine reporting is in place to senior and is not considered further in this section.
management and through the Groups committee structure, in particular the group asset and liability committee and the senior asset and RISK APPETITE liability committee which meet monthly.
In a stress situation the level of Liquidity and funding risk appetite for the banking businesses is set monitoring and reporting is increased commensurate with the nature by the board and reviewed on an annual basis.
It is reported through of the stress event.
Liquidity policies and procedures are subject to various metrics that enable the Group to manage liquidity and funding independent oversight.
The chief executive, assisted by the group asset and Daily monitoring and control processes are in place to address both liability committee and its sub-committee the senior asset and liability statutory and prudential liquidity requirements.
In addition, the committee, regularly reviews performance against risk appetite.
The framework has two other important components: board reviews liquidity and funding risk on a quarterly basis.
Firstly, Lloyds Banking Group stress tests its potential cash flow ExPOSURE mismatch position under various scenarios on an ongoing basis.
The Liquidity exposure represents the amount of potential outflows in any cash flow mismatch position considers on-balance sheet cash flows, future period less committed inflows.
Liquidity is considered from both commitments received and granted, and material derivative cash an internal and regulatory perspective.
Specifically, commitments granted include the pipeline of new MEASUREMENT business awaiting completion as well as other standby or revolving A series of measures are used across the Group to monitor both short credit facilities.
Behavioural adjustments are developed, evaluating and long term liquidity including: ratios, cash outflow triggers, and how the cash flow position might change under each stress scenario stress test survival period triggers.
Strict criteria and limits are in place to derive a stressed cash flow position.
Scenarios cover both Lloyds to ensure marketable securities are available as part of the portfolio of Banking Group name specific and systemic difficulties.
The scenarios highly liquid assets.
and the assumptions are reviewed at least annually to gain assurance they continue to be relevant to the nature of the business.
MITIGATION Secondly, the Group has a contingency funding plan embedded within The Group mitigates the risk of a liquidity mismatch in excess of its risk the Group Liquidity Policy Statement which has been designed to appetite by managing the liquidity profile of the balance sheet through identify emerging liquidity concerns at an early stage, so that mitigating both short-term liquidity management and long-term funding strategy.
actions can be taken to avoid a more serious crisis developing.
Short-term liquidity management is considered from two perspectives: business as usual and crisis liquidity, both of which relate to funding The information reviewed by the group executive committee, group in the less than one year time horizon.
Longer term funding is used to asset and liability committee and senior asset and liability committee manage the Groups strategic liquidity profile which is determined by includes analysis set out in table 1.7.
56 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION taBle 1.7: grouP BalanCe sheet taBle 1.9: residual maturity of london treasury wholesale funding 31 december 31 December 2008 2008 2007 growth as at as at As at As at bn bn % 31 december 31 december 31 December 31 December 2008 2008 2007 2007 assets bn % bn % Loans and advances to customers 242.7 209.8 15.7 Less than one year 127.8 77.0 107.0 81.5 Wholesale assets 72.5 57.7 25.6 One to two years 5.7 3.5 5.0 3.8 Banking assets 315.2 267.5 17.8 Two to five years 18.1 10.9 11.1 8.5 total assets 436.0 353.3 23.4 More than five years 14.3 8.6 8.2 6.2 liabilities total 165.9 100.0 131.3 100.0 Non-bank deposits 170.9 156.6 9.1 Other Treasury operations include those businesses that are run on Wholesale funding 141.4 105.1 34.5 a standalone basis in jurisdictions outside London to support local Total Funding 312.3 261.7 19.3 banking businesses often in different time zones.
The residual maturity Total liabilities and shareholders profile of these operations is less than one year.
equity 436.0 353.3 23.4 taBle 1.10: reConCiliation of amounts shown aBove with the Excludes repos.
statutory BalanCe sheet GROUP RETAIL AND WHOLESALE FUNDING MIx london other statutory Wholesale assets comprise balances arising from banking business treasury treasury other Balance functions functions repos retail sheet and include loans and advances to banks, trading and other financial 2008 bn bn bn bn bn assets at fair value through profit and loss and available for sale assets.
Non-bank Non-bank deposits comprise balances arising from banking businesses Customer deposits 48.7 21.0 101.2 170.9 and include customer accounts.
Deposits from banks 27.9 13.7 24.9 66.5 The group balance sheet has grown by 23.4 per cent during the year.
Debt securities The funding for this has been primarily raised in the wholesale markets in issue and trading with customer deposit growth of 14.4 billion.
and other liabilities Wholesale funding has been analysed between that monitored by at fair value through the London Treasury operations and the Groups overseas Treasury profit or loss 73.4 9.1 82.5 operations.
The wholesale funding shown excludes any repo activity.
Subordinated The composition and quality of wholesale deposits are regularly liabilities 15.9 1.4 17.3 reviewed by management and comprises deposits from corporates and total 165.9 45.2 24.9 101.2 337.2 government agencies that roll over on a regular basis and are reinvested.
London Other Statutory Treasury Treasury Other Balance taBle 1.8: wholesale funding Functions Functions Repos Retail Sheet 2007 bn bn bn bn bn as at as at As at As at 31 december 31 december 31 December 31 December Non-bank 2008 2008 2007 2007 Customer deposits 39.5 18.5 98.6 156.6 bn % bn % Deposits from banks 28.6 9.8 0.7 39.1 Bank 27.9 8.9 28.6 10.9 Debt securities Non-bank 48.7 15.6 39.5 15.1 in issue and trading Wholesale deposits 76.6 24.5 68.1 26.0 and other liabilities Certificates of deposit 27.9 8.9 11.3 4.3 at fair value through profit or loss 51.3 3.5 54.8 Medium term notes 15.8 5.1 9.1 3.5 Subordinated Commercial paper 19.9 6.4 17.6 6.7 liabilities 11.9 11.9 Securitisation 9.8 3.1 13.3 5.1 total 131.3 31.8 0.7 98.6 262.4 Subordinated liabilities 15.9 5.1 11.9 4.5 London Treasury operations 165.9 53.1 131.3 50.1 Other Treasury operations 45.2 14.5 31.8 12.2 total 211.1 67.6 163.1 62.3 Table 1.8 excludes repo balances.
overview Business review governanCe finanCial statements shareholder information Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 57 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 AUDITED INFORMATION CaPital Also a key input into the FSAs ICG setting process which addresses the requirements of Pillar 2 of the Basel II framework is each banks Internal Capital risk is defined as the risk that the Group has insufficient capital to Capital Adequacy Assessment Process.
The FSAs approach is to monitor provide a sufficient resource to absorb predetermined levels of losses or the available capital resources in relation to the ICG requirement.
The that the capital structure is inefficient.
Group has been given an ICG by the FSA and the board has also agreed RISK APPETITE a formal buffer to be maintained in addition to this requirement.
Any Capital risk appetite is set by the board and reported through various breaches of the formal buffer must be notified to the FSA, together with metrics that enable the Group to manage capital constraints and proposed remedial action.
No such notification has been made in 2008. shareholder expectations.
The chief executive, assisted by the group The FSA has made it clear that each ICG remains a confidential matter asset and liability committee, regularly reviews performance against risk between each bank and the FSA.
The board formally reviews capital risk on an annual basis.
In the context of the current market conditions the FSA has made further ExPOSURE statements to explain the approach it has taken to the capital framework these include core tier 1 and tier 1 targets under stressed conditions.
A capital exposure arises where the Group has insufficient regulatory capital resources to support its strategic objectives and plans, and The Group has developed procedures meant to ensure that compliance to meet external stakeholder requirements and expectations.
The with both current and potential future requirements are understood and Groups capital management policy is focused on optimising value for that policies are aligned to its risk appetite.
In addition to the regulatory framework, the Group also operates an MEASUREMENT internal capital framework.
The Groups regulatory capital is divided into tiers defined by the MITIGATION European Community Banking Consolidation Directive as implemented The Group is also able to raise equity either via a rights issue, placing in the UK by the Financial Services Authoritys General Prudential or an open offer.
A share placing was undertaken in September and Sourcebook.
Tier 1 capital comprises mainly shareholders equity, the board also announced in October a further placing and open offer tier 1 capital instruments and minority interests, after deducting to shareholders as part of its participation in the recapitalisation of the goodwill, other intangible assets and 50 per cent of the net excess of banking sector.
The Group is able to raise funds by issuing subordinated expected loss over accounting provisions and certain securitisation liabilities.
The cost and availability of subordinated liability finance are positions.
During the year the FSA has defined core tier 1 capital.
A reduction in these ratings could increase Accounting equity is adjusted in accordance with FSA requirements, the cost and could reduce market access.
particularly in respect of pensions and available-for sale assets.
Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated debt after deducting MONITORING 50 per cent of the excess of expected loss over accounting provisions, Capital is actively managed at an appropriate level of frequency and and certain securitisation positions.
The amount of qualifying tier 2 regulatory ratios are a key factor in the Groups budgeting and planning capital cannot exceed that of tier 1 capital.
Total capital is reduced processes with updates of expected ratios reviewed regularly during by deducting investments in subsidiaries and associates that are not the year by the Group asset and liability committee.
Capital raised takes consolidated for regulatory purposes.
In the case of Lloyds TSB Group, account of expected growth and currency of risk assets.
Capital policies this means that the net assets of its life assurance and general insurance and procedures are subject to independent oversight.
Regular reporting businesses are excluded from its total regulatory capital.
of actual and projected ratios is made to the senior asset and liability A number of limits are imposed by the FSA on the proportion of the committee and to the group asset and liability committee.
regulatory capital base that can be made up of subordinated debt and preferred securities.
The unpredictable nature of movements in the value of the investments supporting the long-term assurance funds could cause the amount of qualifying tier 2 capital to be restricted because of falling tier 1 resources.
The Group seeks to ensure that even in the event of such restrictions the total capital ratio will remain adequate.
The FSA sets Individual Capital Guidance ICG for each UK bank calibrated by references to its Capital Resources Requirement CRR, broadly equivalent to 8 per cent of risk weighted assets and thus representing the capital required under Pillar 1 of the Basel II framework.
58 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION CaPital ratios Basel ii 31 december 31 December 2008 2007 m m tier 1 Share capital and reserves 9,573 12,663 Regulatory post-retirement benefit adjustments 435 704 Other items 108 Available-for-sale revaluation reserve and cash flow hedging reserve 2,997 402 Goodwill 2,256 2,358 Other deductions 1,099 929 Core tier 1 capital 9,542 10,482 Preference share capital 1,966 1,589 Innovative tier 1 capital instruments 3,169 1,474 Less: restriction in amount eligible 976 Total tier 1 capital 13,701 13,545 tier 2 Undated loan capital 5,189 4,457 Dated loan capital 5,091 3,441 Innovative capital restricted from tier 1 976 Collectively assessed provisions 21 12 Available-for-sale revaluation reserve in respect of equities 8 12 Other deductions 1,099 928 Total tier 2 capital 10,186 6,994 Total tier 1 and tier 2 capital 23,887 20,539 supervisory deductions Life and pensions businesses 4,208 4,373 Other deductions 550 491 Total supervisory deductions 4,758 4,864 total capital 19,129 15,675 bn bn risk-weighted assets unaudited Credit risk 149.7 127.2 Market and counterparty risk 8.5 5.3 Operational risk 12.3 10.1 total risk-weighted assets 170.5 142.6 risk asset ratios unaudited Core tier 1 5.6% 7.4% Tier 1 8.0% 9.5% Total capital 11.2% 11.0% A firm is permitted to include innovative tier 1 capital in its tier 1 capital resources for the purposes of GENPRU1.2 adequacy of financial resources but is required to exclude these amounts from tier 1 for the purposes of meeting the main BIPRU firm Pillar 1 rules.
overview Business review governanCe finanCial statements shareholder information Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 59 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 AUDITED INFORMATION finanCial and Prudential regulatory rePorting, life assuranCe Businesses disClosure and tax At 31 December 2008, the principal subsidiary involved in the Groups The risk of reputational damage, loss of investor confidence and or life assurance operations was Scottish Widows plc Scottish Widows, financial loss arising from the adoption of inappropriate accounting which holds the only large With Profit Fund managed by Lloyds Banking policies, ineffective controls over financial, prudential regulatory and tax Group.
reporting and the failure to disclose information on a timely basis about the Group.
Basis of determining regulatory CaPital of the life RISK APPETITE assuranCe Businesses The risk appetite is set by the board and reviewed on an annual basis.
AVAILABLE CAPITAL RESOURCES It includes the avoidance of the need for restatement of published Available capital resources represent the excess of assets over liabilities financial and prudential regulatory data, public disclosures about the calculated in accordance with detailed regulatory rules issued by the Groups financial, including tax, performance and its legal constitution.
Different rules apply depending on the nature of the fund, as ExPOSURE detailed below.
Exposure represents the sufficiency of the Groups policies and statutory basis.
Assets are generally valued on a basis consistent with procedures to maintain adequate books and records to support that used for accounting purposes with the exception that, in certain statutory, prudential and tax reporting, to present and detect financial cases, the value attributed to assets is limited and which follows a reporting fraud and to manage the Groups tax exposure.
market value approach where possible.
Liabilities are calculated using a projection of future cash flows after making prudent assumptions MITIGATION about matters such as investment return, expenses and mortality.
The Group maintains a system of internal controls, which are designed Discount rates used to value the liabilities are set with reference to the to be consistently applied, and to provide a reasonable assurance risk adjusted yields on the underlying assets in accordance with the that transactions are recorded and undertaken in accordance with FSA rules.
Other assumptions are based on recent actual experience, delegated authorities that permit the preparation and disclosure of supplemented by industry information where appropriate.
The financial statements, prudential regulatory reporting and tax returns in assessment of liabilities does not include future bonuses for with-profits accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, statutory policies that are at the discretion of management, but does include a and regulatory requirements.
value for policyholder options likely to be exercised.
The FSA requires each life assurance company which The Group has in place a disclosure committee whose responsibility contains a With Profit Fund in excess of 500 million, including Scottish is to review all significant disclosures made by the Group and to Widows, to carry out a realistic valuation of that fund.
The word assist the group chief executive and group finance director fulfill their realistic in this context reflects the terminology used for reporting to the responsibilities under the Listing Rules and regulations emanating from FSA and is an assessment of the financial position of a with-profits fund the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
A programme of work is undertaken calculated under a prescribed methodology.
and designed to support an annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting, in accordance with the The valuation of with-profits assets in a with-profits fund on a realistic requirements of section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act: it also has in basis differs from the valuation on a statutory basis as, in respect of nonplace an assurance mechanism over its prudential regulatory reporting: profits business written in a with-profits fund a relatively small amount additionally, monitoring activities are designed to identify and maintain of business in the case of Scottish Widows, it includes the present value tax liabilities and to assess emerging regulation and legislation.
of the anticipated future release of the prudent margins for adverse deviation.
The realistic valuation uses the market value of assets without the limit affecting the statutory basis noted above.
The realistic valuation of liabilities is carried out using a stochastic simulation model which values liabilities on a basis consistent with tradable market option contracts a market-consistent basis.
The model takes account of policyholder behaviour on a best-estimate basis and includes an adjustment to reflect future uncertainties where the exercise of options by policyholders might increase liabilities.
Further details regarding the stochastic simulation model are given in the section entitled Options and guarantees on page 64.
60 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION REGULATORy CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS capital is calculated as the difference between realistic assets and realistic liabilities of the With Profit Fund with a further deduction to Each life assurance company must retain sufficient capital to meet the cover various stress tests.
regulatory capital requirements mandated by the FSA: the basis of calculating the regulatory capital requirement is given below.
Except for The determination of realistic liabilities of the With Profit Fund in respect Scottish Widows, the regulatory capital requirement is a combination of Scottish Widows includes the value of internal transfers expected to of amounts held in respect of actuarial reserves, sums at risk and be made from the With Profit Fund to the Non-Participating Fund of maintenance expenses the Long-Term Insurance Capital Requirement Scottish Widows.
These internal transfers include charges on policies and amounts required to cover various stress tests.
The regulatory where the associated costs are borne by the Non-Participating Fund.
capital requirement is deducted from the available capital resources to The With-Profits Insurance Capital Component is reduced by the value, give statutory excess capital.
calculated in the stress test scenario, of these internal transfers, but only to the extent that credit has not been taken for the value of these For Scottish Widows, no amount is required to cover the impact of charges in deriving actuarial reserves for the Non-Participating Fund.
stress tests on the actuarial reserves.
However, a further test is required in respect of the With Profit Fund, which compares the level of realistic CaPital statement excess capital to the statutory excess capital of the With Profit Fund.
In circumstances where the realistic excess capital position is less than The following table provides more detail regarding the sources of statutory excess capital, the Company is required to hold additional capital in the life assurance business.
The figures quoted are based on capital to cover the shortfall, but only to the extent it exceeds the value, managements current expectations pending completion of the annual calculated in a prescribed way, of internal transfers from the With Profit financial return to the FSA.
The figures allow for an anticipated transfer Fund.
Any additional capital requirement under this test is referred to of 110 million from the Long Term Fund to the Shareholder Fund as at as the WithProfits Insurance Capital Component.
The realistic excess 31 December 2008. nontotal with Profit Participating long term shareholder fund fund fund fund total m m m m m as at 31 december 2008 Assets attributable to the shareholder held outside the long-term funds 862 862 Assets attributable to the shareholder held within the long-term funds 2,562 2,562 2,562 Total shareholders funds 2,562 2,562 862 3,424 Adjustments onto a regulatory basis: Life assurance business Unallocated surplus within insurance business 293 293 293 Adjustments to remove differences between IFRS and regulatory valuation of assets and liabilities 708 708 581 1,289 Adjustment to include estimated realistic liabilities payable to the shareholder 406 406 406 Adjustment to replace realistic liabilities with statutory liabilities 811 811 811 Adjustment to remove the value of future profits recognised in respect of non-participating contracts written in the With Profit Fund 49 49 49 Qualifying loan capital 604 604 available capital resources 649 1,854 2,503 885 3,388 The figures shown above for available capital resources within the insurance business relate to Scottish Widows plc only.
The estimated total additional resources relating to the other life assurance subsidiaries within the Group as at 31 December 2008 are 310 million.
overview Business review governanCe finanCial statements shareholder information Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 61 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 AUDITED INFORMATION The comparative position as at 31 December 2007 was as follows again, relating to Scottish Widows plc only : NonTotal With Profit Participating Long Term Shareholder Fund Fund Fund Fund Total m m m m m as at 31 december 2007 Assets attributable to the shareholder held outside the long-term funds 956 956 Assets attributable to the shareholder held within the long-term funds 2,343 2,343 2,343 Total shareholders funds 2,343 2,343 956 3,299 Adjustments onto a regulatory basis: Life assurance business Unallocated surplus within insurance business 569 569 569 Adjustments to remove differences between IFRS and regulatory valuation of assets and liabilities 435 435 602 1,037 Adjustment to include estimated realistic liabilities payable to the shareholder 634 634 634 Adjustment to replace realistic liabilities with statutory liabilities 3,695 3,695 3,695 Adjustment to remove the value of future profits recognised in respect of non-participating contracts written in the With Profit Fund 23 23 23 Qualifying loan capital 541 541 available capital resources 3,607 1,908 5,515 895 6,410 FORMAL INTRA-GROUP CAPITAL ARRANGEMENTS further support account: The Further Support Account is an extra tier of capital support for the with-profits policies in existence at the Scottish Widows has a formal arrangement with one of its subsidiary date of demutualisation.
The Scheme requires that assets can only be undertakings, Scottish Widows Unit Funds Limited, whereby the transferred from the Non-Participating Fund if the economic value of subsidiary company can draw down capital from Scottish Widows to the remaining assets in the fund exceeds the aggregate of the Support finance new business which is reinsured from the parent to its subsidiary.
Account and Further Support Account.
Unlike the Support Account Scottish Widows has also provided subordinated loans to its fellow test, the economic value used for this test includes both admissible group undertaking Scottish Widows Bank plc.
assets and the present value of future profits of business written in the CONSTRAINTS OVER AVAILABLE CAPITAL RESOURCES Non-Participating Fund or by any subsidiaries of that fund.
The balance Scottish Widows was created following the demutualisation of of the Further Support Account is expected to reduce to nil by the year Scottish Widows Fund and Life Assurance Society in 2000.
At 31 December 2008, the estimated net economic value of the of the demutualisation are governed by a Court-approved Scheme of Non-Participating Fund and its subsidiaries for the purposes of this test Transfer the Scheme which, inter alia, created a With Profit Fund was 3,603 million 31 December 2007: 4,026 million and the estimated and a Non-Participating Fund and established protected capital combined value of the Support Account and Further Support Account support for the with-profits policyholders in existence at the date was 2,584 million 31 December 2007: 2,834 million.
Much of that capital support is held in the other restrictions in the non-Participating fund: In addition to Non-Participating Fund and, as such, the capital held in that fund the policies which existed at the date of demutualisation, the With is subject to the constraints noted below.
Profit Fund includes policies which have been written since that date.
requirement to maintain a support account: The Scheme requires the As a result of statements made to policyholders that investment maintenance of a Support Account within the Non-Participating Fund.
policy will usually be the same for both types of business, there is an The quantum of the Support Account is calculated with reference to the implicit requirement to hold additional regulatory assets in respect value of assets backing current with-profits policies which also existed at of the business written after demutualisation.
The estimated amount the date of demutualisation and must be maintained until the value of required to provide such support at 31 December 2008 is 162 million these assets reaches a minimum level.
Assets can only be transferred 31 December 2007: 183 million.
Scottish Widows has obtained from from the Non-Participating Fund if the value of the remaining assets in the FSA permission to include the value of this support in assessing the fund exceeds the value of the Support Account.
Scottish Widows has the realistic value of assets available to the With Profit Fund.
There is a obtained from the FSA permission to include the value of the Support further test requiring that no amounts can be transferred from the NonAccount in assessing the realistic value of assets available to the Participating Fund of Scottish Widows unless there are sufficient assets With Profit Fund.
At 31 December 2008, the estimated value of surplus within the Long Term Fund to meet both policyholders reasonable admissible assets in the Non-Participating Fund was 1,854 million expectations in light of liabilities in force at a year end and the new 31 December 2007: 1,908 million and the estimated value of the business expected to be written over the following year.
Support Account was 200 million 31 December 2007: 827 million.
62 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION MOVEMENTS IN REGULATORy CAPITAL The movements in Scottish Widows plcs available capital resources can be analysed as follows: NonTotal With Profit Participating Long Term Shareholder Fund Fund Fund Fund Total m m m m m As at 31 December 2007 3,607 1,908 5,515 895 6,410 Changes in assumptions used to measure life assurance liabilities 15 29 14 14 Dividends and capital transfers 110 110 110 220 Changes in regulatory requirements New business and other factors 2,973 85 2,888 100 2,788 as at 31 december 2008 649 1,854 2,503 885 3,388 The primary reasons for the movement in total available capital SHAREHOLDER FUND resources during the year are as follows: During 2008, dividends of 220 million were paid.
WITH PROFIT FUND finanCial information CalCulated on a realistiC Basis Available capital in the With Profit Fund has decreased from The estimated financial position of the With Profit Fund of Scottish 3,607 million at 31 December 2007 to an estimated 649 million at Widows at 31 December 2008, calculated on a realistic basis, is given 31 December 2008.
The key driver is investment market performance.
in the following table, in the form reported to the FSA.
As a result of NON-PARTICIPATING FUND the capital support arrangements, it is considered appropriate to also Available capital in the Non-Participating Fund has decreased from disclose the estimated realistic financial position of the Long Term Fund 1,908 million at 31 December 2007 to an estimated 1,854 million at of Scottish Widows as a whole, which consists of both the With Profit 31 December 2008.
This is primarily a result of the anticipated transfer Fund and the Non-Participating Fund.
from the Non-Participating Fund to the Shareholder Fund at the year end of 110 million, and market movements offset by the return generated from the business.
31 december 2008 31 December 2007 with Profit long term With Profit Long Term fund fund Fund Fund m m m m Realistic value of assets of fund 13,155 16,665 16,793 21,005 Support arrangement assets 362 1,010 Realistic value of assets available to the fund 13,517 16,665 17,803 21,005 Realistic value of liabilities of fund 13,268 13,062 16,858 16,979 working capital for fund 249 3,603 945 4,026 working capital ratio for fund 1.8% 21.6% 5.3% 19.2% overview Business review governanCe finanCial statements shareholder information Group profile 1 Summary of Group results 10 The board 66 Report of the independent Shareholder information 191 auditors on the consolidated Chairmans statement 2 Divisional results 18 Directors report 68 Index to annual report 192 financial statements 96 Group chief executives review 4 Corporate responsibility 36 Corporate governance 70 Financial calendar 2009 195 Consolidated financial Group chief executives Q&A 6 Our people 40 Directors remuneration report 74 statements 97 Marketplace trends 8 risk management 42 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 102 Five year financial summary 65 Report of the independent auditors on the parent company financial statements 182 Parent company financial statements 183 63 Notes to the parent Lloyds Banking Group company financial statements 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 AUDITED INFORMATION The financial information calculated on a realistic basis reconciles to the capital statement as follows: 31 december 2008 31 December 2007 with Profit long term With Profit Long Term fund fund Fund Fund m m m m Available regulatory capital 649 2,503 3,607 5,515 Support arrangement assets 362 1,010 Adjustments to replace statutory liabilities with realistic liabilities 811 779 3,695 3,575 Adjustments to include the value of future profits recognised in respect of Non-Participating business written in the With Profit Fund 49 49 23 23 Recognition of future profits allowable for realistic capital purposes 1,830 2,063 249 3,603 945 4,026 Analysis of policyholder liabilities in respect of the Groups life assurance business: scottish widows plc with Profit fund other in accordance long-term total life with frs 27 funds business m m m as at 31 december 2008 With Profit Fund liabilities 13,293 13,293 Unit-linked business excluding that accounted for as investment contracts 11,480 11,480 Other life assurance business 8,364 8,364 Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities 13,293 19,844 33,137 Non-participating investment contract liabilities 14,243 14,243 total policyholder liabilities 13,293 34,087 47,380 Scottish Widows plc With Profit Fund Other in accordance long-term Total life with FRS 27 funds business m m m as at 31 december 2007 With Profit Fund liabilities 16,404 16,404 Unit-linked business excluding that accounted for as investment contracts 14,282 14,282 Other life assurance business 6,714 6,714 Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities 16,404 20,996 37,400 Non-participating investment contract liabilities 18,197 18,197 total policyholder liabilities 16,404 39,193 55,597 64 Lloyds Banking Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RISK MANAGEMENT continued AUDITED INFORMATION CaPital sensitivities For those policies written pre-demutualisation containing potentially valuable options and guarantees, under the terms of the Scheme a SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS separate memorandum account was set up within the With Profit Fund Shareholders funds outside the long-term business fund, other than of Scottish Widows called the Additional Account which is available, those used to match regulatory requirements, are mainly invested in inter alia, to meet any additional costs of providing guaranteed benefits assets that are less sensitive to market conditions.
in respect of those policies.
The Additional Account had a value at 31 December 2008 of 2.0 billion 2007: 1.7 billion.
The eventual cost of WITH PROFIT FUND providing benefits on policies written both pre and post demutualisation The with-profits realistic liabilities and the available capital for the With is dependent upon a large number of variables, including future interest Profit Fund are sensitive to both market conditions and changes to rates and equity values, demographic factors, such as mortality, and the a number of non-economic assumptions that affect the valuation of proportion of policyholders who seek to exercise their options.
The the liabilities of the fund.
The available capital resources and capital ultimate cost will therefore not be known for many years.
requirements are sensitive to the level of the stock market, with As noted above, under the realistic capital regime of the FSA, the the position worsening at low stock market levels as a result of the liabilities of the With Profit Fund are valued using a market-consistent guarantees to policyholders increasing in value.
However, the exposure stochastic simulation model.
This model is used in order to place a value to guaranteed annuity options increases under rising stock market levels.
on the options and guarantees which captures both their intrinsic value An increase in the level of equity volatility implied by the market cost and their time value.
of equity put options also increases the market consistent value of the options given to policyholders and worsens the capital position.
The most significant economic assumptions included in the model are: The most critical non-economic assumptions are the level of take-up Risk-free yield.
The risk-free yield is defined as spot yields derived from of options inherent in the contracts higher take-up rates are more the UK gilt yield curve.
onerous, mortality rates lower mortality rates are generally more Investment volatility.
The calibration of the stochastic simulation onerous and lapses prior to dates at which a guarantee would apply model uses implied volatilities of derivatives where possible, or lower lapse rates are generally more onerous where guarantees historical observed volatility where it is not possible to observe are in the money.
The sensitivity of the capital position and capital meaningful prices.
For example, as at 31 December 2008, the 10 year requirements of the With Profit Fund is partly mitigated by the actions equity-implied at-the-money assumption was set at 34.6 per cent that can be taken by management.
The assumption for property OTHER LONG-TERM FUNDS volatility was 15 per cent 31 December 2007: 15 per cent.
The volatility of interest rates has been calibrated to the implied volatility Outside the With Profit Fund, assets backing actuarial reserves in respect of swaptions which was broadly 16 per cent 31 December 2007: of policyholder liabilities are invested so that the values of the assets and 11 per cent.
The most critical non-economic assumptions are mortality rates in respect of annuity business written The model includes a matrix of the correlations between each of the lower mortality rates are more onerous.
Reinsurance arrangements are underlying modelled asset types.
The correlations used are consistent in place to reduce the Groups exposure to deteriorating mortality rates with long-term historical returns.
The most significant non-economic in respect of life assurance contracts.
In addition, poor cost control assumptions included in the model are management actions in respect would gradually depreciate the available capital and lead to an increase of investment policy and bonus rates, guaranteed annuity option in the valuation of the liabilities through an increased allowance for take-up rates and assumptions regarding persistency both of which are future costs.
based on recent actual experience and include an adjustment to reflect future uncertainties where the exercise of options by policyholders might Assets held in excess of those backing actuarial reserves are invested increase liabilities, and assumptions regarding mortality which are across a range of investment categories including fixed interest based on recent actual experience and industry tables.
securities, equities, properties and cash.
The mix of investments is determined in line with the policy of Lloyds Banking Group to minimise OPTIONS AND GUARANTEES OUTSIDE THE WITH PROFIT FUND OF the working capital defined as available capital less minimum required SCOTTISH WIDOWS capital required to ensure all capital requirements continue to be met Certain personal pension policyholders, for whom reinstatement to their under a range of stress tests.
occupational pension scheme was not an option, have been given a guarantee that their pension and other benefits will correspond in value oPtions and guarantees to the benefits of the relevant occupational pension scheme.
The key The Group has sold insurance products that contain options and assumptions affecting the ultimate value of the guarantee are future guarantees, both within the With Profit Fund and in other funds.
salary growth, gilt yields at retirement, annuitant mortality at retirement, marital status at retirement and future investment returns.
There is OPTIONS AND GUARANTEES WITHIN THE WITH PROFIT FUND currently a provision, calculated on a deterministic basis, of 65 million The most significant options and guarantees provided from within the 31 December 2007: 65 million in respect of those guarantees.
If future With Profit Fund are in respect of guaranteed minimum cash benefits on salary growth were 0.5 per cent per annum greater than assumed, the death, maturity, retirement or certain policy anniversaries, and liability would increase by some 3 million.
If yields were 0.5 per cent guaranteed annuity options on retirement for certain pension policies.
lower than assumed, the liability would increase by some 11 million.
