the worlds capital market principal risKs anD uncertainties the lonDon stocK eXchanGe Group operates Business-WiDe risK ManaGeMent processes to iDentiFY potential threats to the achieVeMent oF its oBJectiVes, assess their relatiVe liKelihooD anD iMpact, anD ManaGe theM throuGh appropriate controls anD MitiGatinG actions Whilst some of the issues which reGulatorY coMpliance could impact on the Groups long-term The securities industry is closely regulated performance are macro-economic and and as such, in addition to having to comply therefore not within its control, others with company law, local government and EU are specific to the business.
legislative requirements, Group companies are subject to authorisation and continuous The following section covers the principal oversight by different regulatory bodies, risks and uncertainties currently facing the which ultimately have the power to revoke Group.
In addition, the main risks arising their authorisations.
from the Groups use of financial instruments are discussed in note 2 to the financial The London Stock Exchange is statements.
authorised by the Financial Services Authority FSA as a Recognised risks relating to the industry Investment Exchange RIE, while Borsa econoMic enVironMent Italiana is authorised by Commissione Wider economic conditions might adversely Nazionale per la Societ e la Borsa affect Group revenues which are largely Consob to manage regulated markets.
dependent upon the levels of activity on MTS is authorised by the Italian Ministry its markets.
A slowdown in initial public for the Economy and Finance in conjunction offerings or trading activity could lead to a with the Bank of Italy and Consob to drop in listing fees, trading income or post manage its wholesale markets in Italian trade revenues as well as to a fall in the government securities MTS and number of information terminals receiving BondVision.
Consob, in conjunction with the Groups data.
the Bank of Italy, authorises MTS Corporate while EuroMTS part of the Whilst primary market conditions have been MTS Group is authorised by the FSA.
slow in recent months due to financial market instability and uncertainty over security CC&G and Monte Titoli are regulated and valuations resulting from the credit crisis, subject to public oversight by the Bank of trading volumes in the secondary market Italy and Consob.
in London have proved more resilient.
The Directors are not aware of any circumstances which would result in the authorisations being revoked, and comprehensive procedures are in place to ensure continued compliance with all legal and regulatory requirements.
The Group continuously monitors developments and engages in dialogue with regulatory and government authorities at both the national and EU level.
London Stock Exchange 34 annual report 2008 the worlds capital market risks relating to the business Major IT projects have high levels of risk The Group constantly monitors those areas coMpetitiVe pressure attached to them.
Failure to deliver the of the business that could cause harm to EU directives such as MiFID have created expected benefits could hamper the the reputation of the business and evaluates an increasingly competitive environment for Groups strategic flexibility and reduce its procedures accordingly.
trading and reporting services, which may its ability to respond to customer needs facilitate a shift in liquidity away from the for services.
In conjunction with its strategic FinancinG markets of London Stock Exchange or technology partners, including Accenture In order to develop its business, the Borsa Italiana.
Both the European Code and SIA-SSB, the Group is employing Board expects that the Groups capital of Conduct, to which the Group is a rigorous software design methodologies, requirements will be met from existing signatory, and the plan by the European logistics planning and assembly and testing cash resources, internally generated funds Central Bank to create a centralised regimes to minimise risk.
and access to lending facilities.
However, settlement mechanism for eurozone capital requirements may vary from those securities, may increase competition Business MerGer currently planned.
Any additional equity among post trading organisations.
Globalisation of the industry continues financing may be dilutive to holders of with the result that the Group operates ordinary shares, while any debt financing The Group is well placed to take advantage in a highly competitive environment.
may require restrictions to be placed on of these developments and continues the Groups future financing and operating to focus on developing and delivering Through combining with Borsa Italiana activities.
There can be no guarantee that competitive products and services which on 1 October 2007, the Group is creating capital will be available on a timely basis reduce the overall cost of trading, as this the leading diversified exchange group or on favourable terms or at all.
is core to maintaining strong customer in Europe, which will provide significant relationships and growing liquidity.
For benefits for customers and shareholders.
The Group maintains an active dialogue example, the Group introduced a suite of with its relationship banks as well as products enabling its customers to be fully The success of the merger will depend seeking independent advice on key factors MiFID compliant, and will look to leverage its on the ability to realise the anticipated affecting the equity and debt markets.
post trade assets in Monte Titoli and CC&G.
synergies and growth opportunities of the combined businesses, as well as on eMploYees clearinG achieving the growth trends identified prior The support of its employees and, Acting as a central counterparty, CC&G to the merger.
The successful transition in particular, the Executive Directors is exposed to the risk of default by its of Italian equity and other trading onto and senior managers within business clearing members which could adversely TradElect will also be critical to the success divisions, is critical to the continued affect the Groups revenues and its of the merger.
The integration may absorb success of the Group.
The loss of key customers goodwill.
CC&G closely a significant proportion of the management employees could have a material adverse monitors its exposure to clearing members, teams attention that would otherwise be effect on performance through an inability and addresses this exposure by holding focused on the ongoing development of to execute business strategies effectively.
collateral in the form of margin deposits the business.
To manage this, the Group regularly reviews from clearing members and by maintaining its reward and incentive systems to ensure default funds of clearing members Appropriate structures and processes they are competitive, operates performance contributions.
are in place to ensure the integration appraisal systems and provides executive progresses smoothly and that there is development opportunities.
Additionally, it inFrastructure sufficient focus on delivering the projected the Nominations Committee considers An inability to anticipate and respond, in synergies and cost savings.
the succession plans for key positions.
a timely and cost effective manner, to the need for new and enhanced technology BranD naMe & reputation may result in the Group being unable One of the Groups key competitive to compete effectively.
The Technology strengths is its strong reputation and brand Roadmap has successfully delivered name.
Damage to the Groups reputation a next generation IT infrastructure which could have an adverse effect on revenue is scalable and agile and can be operated and can be caused by: at lower cost.
legal proceedings: Key services depend on technology which unfavourable media attention: is secure, stable and performs to high levels of availability and throughput.
Any system failure of adequate supervision: failures could result in service disruptions, instances of market abuse: or delays in providing market data, lower trading volumes and the possibility of inaccurate trade information, financial litigation.
The Group maintains alternative and market data.
computer facilities to reduce the likelihood of system disruptions.
London Stock Exchange 35 annual report 2008
