BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk Management Risk management is an essential There are three key elements of our risk During 2007, we reviewed the effectiveness component of both the investment management process: of our risk management process and management process for investors in established two separate committees: The risk governance framework our fund products and in our approach the Risk Assurance Committee and the Establishing clear functional to maintaining a high quality, Finance Committee.
These two Committees responsibilities and accountabilities and sustainable business for our replaced the previous Group Risk committee structures for the management shareholders.
Both Committees have of risk.
delegated authority approved by the Board Investors in our fund products assume theSetting risk policies, delegated authorities of Directors and defined terms of reference.
risks and rewards arising from their and limits consistent with the risk appetite.
The fund products are governed Ensuring appropriate skills and resources The Risk Assurance Committee is chaired by by independent fund director boards.
are applied to risk management.
the Chief Executive or alternately the Finance Our Core Investment Managers provide Director.
The Finance Committee is chaired by The risk appetite of the Company management services or advisory services the Finance Director, or alternately: the Head Setting the overall tolerance for a risk to the boards under their investment of Risk or the Head of Funding.
Membership related loss in terms of quantitative and management agreements.
Our Core of the two committees includes the heads qualitative measures.
Investment Managers have risk management of Finance, Compliance, Risk and Legal, processes which actively monitor market, Risk identification, measurement together with the Chief Operating Officers credit, liquidity and operational risks of and mitigation from each of the Core Investment Managers underlying investment portfolios and this Assessing the potential impact on the and their respective risk managers.
The is part of the value proposition we offer Group of internal and external factors that Committees meet each month and minutes investors.
In the section on the Core might give rise to a direct or indirect loss and papers are circulated to all members.
Investment Managers we describe the or demand for liquidity.
The Committees submit regular reports to investment management and riskUsing a range of methodologies including the Audit and Risk Committee of the Board.
management processes at the investment economic capital, value-at-risk, stress The Risk Assurance Committee is manager level.
testing, scenario analysis and qualitative responsible for: assessment to assess the potential impact The Board of Directors and management areMonitoring operational risks arising from: and likelihood of the identified risks.
responsible for the measurement, monitoring systems, processes, people and external The process of systematically monitoring and management of risks related to the events and including major project, and reporting on the Groups risk profile Group.
These include the risk that we might regulatory and legal risks: against its risk appetite, exposures against fail to perform satisfactorily the riskMonitoring reputation risks, whether limits, losses and other risk related incidents, management services the Core Investment arising directly from the Groups activities, compliance issues and the effectiveness of Managers offer investors in the funds.
indirectly from third parties acting on the Groups internal controls.
behalf of the Group or by contagion from Our strategy is to identify, monitor and the activities actions of competitors: measure risk throughout the Group and Risk governance responsibility Monitoring the findings of and then, through risk management, act to and accountability management actions in response to mitigate these risks within the framework The Board of Directors is ultimately Internal and External Audit and of our risk appetite.
Within our risk responsible for the framework of risk Compliance programmes: and management framework, we maintain governance and risk management.
Developing and maintaining the integrity sufficient excess capital and substantial The Board is responsible for determining of the internal control infrastructure and liquidity resources to give us flexibility both risk strategy, setting the Groups risk operational risk policies.
to continue to finance long-term growth and appetite and ensuring that risk is to operate the business effectively under monitored and controlled effectively.
Finance Committee is responsible for: market stress situations.
Risk managementDeveloping and maintaining the integrity is the responsibility of all our people and they of the financial control and reporting individually and collectively play active roles infrastructure: in preserving and protecting our franchise.
Supporting the profitable growth of the Group through the effective and active management of capital and liquidity resources, while maintaining compliance with regulatory and economic capital requirements: 52 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Business Review BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Maximising shareholder value through Risk management is the responsibility of all our people and they individually and the optimization of capital and liquidity collectively play active roles in preserving and protecting our franchise.
resources: and Projecting and maintaining the cross cycle financial stability of the Group to preserve shareholder value.
The Finance Committee has delegated authority from the Board for allocation and use of capital and liquidity resources of the Group.
Senior management in the businesses are accountable for all risks assumed in their areas of responsibility and for the execution of appropriate risk management discipline within the framework of policy and delegated authority set out by the Board.
The results of risk taking decisions are reflected in the economics of the businesses assuming the risk.
The principle of individual accountability and responsibility for risk management is an important feature of our corporate culture.
Day to day independent and objective assessment and monitoring of risk is provided From left to right by various risk control functions at the Group Edmund Wood Ian Jarvis Chris Chaloner level and in the business.
These risk control Group Financial Controller Head of Corporate Finance Head of Group Risk functions include the Group Risk, Finance, David Smith David Browne Legal, Compliance, HR and Internal Audit.
Head of Internal Audit Head of Group Funding and External Relations In addition, risk management functions reside within each business unit.
There are formal reporting lines and segregation of duties for the key risk, compliance, legal The Groups nine risk appetite statements Risk management identification, and finance functions.
address both quantitative and qualitative measurement and mitigation aspects of risk taking.
The following section explains the areas of Risk appetite risk that could have a material consequence The quantitative risk appetite statements Risk appetite is the amount and type of risk to the Group.
Associated with the address: that the Group regards as appropriate for it identification and description of each risk maximum tolerance for market, credit to accept in order to execute its strategy.
is the associated strategy that we have in and operational losses: The Board regularly reviews and sets this in place to mitigate the effects of the risk to the maintenance of a minimum credit the form of nine risk appetite statements, our franchise.
rating level: which it sets in the context of the Groups These risks are classified as either: minimum economic and regulatory capital strategy and the requirements of variousbusiness risk management: surpluses: stakeholders, including the regulatoryliquidity management: the maximum earnings volatility: and framework in which we operate.
market risk management: minimum excess liquidity resources to operational risk management: The risk appetite statements, which are meet peak stressed liquidity requirements credit risk management: or summarised below provide the benchmark without the need to liquidate assets or reputation risk management.
against which the Groups risk profile is raise capital.
reported, monitored and managed by the The qualitative risk appetite statements Business risk Board, Audit and Risk Committee, Finance address: Business risk is the risk that our market Committee and Risk Assurance Committee.
regulatory risk: leadership position may be eroded resulting Risk appetite also forms the basis for the reputation risk: in the future profitability of the Group being calibration and setting of the delegated operational risks in the execution of reduced or the sustainability of its franchise authorities and financial limits for all aspects business plans: and becoming impaired.
These risks may arise of market, credit and liquidity and risk related decision making, especially from short term cyclical changes, fiscal and operational risk.
in relation to new business opportunities.
regulatory changes or from unfavourable longer-term business trends.
53 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk Management continued Our strategy is to maintain and grow our with three important features: investment Investment manager capacity market leading position in the investment diversification through selection of leading The fund of hedge funds and multi-strategy management business.
In determining investment managers, ongoing risk Core Investment Managers source and our strategy the Board takes account of management and robust analytical portfolio allocate investor funds to approved third business risks and ensures that the strategy selection processes, and, in the case of party investment managers.
There is a risk is focused on mitigating these risks.
guaranteed products, principal guarantees that these Core Investment Managers are at maturity.
We have developed a diversified not able to find sufficient differentiated The key business risks and the strategies group of investment managers who have investment capacity to meet the investment we employ to mitigate these risks are: proven track records of actual and analytically parameters of their products.
To mitigate this Investor appetite for alternative investment tested returns and volatilities.
As part of the risk the Core Investment Managers maintain products: initial and ongoing due diligence process the a global network of relationships and Under performance of fund products: portfolios are tested against a variety of market contacts to identify existing and early stage Risk management process in the conditions so that they remain resilient managers.
Teams of due diligence core investment manager: and robust across cycles.
The guaranteed professionals in each region constantly Investment manager capacity: products have a principal guarantee monitor their local market for high quality Concentrations in investors and component which gives the investor investment capacity.
The leadership position distribution capacity: confidence to stay invested long term and we have in the industry, our distribution Reduced financial leverage and to withstand short-term market volatility.
capacity and our strong capital base make increased cost: For institutional investors we offer a wide us an attractive partner for an existing Regulatory changes: range of investment products with different manager with differentiated capacity.
Fiscal changes: risk and return characteristics so that, as We have an award winning seeding platform Loss of key individuals: their investment risk appetite changes, they to provide capital to emerging managers.
Product profitability: and can switch products and stay invested.
Our global network and investment selection Corporate taxation.
This product diversification together with processes ensures that we have adequate, interactive investor services helps mitigate differentiated investment capacity to grow Investor appetite for alternative the risk of redemptions.
investment products Extreme events in the financial markets Based on quantitative trading algorithms, Risk management process in the core can cause a change in investor appetite AHL executes a significant volume of investment manager for alternative investment products.
Our 20 transactions daily, primarily on the worlds If the core investment managers fail to years of experience and long track record largest and most liquid futures exchanges perform the risk management services on demonstrate our ability to deliver long-term and foreign exchange markets.
The capacity behalf of the fund products effectively, the cross cycle returns that are differentiated risk for AHL is measured in terms of execution Group could be exposed to business and from the returns in other markets.
We have a slippage which refers to the difference, in reputation risk.
This risk is mitigated by targeted set of products that offer investors price terms, between the system generated strong risk controls and due diligence a range of risks and returns depending on instruction price and the actual execution procedures which are applied in the due their risk appetite including some products price.
A sustained or significant increase in diligence processes of manager selection, with guarantees which ensure capital overall slippage across all markets is a portfolio construction and ongoing risk preservation.
Our investment in client warning sign that the weight of capital being monitoring.
Risk management personnel, services ensures that there is active and placed behind trades cannot be sustained independent of the Core Investment timely communication with investors to without degrading returns.
Consequently, Managers, have monitoring and risk provide them with the appropriate AHL monitors slippage closely to assess management responsibility to ensure that information to make confident investment execution quality as well as to gauge the risk management process operates decisions.
Our Core Value Drivers mitigate capacity.
AHL maintains relationships with appropriately within the Core Investment potential short term changes in risk appetite over 90 brokers worldwide who provide Managers.
These processes ensure that risk for alternative investment products.
access and liquidity to over 102 exchanges.
management is effectively applied throughout Business is allotted to these brokers on the the investment management process, and Under performance of fund products basis of execution performance.
In addition, mitigates business and reputation risk.
One of the business risks we face is the AHL clears its business through two primary under performance of a fund product or clearing brokers.
With a steady increase in groups of funds in a particular style assets over the years, AHL has successfully compared to other investment products or contained overall slippage within a relatively the broad market.
This could lead to tight band.
AHL has been able to extend increased redemptions and lower future trading capacity by taking advantage of the sales, thereby reducing funds under steady proliferation in futures markets and management and management and contracts and by developing and diversifying performance fees.
To mitigate this risk for its execution infrastructure.
Initiatives such as the private investor we develop our products the Oxford Man Institute provide a catalyst for developing further innovation regarding capacity and execution techniques.
54 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Business Review BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Concentrations in investors and Reduced financial leverage and Fiscal changes distribution capacity increased cost The fiscal treatment of alternative investment We distribute our products to a broad range There is a risk that the appetite of financial products varies by jurisdiction.
In certain of institutional and private investors across counterparties that provide financing to jurisdictions the current fiscal treatment of the major regions of the world.
There is a support the leverage in fund products the products does not make them attractive risk that the appetite for our products among reduces.
To mitigate this risk we facilitate a for private investors when compared to a concentrated group of investors or process whereby the fund products directly traditional investment products.
As a general distributors may change, resulting in a sudden borrow on term from a wide group of the trend we continue to see the tax authorities reduction of funds under management and largest financial institutions many of whom in certain jurisdictions moving towards associated economics.
We mitigate investor also distribute the fund products.
These fund treating alterative investment products on the concentration risk through the continued products are designed to operate within same fiscal basis as traditional investment growth and diversification of our distribution defined liquidity parameters so that liquidity products.
This trend is favourable to our network, and through having a breadth is provided to the products on a dynamic business, however it is possible that it could of products targeted to different segments basis.
If the fund product were to incur a reverse and negatively impact the growth of of the market.
significant performance loss the fund would our business.
be systematically fide-leveraged to preserve Historically, 60% of our funds under As a global leader in investment management the investors capital which is subordinate management are from private investors and we develop products to meet the specific to the financial counterparties lending.
forty percent from institutional investors.
requirements of investors in different regulatory We maintain offices in our major markets to The cost of leverage is included in the and fiscal jurisdictions.
Our structuring, ensure close contact with our investors and performance of the funds, if this cost compliance and legal teams are located in distributors.
We select distribution partners increases, investment managers may have the major regions to ensure that our products that have global size and scale or a local to reduce leverage or seek alternative trading are continuously compliant.
As a result we leadership position.
Our distributors are the strategies.
The use of managed accounts have a range of on-shore and off-shore largest financial institutions, wealth advisors by our Core Investment Managers assists products suited to meet the fiscal and and brokers.
We currently have over 2,000 in the rational optimisation of funding within investment needs of our private investors.
The top 25 distributors the fund product.
In addition, our strategy The breadth of our products and global account for 38% of private investor funds of combining managed futures which trade spread of our investors and our worldwide under management.
on margin with other investment styles distribution capability mitigates the financial allows for the efficient provision of leverage effect that a negative change in any particular Our institutional investors are geographically into the products.
dispersed and are among the largest banks, pension funds, insurance companies and These strategies mitigate the effects of short Loss of key individuals asset managers.
Switzerland is a significant and medium term decreases in financing Our people are a key asset.
There is a risk market for us due to its focus as a centre appetite and the impact on performance of that key individuals leave the business for many private banking and insurance the cost of leverage.
resulting in a loss of knowledge or expertise.
We have over 250 institutional To mitigate this risk we have a performance investors refer to the Distribution section for Regulatory changes management and advancement system further details.
The top 20 institutional We operate in a highly regulated environment based on merit.
This ensures that people investors account for 60% of institutional and therefore constantly ensure our products understand their performance expectations funds under management.
and sales practices are compliant with and objectives, their career progression regulations in a large number of jurisdictions.
Our largest institutional investors often have and their compensation and compensation Our dedicated regulatory and compliance multi-year agreements with regards to potential.
This clarity gives our people a teams provide us with a source of competitive specific capacity and fees.
To enable our people advantage as they enable our products to be agreements expire and are renegotiated, to understand their career potential we have robust and provide us with speed to market funds under management and or fees may an active succession planning process at for our new product launches globally.
Through the continued all levels in the organisation.
Regulatory changes could present a risk to performance of our fund products, our ability our business and make it more difficult to to offer unique access to investment market alternative investment products to our management capacity and quality client investors.
We therefore have an active services we endeavour to retain these dialogue with all our regulators and monitor investors and the level of fees.
We believe that being proactive in regulatory developments results in us maintaining our competitive advantage.
55 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk Management continued When we have to recruit from outside the Corporate taxation Guaranteed products Group, our leadership position within We operate globally and are subject to The guaranteed products require leverage as the industry makes us a preferred employer.
corporate taxation in a number of different part of the product structure.
This leverage Attracting the best talent, motivating them to jurisdictions.
Changes in fiscal regulation or is provided by financial institutions directly excel, retaining them and ensuring that they changes in the jurisdictional mix of our profits to the fund products and collateralised by the progress in their careers is fundamental to could increase the long term effective underlying fund investments and supported the sustainability of our business and our corporate tax rate.
The majority of the by investors capital in the funds.
Groups profit continues to be earned in financing is provided on a non recourse basis Switzerland and the UK and the current to the investors.
As at 31 March 2008 the The size and scale of our distribution effective tax rate is consistent with this profit funds had borrowings totalling $12.4 billion network, the span of our investment mix.
We have negotiated agreements with from 24 banks 2007: $11.3 billion.
The management capacity and the breadth of the UK and Swiss tax authorities covering Group does not guarantee any of this our product range reduce our reliance on the transfer pricing arrangements in respect external financing.
any key individuals to generate performance.
of the main fee flows between legal entities Our management has significant expertise in those jurisdictions.
In the past two years, Core investment managers in each of their respective areas.
They also we have satisfactorily concluded tax audits The Group regularly provides financing understand, as a cultural imperative, the with the tax authorities in the major to the fund products on an uncommitted need to identify and advance the next jurisdictions in which we operate.
This financing is provided so that generation of leaders through succession the products can operate their investment planning and mobility.
Many of our Core As we continue to grow and expand our and rebalancing process in an orderly and Investment Managers have a history of global business the proportion of profits efficient way to optimise the investment success over a 20 year period, each driven earned outside the UK and Switzerland is exposure for investors.
The funding is by successive strong leadership.
likely to increase and this could lead to an charged to the fund products at market rates increase in corporate tax rates.
All loans to funds are repayable Product profitability be concurrent, however, with an increase on demand.
We operate in a competitive environment in profits for the Group.
and therefore are subject to market dynamics We are closely monitoring the progress of the Committed Purchase Agreements which could lead to a reduction in historical consultation process undertaken by the UK Committed Purchase Agreements CPAs product profit margins.
Our business model tax authorities with respect to the taxation of are provided to certain fund products to offers us significant flexibility to mitigate the foreign profits.
Detailed proposals have not support liquidity gaps between net investor effects of this risk.
Our constant focus on top yet been published, but at this stage we do redemptions and the redemption proceeds quartile investment management capacity not anticipate that there will be a material from underlying investment managers.
enables our products to perform and enjoy effect on the groups corporate tax rate.
As at 31 March 2008, CPAs to all fund continued demand.
The provision of quality products amounted to $2.7 billion.
The investor services in the form of investment Liquidity liquidity requirement of these commitments reporting and research are value adding The Groups strategy is to maintain sufficient is modelled and provided for through services for the investors.
We constantly look liquidity to give it the flexibility to support the maintaining cash or cash equivalents to develop new investment opportunities business through different market conditions and committed bank facilities.
In normal and to develop new products so that we can and business cycles.
The amount of liquidity conditions these redemptions are funded ensure that the breadth of our product range is modelled based on scenarios that assume from available cash resources and underlying is differentiated and attractive to our investors.
Liquidity is in the fund units are redeemed through the normal The size and scale of our business allows us form of committed bank facilities and cash redemption process.
We have modelled the to create operational efficiencies across all which is invested in short-term bank liquidity requirements of the portfolio of CPAs our processes and services.
Our distribution deposits to ensure that it is available as under various stress scenarios.
These network, both our institutional sales force required.
The Board reviews the Groups scenarios take into account the notice and and our distributors, are a variable cost funding resources at each Board meeting payment period required in the redemption linked to sales volumes and the maintenance and on an annual basis as part of the process, the redemption rate given the of funds under management.
capital guaranteed nature of the product, the portion of our compensation cost base is length of time that liquidity is required in the The Group, as investment manager represented by discretionary bonus redemption process of the underlying fund for the funds, negotiates and arranges compensation which is variable with products and other steps to moderate the financing for fund products as required performance.
Tight budgetary controls exist redemptions or shorten the period financing by the investment strategies.
The fund in the business to ensure that increases in is required.
This analysis forms part of the products operate with independent fund costs are matched to corresponding stress liquidity modelling used by the Board boards and are independent from the Group.
increases in sales and revenues.
The overall to determine the amount of contingent liquidity The Group is not committed to provide variability of our cost base allows us to react required to be maintained by the Group.
financing to the fund products, other than quickly to short and medium term downturns through committed purchase agreements to preserve product and profitability levels.
56 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Business Review BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT record.
Managed accounts are used for Available liquidity seed investments to give us the transparency needed to analyse the risk, performance and investment strategy.
Seed investments are Maturity by period generally held for less than one year, which is Less than After sufficient to establish whether the manager Total 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5 years has consistent returns.
At that point the seed $m $m $m $m $m investment is redeemed and investor money Drawn is allocated or the managed account is Subordinated FRN 400 400 closed.
The objective of the seed investment Undrawn programme is to establish capacity for our Committed syndicated bank facility 2,500 2,500 Core Investment Managers, from which we Committed bilateral bank facilities 330 330 can earn management and performance fees in the future.
The seed investment Total debt facilities 3,230 330 2,900 portfolio is not intended to generate direct returns for the Company.
Cash balances 1,876 Total available liquidity 5,106 330 2,900 Limits are placed on seed investments in funds, both at the level of the individual fund and in aggregate.
These limits are set in accordance with delegated authorities AHL margin requirements In July 2007 we replaced our previous approved by the Board.
A series of risk AHL executes futures and options $2.275 billion syndicated revolving loan measures and limits relating to seed transactions on the worlds largest futures facility with a similar five year committed investments is reviewed regularly.
The exchanges require both facility of $2.5 billion.
At 31 March 2008 this measured using value at risk with a one year initial and variation margin to be posted.
The committed facility time horizon at a 95% confidence interval.
Intra day and short-term margin bridging was drawn for 193 days during the year, with As at 31 March 2008, seed investments in may be required until cash is released from an average drawdown of $420 million and fund products amounted in aggregate to exchanges into the various AHL funds.
The When this happens the Group has the value at risk at a 95% confidence level of The Group has a $400 million US dollar discretion to fund these intra day and the seed investment portfolio was $70 denominated subordinated FRN issued in short-term margin calls.
million, economic capital was $225 million September 2005 by Man Group plc.
This and the regulatory capital was $301 million.
subordinated debt qualifies as Tier 2 capital for Liquidity Management regulatory capital purposes.
It has a 10 year On the basis of these funding requirements Operational risk final maturity with a call option at year five.
and the stress scenarios used to calculate The Group could suffer losses due to the potential liquidity requirements, the In May 2008, the Group issued $300 million operational risk and damage to its reputation analysis shows that the Group can meet its of 11% Perpetual Subordinated Capital arising from any failures in processes and stressed liquidity requirements.
This debt qualifies as Tier 1 procedures in its business.
Examples of regulatory capital and is convertible into significant operational incidents that could The Group has a contingency funding plan preferred stock which is also classified as arise are: fraud, theft of our intellectual in place under which a Funding and Liquidity Tier 1 regulatory capital.
This issuance is part property, technology failures, fund valuation Taskforce would meet in circumstances of of our strategy to diversify our funding and errors, mis-selling of products or errors in extreme liquidity stress to consider the actions tier our capital structure.
The Group mitigates that the Group should take to manage its these risks through a culture that funding requirements.
These actions could The Groups long-term senior debt ratings emphasises the importance of effective risk include the recall of loans to funds which are, are Afrom Fitch Ratings and Baa1 from management, strong internal controls, sound substantially, discretionary facilities repayable Moodys Investor Services, both with stable governance and a clear understanding of to the Group on demand.
The plan is tested outlooks.
Concurrent with the issuance of the competitive advantage and value of regularly to confirm its effectiveness and also the 11% Perpetual Subordinated Capital maintaining our reputation.
to identify and address any operational issues Securities both Fitch and Moodys reaffirmed with its implementation.
The Group pays particular attention to operational and reputational risks relating Available liquidity Market risk to product suitability, sales practices at As at 31 March 2008 the Group had total Market risk is the possibility that the Group intermediaries and the accuracy of its valuation debt facilities of $3.2 billion 2007: $4.2 may suffer a loss from market value changes and investor reporting processes.
It aims to billion of which $2.8 billion 2007: $2.6 in the carrying values of assets or liabilities.
operate only through regulated intermediaries billion was unused.
The table above The Group makes seed investments in the in all jurisdictions where investment advice is summarises the Groups available facilities funds of early stage managers as part of the a regulated activity and continues to invest drawn and undrawn by maturity as at 31 due diligence process or in newly launched heavily in technology to improve its investor March 2008 based on final expected maturity.
products to develop a performance track servicing.
Man Valuation Services Ltd is 57 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk Management continued subject to a regular SAS70 process and a Insurance coverage To establish a performance track record the dedicated team also exists to monitor the The Group has a programme of insurances Group has committed capital in a separately quality and reliability of administration and designed to reduce its exposure to liability registered Bermudan based insurance valuation service providers to the fund and to protect its assets.
Empyrean Re is exposed to credit products, as well as for underlying managers by a syndicate of third party insurers and losses, net of reinsurance recoveries and where a managed account is in place.
financially mitigate the economic hedges, resulting from defaults by single consequences of risks.
Empyrean Re manages credit As part of the operational risk management changes in the risk profile of the Group are default risk by actively monitoring the framework, business areas are responsible taken into account by careful mapping and creditworthiness of the debtors, maintaining for preparing and reviewing appropriate key tailoring of the insurance programmes to the exposures within defined limits and through risk indicators which measure the integrity Groups risk exposures.
This approach is capital markets hedges.
The portfolio of and effectiveness of their internal control designed to maximise breadth of cover and trade receivables has 230 trade debtors with environment.
These are discussed at certainty of response in respect of key third the top 10 representing 49% of the exposure monthly meetings of the Risk Assurance party liabilities, loss of our assets, business after hedging.
At 31 March 2008, our credit Committee together with reports on interruption and people-related exposures.
exposure after hedging was operational incidents losses or significant $548 million 2007: $87 million.
near misses experienced by the business Credit risk or by relevant peer group companies.
Credit risk is the possibility that the Group Reputation risk Many of the Groups operating processes are may suffer a loss from the failure of our The maintenance of our reputation as a dependent on the integrity and robustness of its counterparties and customers to meet their world leader in the investment management information technology systems and significant contractual obligations.
This includes the business is a key component of our ability resources are devoted to protecting the risks that the Group may suffer a loss under to achieve our strategic objectives.
Trust resilience of these systems.
This includes guarantees issued or commitments given to and integrity are essential prerequisites to formal business continuity plans and third parties.
The Group is primarily exposed maintaining our long-standing customer appropriate remote data back-up and disaster to credit risk in respect of discretionary relationships, establishing new ones and recovery facilities for each of our key locations.
lending to fund products managed by our deepening our relationships with our This ensures continuity of our business Core Investment Managers and from our stakeholders.
Maintaining, quantifying and critical systems and functions in the event cash deposits with banks.
evidencing transparent corporate behaviour of disruption at any key location.
Business sustains and enhances our reputation and The Group is exposed to credit risk with continuity for our core activities is regularly the trust of our key stakeholders.
respect to deposits placed with various tested to maintain effectiveness.
As at March 2008, total deposits Highlighted in each of the Core Value Drivers The system of internal control is subject to with banks aggregated $1,876 million 2007: is a section on corporate responsibility and regular review by Internal Audit, based on an $1,571 million.
The largest single deposit with the strategies for the maintenance of our audit programme approved annually by the a financial institution was $450 million and the reputation.
As a framework for our people Audit and Risk Committee of the Board.
The portfolio had an average credit rating of AA.
we have a Corporate Responsibility Manual programme covers the business areas and and an Ethical Policy which are available The Groups aggregate lending to funds and processes that are most significant in terms on our website.
More detailed policies the amount it lends to an individual fund are of the Groups risk profile and where there address issues such as our responsibilities subject to limits approved under delegated are key controls on which the Group relies.
to our people, investors, our sales and authorities from the Board.
The credit quality trading practices, including our approach to As part of our economic and regulatory capital of the funds are evaluated and an internal new products, potential conflicts of interest, framework we have developed a database of credit rating is assigned.
Based on the anti-money laundering, whistle-blowing, actual and potential operational incidents and investor equity, and any other financing data confidentiality and privacy.
These we factor these into the scenarios used to provided to the funds we apply an equivalent policies are reviewed frequently so that they model the capital required to protect the credit rating of between A and AA to the remain consistent with our high standards Group against the potential effects of funds.
The loans to funds are repayable on and meet or exceed regulatory requirements.
We have an ongoing demand.
Historically, there have been no programme to identify and implement credit defaults on loans to funds.
Loans to The Risk Assurance Committee reviews enhancements to our processes, generally fund products were $369 million at the yearcompliance with our policies and monitors through systematic automation, which ensures end 2007: $400 million.
key risk indicators relating to the maintenance that the potential for incidents to recur is of our reputation.
The Board of Directors Empyrean Re, a wholly owned subsidiary, minimised.
Through this process we mitigate also reviews the Corporate Responsibility writes short-term excess of loss reinsurance the effects of historical losses and optimise our plan, annually.
for certain trade credit insurers and re-insurers.
capital base while building scalable operations Empyrean Re was established to investigate for future business growth.
the potential opportunities in the credit reinsurance market and it is planned that our investment will eventually be syndicated to investors through new investment products.
58 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Business Review BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Industry Best Practices Groups regulatory capital position The Group believes that it is in the interests of the hedge fund sector to implement the best practice standards published in January 2008 by the UK-based Hedge Fund Working 31 March 2008 31 March 2007 Group www.
Accordingly, the $m $m Groups UK regulated entity Man Investments Limited signed as a founding member of the Permitted share capital and reserves 4,028 3,316 Hedge Fund Standards Board in respect of Less goodwill and other intangibles: its Core Investment Manager, AHL.
The Goodwill on acquisitions of subsidiaries 813 785 standards address important areas of hedge Goodwill on acquisitions of associates JVs 194 198 fund practice including disclosures, valuation, Commission intangible FEL 427 405 risk management and fund governance.
Man Other intangibles 36 24 Investments Limited is required to issue a MF Global 294 disclosure statement to investors and Available Tier 1 Group capital 2,558 1,610 interested parties in respect of its compliance Tier 2 capital - subordinated debt 399 610 by the end of December 2008.
Tier 2 capital - revaluation reserves 74 120 Material holdings deduction MF Global residual holding 221 Economic and Regulatory Capital Other material holdings deductions 191 68 Equity capital is maintained to absorb losses Group Financial Resources 2,619 2,272 and to provide the Group with capital Financial Resources Requirement including Board cushion : flexibility to grow the business.
The Group Asset Management 1,007 432 calculates economic capital using a series MF Global 1,165 of risk exposures and economic scenarios.
Group Financial Resources Requirement 1,007 1,597 In addition the Group is subject to the regulatory capital regime of the Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom, Net excess of Group capital 1,612 675 the Groups primary regulator.
As at 31 March 2008 the Groups economic capital requirement was $535 million.
The Economic capital investments in associates are considered regulatory capital requirement amounted to Economic capital is calculated according to be supported by the equity of the Group.
Regulatory capital is to the risk scenarios previously described The economic capital is calculated at a currently the binding constraint for the Group.
under: market: credit: and operational risk.
99.9% confidence interval which equates The calculation takes into account the to maintaining an A minus credit rating.
Regulatory capital diversification benefits within and between In addition to the calculated requirement, the As at 31 March 2008, the Group had each risk category.
Goodwill and Board requires an additional $200 million as excess regulatory capital of around $1.6 a capital cushion.
billion, compared with $675 million as of 31 March 2007.
The Financial Resources have increased Economic capital at 31 March 2008 from the prior year as a result of retained 99.9% confidence interval, 1 year horizon earnings in the period, partly offset by the repayment of $210 million of Tier 2 subordinated debt at the time of the MF Global IPO.
From 1 January 2008, the US$ millions 2007 2008 800 Group fully adopted the new FSA rules, 700 which implement the Capital Requirements Directive CRD.
As a result the Financial 600 Resources Requirement against seed 500 investments has increased and a new 400 operational risk requirement has been 300 included.
200 100 0 Operational Credit Market Man Group Plc By Risk Type 59 MAN GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2008
