A small but probing question we We are focused on continuously ask across the length and breadth identifying and managing of our operations.
Building value for shareholders requires us to constantly manage an appropriate risks associated with all balance between profit and risk.
aspects of our business, Risk management is embedded within our including technology, business approach.
Workshops involving key marketing and operations people from all of our locations are held regularly to review real and potential issues that as well as finance, legal and might affect our business.
Has any individual risk other support services.
Our increased, decreased or become obsolete since it was last assessed?
aim is to leave nothing to What if... ?
Our reviews also take into account chance.
market, regulatory and technological developments.
This process also seeks to identify the likelihood of a risk occurring and its possible impact on the Group.
We then develop plans to manage Summary of key risks these risks and assess the effectiveness of the Specific risks Our response controls put in place to mitigate them.
Technology Many of the threats and challenges faced by Products become Continued investment online gaming companies are similar to those uncompetitve in proprietary found in other leisure and entertainment Systems failure software, systems industries, including competition from incumbent Increased risk of fraud and infrastructure operators and new entrants, changing consumer Customer withdrawals Disaster recovery tastes, loss of key personnel, succession planning Reputation damage Diverse supplier base and so on.
However, there are risks that are Regulation more specific to PartyGaming or the online gaming market that need to be managed and Closure of markets Active engagement we have sought to highlight them in this section Impact on margins with regulators and of the Annual Report.
Legal action governments in key markets Conservative approach to managing regulatory compliance Unlevel playing field in online poker Increased customer Product and territory acquisition costs diversification Loss of player liquidity B2B strategy Reduced margins Product and marketing innovation Taxation Lower returns on Tax planning investment 60 | PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 Overview 02 29 Business review 32 77 Governance 78 101 Financial statements 102 138 Other information 139 149 Regulation In and out The regulatory landscape comprises many During 2008 the Group processed deposits and different regimes, overlaid by a complex and withdrawals totalling $1.8 billion through a large number of payment providers.
We seek to minimise diverse web of political and cultural attitudes our reliance on any single supplier.
This requires that regulatory compliance is a prime management process for the Group, ranging from Deposits and withdrawals in 2008 administration of our gaming licenses in Gibraltar and Alderney to assessing what impact country-specific and pan-regional rules and regulations might have on our business.
Loaded $1.8bn We believe the best way to protect consumers is to licence and regulate online gaming.
As the popularity of online gaming increases, governments around the world are increasingly looking to regulate the sector and we are confident that our conservative approach and general management of regulatory compliance will deliver significant opportunities over the medium to longer term.
Unlevel playing field in online poker Technology As noted previously, the highly competitive No online gaming operator can afford to nature of the online gaming industry has been stand still with regard to technology.
Improving made even more challenging by the our gaming platform is a never-ending task, advantage afforded to those operators that one that is vital for us to continually sharpen continue to accept online bets from customers our competitive edge.
Whilst such an unlevel playing field improvements also enable us to keep pace represents a threat to our business, we are with evolving consumer tastes and to maintain focused on keeping our brands strong and our reputation for operating a safe and secure relevant to consumers by delivering great gaming environment, something that is gaming entertainment through the execution increasingly important for many of our of our strategic plan.
Taxation Using proprietary technology across much of Group companies operate for tax purposes our business means we are better placed to only where they are incorporated, domiciled control risks associated with technological or registered.
Revenues earned from customers change than companies that rely on third-party located in a particular jurisdiction may give rise gaming software and systems.
That said, we to further taxes in that jurisdiction.
If such taxes depend on providers for services such as are levied, either on the basis of existing law broadband and communications, data or the current practice of any tax authority, management and storage.
To counter the risks or by reason of a change in law or practice, associated with the failure of any of these then this may have a material adverse effect services, we have established back-up centres on the amount of tax payable by the Group.
for disaster recovery purposes and we also aim We manage these risks by considering tax as to restrict our reliance on any one supplier for part of our business planning.
PartyGaming Plc Annual Report 2008 | 61 Happy Talk Localise the customer offer With over 690,000 customer contacts in 2008, we work hard to keep all of our customers smiling wherever they are from.
