Risk overview Weve made good progress over the last two years.
A significant percentage of Cable & Wireless revenue However, like any business, there are a number is generated outside the UK.
Accordingly, the value of that of potential risks to our future success.
Some of revenue and the associated investments will be affected these are shared by all businesses, for example by fluctuations of the pound against the currency in which competitive and pricing pressures, whilst some of the investments, financing and revenue are denominated, them are specific to our business.
Heres an outline as reflected in the Groups financial statements.
Where the of the more specific risks we face as a Group, and Groups exposure to movements in exchange rates does what were doing to mitigate them.
not naturally offset in the short-term, the Group carries out foreign exchange hedging operations to manage its exposure In addition to the other information contained in this in respect of material transactions.
To the extent that this Annual Report, investors in Cable & Wireless should hedging activity does not cover the exposure then the consider carefully the risks described below.
Groups operating results and financial condition may be negatively affected by exchange rate movements.
Group-wide risks The Group is organised into two businesses, with a Central Our tax charge comprises current and deferred tax charges.
team acting as portfolio manager.
We believe this structure The calculation of these charges involves a degree of positions the Group better to deliver value to our shareholders.
estimation and judgement in respect of certain items whose However, there is a risk that the organisational structure tax treatment cannot be finally determined until resolution and incentive schemes that we have in place may not achieve has been reached with the relevant tax authority.
As the the strategic goals that we have set out for our two business Group operates in many countries worldwide, this process units.
We are managing this risk through clear governance of estimation and judgement is especially complex and structures including Operating Boards for each business issues can take many years to resolve.
The resolution of unit that formally review strategy, its execution and business these items can give rise to material income statement performance to ensure that value is being added to the variances.
We manage these risks by employing suitably Group as a whole.
qualified employees and retaining professional advisers.
There is a risk that our plans to transform both our In the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, International and Europe, Asia & US business may fail or a number of estimates and assumptions have been distract us from delivering value to shareholders.
We are made relating to the reporting of results of operations mitigating that risk via detailed transformation programmes, and the financial condition of the Group.
Results may designed to drive efficiency and productivity through the differ significantly from those estimates under different change process.
The Directors have outlined those policies that address the Groups most critical We maintain defined benefit pension plans in the UK accounting policies in note 3 to the consolidated financial and overseas, although the main scheme is in the UK.
These particular policies require subjective This scheme is currently fully funded based on the 2007 and complex judgements, often as a result of the need to triennial actuarial valuation.
There is a risk that actual make estimates about the effect of matters that are uncertain.
experience in the short term, regulatory changes or market movements may affect the value of the schemes assets Risks specific to our International business and liabilities.
There is also a risk that an adverse change This year we expect more competition, in particular in in the financial position of Cable & Wireless may result in Panama and Jamaica.
This will place some downward changes to the long-term assumptions on which the current pressure on prices and growth in those parts of our business position is based this may result in significant additional although typically the introduction of competition grows contributions to the scheme.
We manage these risks through market penetration and therefore the total size of the market continuing dialogue with the scheme trustees and appropriate available.
We are ready to deal with the competition and management of the schemes assets with external advice.
have invested in improving distribution, delivering better customer service and ensuring that we develop the Litigation is a general risk experienced in most large propositions that customers want.
organisations, particularly those with operations in litigious markets such as Panama.
Where litigation is In parts of Asia and the Caribbean, natural disasters and decided adversely, it can significantly affect the financial severe weather such as hurricanes pose a risk.
To address performance or reputation of our business.
Where and this risk, we have robust recovery plans in place including when litigation is brought against us, we defend our contingency equipment and suppliers, network monitoring position robustly using appropriate legal services.
and resilience, together with appropriate insurance cover.
41 Business review Risk overview continued We believe we have all of the necessary regulatory Risks specific to our Europe, Asia & US business licences and concessions needed to deliver our vision for As part of our Europe, Asia & US transformation, we are our business.
From time to time some of these come up outsourcing a number of non customer-facing operations for renewal and there is some risk attached to this process.
to India in order to extend our service capability and provide Failure to renew regulatory licences and concessions more resource at a lower cost.
In many cases, we are working could impair our result and operations.
We liaise closely with a partner organisation which means we are no longer with governments and regulatory bodies to help them in direct control.
This leads to a risk that problems will occur deliver a regulatory environment that best suits the needs that affect services to our customers.
As a result, we have of consumers and local governments whilst enabling put in place a structured monitoring programme to ensure continuing stability for, and investment in, our business.
a consistently high quality of service is delivered.
In addition, For example, our fixed line concession in Macau expires we have in place a management structure and governance in 2011 and work has started on the review.
Through framework to monitor performance.
the implementation of our Digital Macau investment Our strategy is to be the worlds first customer-defined global programme we are demonstrating our long-term communications business.
This revolves around delivering commitment to Macau and strengthening these a consistently superior service experience at every point important relationships.
A risk associated with this is the impact a single Whilst our relationships with unions and colleagues point of failure on our network or a failure in our IT systems representatives are strong, theres always the potential can have on the service we provide to our customers.
This may disrupt the service we provide mitigate this risk, we constantly improve our network and to our customers and result in a negative impact on our add capacity where a potential customer issue is identified.
We have effective industrial relations To ensure this is done in a timely and cost-effective way, we programmes in place and continue to engage with colleague continue to strengthen our capacity management processes.
We have had formal Another risk associated with customer service relates to the and informal channels for colleague communication in place security of our customers data, in particular where services for many years and we regularly consult colleagues and their are delivered outside the UK.
With large amounts of sensitive representatives on issues that affect them.
data passing through our network, there are significant legal Finding and keeping good people is critical to our strategy and regulatory implications should sensitive data fall into as delivering a rich customer experience requires Cable & the wrong hands.
As a result, we have implemented an Wireless to employ the very best people available.
In some IT security mitigation programme, including reviews of geographies, there is a finite pool of such people available.
information systems and security policies, and major In Macau for example, the growth of tourism continues to improvements to IT systems.
put strain on the local labour market.
We manage this risk We operate in many international locations with differing by actively engaging with our people and their representative and evolving laws and regulations.
Breaches of regulations bodies through regular surveys, feedback and forums.
have the potential to affect our ability to trade in certain There is a risk that our joint ventures may underperform.
locations, jeopardising the service we supply to customers.
Without management control, we arent always able to To make sure we have the highest standard of compliance influence their performance.
We manage this risk by in all our markets, we have in place robust processes maintaining regular dialogue with key stakeholders, and governance to review continually our compliance active engagement with local management, operational with applicable laws and regulations, and take timely involvement where practicable and we seek to gain and effective action where necessary.
Like most businesses, we are exposed to the risk of an economic downturn.
However, our growth is not predicated on growth in one market.
In the UK, we expect to grow by taking an increasing share of the 7 billion telecoms enterprise market either by winning new customers or by winning a greater share of existing customers' telecoms budgets.
Further, our new services mean we are able to take advantage of growth in adjacent UK market segments, for example in corporate mobile through fixed mobile convergence, and in the hosting and applications market.
Outside our domestic market, for example in Asia, local economies are booming.
And we are finding that large global companies increasingly want one supplier like Cable & Wireless to provide their telecoms solutions.
42 Governance How we manage our business including Board committees and Directors biographies and remuneration.
44 Board of Directors 46 Directors report 50 Corporate governance report 52 Statement from the independent Non-executive Directors 53 Report of the Audit Committee 54 Directors remuneration report 64 Statement of Directors responsibilities 43 Governance
