RISK MANAGEMENT The practice of risk management in Old Mutual has improved signi cantly over the past two years.
The risk management team will continue to develop and strengthen oversight of the operating businesses as the Group changes p in the wake of the strategic review.
Rosie Harris Group Risk Director, Old Mutual plc, from April 2007 to March 2009 Approach to Risk Management Strengthening Risk Management Old Mutual is committed to the objective of increasing The issues that emerged in our Old Mutual Bermuda shareholder value by operating in a manner consistent business during 2008 highlighted certain weaknesses with our risk appetite.
Risk management is not limited in our risk management and business model.
solely to consideration of downside impacts or risk Addressing these has been a top priority for the Board avoidance, but also encompasses taking risk knowingly and the Group Executive Committee.
An independent for competitive advantage.
review of risk management across Old Mutual involving external experts was completed during 2008, and Responsibility for risk management resides at all we have implemented a number of initiatives to levels within the Group, from the Board of Directors improve our governance, risk management and and Group Chief Executive, to Business Unit Chief internal control processes including implementation Executives through to business managers via a Scheme of an Enterprise Risk Management programme.
These improvements include: Rosie Harris, Group Risk Director, left Old Mutual at the Recruitment of signi cant additional risk end of March 2009.
Andrew Birrell has taken up the role and compliance personnel at Group and Business of Group Risk Director in addition to his responsibilities Unit level as Group Chief Actuary.
Development and roll-out of a global risk appetite The primary objective of the Group Risk Director is framework to facilitate alignment of strategic decisions with risk Development of comprehensive and focused risk appetite and to provide the necessary framework and reporting, including introduction of a risk recording oversight tools to help protect Old Mutual from events and reporting tool that could hinder our objectives.
Implementation of a revised and more comprehensive risk categorisation model A new role, Head of Governance and Regulatory Revision of the Old Mutual policy suite and framework Compliance, has also been created, which will to re ect increased oversight from Group over encompass Rosie Harris previous responsibilities Business Units: and for these areas.
Susan Crichton, formerly in Skandia Development of formal standards for internal International has joined the Group team to take on loss data collection and increased use of Key the role.
Both Andrew and Susan are committed to Old Mutuals Our priority for 2009 is to embed these enhancements enterprise-wide approach to risk management.
Our and further strengthen our system of risk management.
approach is designed so that risk management is not con ned to the activities of speci c risk management or specialist departments but incorporated in the day-to-day management of the business.
Page 12 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Risk governance framework Old Mutual Plc Board Group Chief Group Finance Group Risk Group Audit & Risk Executive Director Director Committee Group Executive Group Risk and Group Group Internal Committee Capital Committee Risk Audit Business Unit Group Capital Business Unit Chief Executives Management Audit Committees Committee Sub-committee of the Board Approvals Committee and provides input to Group Risk and Business Capital Committee Managers Risk management Risk oversight Independent assurance 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Risk governance Risk oversight The Groups risk governance framework is based The second line of defence comprises the Group on the three lines of defence model.
This model Risk Director supported by the Group Risk function distinguishes between: as well as Business Unit Chief Risk Of cers and their risk functions functions owning and managing risk 2008 saw the creation of the Group Risk and Capital functions overseeing the management of risk: and Committee.
Its mandate is to support the Group functions providing independent assurance.
Executive Committee in understanding the The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk exposure and management of risks impacting the appetite and for approving the strategy for managing risk.
Group, having regard to the Groups risk appetite.
The Group Risk and Capital Committee brings together Risk management senior executives across the Group functions including As part of the first line of defence, the Group Risk, Finance, Actuarial, Capital and Compliance.
Chief Executive, supported by the Business This Committee is described in further detail in Unit Executives, has overall responsibility for the Directors report on corporate governance.
the management of risk Management and staff within each business are Independent assurance responsible for the identi cation, assessment, The third line of defence is designed to provide management, monitoring and reporting of risks independent assurance on the effectiveness of arising within their respective areas.
systems of governance, risk management and internal control in relation to the most signi cant risks which threaten the achievement of the Groups business objectives.
Group Internal Audit GIA plays a key part in the third line of defence and provides assurance to the Group Audit and Risk Committee.
GIA is described in further detail in the Directors report on corporate governance.
Page 13 Risk management RISK MANAGEMENT continued RISK CATEGORISATION MODEL Risk Category fide nition Market risk The risk of loss as a result of adverse changes in the market value of assets and liabilities.
Credit risk The risk of loss as a result of an asset against a counterparty not being repaid at the due and stipulated time.
Liquidity risk The risk that available liquid assets will be insuf cient to meet changing market conditions, liabilities, funding of asset purchases, or an increase in client demands for cash.
Underwriting risk The risk of loss caused by events that result in predetermined exposures being exceeded.
Operational risk The risk of loss due to failure of people, process, system and or external events.
The risk that laws, regulations and policies will be breached.
Although technically Compliance risk a sub-category of operational risk, compliance risk has been elevated to its own category for reporting purposes due to the focus on and importance of this area.
Human Resources risk The risk that the rm will not have the human capital to sustain business performance.
Business risk The risk that business performance will be below projections as a result of negative variances in new business volumes, margin, lapse experience and expenses.
Strategic risk The risk that strategic decisions will adversely affect future sustainable growth.
Risk categorisation Risk appetite During 2008, Old Mutual re ned and implemented an The risk appetite framework provides a basis for formally updated risk categorisation model which Business Units reviewing and controlling business activities to ensure have aligned to.
Using a common risk language across that they are aligned to stakeholder expectations and the Group will enable meaningful comparisons to be are of an appropriate scale relative to the risk and made between Business Units and we consider the reward of the underlying activities.
Once fully risk categorisation model a fundamental building block embedded, the framework will give the Group clearer to achieve this.
Risk events are categorised as shown sight and better control over risk-taking throughout in the table above, with more detailed sub-categories the organisation.
used for reporting and analysing.
The Groups risk appetite fide fines the Groups willingness to balance risk exposures with reward, and the management and monitoring of these Risk appetite metrics exposures.
During 2008, a Group-wide risk appetite programme was implemented to enable consistent calculation of risk exposure against appetite using Capital at Risk Earnings at Risk a variety of metrics.
We are continuing to re ne our framework and set limits at increasing levels of The reduction in Net Asset The 1-in-10 negative deviation granularity.
We expect to see signi cant embedding Value capital over a one-year from expected accounting of the use of risk appetite during 2009. forward-looking time horizon earnings over a one-year time that should only be exceeded horizon that should only be During 2009 the risk pro le of the Group will be 1-in-10 years.
This category has exceeded 1-in-10 years.
monitored against agreed limits on an ongoing basis both a regulatory and economic by Group Risk.
Business Units report on risk exposure capital dimension.
levels on a regular basis and our systems will enable us to proactively identify when we are approaching our risk appetite limits.
The use of these early warning triggers Cash ow at Risk Operational Risk and Key Risk Indicators will enable Old Mutual to avoid risk concentrations that could prove a threat to The reduction in the best estimate The negative deviation of the organisation.
of operational cash remitted to Economic Value driven by plc by Business Units, in a 1-in-10 operational loss events over a Risks or events outside the agreed risk appetite are downside outcome.
one-year forward-looking time identi ed and reviewed, with remedial action agreed horizon that should only be with the relevant Business Unit and oversight provided exceeded 1-in-10 years.
Depending on the signi cance of the issue, the remedial action may require the approval Page 14 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Risk management processes Old Mutual Strategy Risk appetite limits, Capital allocation and Policy setting Risk and Risk adjusted Adjust Risk Management Risk Control Monitoring performance Capital identi cation Actions Reporting Assessments measurement allocation Risk, Actuarial and Treasury systems and tools of the Group Risk and Capital Committee, Group likelihood of risk occurrence, taking into account both Executive Committee or the Board.
The risk appetite financial and qualitative factors such as reputational limits of the Group will be reviewed regularly for or regulatory impacts.
continuing appropriateness in light of changing market The Board, Group Audit and Risk Committee and conditions and stakeholder expectations.
the Group Risk and Capital Committee regularly receive Risk policies and review reports on risks and controls across the Group policies set out the minimum requirements that Group.
Management teams in each Business Unit Business Units must follow and are considered a key perform reviews of the control environment in their entity-level control.
Business Units have their own business, using techniques such as Risk and Control policies, which are more detailed than the Group Self-Assessments.
minimum requirements and take local regulation into During 2008 we revised our minimum standards for account.
The Group policies and framework have been qualitative risk assessments including the Risk and reviewed and revised during 2008 to strengthen our Control Self-Assessment process across the Group Group-wide controls and these revisions will be and will be implementing these during 2009. embedded during 2009.
Management actions Risk management processes Actions to implement the risk management strategy The Group conducts a number of activities as part of the in respect of key risks, risk appetite limit breaches or risk management framework.
The principal elements are to remedy a material breakdown in control are recorded described below.
on risk and control logs maintained by each Business Risk identi cation Unit, along with the expected date for completion Strategic objectives, re ecting managements choice of the action and the responsible executive.
as to how the Group will seek to create value for The outcome of independent reviews, including internal its stakeholders, are translated into Business Unit and external audit reviews are integrated into risk objectives.
Risks that would prevent the achievement management activities and action plans.
of both the strategic and business objectives are then identi ed.
Risk identi cation is an integral part Monitoring and reporting of our annual business planning process as well In addition to the Risk monitoring undertaken at Group as an ongoing activity.
and Business Unit level by management and specialised risk functions, the following are some of the other Risk and control assessments processes for risk monitoring used around the Group: Various means of assessing, categorising and measuring enterprise risks and risk events are used throughout the Group.
These include estimating the impact and the Page 15 Risk management RISK MANAGEMENT continued We believe that maintaining the trust and respect of our stakeholders is fundamental.
Our Board and Group Executive Committee are committed to optimising the financial performance of the Group on a consistent, risk-adjusted basis.
The Group Finance Director provides the Board with Economic capital monthly performance information, which includes key Old Mutual fide fines its Economic Capital requirement performance indicators as the value of assets required to ensure that it can Items on risk logs and control logs which contain meet in full its obligations to policyholders and senior details of any control failures are reported via an creditors at a 99.93 percent con dence level, which escalation protocol to the appropriate level of is the probability placed on a target A-rated bond not management board or committee, where recti cation defaulting in the next year.
procedures and progress are closely monitored Economic Capital plays a signi cant role in risk Exposure and risk appetite reporting, risk monitoring and risk control across the Group and concentrations and solvency and capital adequacy is closely linked with the risk appetite framework.
reports are submitted to the relevant Business Unit credit and capital management committees in the The Groups Economic Capital framework has evolved normal course of business considerably over the last few years and has become Our Quarterly Business Review process acts as a valuable management tool that informs and guides a key forum for oversight over Business Units and risk and capital management strategy.
The following speci cally includes discussion and challenge over are the main areas where Economic Capital impacts the risks identi ed by each Business Unit are considered: The Internal Review Committee, a Group forum in risk-based pricing and product development which provides a robust assessment of financial to set pricing terms and charging structures reporting from Business Units, is central in managing in reinsurance to help set retention levels for new and monitoring risks associated with the financial and renewed reinsurance treaties reporting process for risk-based capital allocation setting across the The Internal Actuarial Review Committee is a Group Groups business forum which provides oversight of the actuarial in decisions regarding portfolio management and assumptions utilised by Business Units in the optimisation: and determination of their long-term insurance liabilities.
to measure and monitor performance of Business We will continue to enhance risk reporting through the Units, allowing for risk and the cost of Economic development of Key Risk Indicators and introduction Capital to support that risk.
of more formal internal and external loss data analysis.
The Economic Capital framework is measured, Treasury management monitored and reported under a rigorous governance The Group operates a treasury function which is process involving senior executives and the Board.
responsible for recommending and implementing the funding strategy for the Group, including the management of debt facilities, relationships with banks and ratings agencies and Old Mutual plcs operational cash ow requirements.
During the course of 2009, Group Treasury will be adopting greater oversight of Business Unit treasury activities.
Page 16 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 RISK MANAGEMENT Appointment of a new Group Risk Director My ambition is for an integrated global approach to risk management, embedded in everyones role and purpose, and demonstrated by the quality of strategic, capital allocation and day-to-day business decisions.
Andrew Birrell Group Risk Director and Group Chief Actuary From the 20 March 2009, Andrew Birrell added the During 2009, further work will be carried out in order to Group Risk Director role to his responsibilities as Group prioritise the new activities, align with existing activities Chief Actuary, giving him an overview of financial and and to begin to produce tangible business bene ts.
This will be extremely In addition to our iCRaFT programme, our global valuable with regard to our ambition to approach finance, finance control project, initiated in 2008, is an important risk and capital management in an integrated way.
part of achieving our ambition to demonstrate best Initiatives to transform risk management practice capital and risk management.
This project aligns During 2008, Old Mutual embarked on a new programme existing financial control practices across the Group with called iCRaFT, which stands for integrated Capital, Risk best practice principles to ensure uniform standards.
The global finance control project will deliver a more tightly iCRaFT will elevate capital, risk, financial and performance focused, robust and consistent approach to finance management methodologies, their application and reporting, risk and control, and will enhance management integration, to best practice levels by the end of 2012, oversight in relation to the quality of local and Group while ensuring Solvency II and Basel II compliance.
One design principle in the We refer to this as a culture of managing for value.
development of the financial control framework will be the implementation of technology to support the ef cient The programme will build upon and further integrate oversight and management of financial reporting risk.
much of the other work underway across the risk, actuarial, finance and business areas in order to help Our commitment to risk management optimise the financial performance of the Group on We believe that maintaining the trust and respect a consistent, risk-adjusted basis.
of our stakeholders is fundamental.
Our Board and Group Executive Committee are absolutely committed The end-state vision for iCRaFT has been agreed and to transforming the way we manage risk and capital and a comprehensive gap analysis has been produced for we believe our iCRaFT and finance control programmes each of the principal subsidiaries.
will take us to new levels of maturity and robustness for One of the main objectives of iCRaFT is to ensure that our risk management and systems of internal controls.
the data and systems we use, the tools we are developing and the way in which we organise ourselves come together in order to provide key business applications in the following areas: Strategic planning and capital allocation Asset and liability management Risk optimisation and the allocation of risk budgets Solvency and liquidity funding Product design, pricing and underwriting External communication: and Performance management and executive compensation.
Page 17 Risk management RISK MANAGEMENT continued Signi cant risks facing Old Mutual Business Conditions and General Economic Environment 2008 presented Old Mutual with some extremely challenging market conditions and they are expected to remain dif cult during 2009.
The impact on the sectors and geographies in which we operate will continue to be one of our main areas of focus.
A detailed analysis of financial risks is provided in Notes 47 and 48 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The most signi cant risks, including those connected with the current challenging economic environment, are summarised below.
KEY RISKS Risk Description Mitigating actions This is the risk that available liquid assets will be We aim to maintain a prudent level of liquidity consistent Liquidity Risk insuf cient to meet changing market conditions, with regulatory expectations.
Old Mutual has a Group-wide liabilities, funding of asset purchases or an increase liquidity policy, which sets out the parameters within which in client demands for cash.
This includes the possibility all Business Units must operate in order to identify, measure of market disruption causing normally liquid assets and manage liquidity risk.
The Group Capital Management to become illiquid and the risk that counterparties function reviews capital and liquidity positions, with the will withdraw or not roll-over funding arrangements.
Group Risk and Capital Committee providing additional oversight and challenge.
The Group is exposed to the risk of credit defaults.
Credit exposures are monitored within each Business Credit Risk This includes counterparty risk where an asset in the Unit and limits are in place in each Business Unit, reducing form of a monetary claim against a counterparty is not our risk exposure by mandating that counterparties should repaid in accordance with the terms of the contract.
Credit risk is one of the most Credit risk also encompasses lending risk for example signi cant risk types facing Nedbank and this is managed within our banking businesses where a borrower through Nedbanks credit risk management framework.
Management actions to manage impairments include focusing on collections and re ning credit assessment policies.
The Nedbank Credit Committee is involved with establishing appropriate credit limits and monitoring exposures against these limits.
The Group is subject to the risk of falling market Business Units have policies in place to manage market Market Risk values of equities and other assets within the Groups risk which take account of the structure of their asset and portfolios.
Our risk pro le also includes the risks liability portfolios as well as the local regulatory environment associated with changing interest rates and their and Group policy requirements.
The activities used by potential impact on the pro tability of products we individual Business Units to manage market risk include sell and the value of our investments.
asset-liability matching to manage interest rate risk, and reducing currency risk through the use of currency Our global reach exposes us to the impact arising swaps, currency borrowings and forward foreign from currency uctuations, with the most signi cant exchange contracts.
exposures being the South African Rand and US Dollar.
Some of our life assurance businesses contain investment guarantees and options.
A reduction in interest rates and in equity markets can cause more of these guarantees to be in-the-money.
Page 18 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 KEY RISKS Risk Description Mitigating actions We are exposed to underwriting risk by issuing We have a Group liability risk policy which sets out the Underwriting Risk insurance contracts.
The Business Units which incur internal controls and processes that Old Mutual must underwriting risk include Skandia, Old Mutual South follow with respect to long-term and general insurance Africa and US Life which provide long-term insurance, risk.
Business Units have more detailed underwriting and Mutual & Federal, which provides general insurance.
Actuarial modelling is used to calculate premiums and monitor claims patterns and the internal controls designed to mitigate operational risks help ensure that robust data are fed into our models.
Business Risk We operate in a highly competitive environment We offer innovative products to suit different customer and in the event that we are not able to compete needs, enabling us to nd opportunities even in these successfully there is a risk of reduced market share, challenging market conditions.
Lapse rates and revenues or pro tability.
persistency information are closely monitored, enabling us to adapt our business approach.
Changes to the distribution environment could have an impact on our business, whether they are driven through We monitor developments in the distribution sectors regulation or the failure of distribution providers.
across all geographies and, through our strategic planning and research teams, are able to position ourselves to The pro tability of our businesses could also be reduce this risk.
adversely affected by a worsening of economic conditions.
This could manifest itself as reduced Each of our Business Units closely monitors investment product pro tability or lower levels of customer activity performance using Key Performance Indicators and in for example in savings or life products, leading to some instances, reports to local Investment Committees failure to meet financial targets.
Underperformance as well as to Group executives via a regular business of investment funds could have a detrimental impact review and challenge process.
Old Mutual is diversi ed on new and existing business.
across geographies and product lines, minimising the impact of sector or territory-speci c economic downturns.
Old Mutual expanded to its current size and pro le The Group Chief Executive, in conjunction with the Strategic Risk during a period of relative global economic stability.
Board and the Group Executive Committee, has taken The future outlook is less clear and it is appropriate a fresh and objective look at our strategy and identi ed to reconsider strategy in that light.
Ensuring that a number of initiatives to position the Group for sustainability our strategy is clear and will deliver shareholder and growth for the future.
Signi cant changes have been value has been a top priority for the Board and made, including changes to the operating model of Group Executive Committee.
Historically our operating model has been decentralised, but stronger central oversight is a feature of our new approach, which will be rolled out during 2009.
Page 19 Risk management RISK MANAGEMENT continued KEY RISKS Risk Description Mitigating actions The regulatory landscape across all territories in which We closely monitor regulatory developments through Compliance we operate has seen signi cant change during 2008, our Group and Business Unit Compliance teams.
Group Risk and this trend is likely to continue.
Compliance has been signi cantly strengthened through additional resource and increased oversight and monitoring Regulatory change could also signi cantly impact our activities.
A dedicated team for Financial Crime Prevention businesses including our costs, capital requirements, focuses on areas such as Anti-Money Laundering, distribution or products.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption, and Sanctions compliance.
Our proactive approach to regulatory change includes participating in Quantitative Impact Surveys for Solvency II.
Attraction and retention of talent is a priority for We have established a number of Group-wide initiatives Human Old Mutual.
Loss of key staff and inadequate succession including the Management Development Programme and Resources planning could result in signi cant business disruption the Business Development Programme the latter targeting Risk through loss of knowledge and expertise.
Rising stars are identi ed through talent reviews and a formal succession planning process is in place.
The Executive Remuneration Committee was created during 2008 which enables stronger focus on and oversight of incentivisation across the Group.
Operational Our businesses rely on their respective systems, We use scenario analysis to assess our operational risk operational processes and infrastructure to help process exposure and progress in mitigating the most signi cant Risk numerous transactions on a daily basis across various risks is monitored regularly.
Operational risk is one of the different markets.
Our operational risk includes the four risk appetite metrics and during 2009 all Business Units possibility of a breakdown in an operational process e. g. will report their operational risk exposure against limits set human error or employee misconduct, a malfunction of by the Board.
An operational risk policy is in place, which systems, or external events beyond our control such as sets out methodologies for identi cation and assessment as a natural disaster.
well as key principles for speci c areas such as outsourcing and project management.
Page 20 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 ONE GROUP STRONG BRANDS MANY SYNERGIES OLD MUTUAL 1.0 Europe and 2.0 Southern Africa Latin America 1.1 UK and Offshore 2.1 Old Mutual 1.2 Nordic South Africa 1.3 ELAM 2.2 Nedbank 1.4 Skandia Investment Group 2.3 Mutual & Federal Insurance 3.0 North 4.0 Asia America 4.1 China and India 3.1 US Life 3.1.
2 Bermuda 3.2 US Asset Management Page 21
