: DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Risks 38 Risks The group has a rigorous risk management framework.
This is designed to identify the risks that could adversely impact the delivery of the groups strategic aims and to ensure that adequate controls and procedures are in place to mitigate the risks.
The groups risks, together with the controls and procedures in place to mitigate the risks, are as follows: Risk Definition Controls and procedures Credit risk The risk that the group Customers will suffer loss in the CCD and Vanquis Bank credit committees set policy and review credit performance.
event of a default by CCD home credit loans are underwritten face-to-face by agents in the customers a customer or bank home: agents maintain weekly contact with the customer and stay up to date with their counterparty.
A default circumstances: agents commission is based on collections not credit issued: application occurs when the and behavioural scoring is used to assist agents underwriting: home credit issues customer or bank fails short-term, small sum loans, typically of 400 repayable over one year: RPF loans are to honour repayments underwritten in the home with the use of external bureau data.
Vanquis Bank highly bespoke underwriting using full external bureau data: a telephone interview is conducted prior to issuing credit: initial credit limits are low often 250 : customers are re-scored regularly: an intensive call centre based operation focuses on collections.
Comprehensive daily, weekly and monthly reporting on KPIs.
Bank counterparties A board approved policy is in place for bank counterparties.
Transactions are only undertaken with high quality counterparties.
exposures to counterparties are linked to their credit rating and regulatory capital requirements.
See pages 85 to 86 for more commentary on credit risk.
Operational The risk of loss IT systems risk resulting from IT is managed in CCD and Vanquis Bank by experienced teams.
inadequate or failed There are established disaster recovery procedures which are tested on a regular basis.
internal processes, Dedicated project teams are used to manage change programmes.
Health and safety Significant time and expenditure is invested in ensuring staff are safety conscious.
Assistance is given to agents to ensure that they are safety aware.
Induction sessions and regular updates are provided on safety awareness.
Safety awareness weeks form part of the annual calendar.
Fraud Specialist departments are in place in each business to prevent, detect and monitor fraud.
There is regular reporting to divisional boards and the group audit committee.
Key person risk effective recruitment, retention and succession planning strategies are in place.
The group has competitive remuneration and incentive structures.
effective training, development and communication is in place throughout the group.
Market risk The risk of loss due The groups policies do not permit it to undertake position taking or trading books of this to adverse market type and therefore it does not do so.
movements caused by active trading positions taken in interest rates, foreign exchange markets, bonds and equities.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc : DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW Risks continued 39 Risk Definition Controls and procedures Tax risk The risk of loss arising A board approved tax strategy is in place.
from changes in tax An experienced in-house tax team deals with all tax matters.
Advice is sought from external advisers on key corporate and indirect tax matters, including the self-employed status of agents.
Material transactions are agreed with the relevant authorities in advance where appropriate.
Liquidity risk The risk that the group A board approved policy is in place to maintain committed borrowing facilities which will have insufficient liquid provide funding headroom for at least the following 12 months.
resources available to Liquidity is managed by an experienced central treasury department.
fulfil its operational There is daily monitoring of actual and expected cash flows.
plans and or meet its The group borrows long and lends short meaning that the duration of the receivables financial obligations as book is significantly less than the average duration of the groups funding.
See page 86 for more commentary on liquidity risk.
Interest rate The risk that a change in There is a board approved policy on hedging interest rate risk.
risk external interest rates The group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge the risk of movements leads to an increase in the in interest rates.
exposures are monitored by an experienced central treasury department.
The interest cost represents a relatively small part of the groups cost base.
See page 87 for more commentary on interest rate risk.
Foreign The risk that a change in There is a board approved policy on hedging foreign exchange rate risk.
exchange rate foreign currency exchange exposures are monitored by an experienced central treasury department.
risk rates leads to a reduction The group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge the risk of movements in profits or equity.
See page 87 for more commentary on foreign exchange rate risk.
Business risk The risk of loss arising A clear group strategy is in place.
from the failure of the A board strategy and planning conference is held annually.
groups strategy or A dedicated central resource is in place to develop corporate strategy.
management actions over New products and processes are thoroughly tested prior to roll-out.
There is comprehensive monitoring of competitor products, pricing and strategy.
Robust change programme functions oversee business change.
The group has comprehensive monthly management accounts, a monthly rolling forecast and a bi-annual budgeting process.
Reputational The risk that an event Dedicated teams and established procedures are in place for dealing with media issues.
risk or circumstance could A proactive communication programme is targeted at key opinion formers and is adversely impact on co-ordinated centrally.
the groups reputation Regular customer satisfaction surveys are undertaken.
including adverse publicity The group invests in a centrally co-ordinated community programme.
from the activities of legislators, pressure groups and the media.
Regulatory risk The risk of loss arising A central in-house legal team manages compliance and monitors legislative changes.
from a breach of existing expert third party legal advice is taken where necessary.
regulation or regulatory Divisional compliance functions are in place which report to divisional boards.
changes in the markets There is constructive dialogue with regulators.
within which the group operates.
Concentration The risk arising from the The groups customer base of over two million is well dispersed across the UK risk lack of diversification in and Ireland.
the groups business either New product development is being undertaken outside the core home credit business.
geographical, demographic or by product.
Pension risk The risk that there may The groups pension asset stands at 50.9m as at 31 December 2008. be insufficient assets to The defined benefit pension scheme was substantially closed to new members from meet the liabilities of the 1 January 2003. groups defined benefit Cash balance arrangements are now in place within the defined benefit pension pension scheme.
scheme to reduce the exposure to improving mortality rates.
The pension investment strategy ensures that there is an appropriate balance of assets between equities and bonds.
New employees are invited to join the groups stakeholder pension scheme which carries no investment or mortality risk.
Annual Report & Financial Statements 2008 Provident Financial plc
