Additional information Risk factors A number of factors risk factors affect Prudentials operating In the United States, fluctuations in interest rates can affect results and financial condition and, accordingly, the trading results from Jackson National Life Insurance Company price of its shares.
The risk factors mentioned below should not Jackson, which has a significant spread-based business be regarded as a complete and comprehensive statement of all and where the majority of investments are in fixed-income potential risks and uncertainties.
The information given is as of securities.
The spread is the difference between the rate the date of this report, is not updated, and any forward-looking of return Jackson is able to earn on the assets backing the statements are made subject to the reservations specified policyholders liabilities and the amounts that are credited under Forward-Looking Statements page 367. to policyholders in the form of benefit increases, subject to minimum crediting rates.
During 2008, the US financial Prudential's businesses are inherently services industry faced an unprecedented array of challenges: subject to market fluctuations and general the S&P 500 index fell by 38.5 per cent, government interest economic conditions.
rates fell to historic lows, and global markets experienced Prudentials businesses are inherently subject to market a significant increase in volatility.
In addition, credit markets fluctuations and general economic conditions.
Uncertain seized and global credit spreads widened to historic levels.
or negative trends in international economic and investment These factors have significantly contributed to the substantial climates which have adversely affected Prudentials business increases in Jacksons unrealised losses.
Jackson also writes and profitability could be repeated, or prolonged, or could a significant amount of variable annuities that offer capital worsen.
The adverse effects of such trends, including the or income protection guarantees.
There could be unforeseen unprecedented market dislocation across asset classes and market circumstances where the derivatives that it enters into geographical markets witnessed since mid-2008, have been to hedge its market risks may not fully offset its losses, and any and would be felt principally through the following: cost of the guarantees that remain unhedged will also affect the Companys results.
Reduced investment returns could impair its ability to write significant volumes of new business as a result of For some non unit-linked products, in particular those written market volatility, which would have a negative impact in some of the Groups Asian operations, it may not be possible on Prudentials assets under management and profit: to hold assets which will provide cash flows to exactly match higher credit defaults and wider credit and liquidity spreads those relating to policyholder liabilities.
This is particularly true resulting in realised and unrealised credit losses, as recently in those countries where bond markets are not developed and experienced when illiquidity and credit spreads reached in certain markets such as Taiwan where regulated surrender all-time highs: values are set by regulators with reference to the interest rate Prudential in the normal course of business enters into a environment prevailing at time of policy issue.
This results in variety of transactions, including derivative transactions, a mismatch due to the duration and uncertainty of the liability with counterparties.
Failure of any of these counterparties cash flows and the lack of sufficient assets of a suitable to discharge their obligations, or where adequate collateral duration.
This residual asset liability mismatch risk can be is not in place, could have an adverse impact on Prudentials managed but not eliminated.
Where interest rates in these results: and markets remain lower than interest rates used to calculate in certain illiquid or closed markets, determining the value surrender values over a sustained period this could have at which financial instruments can be realised is highly an adverse impact on the Groups reported profit.
Processes to ascertain value and estimates of value require substantial elements of judgement, Prudential is subject to the risk of exchange rate assumptions and estimates which may change over time.
fluctuations owing to the geographical diversity Increased illiquidity also adds to uncertainty over the of its businesses.
accessibility of financial resources and may reduce capital Due to the geographical diversity of Prudentials businesses, it resources as valuations decline.
is subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.
Prudentials international operations in the United States and Asia, which In the United Kingdom, a significant part of Prudentials represent a significant proportion of operating profit and shareholders profit is related to bonuses for policyholders shareholders funds, generally write policies and invest in assets declared on its with-profits products, which are broadly based denominated in local currency.
Although this practice limits the on historic and current rates of return on equity, real estate and effect of exchange rate fluctuations on local operating results, fixed income securities, as well as Prudentials expectations of it can lead to significant fluctuations in Prudentials consolidated future investment returns.
For all lines of business, fluctuations financial statements upon translation of results into pounds in financial risk factors will affect the Companys results.
The currency exposure relating to the translation of 2008, Prudential has had to operate against a challenging reported earnings is not separately managed.
Consequently, background of unprecedented volatility in capital and equity this could impact on the Groups gearing ratios defined as markets, interest rates and widespread economic uncertainty.
debt over debt plus shareholders funds.
The impact of gains or losses on currency translations is recorded as a component within the statement of changes in equity.
360 360 P Prud ruden ential pl tial plc c Ann Annual r ual R eport 2008 eport 2008 Additional information Prudential conducts its businesses subject European Embedded Value EEV basis results are published to regulation and associated regulatory risks, as supplementary information.
The EEV basis is a value based including the effects of changes in the laws, reporting method for Prudential's long-term business which is regulations, policies and interpretations and used by market analysts and which underpins a significant part any accounting standards in the markets in of the key performance indicators used by the Company's which it operates.
management for both internal and external reporting Changes in government policy, legislation or regulatory purposes.
In June 2008, in an effort to improve still further the interpretation applying to companies in the financial consistency and transparency of embedded value reporting, services and insurance industries in any of the markets in the Chief Financial Officers CFO Forum published the initial which Prudential operates, which in some circumstances may Market Consistent Embedded Value MCEV Principles.
The be applied retrospectively, may adversely affect Prudentials CFO Forum announced on 19 December 2008, that it would product range, distribution channels, capital requirements be reviewing the Principles given the current turbulent markets.
and, consequently, reported results and financing requirements.
They acknowledged that the MCEV principles were designed For instance, regulators in jurisdictions in which Prudential during a period of relatively stable market conditions and their operates may change the level of capital required to be held application could, in turbulent markets, lead to misleading by individual businesses.
Also these changes could include results.
The review may lead to changes to the published possible changes in the regulatory framework for pension MCEV Principles or the issuance of guidance.
On completion arrangements and policies, the regulation of selling practices of this review, Prudential will consider its approach to them.
Furthermore, as a result of the If Prudential adopts the new Principles, this will result in a recent interventions by governments in response to global restatement of reported EEV results and change the economic conditions, it is widely expected that there will be a reporting basis of future results.
substantial increase in government regulation and supervision of the financial services industry, including the possibility of The resolution of several issues affecting the higher capital requirements, restrictions on certain types of financial services industry could have a negative transaction structure, and enhanced supervisory powers.
impact on Prudentials reported results or on its reputation or on its relations with current and The current EU Insurance Groups Directive IGD requires potential customers.
European financial services groups to demonstrate net Prudential is, and in the future may be, subject to legal and aggregate surplus capital in excess of solvency requirements regulatory actions in the ordinary course of its business, both at the Group level in respect of shareholder-owned entities.
in the United Kingdom and internationally.
This could be a The test is a continuous requirement, so that Prudential needs review of business sold in the past under previously acceptable to maintain a somewhat higher amount of regulatory capital at market practices at the time such as the requirement in the the Group level than otherwise necessary in respect of some United Kingdom to provide redress to certain past purchasers of its individual businesses to accommodate, for example, shortof pension and mortgage endowment policies, changes to term movements in global foreign exchange rates, interest the tax regime affecting products and regulatory reviews on rates, deterioration in credit quality and equity markets.
In products sold and industry practices, including in the latter addition, changes in the local regulatory environment of case businesses it has closed.
countries where this is deemed equivalent to the EU could affect the calculation of the Groups solvency position.
The Regulators particularly, but not exclusively, in the United States application of Solvency II, the new European Union solvency and the United Kingdom are moving towards a regime based framework for insurers, to international groups is still unclear on principles-based regulation which brings an element of and there is a risk of inconsistent application in different uncertainty.
These regulators are increasingly interested in member states which may place Prudential at a competitive the approach that product providers use to select third-party disadvantage to other European and non-European financial distributors.
In some cases product providers can be held services groups.
responsible for the deficiencies of third-party distributors.
Various jurisdictions in which Prudential operates have created In the United States, federal and state regulators have investor compensation schemes that require mandatory focused on, and continue to devote substantial attention to, contributions from market participants in some instances in the the mutual fund, fixed index and variable annuity and insurance event of a failure of a market participant.
As a major participant product industries.
This includes new regulations in respect in the majority of its chosen markets, circumstances could arise of the suitability of broker-dealers sales of certain products.
where Prudential, along with other companies, may be As a result of publicity relating to widespread perceptions required to make additional material contributions.
of industry abuses, there have been numerous regulatory inquiries and proposals for legislative and regulatory reforms.
The Group's accounts are prepared in accordance with current international financial reporting standards IFRS In Asia, regulatory regimes are developing at different applicable to the insurance industry.
The International speeds, driven by a combination of global factors and local Accounting Standards Board IASB introduced a framework considerations.
There is a risk that new requirements are that it described as Phase I that permitted insurers to continue retrospectively applied to sales made prior to their introduction.
to use the statutory basis of accounting that existed in their jurisdictions prior to January 2005.
The IASB has published proposals in its Phase II discussion paper that would introduce significant changes to the statutory reporting of insurance entities that prepare accounts according to IFRS.
It is uncertain in what form the proposals in the discussion paper will be taken forward into a definitive IFRS and when such changes might take effect.
361 Additional information Risk factors continued Litigation and disputes may adversely affect Downgrades in Prudentials financial strength Prudentials profitability and financial condition.
and credit ratings could significantly impact its Prudential is, and may be in the future, subject to legal actions competitive position and hurt its relationships and disputes in the ordinary course of its insurance, investment with creditors or trading counterparties.
management and other business operations.
These legal Prudentials financial strength and credit ratings, which are actions and disputes may relate to aspects of Prudentials used by the market to measure its ability to meet policyholder businesses and operations that are specific to Prudential, or obligations, are an important factor affecting public that are common to companies that operate in Prudentials confidence in most of Prudentials products, and as a result markets.
Legal actions and disputes may arise under contracts, its competitiveness.
Changes in methodologies and criteria regulations or from a course of conduct taken by Prudential, used by rating agencies could result in downgrades that do and may be class actions.
Although Prudential believes that it not reflect changes in the general economic conditions or has adequately provisioned in all material aspects for the costs Prudentials financial condition.
Downgrades in Prudentials of litigation and regulatory matters, no assurance can be ratings could have an adverse effect on its ability to market provided that such provisions are sufficient.
Given the large or products and retain current policyholders.
In addition, the indeterminate amounts of damages sometimes sought, and the interest rates Prudential pays on its borrowings are affected inherent unpredictability of litigation and disputes, it is possible by its debt credit ratings, which are in place to measure that an adverse outcome could, from time to time, have an Prudentials ability to meet its contractual obligations.
adverse effect on Prudentials results of operation or cash flows.
Prudentials long-term senior debt is rated as A2 stable outlook by Moodys, A stable outlook by Standard Prudentials businesses are conducted in highly & Poors and AA stable outlook by Fitch.
competitive environments with developing demographic trends and Prudentials continued Prudentials short-term debt is rated as P-1 by Moodys, profitability depends on its managements ability A-1 by Standard & Poors and F1 by Fitch.
to respond to these pressures and trends.
Prudential Assurance Companys PACs financial strength The markets for financial services in the United Kingdom, is rated Aa1 rating under review for possible downgrade by United States and Asia are highly competitive, with several Moodys, AA negative outlook by Standard & Poors and factors affecting Prudentials ability to sell its products and AA stable outlook by Fitch.
its continued profitability, including price and yields offered, financial strength and ratings, range of product lines and Adverse experience in the operational risks inherent product quality, brand strength and name recognition, in Prudentials business could have a negative impact investment management performance, historical bonus levels, on its results of operations.
developing demographic trends and customer appetite for Operational risks are present in all of Prudentials businesses, certain savings products.
In some of its markets Prudential faces including the risk of direct or indirect loss resulting from competitors that are larger, have greater financial resources or a inadequate or failed internal and external processes, systems greater market share, offer a broader range of products or have and human error or from external events.
Prudentials business higher bonus rates or claims-paying ratios.
Further, heightened is dependent on processing a large number of complex competition for talented and skilled employees with local transactions across numerous and diverse products, and is experience, particularly in Asia, may limit the Groups potential subject to a number of different legal and regulatory regimes.
to grow its business as quickly as planned.
In addition, Prudential outsources several operations, including Within the United Kingdom, Prudentials principal competitors in the United Kingdom a significant part of its back office and in the life insurance market include many of the major retail customer-facing functions as well as a number of IT functions.
financial services companies including, in particular, Aviva, In turn, Prudential is reliant upon the operational processing Legal & General, Lloyds Banking Group and Standard Life.
performance of its outsourcing partners.
Jacksons competitors in the United States include major stock Further, because of the long-term nature of much of and mutual insurance companies, mutual fund organisations, Prudentials business, accurate records have to be maintained banks and other financial services companies such as AIG, for significant periods.
Prudentials systems and processes AXA, Hartford, Lincoln National, MetLife and TIAA-CREF.
incorporate controls which are designed to manage and mitigate the operational risks associated with its activities.
In Asia, the Groups main regional competitors are international For example, any weakness in the administration systems financial companies, including AIG, Allianz, AXA, ING and or actuarial reserving processes could have an impact on its Manulife.
In a number of markets, local companies have a very results of operations during the effective period.
has not experienced or identified any operational risks Prudential believes competition will intensify across all regions in its systems or processes during 2008, or which have in response to consumer demand, technological advances, the subsequently caused, or are expected to cause, a significant impact of consolidation, regulatory actions and other factors.
negative impact on its results of operations.
Prudentials ability to generate an appropriate return depends significantly upon its capacity to anticipate and respond appropriately to these competitive pressures.
362 362 P Prud ruden ential pl tial plc c Ann Annual r ual R eport 2008 eport 2008 Additional information Adverse experience against the assumptions As a holding company, Prudential is dependent upon used in pricing products and reporting business its subsidiaries to cover operating expenses and results could significantly affect Prudentials dividend payments.
Prudentials insurance and investment management Prudential needs to make assumptions about a number operations are generally conducted through direct and of factors in determining the pricing of its products and for indirect subsidiaries.
As a holding company, Prudentials reporting the results of its long-term business operations.
principal sources of funds are dividends from subsidiaries, For example, the assumption that Prudential makes about shareholder-backed funds, the shareholder transfer from future expected levels of mortality is particularly relevant Prudentials long-term funds and any amounts that may be for its United Kingdom annuity business.
In exchange for raised through the issuance of equity, debt and commercial a premium equal to the capital value of their accumulated paper.
Certain of the subsidiaries are regulated and therefore pension fund, pension annuity policyholders receive a have restrictions that can limit the payment of dividends, guaranteed payment, usually monthly, for as long as they which in some circumstances could limit the Groups ability are alive.
Prudential conducts rigorous research into longevity to pay dividends to shareholders.
risk, using data from its substantial annuitant portfolio.
As part of its pension annuity pricing and reserving policy, Prudential Prudential operates in a number of markets through United Kingdom assumes that current rates of mortality joint ventures and other arrangements with thirdcontinuously improve over time at levels based on adjusted parties.
These arrangements involve certain risks data from the Continuous Mortality Investigations CMI that Prudential does not face with respect to its medium cohort table projections as published by the Institute consolidated subsidiaries.
If mortality improvement rates Prudential operates, and in certain markets is required by local significantly exceed the improvement assumed, Prudentials regulation to operate, through joint ventures.
Prudentials results of operations could be adversely affected.
ability to exercise management control over its joint venture operations and its investment in them depends on the terms A further example is the assumption that Prudential makes of the joint venture agreements, in particular, the allocation of about future expected levels of the rates of early termination control among, and continued co-operation between, the joint of products by its customers persistency.
This is particularly venture participants.
Prudential may also face financial or other relevant to its lines of business other than its United Kingdom exposure in the event that any of its joint venture partners fails annuity business.
Prudentials persistency assumptions reflect to meet its obligations under the joint venture or encounters recent past experience for each relevant line of business.
In addition, a significant proportion of expected deterioration in future persistency is also reflected the Groups product distribution is carried out through in the assumption.
If actual levels of future persistency are arrangements with third-parties not controlled by Prudential significantly different from those assumed, Prudentials and is dependent upon continuation of these relationships.
results of operations could be adversely affected.
A temporary or permanent disruption to these distribution In common with other industry participants, the profitability arrangements could affect Prudentials results of operations.
of the Groups businesses depends on a mix of factors including mortality and morbidity trends, policy surrender Prudentials Articles of Association contain rates, investment performance, unit cost of administration an exclusive jurisdiction provision.
and new business acquisition expense.
Under Prudential's Articles of Association, certain legal proceedings may only be brought in the courts of England and Wales.
This applies to legal proceedings between a shareholder in its capacity as such against Prudential and or its directors and or its professional service providers.
It also applies to legal proceedings between Prudential and its directors and or Prudential and Prudential's professional service providers that arise in connection with legal proceedings between the shareholder and such professional service provider.
This provision could make it difficult for US and other non-UK shareholders to enforce their shareholder rights.
