Group Manufacturing comprises the Groups worldwide manufacturing In Wealth Management, The Royal Bank of Scotland International operations.
It supports the customer-facing businesses and provides competes with other UK and international banks to offer offshore operational technology, customer support in telephony, account banking services.
Coutts and Adam & Company compete as private management, lending and money transmission, global purchasing, banks with UK clearing and private banks, and with international private property and other services.
Manufacturing drives efficiencies and banks.
Competition in wealth management remains strong as banks supports income growth across multiple brands and channels by using maintain their focus on competing for affluent and high net worth a single, scalable platform and common processes wherever possible.
It also leverages the Groups purchasing power and has become the centre of excellence for managing large-scale and complex change.
RBS Insurance competes in personal lines insurance and, to a limited extent, in commercial insurance.
There is strong competition from a The Centre comprises group and corporate functions, such as capital range of insurance companies which now operate telephone and raising, finance, risk management, legal, communications and human internet direct sales businesses.
Competition in the UK motor market resources.
The Centre manages the Groups capital resources and remains particularly intense, and price comparison internet sites now Group-wide regulatory projects and provides services to the operating play a major role in the marketplace.
RBS Insurance also competes with divisions.
local insurance companies in the direct motor insurance markets in Spain, Italy and Germany.
Competition The Group faces strong competition in all the markets it serves.
In Ireland, Ulster Bank and First Active compete in retail and However, the global banking crisis has reduced the capacity of many commercial banking with the major Irish banks and building societies, institutions to lend and has resulted in the withdrawal or disappearance and with other UK and international banks and building societies active of a number of market participants and significant consolidation of in the market.
competitors, particularly in the US and UK.
Competition for retail deposits has intensified significantly reflecting the difficulties in the In the United States, Citizens competes in the New England, Midwholesale money markets.
Atlantic and Mid West retail and mid-corporate banking markets with local and regional banks and other financial institutions.
The Group also Competition for corporate and institutional customers in the UK is from competes in the US in large corporate lending and specialised finance UK banks and from large foreign financial institutions who are also markets, and in fixed-income trading and sales.
Competition is active and offer combined investment and commercial banking principally with the large US commercial and investment banks and capabilities.
In asset finance, the Group competes with banks and international banks active in the US.
specialised asset finance providers, both captive and non-captive.
In European and Asian corporate and institutional banking markets the Risk factors Group competes with the large domestic banks active in these markets Set out below are certain risk factors which could affect the Groups and with the major international banks.
future results and cause them to be materially different from expected results.
The Groups results are also affected by competition and other In the small business banking market, the Group competes with other factors.
The factors discussed in this report should not be regarded UK clearing banks, specialist finance providers and building societies.
as a complete and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
In the personal banking segment the Group competes with UK banks and building societies, major retailers and life assurance companies.
In The company may face the risk of full nationalisation and under such the mortgage market the Group competes with UK banks and building circumstances shareholders may lose the full value of their shares.
A number of competitors have either left or scaled back their Under the provisions of the Banking Act, substantial powers have been lending in the mortgage and unsecured markets.
The Groups life granted to HM Treasury, the Bank of England and the FSA as part of assurance businesses compete with Independent Financial Advisers the Special Resolution Regime to stabilise banks that are in financial and life assurance companies.
The Special Resolution Regime gives the authorities three stabilisation options: private sector transfer: transfer to In the UK credit card market large retailers and specialist card issuers, a bridge bank established by the Bank of England: and temporary including major US operators, are active in addition to the UK banks.
addition to physical distribution channels, providers compete through direct marketing activity and the internet.
The stabilisation options may only be exercised if the FSA is satisfied that a UK-incorporated institution with permission to accept deposits i In Europe, Asia and the Middle East, the enlarged Group now competes is failing, or is likely to fail, to satisfy the threshold conditions set out in in retail banking with local and international banks.
In a number of these the FSAs Handbook and ii it is not reasonably likely that action will be markets there are regulatory barriers to entry or expansion, and the taken that will enable the relevant entity to satisfy those threshold state ownership of banks.
Competition is generally intensifying as more conditions.
The threshold conditions are conditions which an FSAplayers enter markets that are perceived to be fide-regulating and offer authorised institution must satisfy in order to retain its FSA authorisation.
They are relatively wide-ranging and deal with most aspects of a relevant entitys business, including, but not limited to, minimum capital resource requirements.
It is therefore possible that the FSA may trigger the Special Resolution Regime before a relevant entity is in severe difficulties.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27 Business review continued The stabilisation options may be exercised by means of powers to If the company does not raise sufficient capital through the Placing transfer property, rights or liabilities of a relevant entity and shares and and Open Offer including as a result of the Resolutions not being other securities issued by a relevant entity.
HM Treasury may also take approved or the termination of the underwriting commitments of HM the parent company of a relevant entity such as the company into Treasury, it may be unable to access additional funds or find temporary public ownership provided that certain conditions set out in alternative methods of increasing its Core Tier 1 capital ratio and Section 82 of the Banking Act are met.
Temporary public ownership is redeeming the Preference Shares.
effected by way of a share transfer order.
The purpose of the Placing and Open Offer is to allow the Group to raise sufficient funds to effect the Preference Share Redemption, If HM Treasury makes the decision to take the holding company of a thereby improving the quality of the Groups capital structure by relevant entity, such as the company, into temporary public ownership, it increasing its Core Tier 1 capital ratio and enhancing significantly its may take various actions in relation to securities issued by the holding financial flexibility in the face of continuing turbulence and uncertainty in company, including: the global economy.
If the Resolutions are not approved by independent shareholders that is, shareholders excluding HM Treasury and or the to transfer securities free from any or contractual or legislative company is unable to raise sufficient funds through the Placing and restrictions on transfer: Open Offer to effect the Preference Share Redemption including as a result of the termination of the underwriting commitment of HM to transfer securities free from any trust, liability, or encumbrance: Treasury, the Group will remain subject to the terms and conditions of the Preference Shares, and will be required to find alternative methods to extinguish rights to acquire securities: for increasing its Core Tier 1 capital ratio.
Such methods could include an accelerated reduction in risk-weighted assets, disposal of certain to delist securities: or businesses, increased reliance on alternative government supported liquidity schemes and other forms of government assistance.
There can to convert securities into another from or class.
be no assurance that any of these alternative methods will be available or would be successful in increasing the companys Core Tier 1 capital Where HM Treasury has made a share transfer order in respect of ratio to the desired level or on the timetable currently envisaged or securities issued by the holding company of a relevant entity, HM enable the Group to redeem the Preference Shares.
If the company is Treasury may transfer property, rights or liabilities of the holding unable to raise sufficient funds through the Placing and Open Offer and company of the relevant entity or of any bank in the group to a increase its Core Tier 1 capital ratio sufficiently and redeem the company wholly owned by the Bank of England or HM Treasury, or a preference shares, its business, results of operations and financial nominee of HM Treasury.
condition may suffer, its credit ratings may drop, its ability to access funding will be further limited, its cost of funding may increase and its Shareholders may have a claim for compensation under one of the share price may decline.
compensation schemes provided for in the Banking Act.
For the purposes of determining an amount of compensation, an independent The Groups businesses, earnings and financial condition have been valuer must disregard actual or potential financial assistance provided and will continue to be affected by the continued deterioration by the Bank of England or HM Treasury.
in the global economy, as well as ongoing instability in the global financial markets.
Over the last six months, the UK Government has taken action under the The performance of the Group has been and will continue to be Banking Special Provisions Act 2008 and the Banking Act in respect of influenced by the economic conditions of the countries in which it a number of UK financial institutions, including in extreme operates, particularly the United Kingdom, the United States and other circumstances, full and part nationalisation.
There have been concerns countries throughout Europe and Asia.
Recessionary conditions are in the market in recent months regarding the risks of such present in many of these countries, including the United Kingdom and nationalisation in relation to the Group and other UK banks.
If economic the United States, and such conditions are expected to continue or conditions in the UK or globally continue to deteriorate, or the events worsen over the near to medium term.
In addition, the global financial described in the following risk factors occur to such an extent that they system is continuing to experience the difficulties which first manifested have a materially adverse impact on the financial condition, perceived or themselves in August 2007, and the financial markets have deteriorated actual credit quality, results of operations or business of any of the significantly since the bankruptcy filing by Lehman Brothers in relevant entities in the Group, the UK Government may decide to take September 2008.
These conditions have led to severe and continuing similar action in relation to the Group.
Given the extent of HM Treasurys dislocation of financial markets around the world and unprecedented and the Bank of Englands powers under the Banking Act, it is difficult levels of illiquidity, resulting in the development of significant problems to predict what effect such actions might have on the Group and any at a number of the worlds largest corporate institutions operating securities issued by it.
However, potential impacts may include full across a wide range of industry sectors, many of whom are the Groups nationalisation of the Group and the total loss of value in RBS shares.
customers and counterparties in the ordinary course of its business.
In response to this economic instability and illiquidity in the market, a number of governments, including the UK Government, the governments of the other EU member states and the US Government, have intervened in order to inject liquidity and capital into the financial system, and, in some cases, to prevent the failure of these institutions.
28 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Despite such measures, the volatility and disruption of the capital and Furthermore, like many banks, the Group relies on customer deposits to credit markets have continued at unprecedented levels, and global meet a considerable portion of its funding requirements and such recessionary conditions are expected to continue.
These conditions deposits are subject to fluctuation due to certain factors outside the have produced and will continue to produce downward pressure on Groups control, such as a loss of confidence, competitive pressures or stock prices and on availability and cost of credit for financial the encouraged or mandated repatriation of deposits by foreign institutions, including the Group, and will continue to impact on the wholesale or central bank depositors which could result in a significant credit quality of the Groups customers and counterparties.
Such outflow of deposits within a short period of time.
Any material decrease conditions, alone or in combination with regulatory changes or actions in the Groups deposits could, particularly if accompanied by one of the of other market participants, may cause the Group to experience further other factors described above, have a negative impact on the Groups reductions in business activity, increased funding costs and funding liquidity unless corresponding actions were taken to improve the pressures, lower share prices, decreased asset values, additional write liquidity profile of other deposits or to reduce assets.
downs and impairment charges and lower profitability or losses.
The governments of some of the countries in which the Group operates In addition, the Group will continue to be exposed to the risk of loss if have taken steps to guarantee the liabilities of the banks and branches major corporate borrowers or counterparty financial institutions fail or are operating in their respective jurisdiction.
Whilst in some instances the otherwise unable to meet their obligations.
The Groups performance may operations of the Group are covered by government guarantees also be affected by future recovery rates on assets and the historical alongside other local banks, in other countries this may not necessarily assumptions underlying asset recovery rates, which may no longer be always be the case.
This may place subsidiaries operating in those accurate given the unprecedented market disruption and general countries, such as Ulster Bank Ireland Ltd, which did not participate in economic instability.
The precise nature of all the risks and uncertainties such government guarantee schemes, at a competitive disadvantage to the Group faces as a result of current economic conditions cannot be the other local banks and therefore may require the Group to provide predicted and many of these risks are outside the Groups control.
additional funding and liquidity support to these operations.
Lack of liquidity is a risk to the Groups business and its ability There can be no assurance that these measures, alongside other available to access sources of liquidity has been, and will continue to measures, will succeed in improving the funding and liquidity in the be, constrained.
markets in which the Group operates, or that these measures, combined Liquidity risk is the risk that a bank will be unable to meet its obligations, with any increased cost of any funding currently available in the market, including funding commitments, as they fall due.
This risk is inherent in will not lead to a further increase in the Groups overall cost of funding, banking operations and can be heightened by a number of enterprise which could have an adverse impact on the Groups financial condition specific factors, including an over-reliance on a particular source of and results of operations or result in a loss of value in RBS shares.
funding including, for example, short term and overnight funding, changes in credit ratings or market-wide phenomena such as market Governmental support schemes are subject to cancellation or change, dislocation and major disasters.
Credit markets worldwide have which may have a negative impact on the availability of funding in the experienced and continue to experience a severe reduction in liquidity markets in which the Group operates.
and term-funding in the aftermath of events in the US sub-prime Governmental support schemes are subject to cancellation or change, residential mortgage market and the current severe market dislocation.
based on changing economic and political conditions in the jurisdiction Perception of counterparty risk between banks has also increased of the relevant scheme.
Furthermore, certain schemes which have been significantly following the bankruptcy filing by Lehman Brothers.
This recently announced have in fact not been fully implemented, or their increase in perceived counterparty risk has led to further reductions in terms have not yet been finalised.
To the extent government support inter-bank lending, and hence, in common with many other banks, the schemes are cancelled or changed in a manner which diminishes their Groups access to traditional sources of liquidity has been, and may effectiveness, or to the extent such schemes fail to generate additional continue to be, restricted.
liquidity or other support in the relevant markets in which such schemes operate, the Group, in common with other banks, may continue to face The Groups liquidity management focuses on maintaining a diverse and limited access to, have insufficient access to, or incur higher costs appropriate funding strategy for its operations, controlling the mismatch associated with, funding alternatives, which could have a material of maturities and carefully monitoring its undrawn commitments and adverse impact on the Groups business, financial condition, results of contingent liabilities.
However, the Groups ability to access sources of operations, prospects and result in a loss of value in RBS shares.
liquidity for example, through the issue or sale of financial and other instruments or through the use of term loans during the recent period The financial performance of the Group has been and will be affected of liquidity stress has been constrained to the point where it, like other by borrower credit quality.
banks, has had to rely on shorter term and overnight funding with a Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the recoverability of consequent reduction in overall liquidity, and to increase its recourse to loans and amounts due from counterparties are inherent in a wide liquidity schemes provided by central banks.
range of the Groups businesses.
The outlook for the global economy over the near to medium term has continued to deteriorate, particularly In addition, there is also a risk that corporate and institutional in the UK, the United States and other European economies.
For counterparties with credit exposures may look to reduce all credit example, there is an expectation of further reductions in residential and exposures to banks, given current risk aversion trends.
It is possible that commercial property prices, higher unemployment rates and reduced credit market dislocation becomes so severe that overnight funding from profitability of corporate borrowers.
As a result, the Group has seen and non-government sources ceases to be available.
expects to continue to see adverse changes in the credit quality of its RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 29 Business review continued borrowers and counterparties, with increasing delinquencies, defaults The value or effectiveness of any credit protection that the Group and insolvencies across a range of sectors.
This trend has led and may has purchased from monoline and other insurers and other market lead to further impairment charges, higher costs, additional write downs counterparties including credit derivative product companies depends and losses for the Group or result in a loss of value in RBS shares.
on the value of the underlying assets and the financial condition of the insurers and such counterparties.
The actual or perceived failure or worsening credit of the Groups The Group has credit exposure arising from over-the-counter derivative counterparties could adversely affect the Group.
contracts, mainly credit default swaps CDSs, which are carried at fair The Groups ability to engage in routine funding transactions has been value.
The fair value of these CDSs, as well as the Groups exposure to and will continue to be adversely affected by the actual or perceived the risk of default by the underlying counterparties, depends on the failure or worsening credit of its counterparties, including other financial valuation and the perceived credit risk of the instrument against which institutions and corporate borrowers.
The Group has exposure to many protection has been bought.
Since 2007, monoline and other insurers different industries and counterparties and routinely executes transactions and other market counterparties including credit derivative product with counterparties in the financial industry, including brokers and companies have been adversely affected by their exposure to dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds residential mortgage linked and corporate credit products.
As a result, and other institutional clients.
As a result, defaults by, or even the their actual and perceived creditworthiness deteriorated significantly in perceived creditworthiness of or concerns about, one or more corporate 2008 and may continue to be so impacted in 2009.
If the financial borrowers, financial services institutions, or the financial services industry condition of these counterparties or their actual and perceived generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to creditworthiness deteriorates further, the Group may record further losses or defaults by the Group or by other institutions.
Many of these credit valuation adjustments on the CDSs bought from these transactions expose the Group to credit risk in the event of default of the counterparties in addition to those already recorded.
In addition, the Groups credit risk is exacerbated when the collateral it holds cannot be realised or is Changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, bond, equity and liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or commodity prices, and other market factors have significantly affected derivative exposure that is due to the Group, which is most likely to occur and will continue to affect the Groups business.
during periods of illiquidity and depressed asset valuations, such as Some of the most significant market risks the Group faces are interest those currently experienced.
Any such losses could have a material rate, foreign exchange, bond, equity and commodity price risks.
adverse effect on the Groups results of operations and financial condition Changes in interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect the or result in a loss of value in RBS shares.
interest rate margin realised between lending and borrowing costs, the effect of which may be heightened during periods of liquidity stress, The Groups earnings and financial condition have been, and its future such as those experienced in recent months.
Changes in currency earnings and financial condition are likely to continue to be, affected rates, particularly in the sterling-US dollar and sterling-euro exchange by depressed asset valuations resulting from poor market conditions.
rates, affect the value of assets, liabilities, income and expenses Financial markets are currently subject to significant stress conditions, denominated in foreign currencies and the reported earnings of the where steep falls in perceived or actual asset values have been Groups non-UK subsidiaries principally ABN AMRO, Citizens and RBS accompanied by a severe reduction in market liquidity, as exemplified by Greenwich Capital and may affect income from foreign exchange recent events affecting asset backed collateralised debt obligations dealing.
The performance of financial markets may affect bond, equity CDOs, the US sub-prime residential mortgage market and the and commodity prices and, therefore, cause changes in the value of the leveraged loan market.
In dislocated markets, hedging and other risk Groups investment and trading portfolios.
This has been the case management strategies have proven not to be as effective as they are in during the period since August 2007, with market disruptions and normal market conditions due in part to the decreasing credit quality of volatility resulting in significant reductions in the value of such portfolios.
hedge counterparties, including monoline and other insurance While the Group has implemented risk management methods to mitigate companies and credit derivative product companies.
Severe market and control these and other market risks to which it is exposed, it is events have resulted in the Group recording large write-downs on its difficult, particularly in the current environment, to predict with accuracy credit market exposures in 2007 and 2008.
The Group expects that the changes in economic or market conditions and to anticipate the effects deterioration in economic and financial market conditions will lead to that such changes could have on the Groups financial performance and further impairment charges and write-downs during the current financial business operations or result in a loss of value in RBS shares.
Moreover, recent market volatility and illiquidity has made it difficult to value certain of the Groups exposures.
Valuations in future periods, The Groups borrowing costs and its access to the debt capital reflecting, among other things, then-prevailing market conditions and markets depend significantly on its credit ratings.
changes in the credit ratings of certain of the Groups assets, may result On 19 January 2009, Fitch cut the Groups individual rating to E from in significant changes in the fair values of the Groups exposures, even in B C and downgraded the Groups Tier 1 preference shares to BBfrom respect of exposures, such as credit market exposures, for which the A and upper tier 2 hybrid capital instruments to BB from A.
The longGroup has previously recorded write-downs.
In addition, the value ultimately term credit rating for senior unsecured debt of AAand short term realised by the Group may be materially different from the current or rating of F1 were affirmed.
On the same date, Standard & Poors estimated fair value.
Any of these factors could require the Group to recognise further significant write-downs or realise increased impairment charges, any of which may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations or result in a loss of value in RBS shares.
30 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 lowered its ratings on the Groups hybrid capital issues to BB from BBB.
where the market for a financial instrument is not sufficiently active, The long-term and short-term credit ratings of the Group of A and A-1 internal valuation models that utilise observable market data.
In certain respectively were affirmed.
The outlook of the Group was confirmed as circumstances, the data for individual financial instruments or classes of stable.
On 20 January 2009, Moodys lowered the Bank Financial financial instruments utilised by such valuation models may not be Strength Rating of B to Cand downgraded the senior long-term debt available or may become unavailable due to changes in market and deposit ratings of the Group to A1 from Aa2, both with a negative conditions, as has been the case during the current financial crisis.
The short-term P-1 rating was affirmed.
These and any future such circumstances, the Groups internal valuation models require the reductions in the long-term credit ratings of the Group or one of its Group to make assumptions, judgements and estimates to establish fair principal subsidiaries particularly the Royal Bank could further value.
In common with other financial institutions, these internal valuation increase its borrowing costs.
Any further reductions may also limit the models are complex, and the assumptions, judgements and estimates Groups access to the capital markets and trigger additional collateral the Group is required to make often relate to matters that are inherently requirements in derivative contracts and other secured funding uncertain, such as expected cash flows, the ability of borrowers to arrangements.
Credit ratings of the Group and the Royal Bank are also service debt, residential and commercial property price appreciation important to the Group when competing in certain markets, such as and depreciation, and relative levels of defaults and deficiencies.
As a result, any further reductions in the assumptions, judgements and estimates may need to be updated to Groups or the Royal Banks credit ratings could adversely affect its reflect changing facts, trends and market conditions.
The resulting access to liquidity and competitive position, increase its funding costs change in the fair values of the financial instruments has had and could and have a negative impact on the Groups earnings and financial continue to have a material adverse effect on the Groups earnings and condition or result in a loss of value in RBS shares.
Also, recent market volatility and illiquidity has challenged the factual bases of certain underlying assumptions and The Groups business performance could be adversely affected if its has made it difficult to value certain of the Groups financial capital is not managed effectively.
Valuations in future periods, reflecting prevailing market Effective management of the Groups capital is critical to its ability to conditions, may result in further significant changes in the fair values of operate its businesses, to grow organically and to pursue its strategy.
these instruments, which could have a negative effect on the Groups The Group is required by regulators in the United Kingdom, the United results of operations and financial condition or result in a loss of value States, the Netherlands and in other jurisdictions in which it undertakes in RBS shares.
regulated activities, to maintain adequate capital.
The maintenance of adequate capital is also necessary to enhance the Groups financial The Groups future earnings and financial condition in part depend on flexibility in the face of continuing turbulence and uncertainty in the the success of the Groups strategic refocus on core strengths and its global economy.
Accordingly, the purpose of the First Placing and Open disposal programme.
Offer and the issue of the Preference Shares was to allow the company The Group is undertaking a strategic review of its operations in light of to strengthen its capital position.
As at 31 December 2008 the Groups the recently changed global economic outlook, which is expected to Tier 1 and Core Tier 1 capital ratios were 9.9 per cent.
focus on achieving appropriate risk-adjusted returns under these respectively, as reported on a proportional consolidated basis using the changed circumstances, reducing reliance on wholesale funding and Basel II methodology.
Although the net proceeds of the First Placing lowering exposure to capital intensive businesses.
The Group will also and Open Offer and the Preference Share Issue have strengthened the continue with its disposal programme and review its portfolio to identify Groups capital base significantly, and the net proceeds of the Placing further disposals of certain non-core assets.
Although the Group and Open Offer will be used to redeem the existing 5 billion of expects the proceeds of the Placing and Open Offer to improve the Preference Shares and thereby improve the quality of the Groups quality of its capital by replacing the existing 5 billion of Preference capital by increasing the Groups Core Tier 1 capital ratio, any change Shares with 5 billion of Core Tier 1 capital, the global credit markets that limits the Groups ability effectively to manage its balance sheet remain challenging and the Groups execution of its current and future and capital resources going forward including, for example, reductions strategic plans may not be successful.
In connection with the in profits and retained earnings as a result of write-downs or otherwise, implementation of these plans, the Group may incur restructuring increases in risk-weighted assets, delays in the disposal of certain charges, which may be material.
Furthermore, if the Groups plans, assets or the inability to syndicate loans as a result of market conditions including any planned disposals, are not successful or fail to achieve or otherwise or to access funding sources, could have a material the results expected, the Groups business, capital position financial adverse impact on its financial condition and regulatory capital position condition, results of operations and future prospects may be negatively or result in a loss of value in RBS shares.
impacted or this could result in a loss of value in RBS shares.
The value of certain financial instruments recorded at fair value is The Group operates in markets that are highly competitive and determined using financial models incorporating assumptions, consolidating.
If the Group is unable to perform effectively, its business judgements and estimates that may change over time or may and results of operations will be adversely affected.
ultimately not turn out to be accurate.
Recent consolidation among banking institutions in the United Kingdom, Under IFRS, the Group recognises at fair value: i financial instruments the United States and throughout Europe is changing the competitive classified as held-for-trading or designated as at fair value through landscape for banks and other financial institutions.
This consolidation, profit or loss: ii financial assets classified as available-for-sale: and in combination with the introduction of new entrants into the US and UK iii derivatives, each as further described in Accounting Policies on markets from other European and Asian countries, could increase page 182 of the financial statements.
Generally, to establish the fair competitive pressures on the Group.
Moreover, if financial markets value of these instruments, the Group relies on quoted market prices or, continue to be volatile, more banks may be forced to consolidate.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 31 Business review continued In addition to the effects of consolidation, increased government Each of the Groups businesses is subject to substantial regulation ownership of, and involvement in, banks generally may have an impact and oversight.
Any significant regulatory developments could have an on the competitive landscape in the major markets in which the Group effect on how the Group conducts its business and on its results of operates.
Although, at present, it is difficult to predict what the effects of operations and financial condition.
this increased government ownership and involvement will be or how it The Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, will differ from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, such involvement may cause administrative actions and policies in each location in which it operates.
the Group to experience stronger competition for corporate, institutional All of these are subject to change, particularly in the current market and retail clients and greater pressure on profit margins.
Since the environment, where there have been unprecedented levels of markets in which the Group operates are expected to remain highly government intervention and changes to the regulations governing competitive in all areas, these and other changes to the competitive financial institutions, including recent nationalisations in the United landscape could adversely affect the Groups business, margins, Kingdom, the United States and other European countries.
As a result of profitability and financial condition or result in a loss of value in RBS these and other ongoing and possible future changes in the financial shares.
services regulatory landscape including requirements imposed by virtue of the Groups participation in any government or regulator-led The Group has agreed to certain undertakings in relation to the initiatives, the Group expects to face greater regulation in the United operation of its business in the First Placing and Open Offer Agreement Kingdom, the United States, the Netherlands and other countries in and the Second Placing and Open Offer Agreement.
which it operates, including throughout the rest of Europe.
Compliance Under the terms of the First Placing and Open Offer Agreement, the with such regulations may increase the Groups capital requirements Group provided certain undertakings aimed at ensuring that the and costs and have an adverse impact on its business, the products subscription by HM Treasury for the relevant Ordinary Shares and the and services it offers and the value of its assets or result in a loss of Preference Shares and the Groups potential participation in the value in RBS shares.
guarantee scheme promoted by HM Treasury as part of its support for the UK banking industry is compatible with the common market under Other areas where governmental policies and regulatory changes could EU law.
These undertakings include i supporting certain initiatives in have an adverse impact include, but are not limited to: relation to mortgage lending and lending to SMEs until 2011, ii regulating management remuneration and iii regulating the rate of the monetary, interest rate, capital adequacy and other policies of growth of the Groups balance sheet.
These undertakings, while not central banks and regulatory authorities: having a material effect on the Group, may still serve to limit the Groups operations.
In addition, pursuant to the terms of the Second Placing and general changes in government or regulatory policy or changes in Open Offer Agreement, the Group is subject to further undertakings, regulatory regimes that may significantly influence investor decisions which are i to extend the lending commitments made to HM Treasury in in particular markets in which the Group operates or may increase the the First Placing and Open Offer Agreement and ii to increase the level costs of doing business in those markets: at which competitively priced lending is made available and actively marketed by the Group in the United Kingdom by 6 billion.
changes to financial reporting standards: The Group could fail to attract or retain senior management or other other general changes in the regulatory requirements, such as key employees.
prudential rules relating to the capital adequacy framework and the The Groups ability to implement its strategy depends on the ability and imposition of onerous compliance obligations, restrictions on experience of its senior management and other key employees.
The business growth or pricing and requirements to operate in a way that loss of the services of certain key employees, particularly to competitors, prioritises objectives other than shareholder value creation: could have a negative impact on the Groups business.
The Groups future success will also depend on its ability to attract, retain and changes in competition and pricing environments: remunerate competitively with its peers and retain highly skilled and qualified personnel, which cannot be guaranteed, particularly in light of further developments in the financial reporting environment: heightened regulatory oversight of banks and heightened scrutiny of, and in some cases restrictions placed upon, management compensation differentiation amongst financial institutions by governments with arrangements, in particular those in receipt of Government funding respect to the extension of guarantees to bank customer deposits such as the Group.
The Group recently announced changes to its and the terms attaching to such guarantees, including requirements compensation structure which included significant reductions in for the entire Group to accept exposure to the risk of any individual bonuses to be paid in respect of 2008, and limitations on pay rises in member of the Group, or even third party participants in guarantee 2009.
Details of these changes are outlined in the letter from the schemes, failing: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on page 159.
In addition to the effects of such measures on the Groups ability to retain senior implementation of, or costs related to, local customer or depositor management and other key employees, the marketplace for skilled compensation or reimbursement schemes: personnel is becoming more competitive, which means the cost of hiring, training and retaining skilled personnel may continue to increase.
transferability and convertibility of currency risk: The failure to attract or retain a sufficient number of appropriately skilled personnel could prevent the Group from successfully implementing its expropriation, nationalisation, confiscation of assets: strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition and results of, operations or result in a loss of value changes in legislation relating to foreign ownership: and in RBS shares.
32 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 other unfavourable political, military or diplomatic developments environment to continue for the foreseeable future, particularly as it producing social instability or legal uncertainty which, in turn, may relates to compliance with new and existing corporate governance, affect demand for the Groups products and services.
employee compensation, conduct of business, anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism laws and regulations.
Disputes, legal proceedings The Groups results have been and could be further adversely affected and regulatory investigations are subject to many uncertainties, and in the event of goodwill impairment.
their outcomes are often difficult to predict, particularly in the earlier The Group capitalises goodwill, which is calculated as the excess of the stages of a case or investigation.
Adverse regulatory action or adverse cost of an acquisition over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, judgements in litigation could result in restrictions or limitations on the liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired.
Acquired goodwill is Groups operations or result in a material adverse effect on the Groups recognised initially at cost and subsequently at cost less any reputation or results of operations or result in a loss of value in RBS accumulated impairment losses.
As required by IFRS, the Group tests shares.
For details about certain litigation and regulatory investigations goodwill for impairment annually or more frequently, at external in which the Group is involved, see Note 32 on the financial statements.
reporting dates, when events or circumstances indicate that it might be impaired.
An impairment test involves comparing the recoverable Operational risks are inherent in the Groups operations.
amount the higher of value in use and fair value less cost to sell of an The Groups operations are dependent on the ability to process a very individual cash generating unit with its carrying value.
The value in use large number of transactions efficiently and accurately while complying and fair value of the Groups cash generating units are affected by with applicable laws and regulations where it does business.
The Group market conditions and the performance of the economies in which the has complex and geographically diverse operations and operational risk Group operates.
Where the Group is required to recognise a goodwill and losses can result from internal or external fraud, errors by impairment, it is recorded in the Groups income statement, although it employees or third-parties, failure to document transactions properly or has no effect on the Groups regulatory capital position.
to obtain proper authorisation, failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements and conduct of business rules including those The Group may be required to make further contributions to its arising out of anti-money laundering and anti-terrorism legislation, pension schemes if the value of pension fund assets is not sufficient equipment failures, natural disasters or the inadequacy or failure of to cover potential obligations.
systems and controls, including those of the Groups suppliers or The Group maintains a number of defined benefit pension schemes for counterparties.
Although the Group has implemented risk controls and past and current employees.
Pensions risk is the risk that the liabilities of loss mitigation actions, and substantial resources are devoted to the Groups various defined benefit pension schemes which are long developing efficient procedures and identifying and rectifying term in nature will exceed the schemes assets, as a result of which the weaknesses in existing procedures and to training staff, it is not Group is required or chooses to make additional contributions to the possible to be certain that such actions have been or will be effective in schemes.
The schemes assets comprise investment portfolios that are controlling each of the operational risks faced by the Group.
Any held to meet projected liabilities to the scheme members.
Risk arises weakness in these systems or controls, or any breaches or alleged from the schemes because the value of these asset portfolios and breaches of applicable laws or regulations could have a materially returns from them may be less than expected and because there may be negative impact on the Groups business, reputation, results of greater than expected increases in the estimated value of the schemes operations and share price.
Notwithstanding anything contained in this liabilities.
In these circumstances, the Group could be obliged, or may risk factor, it should not be taken as implying that either the company or choose, to make additional contributions to the schemes, and during the Group will be unable to comply with its obligations as a company recent periods, the Group has voluntarily made such contributions.
Given with securities admitted to the Official List or as a supervised firm the current economic and financial market difficulties and the prospects regulated by the FSA.
for them to continue over the near and medium term, the Group may be required or elect to make further contributions to the pension schemes The Group is exposed to the risk of changes in tax legislation and its and such contributions could be significant and have a negative impact interpretation and to increases in the rate of corporate and other taxes on the Groups capital position results of operations or financial condition in the jurisdictions in which it operates.
or result in a loss of value in RBS shares.
The Groups activities are subject to tax at various rates around the world computed in accordance with local legislation and practice.
The Group is and may be subject to litigation and regulatory Action by governments to increase tax rates or to impose additional investigations that may impact its business.
taxes would reduce the Groups profitability.
Revisions to tax legislation The Groups operations are diverse and complex and it operates in or to its interpretation might also affect the Groups results in the future.
legal and regulatory environments that expose it to potentially significant litigation, regulatory investigation and other regulatory risk.
As a result, The acquisition of a majority shareholding in the Group by HM Treasury the Group is, and may in the future be, involved in various disputes, could lead to certain adverse tax consequences for the Group.
legal proceedings and regulatory investigations in the United Kingdom, The acquisition by HM Treasury of a majority shareholding in the Group the United States and other jurisdictions, including class-action litigation.
in consequence of the First Placing and Open Offer could, in certain Furthermore, the Group, like many other financial institutions, has come circumstances, have adverse tax consequences which could affect the under greater regulatory scrutiny over the last year and expects that post-tax profitability of the Group.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008 33 Business review continued The Groups insurance businesses are subject to inherent risks The Groups business and earnings may be affected by involving claims.
Future claims in the Groups general and life assurance business may The performance of the Group is significantly influenced by the be higher than expected as a result of changing trends in claims geopolitical and economic conditions prevailing at any given time in the experience resulting from catastrophic weather conditions, countries in which it operates, particularly the United Kingdom, the demographic developments, changes in mortality and other causes United States and other countries in Europe and Asia.
For example, the outside the Groups control.
These trends could affect the profitability of Group has a presence in countries where businesses could be exposed current and future insurance products and services.
The Group to the risk of business interruption and economic slowdown following reinsures some of the risks it has assumed and is accordingly exposed the outbreak of a pandemic, or the risk of sovereign default following to the risk of loss should its reinsurers become unable or unwilling to the assumption by governments of the obligations of private sector pay claims made by the Group against them.
Similarly the Group faces the heightened risk of trade barriers, exchange controls and other measures taken by sovereign The Groups operations have inherent reputational risk.
governments which may impact a borrowers ability to repay.
Terrorist Reputational risk, meaning the risk to earnings and capital from negative acts and threats and the response to them of governments in any of public opinion, is inherent in the Groups business.
Negative public these countries could also adversely affect levels of economic activity opinion can result from the actual or perceived manner in which the and have an adverse effect upon the Group's business.
Group conducts its business activities or from actual or perceived practices in the banking and financial industry.
Negative public opinion The restructuring proposals for ABN AMRO are complex and may not may adversely affect the Groups ability to keep and attract customers realise the anticipated benefits for the Group.
and, in particular, corporate and retail depositors.
The Group cannot The restructuring plan in place for the integration and separation of ensure that it will be successful in avoiding damage to its business from ABN AMRO into and among the businesses and operations of the reputational risk.
consortium members is complex, involving substantial reorganisation of ABN AMROs operations and legal structure.
In addition, the plan In the United Kingdom and in other jurisdictions, the Group is contemplates activities taking place simultaneously in a number of responsible for contributing to compensation schemes in respect of businesses and jurisdictions.
Although integration efforts are well banks and other authorised financial services firms that are unable to underway and are being advanced on a number of fronts, the meet their obligations to customers.
implementation of the reorganisation and the realisation of the forecast In the United Kingdom, the Financial Services Compensation Scheme benefits within the planned timescales, particularly given current market the Scheme was established under the FSMA and is the UKs and economic conditions, remains challenging, although the Group statutory fund of last resort for customers of authorised financial remains confident that such goals will be achieved.
Execution of the services firms.
The Scheme can pay compensation to customers if a firm restructuring requires management resources previously devoted to the is unable, or likely to be unable, to pay claims against it and, if the Group businesses and the retention of appropriately skilled ABN AMRO Banking Bill is enacted in its current form, may be required to make staff.
The Group may not realise the benefits of the acquisition or the payments either in connection with the exercise of a stabilisation power restructuring when expected or to the extent projected.
It is not expected or in exercise of the bank insolvency procedures under that Bill.
The that the State of the Netherlands acquisition of Fortis Bank Nederlands Scheme is funded by levies on firms authorised by the FSA, including the shares in RFS Holdings, which was effected in December 2008, will Group.
In the event that the Scheme raises funds from the authorised materially affect the integration benefits envisaged by the Group.
firms, raises those funds more frequently or significantly increases the levies to be paid by such firms, the associated costs to the Group may The recoverability of certain deferred tax assets recognised by the have a material impact on its results of operations and financial Group depend on the Group's ability to generate sufficient future condition.
During the financial year ended 31 December 2008, the Group taxable profits and there being no adverse changes to tax legislation made a provision of 150 million related to a levy by the Scheme.
In accordance with IFRS, the Group has recognised deferred tax assets on losses available to relieve future profits from tax only to the extent In addition, to the extent that other jurisdictions where the Group that it is probable that they will be recovered.
The losses are quantified operates have introduced or plan to introduce similar compensation, on the basis of current tax legislation and are subject to change in contributory or reimbursement schemes such as in the United States respect of the rate of tax or the rules for computing taxable profits and with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Group may make allowable losses.
Failure to generate sufficient future taxable profits or further provisions and may incur additional costs and liabilities, which changes in tax legislation may reduce the recoverable amount of the may negatively impact its financial condition and results of operations or recognised deferred tax assets.
result in a loss of value in RBS shares.
34 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
