Business review continued On pages 78 to 144 of the Business review certain information has Whilst the international stabilisation efforts led by various governments been audited and is labelled as such.
since September 2008 have helped, the knock-on economic impacts are now evident in markets globally.
2009 will see further strains for Risk, capital and liquidity management unaudited financial institutions.
Whilst the liquidity crisis is likely to stabilise, the 2008 has been one of the most challenging years for banks.
The level of impairments will increase as recession spreads worldwide.
financial markets turmoil, which started in the second half of 2007 following concerns over the US sub-prime mortgage market, resulted in The Board, in the light of the severe and increasing deterioration in a global reduction in liquidity and the availability of term-funding.
market conditions, the worsening economic outlook and difficulties in Confidence in financial institutions was eroded through 2008 as a result the credit markets, concluded that it was appropriate for the Group to of an increased perception of counterparty risk following notable strengthen its capital position.
The Group has responded to the changing business and economic During the recent market turbulence, in common with other banks, the conditions by reducing leverage, building and improving liquidity, raising Group saw the availability of long term funding from both the capital additional capital and through augmenting its risk management markets and money markets decline significantly during the second half resources to drive forward a number of strategic initiatives.
As a result, reliance on shorter term funding increased with a risk operating model has been strengthened to ensure its adequacy for consequent deterioration in the Groups liquidity profile.
In response to changing market conditions and additional capital management the market stress, central banks increased liquidity through a number of disciplines are being embedded across the Group.
There is an facilities and schemes available to support their respective banking increased emphasis on the independence of the control functions, systems.
In addition, governments around the world have provided capital allocation, stress testing and risk return throughout the Group.
capital to financial institutions and moved to offer guarantees and increase deposit insurance to reassure investors and depositors.
As a global bank, the Group has access to a number of those facilities and schemes which, in common with many other banks, it has used to support funding.
Risk governance unaudited Risk and capital management strategy is owned and set by the Groups Board of Directors, and implemented by executive management led by the Group Chief Executive.
There are a number of committees and executives that support the execution of the business plan and strategy.
Group Board of Directors Group Executive Group Audit Committee Advances Committee Management Committee Group Credit Committee Executive Risk Forum Group Asset and Liability Group Risk Committee Management Committee 78 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2008
