Managing risk Investment performance risk Key risks and The management of risk is embedded in our Investment performance risk is the risk that mitigations corporate culture.
The senior management team, portfolios do not meet their investment objectives.
supported by a number of risk management We adhere to a clearly defined investment process functions, takes the lead role in ensuring that proper 14 15 which is combined with a programme of controls are in place across the business to maintain continuous review and improvement.
the quality standards expected by our clients and regulators.
It is the responsibility of all employeesIndividual portfolio performance, valuations to ensure that the control culture of Schroders is and risk profiles are monitored on a regular embedded within our working practices.
basis, allowing issues to be identified and mitigated: and Like any asset management business we are Recognising that not all products will outperform exposed to a range of risks.
These risks, if not all of the time, we offer a diversified product set managed properly, increase the possibility of the which reduces the concentration of risk on the Group not being able to meet its objectives.
Some performance of any one fund or asset class.
of them, like the risks inherent in taking active investment decisions on behalf of clients, are Liquidity risk the risks we are in business to take.
Liquidity risk includes the risk that investments cannot be realised to meet redemptions as they Risks are managed in a variety of different ways arise.
This can occur either because of liquidity depending on the nature of the risk and the constraints due to the nature of the underlying areas potentially affected to ensure that, where assets or from normally liquid assets being illiquid appropriate, the consequences are mitigated.
We as a result of market dislocation.
reviewed our risk management framework in 2008 in light of increased risk arising from less liquid andWe seek to match, where possible, the liquidity more volatile markets.
We continuously upgrade of a portfolios underlying investments with our risk control processes and technological its liquidity requirements.
We actively monitor support tools.
the market for indicators of illiquidity to enable pre-emptive actions to be taken.
Market risk Market risk is the risk that market conditions Counterparty risk will lead to a reduction in revenues through a Counterparty risk is the risk that a counterparty decline in funds under management, a net is unable to meet its obligations.
reduction in investment flows, or a decline in We monitor counterparty credit worthiness and the value of principal investments.
To mitigate operate within approved counterparty limits: and these risks: Where possible, we diversify our investments We have a broad product range enabling us across multiple counterparties.
to provide clients with solutions tailored to a variety of market conditions: and Product risk We hedge our principal investments to reduce Product risk arises from product complexity market risk where appropriate.
across multiple asset classes and the need to develop new products to meet changes in client demands.
We have an established product review process designed to manage our product range, including the continual assessment of capacity constraints: and We also have a dedicated product development team with clear product approval procedures with representation from Investment, Distribution and Infrastructure.
In December 2008, we published details of our capital risk management on our website, as part of the Capital Requirements Directive of the European Union.
com ir Business review Human resource risk The management of Human resource risk is the risk that we are unable to attract or retain specialist skills as the range of risk is embedded in our product offering deepens and our investment and distribution strategies develop our corporate culture.
We have competitive remuneration plans, with appropriate deferred benefits, targeted at key staff: and Clear objectives are set for each employee and we measure success in the annual review process.
This allows us to identify employee development initiatives which are a motivational force in retaining talented executives.
Business continuity risk Business continuity risk is the risk that, for a number of reasons, we are unable to continue to operate.
We have a number of outsourced supplier relationships that are an important part of our business model, particularly in respect of fund administration services.
Continuity planning is in place across the business with clear identification of key staff and their involvement in business resumption plans: While the increase in the concentration of global systems presents further risks, additional resilience and contingency arrangements are in place: Group-wide insurance is held against a loss resulting from interruption to the business consequent upon loss or damage to our property: and We work closely with our outsourced suppliers to maintain the quality and continuity of service.
Project risk Project risk is the risk that ineffective project implementation could lead to sub-optimal solutions being delivered on our key projects.
We have a dedicated Change Management Team overseeing all major projects, ensuring that consistent, Group-wide rigour is brought to the initiation, approval and monitoring of projects: and We do not implement live projects before they have been fully tested.
