In this section we set out the Groups risk Monitoring risk Risk management and management process and system of internal The liquidity of the banking entities within the internal control report controls.
Group is monitored by the relevant local risk committees.
The Group Capital Committee Risk management monitors and controls the use and liquidity 52 53 The Board is accountable for risk and is responsible of the Groups capital resources.
for oversight of the risk management process.
The Board has considered the key risks facing the Group Dedicated personnel are responsible for producing and the exposure in relation to each of those risks.
and maintaining market and liquidity risk reports based upon the Financial Services Authoritys The Group Management Committee reviews the key methodologies under the Capital Requirements corporate risks facing the Group.
The underlying methodologies and limits Officer has responsibility for the risk and control are reviewed and set centrally.
Local risk committees framework within the Group and the independent review exposures against limits on a regular basis.
monitoring and reporting of risk and controls.
A risk management structure is in place which embeds Group Compliance undertakes detailed risk management within the business.
A Chief Risk monitoring to review compliance with legal Officer was appointed in December 2008 reporting and regulatory requirements.
Group Internal Audit to the Chief Financial Officer.
carries out a programme of audits approved by the Audit Committee, including reviews Group Risk Committee of the risk management process and advice The Group Risk Committee supports the Chief and recommendations on improving the control Financial Officer in discharging the responsibilities environment.
outlined above and is the principal management committee for the monitoring and reporting of risks Internal control and controls.
The Committee is chaired by the Chief The Board is responsible for the Groups system Financial Officer, and includes senior representatives of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
from the businesses and the control functions.
The Such a system can provide only reasonable and Committee reviews and monitors the adequacy and not absolute assurance against material financial effectiveness of the process for the identification, misstatement or loss and is designed to mitigate, assessment, mitigation, monitoring and management not eliminate, risk.
of all risks faced by the Group.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee Operational risk carried out its annual assessment of the Local management is responsible for operational effectiveness of internal controls during 2008 risk controls.
Where appropriate, depending on using the following to support its conclusions: the size and complexity of the business unit, risk The assessments by the Group Management and control maps have been prepared which are Committee of key risks, supplemented where captured on an on-line worldwide risk management appropriate with the results of the business risks system.
A Group Operational Risk Committee was and controls evaluation survey completed by established in 2008.
The Group Risk Committee business area heads across the Group: receives reports from line management regarding matters giving cause for concern and ensuresQuarterly reports from the Chairman of the appropriate remedial action is taken.
Group Risk Committee and the Global Head of Compliance on the control environment Credit risk within the Group, highlighting any major In respect of principal and agency credit risk, the instances of non-compliance and the actions Group sets the overall limits.
A dedicated team being taken to remedy such non-compliance: of credit professionals, together with local risk A report at least twice yearly from the Group personnel are responsible for monitoring exposures General Counsel outlining the Groups legal risks: against these limits and reporting regularly to Group Risk management.
Quarterly reports from the Head of Internal Audit on the key issues arising from Internal Audits Interest rate and market risk inspection programme: The Private Banking subsidiaries hold certain Internal Audits review of the effectiveness and financial instruments including debt securities, application of the risk management process: and forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps for customer facilitation purposes.
TheAnnual and regular reports from the Head of Group has a number of overseas subsidiaries whose Internal Audit on the control environment.
shareholders funds, revenues and expenses are denominated principally in local currencies.
Forward The Board is of the view that there is an ongoing foreign exchange contracts with third parties can be process for identifying, evaluating and managing used to mitigate exposure to currency movements.
the Groups significant risks that: The use of such instruments is subject to approval Has been in place for the year ended 31 December by the Group Capital Committee.
2008 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts: The Groups seed capital investments may also be hedged in respect of market risk.
The decisionsIs regularly reviewed by the Board and complies to hedge market risk on seed capital investments, with the internal control guidance for directors are taken by the Group Capital Committee, chaired in the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance by the Chief Financial Officer.
Details on financial 2005 : and instrument risk management are provided in Necessary actions have been or are being taken note 27 to the financial statements.
to remedy any significant failings identified as part of the ongoing risk management process.
