214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 58 Risk and Risk Management Introduction The mechanisms for identifying, assessing, managing and monitoring risks are an integral part of our day to day management process.
Understanding the risks we face and managing them appropriately enables effective decision making and helps us to achieve our business objectives.
In the following sections we outline the framework for the management of risk in the Group and provide detail on the main strategic risks facing the business and associated management activity which is followed by individual sections focusing on each of the following areas: Market Risk Credit Risk Liquidity & Currency Risk Insurance Risk Operational Risk The Risk Management Framework Risk Appetite Statement The Board is ultimately responsible for setting the framework within which risk is managed at SJP.
At the centre of this framework is our Risk Appetite Statement.
In our Risk Appetite Statement, the Board clearly sets out our risk boundaries a specification of the types of risks the Group is willing to take and to what extent.
The Statement is regularly reviewed and updated by the Board to ensure that it remains current and continues to take account of the implications of any emerging or topical risk.
Risk Policies In support of our Risk Appetite Statement, we have a number of formal Risk Policies which clearly establish our objectives, principles and high level management activity in relation to risk management in relation to the areas of risk that the Group faces.
When recording risk we use these categories to help improve understanding of our exposure.
The Risk Committee & Group Risk Function Overseeing our Risk Management Framework is the Risk Committee a group of non-executive Board members responsible for ensuring that a culture of effective risk identification and management is fostered across the Group.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing and assessing corporate and emerging risks.
Further information on the Risk Committee is set out on pages 54 and 55.
The Risk Committee is supported by a central Group Risk function whose primary role is to ensure that an appropriate Risk Management Framework is in place, that it is fit for purpose and is working as intended.
The Group Risk function is responsible for the ongoing development and co-ordination of risk management and, importantly, for the consolidation, reporting and, where appropriate, escalation of risk related management information.
58 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008 214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 59 Risk and Risk Management continued Strategic Risks and Uncertainties Certain risks and uncertainties are inherent within both the Groups business model and the market in which we operate.
At the time of preparing this report, the key strategic risks and uncertainties facing the business, and the high level controls and processes through which we aim to mitigate these risks are: Risk Description Management Economic environment That a major and prolonged economic We closely monitor the achievement of our business plan, downturn and or stock market crash the performance of the markets and consumer confidence.
leads to a failure to meet targets and to Robust management information is used to facilitate this a significant underperformance of our monitoring and to identify early signals of a market decline business plan.
so we can manage expenses and strategy appropriately.
Distribution capability That the Groups distribution strength We employ a number of specialist managers specifically to may be eroded due to an inability to manage the recruitment and retention of high quality Partners.
recruit and retain Partners of the Formal retention strategies are in place to ensure that, wherever appropriate quality.
possible, we retain good quality, experienced Partners.
All recruitment and retention activity is closely monitored.
Investment management That our approach to investment We actively manage and monitor the performance of our approach management may fail to deliver expected investment managers through the Investment Committee and returns to clients of the Group.
a firm of professional external advisers Stamford Associates.
Outsourcing That the Groups dependence on We maintain close working relationships with our outsourcing may come under threat outsourced business partners and should have sufficient should any of its key investment warning of any material changes that may impact upon our management or administration business model.
All relationships are governed by formal business partners decide to exit the agreements with adequate notice periods and full exit market, significantly revise their management plans.
Strong alternative providers exist in the strategy or fail.
Business continuity arrangements have been considered and scenario analysis carried out.
Competitor activity That a major and successful new entrant We closely monitor competitor activity and the marketplace for to the adviser-based wealth management signs of any potential new entrants or threats.
As noted above, market has an impact on the success of we also have a proven track record in Partner acquisition and St. Jamess Places business.
retention which we believe would make it difficult for a new entrant to challenge St. Jamess Places position.
Established St. Jamess Place Partners have significant equity stakes in their practices and these are structured to aid retention.
Culture That developments in the industry or We have a range of strategic initiatives in place including, for in the scale of St. Jamess Places example, regular staff surveys and consultation groups business have an adverse effect on which enable us to monitor the sentiment of our staff and St. Jamess Places culture and ultimately Partners, identify any adverse or potential adverse impacts the continuing success of the business.
upon our culture, and allow us to take appropriate action.
59 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008 214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 60 Risk and Risk Management continued The following information is an integral part of the audited financial statements.
Quantitative financial risk information is contained in Note 27 to the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards.
Market Risk Market risk is the impact a fall in equity or other asset values may have on the business.
The Group adopts a risk averse approach to market risk with a stated policy of not actively pursuing or accepting market risk except where necessary to support other objectives.
The Group seeks to manage market risk by undertaking unit linked business whereby the client bears the market risk.
This strategy mitigates any risk to the Group associated with being unable to meet clients liabilities.
However, a reduction in the market value of the unit linked funds would affect the annual management charges paid to the Group, since these charges are based on the market value of funds under management.
The associated reduction in dividends could also result in the deferral of tax relief on UK life business expenses and indirectly could also be associated with a reduction in the volume of new business sales.
Management of Market Risk The table below summarises the main market risks that the business is exposed to and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate them.
Risk Description Management New business Poor performance in the stock The benefit of long term equity investment is fundamental to the market leads to existing and business model.
Advice and marketing remain valid even when future clients rejecting equity market values fall, however greater attention is required to investment.
support and give confidence to existing and future clients in such circumstances, and this the Group does.
Retention That adverse market conditions Retention of funds is monitored closely.
Currently retention lead to clients withdrawing their has remained consistently high at 95%.
Tax In adverse market conditions, The tax position is monitored closely.
when the company is realising investment losses rather than gains, the working of the I-E tax regime can lead to short term capital inefficiencies.
Shareholder funds That the value of shareholder Financial assets and liabilities held outside unitised funds funds decreases, thereby reducing primarily consist of low volatility government, supranational the capital available to support the fixed interest securities, units in AAA rated money market business.
funds, cash and cash equivalents.
Client liabilities That as a result of reduction in The Groups business is predominantly unit-linked, which equity values the Group may be mitigates this risk.
unable to meet client liabilities.
60 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008 214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 61 Risk and Risk Management continued Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk of loss due to a debtor's non-payment of a loan or other line of credit.
The Group has adopted a risk averse approach to such risk and has a stated policy of not actively pursuing or accepting credit risk except when necessary to support other objectives.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is mitigated by a number of policies including the St. Jamess Place Group Credit Policy and St. Jamess Place Group Reinsurance Policy.
Management of Credit Risk The table below summarises the main credit risks to which the business is exposed and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate them.
Risk Description Management Shareholder assets Loss of assets.
Invested in AAA rated unitised money market funds and deposits with approved banks.
Maximum counterparty limits are set for each company within the Group and aggregate limits are also set at a Group level.
Investment matching of Loss of value of assets.
Matched by fixed interest securities with minimum AAA credit non-linked liabilities ratings: maximum counterparty limits are again set for each company within the Group and at an aggregate Group level.
Reinsurance Failure of counterparty or It is necessary for the credit ratings of potential reinsurers to meet or counterparty unable to meet exceed minimum specified levels.
Consideration is also given to size, risk liabilities.
concentrations exposures and ownership in the selection of reinsurers.
The Group also seeks to diversify its reinsurance credit risk through the use of a spread of reinsurers.
Partner loans Inability of Partners to repay The Group has certain guaranteed loans made by Bank of Scotland to loans from the business.
These loans are explicitly or implicitly secured on the future renewals income stream expected from a Partners portfolio, and loan size varies in relation to the projected future income of a Partner.
Outstanding balances are reviewed on a regular basis and support is provided to help Partners manage their business appropriately.
Liquidity Risk & Currency Risk The Group adopts a risk averse approach to both liquidity and currency risk.
The Group is subject to minimal liquidity risk since it maintains a high level of liquid assets: shareholder assets are held in AAA rated money market funds with same day settlement and UK and other government backed debt where the market has remained liquid.
The Group actively monitors and manages its liquidity needs and position.
The Group is not subject to any significant currency risk since all material financial assets and financial liabilities are denominated in Sterling.
61 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008 214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 62 Risk and Risk Management continued Insurance Risk The Group assumes insurance risk by issuing insurance contracts under which the Group agrees to compensate the client or other beneficiary if a specified future event the insured event occurs.
The Group insures mortality and morbidity risks but not annuity risk.
The Group has a medium appetite for insurance risk, except where financially beneficial, or in support of strategic objectives.
We seek to manage insurance risk through the use of reassurance, reviewable contract terms, regular pricing reviews and underwriting controls.
The terms and conditions of the insurance contracts offered by the Group and our reassurance programme determine the level of risk accepted by the Group.
The general terms and conditions of the main insurance contracts and the associated risks are set out in the table below.
The Group has no with-profit contracts.
Category Essential Terms Risks Generated Client Guarantee Unit linked reviewable Deductions from units pay for Expense No significant guarantees assurances benefits.
Deductions are reviewable at any time.
Conventional reviewable Regular premiums pay for benefits.
Mortality, morbidity, expense Premium level guaranteed assurances Premium level is reviewable every between reviews fifth policy anniversary.
Conventional guaranteed Premium level fixed throughout Mortality, expense Premium and benefit level assurances life.
guaranteed Management of Insurance Risk The table below summarises the main risks to which the insurance business is exposed and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate them.
Risk Description Management Underwriting Failure to price appropriately for a risk, or the Experience is monitored regularly.
For most business impact of anti-selection.
the premium or deduction rates can be re-set.
Epidemic disaster An unusually large number of claims arising Protection is provided through reassurance.
from a single incident or event.
Expense Administration costs exceed expense allowance.
Administration is outsourced and a tariff of costs is agreed.
The contract is monitored regularly to rationalise costs incurred.
Persistency Loss of product margins due to higher than Monitoring of lapse rates and investigation of anticipated lapses.
62 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008 214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC:214443 Report & Accounts 2008 FRONT SEC 12 3 09 01:16 Page 63 Risk and Risk Management continued Operational Risk Operational risk is the risk arising from inadequately controlled internal processes or systems, human error and from external events.
This includes all risks that we are exposed to, other than the financial and insurance risks described above.
The Group has a medium appetite for operational risk except where necessary to support other objectives and seeks to manage it through outsourcing and close management of the Partnership.
Operational risks include risks relating to: Regulation, information technology, financial crime, business protection, human resources, outsourcing, purchasing, communications and legal contracts and obligations: Brand value: Product development process: Advice, sales management and distribution: Financial processes including financial reporting and taxation: and External events and developments.
Each division of the Group is responsible for identifying, managing and reporting its operational risks as part of the quarterly risk reporting process.
There is an Operational Risk Policy which expresses the Group risk appetite and provides the business with guidance on how to manage this type of risk.
Each risk is assessed by considering its potential impact and the probability of its occurrence.
Impact assessments are made against financial and non-financial metrics.
This is consistent with the assessment of all other type of risk as specified in the St. Jamess Place Risk Management Framework document.
Management of Operational Risk The table below summarises the main operational risks to which the business is exposed and the methods by which the Group seeks to mitigate them.
Risk Description Management Advice That advice given by an individual Advice guidelines are agreed by technical specialists and reviewed Partner or authorised by the by group management.
These guidelines are supported by Group is deemed unsuitable Training and Accreditation arrangements that have been leading to redress costs and established, with close compliance monitoring to ensure advice potential reputation damage.
Appropriate incentives exist to promote Partner compliance, whilst those failing to do so are subject to censure and other sanctions.
Retail Distribution Review Changes arising from the Retail Continuing liaison with FSA, trade bodies, professional service Distribution Review, particularly firms and relevant peers.
Incorporation of reactions to better in relation to proposals to split the developed areas e. g. professionalism into the Groups normal market and implications for business planning and operations.
Regulatory censure That the Group could face We seek to maintain open and mutually beneficial relationships regulatory censure should it fail to with our regulators.
We have a range of compliance monitoring comply with regulation.
activities designed to ensure we remain compliant with all applicable regulations.
Regulatory and legislative Changes in the wider regulatory, Governance structure, management committees and active environment legislative or tax environment management of the FSA relationship provides intelligence and tools have an adverse impact on the to mitigate the impact of operating in a highly regulated sector.
63 St. Jamess Place plc Report & Accounts 2008
