Business review continued SVG Advisers Risks and risk management The investment management and advisory business, SVG Advisers, The Board has adopted a matrix of key risks which affect its was established in 2001 with the key objective of providing business and a robust framework of internal control which is intelligent solutions and innovative structures for investing in designed to monitor those risks and to provide a monitoring private equity or public equity using private equity techniques.
system to enable the Directors to mitigate these risks as far as possible.
Further details of the Directors system of internal control In a difficult year for fund raising, the business has raised one and its monitoring system, is set out in the Corporate Governance new fund during the year, the US$200 million SVG Asia Fund of Statement.
The principal risks are considered to be as follows: Funds, but has seen a decrease in funds and commitments under management to 4.2 billion.
In particular, the funds managed by General risks associated with investment in private equity SVG Investment Managers declined signicantly due to dramatic Investment in private equity involves a high degree of risk.
The Group invests in private equity through its exposure to The business reported recurring external revenues of 28.0 million buy-out and development capital funds.
Such investments are in the year, an increase of 27% on 2007.
Total external fee income illiquid and might be difficult to realise, particularly within a short stood at 28.4 million, which compares to 29.7 million for 2007. timeframe.
The Directors seek to maintain a diversied portfolio This decrease in total income is predominantly a result of the of investments to mitigate these risks, although the portfolio does absence of performance fees from the public equity team.
remain concentrated with respect to private equity fund managers Including fees paid by SVG Capital to SVG Advisers total fees as explained below.
earned by the operating subsidiaries and other income were 35.8 million, contributing 20.3 million to the Groups Valuation and leverage risk operating profit before finance costs in 2008.
This number The Groups exposure to valuation risk comprises mainly includes certain exceptional items and will not be sustained movements in the value of its underlying investments.
at this level in the short term.
A breakdown of the Groups portfolio of private equity funds The business manages eight diversied private equity fund of is given on pages 9 to 19 and a detailed analysis of the 20 largest funds, five single manager funds all investing in Permira Funds underlying companies is given on pages 16 to 19.
In addition to and five funds investing in public equities using private equity any Group borrowings the Company also holds interests in funds techniques.
which are leveraged themselves such as SVG Diamond I, II, III and Vintage I.
The additional leverage in these funds may create Contractual arrangements additional volatility to valuations.
All underlying investments are valued at fair value by the Directors in accordance with the current As was fully reported to shareholders in a Circular to shareholders International Private Equity and Venture Capital IPEVC dated 24 March 2005, SVG Capital entered into arrangements Guidelines.
The IPEVC Guidelines contain detailed methodology with Permira which allowed SVG Capital full access to Permira IV setting out best practice with respect to valuing unquoted and to its successor, Permira V. Concurrent with the arrangements, investments.
In valuing its portfolio, SVG Capital is dependent on Permira subscribed for shares in the Company.
The arrangements such information as Permira and other fund managers may provide also included an operating agreement which imposes material to it as a limited partner in the relevant fund.
Permira and other limits on the extent to which the Group may have investments fund managers are themselves dependent on information made which are not in Permira Funds or Permira Products.
These limits available by the management of the portfolio companies.
This substantially prevent the Group from investing in private equity information from Permira, other fund managers and portfolio funds or products managed or advised by general partners or companies is necessarily limited, subjective and depends on the managers other than Permira during the term of the operating accuracy of judgments by the underlying portfolio companies, agreement.
One of the principal undertakings made by SVG Capital many of which are unquoted and not publicly traded and by the is that the Company will operate with the intention that no more general partners and other managers of the funds.
There can be than 20% of the gross assets and uncalled commitments of no assurance that such information or judgments are accurate or the Group will be in non-Permira funds or products subject to complete.
It should be noted that the Company has no direct certain limited exceptions and subject to a maximum of 25%.
access to the underlying management accounts of the portfolio The effect of the operating agreement therefore is to increase companies.
Investment in funds requires a long term commitment the Groups reliance on Permira and increase its concentration with no certainty of return.
The ability of the funds to achieve risk.
Subject to earlier termination, the operating agreement capital appreciation could be affected by any significant general will terminate on the date on which the first closing of Permira V change in the value of the investments held by the funds.
There occurs if none of SVG Capital, any other member of the Group can be negative movements in valuations which can be due to or any SVG product makes any commitment to Permira V or, deterioration in a specic portfolio companys performance and or if SVG Capital, any other member of the Group or any SVG changes in market or public company comparable earnings product does so, the date of final closing of that fund.
In highly leveraged companies, reductions in earnings be no assurance as to when Permira V will be raised.
If the first may have a signicantly greater impact on their valuation.
closing of Permira V has not occurred by 30 June 2012, the Private equity investments, by their nature, involve uncertainty Company and Permira Holdings are each able to terminate the as to the ultimate value likely to be realised upon disposal of those operating agreement by giving written notice.
A copy of the investments if any, particularly because their predominantly Circular to shareholders is available on the Companys website: unquoted nature means that a ready market may not exist for www.
Portfolio companies may be difficult to value and disposals, if any, of such investments may require a lengthy period of time depending on the market for such investments at the time.
The value of these investments could decrease and SVG Capital, as an investor in a fund, may not recover the full amount of its original investment.
SVG Capital plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information Future commitment funding risk Default risk At 31 December 2008, the Group had uncalled commitments, A funds documentation generally provides for certain penalties including warehouse commitments, of 492.9 million in the event that an investor in the fund fails to meet a call.
There 2007: 1,635.5 million, compared to Shareholders funds is typically a grace period during which interest accrues on the of 434.2 million 2007: 1,299.6 million.
The major movement unpaid amount.
If the default continues, the investor may become in uncalled commitments during the year arose when the subject to various sanctions, including termination of the investors Board elected to cap its direct capital commitment to Permira IV right to participate in future investments, loss of its entitlement to at 60% of its original commitment.
The Group has in place a distributions or income but not its liability for losses or expenses, 550.0 million multicurrency borrowing facility with a term mandatory transfer or sale of its interest, continuing liability for the until March 2011 and has in addition issued 332.0 million of principal and interest in respect of the defaulted amount, partial unsecured Notes.
The company repurchased 26.7% of the Notes or total forfeiture of the investors interest and liability for any other in issue in January 2009.
In March 2009 the Company received rights and remedies including legal remedies the general partner gross proceeds of 171.3 million from a Rights Issue and Placing.
or manager may have against the investor.
In the case of partial forfeiture, this would often have the effect of the investor losing The Board considers cash ow forecasts at each Board meeting and an amount equal to at least 25% of its interest in, and entitlement expects to meet a substantial portion of its uncalled commitments, to distributions from, the fund.
The investor may also remain liable as well as commitments to future funds, from distributions received for future calls in respect of the relevant fund as and when they are from its investments and from borrowings available to the Group.
There can be no assurance as to the price which may be In the latter part of 2008, it became apparent that distributions achieved in any mandatory transfer or sale following a default on from current investments are being adversely impacted by the a call.
Certain funds give the general partner or manager the right challenging economic conditions.
This therefore meant that it was to proceed directly to forfeiture proceedings following notice and likely that commitments would have to be met out of existing cash continuation of default by an investor.
In the case of a forfeiture, resources and borrowings rather than distributions for the short the share of the fund held by the defaulting investor would to medium term.
To this end, the Group renegotiated the funding generally be allocated among the general partner or manager and facilities as described in the Finance Directors report and has the remaining investors.
In addition, the investor may remain liable in place a five-year multicurrency 550.0 million borrowing facility, for the defaulted amount.
Consequently, any failure by SVG Capital which will assist in providing funds to meet uncalled commitments to meet any call may have a material adverse effect on the value until March 2011.
Any reduction in the net asset value attributable of SVG Capitals interest in a fund and or on the net asset value of to shareholders and the share price will be amplied by balance SVG Capital and or on SVG Capitals ability to generate returns for sheet gearing.
The Directors keep the Groups gearing under its Shareholders.
review and impose restrictions on borrowings to mitigate this risk.
If another investor or limited partner in a fund in which the Borrowing risk Company holds an interest were to default on a call, this may result in the other investors including the Company in the fund The Revolving Credit Facility and the Notes each contain financial in question becoming subject to individual calls of a larger amount covenants.
The consequences for the Company of breaching such but subject to each investors original capital commitment and, covenants would be serious.
The lenders under the Revolving in addition, the fund in question may make fewer or smaller or Credit Facility would no longer be required to advance amounts more highly leveraged investments.
Any such occurrence may available under the Revolving Credit Facility and amounts lead to a reduction in the diversication of the Companys interests outstanding under the Revolving Credit Facility and the Notes may in underlying portfolio companies, increase volatility, increase the become immediately due and payable by the Company.
In such Companys nancing requirements and may have an adverse effect circumstances, the Company may become obliged to sell its assets on the Companys business and prospects.
In addition, a failure on unfavourable terms to repay its debts, thereby reducing the to meet a call may result in a cross-default under the Notes and the returns which shareholders may otherwise have earned.
Any such Revolving Credit Facility which could result in a substantial loss.
default may also trigger a cross-default under other existing nancing arrangements.
Investment holdings period The Group may obtain nancing which matures before the Investment in private equity requires a long term commitment investments in underlying portfolio companies are realised.
with no certainty of return.
Many of the investments made by In that case, the Group will be required to seek a renancing the Group are illiquid holdings in buy-out and development capital of such nancing.
There can be no assurance that the Group will funds and, in some cases, may not be capable of being realised in be able to obtain new finance on competitive terms or at all and a timely manner or at all.
The timing of cash distributions, if any, therefore it may suffer a loss as a result of having to dispose of made by the buy-out and development capital funds is uncertain investments which cannot be renanced either at a time which and unpredictable and has been impacted by the worsening is not of the Groups own volition or at all and at a price which economic environment.
does not reect the full value of the asset which may be achieved upon its maturity.
A failure to obtain new finance could result in Current market conditions have made it more difficult for general a member of the Group defaulting on its obligations which could partners or other managers of private equity funds to dispose of have a material adverse effect on the Group.
The Revolving Credit investments at attractive prices and otherwise on favourable terms.
Facility is currently available until March 2011, the convertible The Company considers that it is likely that these difficult bonds mature in 2016 and the Notes are due in 2013, 2014 circumstances will continue in the short to medium term and, and 2015. while they do continue, it may be that the returns of the Company from its investments will be reduced and or delayed.
SVG Capital plc 21 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review continued Any further material change in the economic environment, may have an adverse effect on the performance of the Company including a continued slow-down in economic growth and or and the value and trading price of the Ordinary Shares.
Each changes in interest rates or foreign exchange rates, could have fund investment proposition is considered by the Investment a negative impact on the performance and or valuation of the Committee and the Board in accordance with a structured underlying portfolio companies.
SVG Capitals performance may investment process.
This includes presentations from the manager be affected by prolonged weakness or further deterioration in of the proposed fund, extensive due diligence, consideration of the public markets and by market events, such as the current world terms and conditions for investment in the fund, consideration of financial crisis, which may impact on not only its quoted portfolio the Groups own cash ows and future commitments and a review companies but also the public company comparable earnings of the effect of any such investment on portfolio concentration.
multiples used to value unquoted portfolio companies.
Portfolio company risks A further consequence of the difficulty in achieving attractive sale Since the Company invests through private equity funds in prices for portfolio companies is that the general partners, or other portfolio companies, the risks experienced by the portfolio managers, of the private equity funds in which the Company holds companies will closely affect the returns earned by the Company interests are more likely to delay disposing of portfolio companies and the trading price and value of its Ordinary Shares.
The risks until market conditions improve.
As a result, the Company is likely which the portfolio companies may experience, and the risks to receive distributions in respect of its investments at a slower rate posed by an investment in such companies, include: than may have otherwise been the case in a more favourable economic environment.
In addition to this, a fund managers these companies may be highly leveraged and subject to ability to realise its interest in certain portfolio companies in whole significant debt service obligations, stringent operating and or in part may be subject to contractual restrictions such as financial covenants and a higher risk of default under nancing shareholder lock-up arrangements.
It may therefore be the case and other contractual arrangements, which would lead to severe that the Company decides to pay calls with debt finance rather adverse consequences for the relevant portfolio company and than relying upon receiving distributions from investments which the value of the Companys investment in such company if a it has made which may therefore increase the Companys default were to occur: borrowings and risk and volatility for Shareholders.
There can the valuations of highly leveraged companies are typically more therefore be no assurance as to whether, and if so how much, sensitive to changes in value in public company comparable the value of the Companys assets will grow.
The timing of returns, earnings multiples, declines in revenues, increases in expenses if any, to SVG Capital is uncertain and unpredictable.
and interest rates and adverse economic, market and industry Investments in buy-out and development capital funds may developments.
The risk of loss associated with a highly leveraged be difficult to value and dispositions may require a lengthy time company is generally far greater than for companies with period since there is only a limited market for secondary sales comparatively less debt: of private equity investments.
Further, sales or other transfers they may have limited financial resources and may be unable to of interests in buy-out and development capital funds sometimes meet their obligations under their debt facilities, or to renance require the written consent of the general partner of the fund, debt facilities when they fall due, which may be accompanied by the granting of which is at its discretion.
Accordingly, the Group a deterioration in the value of their equity securities in which the may not be able to sell its investments in buy-out and Company is ultimately invested: development capital funds at their net asset value.
they may require significant additional capital investment or The Directors believe that the investment process employed operational or management support to improve their operations, when initially selecting investments helps to ensure that the finance expansions or maintain their competitive positions.
Such Groups investments would normally be attractive to buyers investment and support may not be forthcoming: in the secondary market.
However the portfolio does remain concentrated with respect to private equity fund managers generally, little public information exists about these companies as explained below and this may impact the ability to place and investors in these companies generally must rely on a large holding of a single fund on the secondary market at information obtained by the general partner, or other manager, any one time.
of the relevant fund which holds the portfolio company: there can be no assurance as to the adequacy or accuracy of Concentration risk information provided during any due diligence exercise The Companys ability to achieve its investment objective and conducted prior to an investment being made.
The general to generate returns for Shareholders will depend upon the ability partner, or relevant manager, of the fund in question may have of the general partners and other managers of the funds in which made judgments concerning the materiality of contingent or the Company holds interests including Permira Funds to identify, actual risks or liabilities identied during due diligence that may invest in, support and dispose of portfolio companies on attractive not in practice turn out to have been accurate: terms.
The majority of the Companys investments are managed or advised by Permira, and the future performance of the Group the purchase agreements relating to the investment in question will therefore be largely dependent on the future performance may contain only limited representations and warranties from the of the Permira Funds in which it has invested.
The Directors have relevant vendors and these may be limited in, for example, time chosen this strategy on the basis of the very long positive record and amount.
Such contractual protection would typically not be of Permira and the geographical and industry diversication which addressed to the Company directly and, in any case, there can the Permira Funds provide.
However, the greater concentration be no assurance as to the ability of the relevant vendor to satisfy of the investment portfolio also presents a risk.
The performance of any claims which may be made under any such agreement: Permira Funds depends to a significant extent upon the skills and general operating risks arising from or being, amongst other experience of Permira and its personnel.
The continued service of matters, the cost of goods and services, difficulty in obtaining these individuals is not guaranteed and there can be no assurance customers, losses arising from customer failure, market that key individuals can be replaced with equally skilled and developments, competition risk, key man risk, foreign exchange experienced professionals by Permira.
Therefore, the departure of risk, nancing risks, an increase in costs and the legal and one or several key investment professionals or partners at Permira regulatory framework within which the portfolio company operates: SVG Capital plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information there are likely to be prior claims on the assets of portfolio Currency and interest rate risk companies from debt providers which would reduce the The Group is exposed to currency risk directly since the majority amounts earned by the equity holders including, indirectly, of its assets and liabilities are denominated in foreign currency and the Company: and their sterling value can be signicantly affected by movements in foreign exchange rates.
Currency risk is monitored on a regular lenders to portfolio companies may take actions which are basis by the Board.
The Group may from time to time hedge adverse to the interests of the holders of equity interests in the against foreign currency movements affecting the value of its portfolio company including, indirectly, the Company.
The value of the portfolio companies held by the funds in which the Company holds interests may be affected by uncertainties, Regulatory risks such as political developments, changes in government policies, The regulatory environment in which the Group operates is regulations, laws, taxation, currency uctuations, currency increasingly complex and the Group faces a number of regulatory repatriation and other restrictions, in some of the countries in risks.
Breaches of regulations such as the UK Listing Authoritys which the funds may invest.
The Company, directly or indirectly Listing Rules could lead to a number of detrimental outcomes through the funds in which the Company holds interests, may and damage the Groups reputation.
Breaches of controls by also be exposed to these risks.
service providers could also lead to reputational damage or loss.
Key regulatory risks have been identied and appropriate Passive investor with limited recourse monitoring of such risks is undertaken regularly on behalf of the The Company is generally a passive investor and has limited Board.
Three of the Companys subsidiaries: SVG Advisers Limited, powers under the governing documents of the funds in which SVG Investment Managers Limited and SVG Managers Limited are it holds interests.
The funds concerned are, within certain broad authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
parameters, generally authorised to follow broad investment guidelines and, subject thereto, are able to invest in geographies, Risk of warehousing assets industries and investment opportunities at their discretion.
The Company has, in the past, occasionally made commitments The Company does not review each proposed investment and is, to fund investments in order to seed a prospective SVG Advisers subject to certain limited exceptions, unable to refuse to meet product and then warehoused the investments on the balance a Call without suffering the consequences of a default.
There can sheet until the product was launched.
In the current difficult fund be no assurance that the strategies adopted by Permira or other raising environment, there is a risk that no new funds will be general partners or managers of the funds in which the Company raised in the near future into which these commitments can holds interests will be successful or that the portfolio companies be transferred.
The Company will therefore either have to sell of such funds, or the Companys investments generally, will these investments or hold them on its balance sheet.
The Company also holds some investments in funds in respect Taxation risk of which other members of the Group are the general partner, Any change in the taxation legalisation or practice could affect the manager and or adviser.
In these instances, duciary duties are value of the Groups investments and as a result, its performance.
owed by the relevant members of the Group to other investors A breach of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act which, together with the terms of the relevant fund management 1988 could result in the Group being subject to corporation tax or advisory agreement, mean that the relevant members of the on realised gains on the sale of portfolio investments which would Group are unable to submit each proposed investment for review have a material adverse effect on the net returns earned by by the Company which will, therefore, remain a passive investor SVG Capital.
However, the Group has strict controls in place to in respect of the relevant fund.
ensure that it complies with the requirements of Section 842 and contracts with specialist tax advisers to provide advice on changes The Company cannot make claims against general partners or to the tax regulation and practice.
However, there can be no managers of the funds in which the Company invests even in guarantee in advance that the Company will satisfy the conditions cases of poor performance except in very limited circumstances for approval by HMRC as an investment trust under Section 842 or typically involving severe culpability on the part of the general that the Company will not become a close company, which would partner or manager.
The Companys recourse in the event of poor result in its being unable to qualify as an investment trust for tax performance of the funds concerned is highly restricted.
The Company has agreed allocation arrangements of the general partner or manager of a fund generally requires within the documentation of Permira Funds in order to assist in a high level of investor participation and consent with the relevant compliance with the conditions for approval by HMRC as an threshold often being set so as to require the consent of holders investment trust under Section 842.
There can be no guarantee of 75% of the capital committed to the fund in question.
The or assurance however that such arrangements will be secured for Company is unlikely to be able to procure such participation and future investments.
Any failure to do so will increase the risk of consent on its own and it may therefore be very difficult to remove a breach of Section 842. a general partner or manager of a fund in which the Company invests such that the Company may potentially nd itself locked into an under-performing fund.
The fund documentation relating to Permira IV contains no provision for the removal of the general partner or manager by vote of the limited partners save in circumstances involving severe culpability.
Even if those circumstances were to arise, which the Company considers to be unlikely, the consent of a special majority of limited partners would be required which the Company is unlikely to be able to procure on its own.
Once the Company has made a capital commitment to a fund, it may be difficult to terminate its participation or reduce its capital commitment even if the investment returns arising from that fund are poor or not competitive.
SVG Capital plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2008
