Directors report Business review Directors report governance Financial statements shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Principal Managing Risks and Uncertainties our risks Centrica, like all businesses, faces a number of risks and uncertainties that could affect the delivery of the Groups strategic objectives.
Nick Luff, Group Finance Director We place considerable importance on internal controls and have eXternaL MarKet FactOrs a robust risk management process, which is designed to identify, exposure to movements in commodity prices manage and mitigate business risk in order to support the creation A significant proportion of the Groups profitability depends on our of long-term, sustainable returns for shareholders.
This process is ability to manage our exposure to wholesale commodity prices for described in more detail in the Corporate Governance Report on gas, oil, coal, carbon and power, all of which have been very volatile pages 41 to 42. during the past year.
The price of gas in the UK is particularly Described below are the principal risks and uncertainties the Group important, as we produce substantially less gas from our own can foresee.
It is not an exhaustive list, some future risks may be as resources than we need to meet retail demand and demand from yet unknown and other risks, currently regarded as immaterial, our fleet of gas-fired power stations.
The Group must assess the could turn out to be material.
risk of procuring commodities at fixed prices to meet uncertain levels of demand that are subject to seasonal fluctuations.
With volatile prices, there is a risk that surplus commodity positions gLOBaL ecOnOMIc cOnDItIOns cannot be sold to the wholesale markets profitably and that any A general reduction in business activity resulting from the current commodity short position cannot be covered at a cost that can be downturn in the global economy could lead to a loss of income for passed on to customers.
The unpredictable nature of commodity the Group.
Current credit market conditions mean that financial prices also hampers the calculation of reliable forecasts by the institutions are applying more stringent lending criteria and the Group to support investment decisions, potentially leading to lower availability of debt is low by historical standards.
This could make it than expected returns.
more costly for us to raise funds to take advantage of opportunities.
We manage these risks by hedging a proportion of the exposure Our business performance could also be impacted by increased for a number of years ahead, linked to the underlying profiles of our exposure to the default of wholesale counterparties, including customers energy requirements.
This is done through purchasing financial institutions and customers with bad debts, as economic and developing upstream assets such as gas fields, power stations conditions in the UK and North America worsen.
and wind farms, bilateral agreements for gas and power, purchases Our risk management process has helped identify and manage of commodities on recognised exchanges and the use of financial the increased financial risks.
We have placed particular emphasis instruments such as oil and gas swaps see note 4 to the Financial on ensuring that sufficient liquidity is available to allow the Group Statements on page 74.
The potential British Energy transaction is to realise its growth ambitions: the Rights Issue has helped with an example of how we may secure a proportion of our customers this objective.
There has also been an increased focus on credit expected energy requirements.
issues, which may impact us if our customers and suppliers have While hedging may reduce our exposure to wholesale price liquidity problems, and on the cash required to manage the volatility, significant longer-term price increases or decreases may margin arrangements associated with the commodity trading require us to change the price at which we sell to our customers we undertake.
Where we do pass increased commodity prices We expect the current economic conditions to continue for some through to our customers or fail to pass on decreased commodity time and will continue to seek to mitigate the risks that arise while prices, those customers may switch to our competitors, which identifying and exploiting opportunities.
could have an adverse effect on our business.
climate change Centricas approach to climate change will shape our future operations and, ultimately, the long-term success of our business.
Our strategy is to lead the consumer market for low-carbon energy products and services: to maintain our low-carbon position in power generation, and to reduce the environmental impact of our operations.
31 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued However, operating in a low-carbon economy may present concluded that the fundamental structures of a competitive market significant additional risks.
For example, the need to comply with are in place, and that the transition to effective competitive markets recent legislation such as European Union environmental directives is well advanced.
However, it identified a number of areas where and UK renewable energy and energy efficiency targets may lead this transition should be accelerated.
In addition, there are risks if the legislative framework This will likely result in further consumer protection measures fails to deliver the necessary carbon price over the longer term to through the supply licence.
If the industry does not agree on ensure the viability of investment in new technologies.
An ineffective the licence changes, Ofgem could make a reference to the UK planning regime could make it difficult to develop new assets Competition Commission.
The Government could also intervene such as wind farms and other power generation infrastructure.
There and introduce measures such as a windfall tax on the Groups free are also risks and opportunities in potential investment in nuclear carbon allowances, or price controls for certain customer segments.
power generation as a means of reducing our exposure to volatile wholesale gas and electricity prices.
The Government has announced its intention to require the deployment of smart metering across Britain, but is still determining The US approach to carbon legislation could shift following the key details such as the rate of deployment and the industry model election of President Obama, and we are monitoring the situation for metering.
This creates risk and uncertainty in terms of our closely.
The move towards energy efficiency could have a positive contractual and operational arrangements for the provision of effect on our services business, especially in North America, where metering services.
An accelerated deployment would result in the government subsidies are being made available for this work.
premature replacement of conventional meters, triggering early Changing customer behaviour, including a growing demand for termination payments by British Gas, not all of which is likely to be low-carbon products and services, could result in reduced sales recovered through customer charges.
In the medium term, new technologies such as micro Progress on many aspects of European market liberalisation has combined heat and power units, and smart metering, could also been limited, though recently announced divestment initiatives by affect demand and therefore the Groups earnings.
We cannot certain companies will provide important structural change.
be certain that our strategy will successfully mitigate against the However, the prospects for effective competition in energy markets risks or enable us to take advantage of opportunities that may in continental Europe are impacted by consolidation activity, which present themselves.
could affect not only our participation in those markets, but also our Further information on our approach to climate change is available ability to source and transport gas from Europe to the UK.
in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 25 and 26.
Uncertainty over political or regulatory intervention in energy Level of competitive activity markets in North America could have an impact on the projected We operate in highly competitive energy supply markets, especially growth of our operations.
President Obama has indicated his in the UK and North America, where customers switch suppliers intention not only to enforce existing legislation, but also to increase based on price and service levels, as well as competitor activity.
the reliability of energy supply and the focus on protecting the environment.
The impact on our business is uncertain.
The 2009 We also operate in the home services market.
In the UK, session of the Texas Legislature began in mid-January with the competitive pressures are increasing as energy and other service issue of regulation of competitive electricity markets, and we have providers, such as insurance companies, seek to strengthen their a highly skilled team in place to monitor the session which ends in market positions.
The economic environment in North America is June 2009.
Ontario shows little sign of moving away from low and also making trading more difficult in this market.
stable regulated electricity pricing, and is considering introducing To retain our competitive position, we combine attractive products additional consumer protection measures.
Specific reviews and propositions with high-quality customer service, maintain regarding electricity deregulation are ongoing in a limited number of an efficient cost structure and, for energy supply, buy energy jurisdictions, but energy policy, particularly relating to electricity, competitively.
We actively monitor customer satisfaction and remains a highly politicised topic throughout North America.
competitor activity, and respond to changing circumstances by We continue to engage with regulators, government ministers developing new customer offerings.
We also focus on reducing and senior officials in all of our markets through targeted operating costs, as failure to do so could significantly affect contact programmes.
security of supply regulatory and political factors As UK gas reserves have declined, the UK energy market has Energy markets in the UK, North America and Europe are closely become increasingly reliant on gas from Norway and mainland regulated.
Changes to the regulatory regimes could affect our Europe, together with liquefied natural gas from other parts of the ability to meet our financial goals.
Changes to the retail supply world.
Key elements of security of supply, therefore, are access and wholesale industry procedures we have to comply with could to reserves and the reliability of the storage, pipeline and gas affect our operating costs.
And material increases to the regulated processing infrastructure.
Any break in this supply chain could charges we pay for use of transmission, distribution and other jeopardise the supply to customers and impact the Groups earnings.
infrastructure would affect our margins if such increases could not be passed on to customers.
Similarly, the UK electricity market depends on the reliability of UK power stations, in particular ageing nuclear stations, with security Political and consumer concern over rising energy prices and fuel of supply at risk during periods of outage across the system.
poverty led to an Ofgem probe into the UK energy market.
This 32 Directors report Business review Directors report governance Financial statements shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Centrica depends on third parties for gas and power and cannot As part of the demerger in 1997, Centrica was assigned ownership guarantee the security of supply chains, including from the risk of of the British Gas trademarks and related logos for use in Britain.
terrorist activity or sabotage of power stations or pipelines.
BG Group plc has the right to call for a reassignment of this intellectual property if control of Centrica is acquired by a third To respond to this changing environment, we support the party.
If, as a result of a change of control, we are unable to development of new infrastructure to bring gas to the UK and store continue to use the British Gas trademarks and logos, this could it.
In addition, we will continue to acquire and develop new assets adversely affect our competitive position.
in the UK and overseas, and sign long-term supply contracts to replace declining gas reserves.
We continually review our security Information risk arrangements to protect these assets.
Effective and secure information systems are essential for the efficient management and accurate billing of our customers, effective power generation and successful energy trading and OperatIOnaL FactOrs hedging activities.
The confidentiality, integrity and availability of health and safety our information systems could be affected by factors that include There are significant health, safety and environmental HS&E human error, ineffective design or operation of key controls or hazards associated with operating our onshore and offshore through malfunction or deliberate attack.
Outages and interruptions gas production, exploration, gas storage and power generation could affect our ability to conduct day-to-day operations and any assets.
In addition, our service engineers in the UK and North compromise of the confidentiality of information could impact our America make more than 10 million home visits each year.
reputation with current and potential customers.
Significant breaches of HS&E regulations could affect the safety There are a number of controls in place to manage this risk of individuals, gas and or power production, and result in the including network segregation, monitoring, access restrictions Group incurring liabilities which could affect our reputation or on storage systems, regular third-party security reviews and business performance.
vulnerability assessments of infrastructure and applications.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that Centrica has the Business continuity plans are in place to help recover from appropriate culture and arrangements for meeting its HS&E significant outages or interruptions.
To improve efficiency, we responsibilities, and the Chief Executive is accountable to the continue to invest in our systems supported by strong project Board for delivery.
Our risk management and governance management to minimise the associated implementation risk.
processes meet internationally recognised standards: HS&E is Outsourcing and offshoring the first item of every meeting of the Executive Committee: and We have outsourced several activities, including business-critical quarterly HS&E performance reports are submitted to the Board, information technology services and back office and processing specifically including process safety.
The Group has also recently functions, which support our businesses in the UK and North established a new, senior cross-business HS&E Committee to help America.
Some of the outsourcing contracts are offshore.
As with develop our improvement strategy, and has issued new Group any contractual relationship, there are inherent risks to be mitigated, HS&E standards which define the expectations against which we and these are actively managed.
We continue to target risk reduction in all our operations.
The Centrica Executive Committee regularly reviews progress and Further information on our approach is available in the Corporate a centre of expertise has been developed to capture and share Responsibility Review on page 27. best practice.
uK customer service upstream asset performance and development The delivery of good quality customer service is central to our There is a risk that we suffer financial loss due to the unplanned business strategy and there is a risk that customers will leave breakdown of one or more of our power stations or gas assets.
British Gas if they experience unacceptable customer service We manage this risk through a range of measures including or perceive that we are failing to maintain service quality.
For technical assessment of the status of our assets, regular example, the implementation in 2007 of a new billing system for monitoring of performance and condition and investment to UK residential energy customers led to an unacceptable decline deliver the required capability and mitigate risk.
in customer service levels and in customer numbers.
We also manage a wide range of major capital projects to We carefully monitor service throughout our retail operations, and develop our upstream portfolio.
The risk profiles of the individual continued focus in this area has resulted in service improvements projects vary and we are exposed to financial loss to a varying and fewer customer complaints.
We seek to mitigate financial loss through insurance, Brand and reputation contractual arrangements, partnership arrangements and active Our business principles listed on page 6, apply to all employees project management.
and business partners, and set out our commitment to operate professionally, fairly and with integrity wherever we work in the FInancIaL FactOrs world.
Failure to follow these principles could harm our reputation, damage our brand and affect both our operational performance Liquidity and financial position.
A combination of awareness training and Liquidity risk is the risk that we are unable to meet our financial targeted controls including fraud and data protection is in place obligations as they fall due.
This risk is increased by the margin to encourage and monitor adherence to these principles.
cash arrangements associated with some wholesale commodity contracts.
Managing liquidity risk is particularly important in the 33 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued current economic environment where the availability of capital is pensions limited.
Cash forecasts identifying the liquidity requirements for We maintain a variety of pension schemes including defined benefit the Group are produced at least monthly and these are assessed schemes.
The pension fund liabilities are partially matched with a for different scenarios including the liquidity impact of significant portfolio of assets, leaving potential risk around the mortality rate, changes in commodity prices or a credit rating downgrade.
inflation and returns on assets.
The schemes contain a high Our cash forecasts are reviewed regularly by the Financial Risk proportion of equity assets that are expected to provide a better Management Committee, Centrica Executive Committee and return in the long term than alternative investments such as bonds.
However, in the short term, the difference between the value of liabilities and assets may vary significantly, potentially resulting in a The liquidity forecasting and assessments are designed to ensure large deficit having to be recognised on the Groups Balance Sheet.
that there is sufficient time for the Group to react to possible future In the current business environment with volatile bond and unstable cash constraints.
This may be done by limiting discretionary cash equity markets there is an increased risk that large deficits may outflows and or limiting the volume of commodity transactions arise on our pension schemes.
subject to margin cash arrangements.
We also have policies to maintain a minimum level of committed borrowing facilities and In addition, actions by the pension regulators or the trustees, ensure that a proportion of debt should be long-term and spread and or any material revisions to existing pension legislation could over a range of maturities.
require increased contributions by the Group to the pension fund.
The next formal triennial valuations for the main schemes are due The Rights Issue proceeds and two bond issues in the second half to be performed as at 31 March 2009.
As part of this exercise the of 2008 mean that the Group had significant liquidity at the end of investment and funding strategies for each of the schemes will be the year to mitigate this risk.
Potential acquisitions are expected to reviewed and the trustees and the Company will need to agree utilise surplus liquidity which is currently available to the Group.
The actuarial valuations of the credit rating schemes may give higher deficits than have been recognised on The current strong credit rating of the Group long-term debt: the Groups Balance Sheet and this will be the basis for agreeing A3 stable outlook Moodys, A credit watch negative outlook S&P : any deficit contributions.
The risks associated with the pension short-term debt: P-2 stable outlook Moodys, A-1 credit watch schemes are regularly reviewed and, in combination with expert negative outlook S&P, means that we benefit from high levels of external advice, action is taken where necessary.
credit from our existing counterparties.
Any material deterioration of currency fluctuations these ratings may increase the cost of funding and could mean that Through wholly owned subsidiaries in the United States and we would need to increase our levels of security for existing energy Canada and wholly owned and partly owned European entities, procurement and hedging contracts, which could affect our cash the Group has exposure in US and Canadian dollars and euros.
position, limit our ability to trade in commodity markets and the Operational and capital expenditure cash flows may also be in implementation of our hedging strategy.
However, sufficient liquidity currencies other than those used by our subsidiaries.
The Groups is maintained to limit the immediate financial impact of any credit profitability could be adversely affected if the results and cash flows rating reduction.
associated with these subsidiaries fall or cash outflows rise In the current economic environment there is also the risk that our because of currency fluctuations against pounds sterling, the counterparties may want to restrict the level of credit which they reporting currency of the Group.
make available to us even if our credit rating remains unchanged.
Our policy is to use hedging instruments to manage the impact of This could restrict our ability to enter into fixed price commodity currency fluctuations.
US dollar, Canadian dollar and euro balance contracts and increase the commodity risk within the business.
sheet translation exposure is hedged by maintaining foreign counterparty default currency borrowings and or derivative financial liabilities which As part of our normal operations, we often have significant approximate to the net asset value of the foreign operations.
amounts owed to us by energy counterparties and our customers.
Other material foreign currency cash flow exposures are hedged In addition, we often hold large cash balances on deposit with where there is sufficient certainty that the cash flows will occur.
In the current business environment, there is Where there is significant uncertainty over the timing of such an increased risk of a counterparty default which may, among other exposures, the senior treasury and finance management decide on things, reduce the Groups cash flows.
the appropriate hedging activity required on a case-by-case basis.
Our policy is to limit counterparty exposures by setting credit limits Interest rate fluctuations for each counterparty, where possible by reference to published The Group is exposed to movements in interest rates which affect credit ratings.
Exposures are measured in relation to the nature, the amount of interest paid on borrowings and the return on our market value and maturity of each contract or financial instrument.
Our policy is to manage interest rate risk on Surplus cash is invested in short-term financial instruments and long-term borrowings while ensuring that the exposure to fixed only deposited with counterparties with minimum long-term and rates remains within a 30% to 70% range.
This is achieved by short-term credit ratings of A3 Aor P1 A1 from Moodys or S&P using derivative financial instruments, such as interest rate swaps, respectively.
Energy trading activities are undertaken with to manage interest rate risk on long-term borrowings.
counterparties for whom specific credit limits are set.
Exposures are reviewed by the Financial Risk Management Committee.
Further details on these financial risks can be found in notes 4 and 34 to the Financial Statements on pages 74 and 123.
