74 RISK mANAGING RISK, pRINCIpAl RISKS RISK mANAGEmENT & ASSuRANCE pRoCESSES ANd uNCERTAINTIES OVERSIGHT OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND ASSURANCE PROCESSES As a global, research-based pharmaceutical Board and Audit Committee company, we face a diverse range of risks and uncertainties that may adversely affect our business.
MONITORING AND REVIEW OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND ASSURANCE PROCESSES Senior Executive Team with delegation as considered appropriate within the Group We work continuously to ensure that we have effective processes in place for identifying, assessing and managing these MANAGEMENT OF RISKS risks appropriately, in line with our strategic Line management within relevant business areas and functions objectives, the material needs of our stakeholders and our core values.
As part of this, we continue to monitor our business RISK ASSURANCE PROCESSES activities and our external and internal Global Compliance and the Finance Function provides global oversight and co-ordination.
environments for new and emerging risks, SET area compliance ofcers and specialist compliance functions provide including environmental, social and governance agreed monitoring and assurance processes within the business.
Group Internal Audit provides independent assurance and advice in areas matters, to ensure that these are captured agreed with the Audit Committee and the SET in its annual plan.
and managed at the appropriate level.
In this section we describe our key risk management and assurance mechanisms, Our Code of Conduct and Global Policy KEY ACCouNTABIlITIES together with the associated accountabilities framework require all employees to maintain The Board, and specifically the Audit and the principal areas of risks and consistent standards of responsible behaviour.
Committee, are accountable for monitoring uncertainties that we currently consider to Compliance with the Code of Conduct, the and overseeing the risk management be material to our business in that they may related policies and standards is mandatory.
systems and processes implemented by have a significant effect on our financial Employees are encouraged to raise questions management and for assessing their condition, results of operations and or about how to apply these standards and to adequacy and effectiveness.
Where relevant, specific risks report suspected breaches and incidents direct assurances from senior management and uncertainties are also discussed at of non-compliance through our continuous through the performance management and various points in the Directors Report.
assurance process or the AZethics line and monitoring process, they receive and review other reporting channels described in the a Group-level risk summary from the annual EmBEddEd IN BuSINESS pRoCESSES Code of Conduct.
Compliance with mandatory business planning process and QBRs.
They Risk is an inherent part of doing business, standards is also subject to ongoing monitoring also receive quarterly incident reports and and our approach to risk management is and review by our compliance functions and updates on compliance initiatives from the designed to encourage clear decisions on Group Internal Audit GIA, in accordance Global Compliance Officer, and information which risks we should take and to provide with its annual plan, agreed with the SET in respect of audits in relation to certain risks, assurance that the commercial, financial, and the Audit Committee.
carried out by GIA, in accordance with its compliance and reputation implications of annual audit plan.
these risks are adequately understood and To strengthen further our high-level corporate managed to an acceptable level.
responsibility CR management capability, SET members are accountable for ensuring during late 2007 early 2008 we established sound risk management, control and We constantly strive to ensure that risk a dedicated Global CR Team of experienced assurance processes within their SET areas.
management is embedded within our existing CR professionals from around the Group.
They actively participate in the annual and business processes and performance The Global CR Team leads the development quarterly risk review processes and receive management processes.
The Group maintains of our CR strategy and the alignment of quarterly reports on key compliance incidents a long-term business plan, updated annually, to tactical delivery, working closely with Global and the outcomes of audits in their SET area.
support the delivery of its strategy.
Each Senior Compliance to ensure that the CR risks and They are also required to complete an annual Executive Team SET area and key functions opportunities are identified and managed assurance statement to confirm that effective are required to provide a comprehensive appropriately, in line with business objectives.
risk management and control processes assessment of their risks as part of the annual have been operating throughout the year.
The Chief Executive In early 2009, we developed a combined Officer and the Chief Financial Officer Compliance and Corporate Responsibility Line and project management are accountable undertake quarterly business reviews QBRs Responsible Business scorecard with defined for the management of risk within the context with each SET area at which the key risks are objectives and accountabilities, to track of their functional or cross-functional remit or reviewed.
To support this review, key functions performance consistently across all SET project.
To support and underpin the work of within each SET area are required to provide areas and enable quarterly reporting to SET, line and project management and the SET in quarterly updates on their key risks.
the Audit Committee and Professor Dame managing risk, we have developed systems Nancy Rothwell the Non-Executive Director and processes to ensure the effective with responsibility for overseeing CR within identification, management and reporting of the Company, as well as annual reporting to key risks.
A risk management policy, with the Board and SET.
We plan to introduce this guidelines and supporting tools ensures that new scorecard during 2009. managers can recognise, assess and actively manage the challenges in their areas.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 DIREcTORS REpORT 75 Our compliance organisation is comprised of BuSINESS RESIlIENCE plANS A rolling implementation a wide range of specialist groups who work Our approach to risk management includes Integrating responsible business considerations with line management and the SET to develop the development of business resilience plans, into all of our supplier relationships around systems and processes for managing risk and such plans are designed to provide for the world will take time.
CR considerations in specific regulated areas to ensure ongoing situations in which specific risks have the are being included in all new contracts and legal and regulatory compliance.
These potential to have a severe impact on our master agreements in the US, the UK and groups include Good Laboratory, Clinical and business.
During 2008, our business resilience Sweden our three main business hubs Manufacturing Compliance, SHE, Medical planning activities focused on improving where over 80% of our suppliers are based, and Regulatory Affairs, Financial Control and our existing crisis management processes, and last year we extended the geographic Compliance, Information Security and Data planning and response structures, including reach to other countries where we have Privacy, Sales and Marketing Compliance plans, escalation processes and crisis major marketing, manufacturing or research and Legal and Intellectual Property.
A global standard for crisis activities.
These include Japan, China, India, management has been rolled out during 2008, Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico, as well as Both line management and these specialist and during 2009 a global policy for business more countries in Europe.
functions are supported by the Global resilience, to cover crisis management, Compliance function that acts as the primary business continuity and emergency response Monitoring performance reporting channel to Board and SET on will be communicated.
This will ensure Our supplier evaluation procedure requires compliance matters and is accountable for alignment of documentation, appropriate that comprehensive on-site audits of all our overseeing compliance globally and managing training of line managers and the use of crisis high-risk category suppliers be conducted the Groups compliance programme.
simulation activities to test the new procedures.
at least once every four years.
Medium risk suppliers are audited at the start of the Against the background of the key WoRKING WITH SupplIERS business relationship and refresher audits are accountabilities set out in this section, We believe that effective risk management planned if there are any significant changes the Board believes that adequate information extends to managing any potential reputational at the supplier.
The auditing process will was made available to it in order to identify risks associated with our purchasing activities.
be further extended to regional and local the key risks and uncertainties facing the We are therefore committed to working only suppliers in 2009. business, further information of which is set with those suppliers who embrace standards out in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties of ethical behaviour consistent with our own.
In 2008, our audit programme covered 28 section on page 76.
This applies across the full range of our manufacturing sites at 27 different global purchasing activities, from promotional items suppliers.
These audits included elements KEY CommITTEES ANd CouNCIlS to pharmaceutical ingredients, and includes any of safety, health, environment, corporate Our quarterly business review process serves specialised work for which we use external responsibility and security of supply.
High-risk as the primary mechanism for monitoring contractors to complement our in-house categories such as active pharmaceutical the effectiveness of business performance effort.
It also applies as much to our expanding ingredients, formulation and packaging, and and risk management and is embedded business in Emerging Markets as it does to complex chemicals were a particular focus.
into existing management team meetings.
In addition to this we operate a number of Within the scope of the audit programme, management committees and councils to We are in the process of revising and a critical deficiency in a known high risk monitor Group-wide compliance and reputation strengthening our Corporate Responsibility R&D-area hydrogenation was identified at a risks including the Global Compliance Principles in Purchasing, which we first proposed supplier.
The supplier acknowledged Committee GCC further details of which launched in 2003 to provide guidance the audit feedback, fide-commissioned the can be found in the Compliance and Group for our purchasing community on integrating facility and replaced it with a facility of an Internal Audit section on page 93 and the CR considerations into their activity.
The strengthened guidance will become a new Global Responsible Procurement During the year, we updated our supplier The IMC monitors our external environment Standard and will provide the framework for evaluation process to include product security, for new and emerging issues relating to developing and implementing the programmes comprising elements such as information our business that affect or concern our needed to ensure that we effectively and security, logistics and waste handling related stakeholders and works with the people consistently incorporate our standards of to packaging operations.
We have also who are responsible for managing the issues ethical behaviour into our procurement activity strengthened the social elements of the internally to agree appropriate actions, worldwide.
Launch of the new standard is evaluation process in recent years, particularly timelines and, where possible, key performance planned for the first half of 2009 and targeted in relation to human rights and labour indicators.
The Vice-President, Group Public training will be subsequently provided.
standards, given our expanding presence Affairs chairs the IMC and is also a member in Emerging Markets.
of the GCC to ensure that any reputational risk is fully captured at the appropriate level.
Audit training continued during the year, with nine more people joining the audit team.
We also conducted a focused Ethical Auditing auditor-training programme as a part of the implementation of the new supplier evaluation process.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 76 pRINCIpAl RISKS ANd uNCERTAINTIES litigation relating to our products is described competing products to the market earlier in Note 25 to the Financial Statements.
than they would have been able to, had the The pharmaceutical sector is inherently risky In addition, the research-based pharmaceutical patent protection been available.
and a variety of risks and uncertainties may industry may exert intellectual property rights affect our business.
Here we summarise, under against other research-based companies Combined with patent protection and other the headings Industry Economic Environment and there continues to be examples of this.
types of marketing exclusivity, products Risks: Legal Compliance Regulatory Risks: In the case of litigation both with generic protected by a valid trademark usually and Business Execution Risks, the principal manufacturers and other research-based generate higher revenues than those without risks and uncertainties that we currently companies, we expect that the greatest a trademark.
We believe that we have robust consider may have a significant effect on our challenges will be focused on the most trademark protection for our products but financial condition, results of operations and valuable products.
Although we vigorously cannot be certain that we would be able or reputation.
These risks are not listed in any defend our intellectual property rights we to defend any challenge successfully.
Other risks, unknown cannot be certain we will be successful.
or not currently considered material, could have Expiration or earlier loss of patents a similar effect.
We believe the forward-looking There is the risk that we may be found to covering competing products statements about AstraZeneca in this Report, infringe the patents of others, and managing The expiration or earlier loss of patents identified by words such as anticipates, such disputes can be costly.
We may be covering others branded products may lead believes, expects and intends, are liable for damages or royalties, have to obtain to the availability of generic products earlier based on reasonable assumptions.
However, costly licences or stop manufacturing, using than anticipated, which could have a materially forward-looking statements involve inherent or selling our products.
This risk may be adverse effect on our financial condition and risks and uncertainties such as those greater in respect of biologics and vaccines results of operations.
For example, the loss summarised below, and may be influenced where intellectual property protection is expiry of patent rights covering major products by factors beyond our control and or may sometimes not so clear.
In the event of such in the US, such as Lipitor or Advair Diskus have actual outcomes materially different risks arising we may mitigate them through, after 2012 may adversely affect growth of our from our expectations.
for example, acquiring licences or making still patented products in that market.
modifications to cease the infringement and INduSTRY ECoNomIC ENVIRoNmENT RISKS permit commercialisation of our products.
Failure to obtain patent protection Expiration of patents or Our policy is to protect our investment in marketing exclusivity Any of our currently patented products may R&D by applying for appropriate intellectual Pharmaceutical products or diagnostic or be the subject of intellectual property litigation property protection in respect of our inventions medical devices are normally only protected or other disputes involving patent offices, and innovations: this is a key business priority.
from competition from copying during the anti-trust authorities, other government Our ability to obtain patents and other period of patent protection or marketing or law enforcement agencies.
Despite our proprietary rights in relation to our products is, exclusivity.
Following patent protection or efforts to establish and defend robust patent therefore, an important element of our ability marketing exclusivity expiry the product is protection, we may not succeed in such to create long-term value for the business.
generally open to competition from generic litigation or disputes or be able to mitigate the copies.
Products under patent protection or Many of the different countries in which we risk through, for example: obtaining a licence having marketing exclusivity generally generate to any third party patent on commercially operate are developing their patent laws for significantly higher revenues than those not reasonable terms: successfully developing pharmaceuticals and there is more uncertainty protected by patents or marketing exclusivity.
non-infringing alternatives on a timely basis: regarding the patent protection available now and in the future than in countries with well or licensing alternative non-infringing Patent litigation and early loss of patents, technology, if any exists, on commercially developed intellectual property regimes.
marketing exclusivity or trademarks reasonable terms.
If we were not successful Limitations on the availability of patent Generic drug manufacturers are seeking to during the patent protection or data protection in certain developing countries market generic versions of many of our more could have an adverse effect on the pricing exclusivity periods in maintaining exclusive important products, prior to the expiration of rights to market one or more of our major and sales of our products and, consequently, our patents and marketing exclusivity periods.
products, particularly in the US where we could adversely affect our revenues from For example, we are currently facing challenges have our highest revenue and margins, our them.
More information about protecting from multiple generic manufacturers to certain our intellectual property is contained in the revenue and margins would be significantly of our patents for Nexium, Seroquel and adversely affected.
Intellectual Property section on page 26.
Crestor, some of our best-selling products in the US, our largest market.
If such In addition to the challenges to our patented Impact of fluctuations in exchange rates challenges are successful and generic As a global business, currency fluctuations products from manufacturers of generic products are launched, or launched at risk or other patented pharmaceutical products, can significantly affect our results of operations, on the expectation that challenges to our there is a risk that some countries, particularly which are accounted for in US dollars.
intellectual property will be successful, this some of those in the developing world, may Approximately 47% of our 2008 sales were may have a materially adverse effect on our in North America US and Canada with a seek to impose limitations on the availability financial condition and results of operations.
of patent protection for pharmaceutical significant proportion of that figure being in US sales for Nexium in 2008 were $3,101m, products, or on the extent to which such respect of US sales, which is expected to for Seroquel were $3,015m and for Crestor protection may be obtained and or enforced, remain our largest single market.
The more significant patent certain other countries are also in US dollars, within their jurisdictions.
As a result, generic manufacturers in these countries may be or in currencies whose exchange rates are increasingly and more easily able to introduce linked to the US dollar.
Major components of ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 DIREcTORS REpORT 77 Adverse impact of a sustained ratings agencies to review our credit rating, our cost base are, however, located in Europe, where an aggregate of approximately 51% of economic downturn with the potential to impact our ability to raise our employees are based.
Movements in the A variety of significant risks may arise from debt to fund further externalisation.
exchange rates used to translate foreign a sustained global economic downturn including those referred to here.
Additional Owning and operating a biologics currencies into US dollars may, therefore, have a materially adverse effect on our pressure from governments and other and vaccines business financial condition and results of operations.
healthcare payers on medicine prices and As we continue to expand our biologics volume of sales in response to recessionary capabilities, the risks related to owning and pressures on budgets may cause a slow operating a biological products business are Certain of our subsidiaries import and export goods and services in currencies other than down or decline in growth in some markets.
becoming more important to the Group.
The results of such In addition, suppliers of some of the key goods Some of the more significant of these risks subsidiaries could, therefore, be affected and services we rely upon may cease to trade.
are described below: by currency fluctuations arising between The consequence of this may be significant the transaction dates and the settlement delays and or difficulties obtaining goods and We may have limited access to and or dates for those transactions.
We hedge these services on commercially acceptable terms supply of biological materials, such as exposures through financial instruments.
We seek to mitigate these risks cells or animal products or by-products.
In addition, government regulations in The fair value of financial instruments used to as described in the Supply and Manufacturing hedge these exposures, principally forward section on page 27. multiple jurisdictions could result in foreign exchange contracts, at 31 December restricted access to, use or transport 2008 was $95 million.
Moreover, the high fixed costs of operating of such materials.
Loss of access to sufficient sources of such materials, a global research-based pharmaceuticals We have policies that seek to mitigate the business and the long and uncertain or tighter restrictions on the use of such effect of exchange rate fluctuations on the development cycles for our products mean materials may interrupt or prevent our value of foreign currency cash flows and in that we are highly dependant on being able research activities as planned and or increase our costs.
turn their effects on the results of the Group, to access a sustainable flow of liquid funds.
but we do not seek to remove all such risks.
In a sustained and or severe economic Further information is contained in Financial downturn financial institutions who hold our The development, manufacturing and Risk Management Policies on pages 120 to cash and other short-term deposits may cease marketing of biological products are often subject to more complex and stringent 121.
In general, a unilateral strengthening of to trade and there can be no guarantee that the US dollar adversely affects our reported depositors investors will be able to access regulations than those applicable to other results whereas a weakening of the US dollar their assets without a protracted, expensive pharmaceutical products.
As a result, is generally favourable.
and uncertain process, if at all.
Although we the production and release schedules for biological products may be more have adopted conservative cash management Debt-funding arrangements and treasury policies to mitigate this risk significantly affected by the regulatory We incurred substantial debt in connection further information of which is contained process than for other products.
with the acquisition of MedImmune, Inc.. in Financial Risk Management Policies on In addition, various legislative and regulatory authorities are considering Our debt could affect our business flexibility pages 41 to 42 we cannot be certain and requires us to devote cash resources that these will be completely effective should whether an abbreviated approval process to service interest and principal payments.
a number of major financial institutions cease is appropriate for biosimilars or follow-on Our current debt level could limit our ability to trade.
Additionally, if we need access to biological products similar versions of existing biological products.
It is uncertain to engage in additional transactions or incur external sources of financing to sustain and or additional indebtedness and could potentially grow our business, such as may be available as to when, or if, any such process may affect our investment grade credit rating.
Further via the debt or capital financial markets, be adopted or how such a process information is contained in Financial Risk this may not be available on commercially would relate to intellectual property rights in connection with marketed or pipeline Management Policies on pages 41 to 42. acceptable terms, or at all, in the event of a severe and or sustained economic downturn.
biological products, but any such process Bad debts could have a material effect on the future The Group sells to a large number of A particular risk relates to the Groups pension commercial prospects for patented biological products.
customers, across many countries, ranging obligations, the single largest of which is from government backed agencies and the UK Pension Fund.
The obligations are large private wholesalers to privately owned backed by assets invested across the broad Manufacturing biological products, pharmacies.
An economic slowdown may investment market.
Sustained falls in these especially in large quantities, is often complex and may require the use of impact the ability of some of these customers assets will put a strain on funding resulting in to continue to trade, which in turn may result requirements for additional cash, which may innovative technologies to handle living in losses from writing these debts off.
restrict our ability to grow the business in line micro-organisms.
Manufacturing biological Although risk management processes are with our strategic objectives.
Similarly, if the products requires facilities specifically designed and validated for this purpose, in place to manage this risk, and provisions liabilities rise, for example due to continued, are established for debts that may not be sustained improvements in longevity, or falls with sophisticated quality assurance and recoverable we cannot be certain that there in the corporate bond spreads that drive quality control procedures.
Slight deviations will not be further losses above those already discount rates for accounting valuations, in any part of the manufacturing process may result in lot failure, product recalls or provided for.
Further information is contained there will be a strain on funding.
The likely in the Financial Review on page 42. increase in the IAS19 accounting deficit spoilage, for example due to contamination.
generated by any of these may cause the ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 78 The methods of distributing and marketing In the US realised prices are being depressed the potential to affect our cash flows and biological products could have a material through limited lists, or formularies, that earnings per share.
Claims, regardless of impact on the revenue we are able to may force manufacturers either to reduce their merits or their outcome, are costly, divert generate from the sales of products prices or be excluded from the list, and as a management attention, and may adversely such as Synagis and FluMist.
consequence lose sales revenue from patients affect our reputation.
The commercialisation of biologic covered by that formulary.
In addition, private products is often more complex than health insurance companies and employers The majority of the jurisdictions in which we for traditional pharmaceutical products.
that self-insure increasingly require co-payments operate have double tax treaties with other This is primarily due to differences in foreign jurisdictions, which enable us to from beneficiaries, particularly for branded mode of administration, technical pharmaceuticals and biotechnology products, ensure that our revenues and capital gains do aspects of the product, and the rapidly among other reasons, to encourage not incur a double tax charge.
If any of these changing distribution and reimbursement beneficiaries to use generic products.
double tax treaties should be withdrawn or environments.
The tools available to the amended, especially in a territory where a The increased use of strict formularies by commercial team can be more limited institutional customers in response to the member of the Group is involved in a taxation and time-consuming in that the target current cost-containment environment and dispute with a tax authority in relation to physicians who prescribe biologics are increasingly restrictive reimbursement policies cross-border transactions, such withdrawal or often hospital-based specialists who treat amendment could have a materially adverse could result in a materially adverse effect on patients with rare diseases.
Biologics sales our financial condition and results of operations.
effect on our financial condition and results of forces are usually smaller, more targeted operations, as could a negative outcome of a and typically are required to make a more In the EU, efforts by the European Commission tax dispute or failure of tax authorities to agree detailed, data-driven sales call.
Patient through competent authority proceedings.
to reduce inconsistencies and improve education and awareness also requires standards and best practice in the disparate See the Financial Risk Management Policies a more personalised approach in that national regulatory systems have met with little on pages 41 to 42 for further details of risk broad-based awareness campaigns, such immediate success.
The industry is, therefore, mitigation.
The Group is currently managing as direct-to-consumer advertising in the a number of tax disputes detailed in Note 25 exposed to greater application of reference US, is often not an efficient means by which pricing mechanisms and ad hoc national to the Financial Statements.
to reach a smaller target population.
cost-containment measures on prices and the consequent cross-border movement of Substantial product liability claims Competition, price controls Given the widespread impact that prescription products.
The importation of pharmaceutical and price reductions products from countries where prices are low drugs may have on the health of large Some of our most valuable products compete due to government price controls or other patient populations, pharmaceutical, directly with other products marketed either by market dynamics, to countries where prices biopharmaceutical and medical device major R&D based prescription pharmaceutical companies have, historically, been subject for those products are higher, may increase.
companies or by generic pharmaceutical The accession of additional countries from to large product liability damages claims, manufacturers.
These competitors may Central and Eastern Europe to the EU as well settlements and awards for injuries allegedly invest greater resources to the marketing of as economic changes within EU countries may caused by the use of their products.
Product their products than we do depending on the liability claims, regardless of their merits or result in significant increases in the parallel relative priority of these competitor products trading of pharmaceutical products.
In the their outcome, are costly, divert management within their companys portfolio.
Generic US, new legislation is possible that may allow attention, and may adversely affect our versions of products are often sold at lower the commercial importation of drugs into the reputation and demand for our products.
prices because they do not have to recoup Adverse publicity relating to the safety of a US from selected countries.
The adoption of the significant cost of R&D investment, nor such legislation could result in an increase in product or of other competing products may do they generally invest the same amounts in volume of cross-border product movements increase the risk of product liability claims.
education services for healthcare professionals.
which could result in a materially adverse Litigation, particularly in the US, is inherently Industry consolidation has resulted in a small unpredictable and verdicts and or unexpectedly effect on our financial condition and results number of very large companies, some of of operations.
high awards of damages can result.
Substantial which have acquired generic businesses.
product liability claims that result in court This trend, if it continued, could adversely We expect that pressures on pricing will decisions against us or in the settlement affect our competitive position, whilst of proceedings could have a materially continue and may increase.
Because of consolidation among our customers may these pressures, there can be no certainty adverse effect on our financial condition and increase price pressures.
Some of our that we will be able to charge prices for a results of operations, particularly where such patented products, including Nexium, Crestor, product that, in a particular country or in the circumstances are not covered by insurance.
Seroquel and Symbicort are subject to price We are currently subject to extensive product aggregate, enable us to earn an adequate pressure from competition from generic return on our investment in that product.
liability litigation in relation to Seroquel, and products in the same product class.
further details about this and all material legal Taxation proceedings in which we are involved are set In most of our key markets there is continued out in Note 25 to the Financial Statements.
The integrated nature of our worldwide economic, regulatory and political pressure operations can produce conflicting claims Information about our approach to patient to limit or reduce the cost of pharmaceutical from revenue authorities as to the profits to be safety is set out in the Medicines section on products.
A summary of the principal aspects taxed in individual territories.
The resolution of page 16. of price regulation and how price pressures are these disputes can result in a reallocation of affecting our business in our most important profits between jurisdictions and an increase markets is set out in the Geographical Review or decrease in related tax costs, and has from page 48.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 DIREcTORS REpORT 79 Nonetheless, a significant non-compliance Public loss of confidence in the integrity Performance of new products Although we carry out numerous and extensive or incident for which we were responsible of pharmaceutical products as a result of clinical trials on all our products before they could result in us being liable to pay counterfeiting could adversely affect our are launched, for a new product it can be compensation, fines or remediation costs.
In addition, undue or misplaced concern about difficult, for a period following its launch, In some circumstances, such liability could to establish from available data a complete have a materially adverse effect on our the issue might induce some patients to stop assessment of its eventual efficacy and or financial condition, reputation and results of taking their medicines, with consequential safety in broader clinical use on the market.
In addition, our financial provisions risks to their health.
Due to the relatively short time that a product for any obligations that we may have relating has been tested and the relatively small to environmental liabilities may be insufficient We use a range of measures against number of patients who have taken the if the assumptions underlying the provisions counterfeit medicines, and continue to develop product, the available data may be immature.
including our assumptions regarding the our capabilities in this area.
These include introducing technologies that make it more Simple extrapolation of the data may not portion of waste at a site for which we are be accurate and could lead to a misleading responsible prove incorrect, or if we are difficult for counterfeiters to copy our products: interpretation of a new products likely future held responsible for additional contamination.
conducting market surveillance and monitoring commercial performance.
the supply chain to identify potential counterfeiting operations: and responding Developing our business The successful launch of a new pharmaceutical in emerging markets rapidly to any reports of counterfeit product involves a substantial investment in The development of our business in emerging AstraZeneca medicines, working with sales and marketing costs, launch stocks markets may be a critical factor in determining regulators, healthcare professionals, distributors, law enforcement agencies and other items.
The commercial success of our future ability to sustain or increase the level our new medicines is of particular importance of our global product revenues.
Challenges and other organisations to protect patient to us in order to replace sales lost as and that arise in relation to the development of interests.
We also participate in a variety of when patent protection ceases in established the business in emerging markets include, anti-counterfeiting forums in the public and private sector, including the WHOs IMPACT markets.
If a new product does not succeed but are not limited to, more volatile economic as anticipated or its rate of sales growth is conditions, competition from companies that working group and the Pharmaceutical slower than anticipated, there is a risk that are already present in the market, the need Security Institute.
the costs incurred in launching it could have to identify correctly and leverage appropriate lEGAl ComplIANCE REGulAToRY RISKS a materially adverse effect on our financial opportunities for sales and marketing, condition and results of operations.
In addition, poor protection of intellectual property, Adverse outcome of litigation and or for launch of products that are seasonal in inadequate protection against crime government investigations and insufficient nature, delays for regulatory approval or including counterfeiting, corruption and insurance coverage Note 25 to the Financial Statements includes manufacturing difficulties can have the effect fraud further details of which can be found of delaying launch to the next season and below, inadvertent breaches of local law information about legal proceedings in which significantly reduce the value of costs spent regulation and not being able to recruit we are currently involved.
Unfavourable in preparing for the launch for that season.
sufficient personnel with appropriate skills resolution of these and similar future proceedings, including government and experience.
The failure to exploit Environmental occupational health potential opportunities appropriately in investigations, competition and anti-trust and safety liabilities emerging markets may have a materially enquiries, investigations and litigation, product We have environmental liabilities at some adverse effect on our financial condition and liability litigation and securities class action law suits, may have a materially adverse currently or formerly owned, leased and third results of operations.
Information on the risks party sites, as described in more detail in associated with the failure to obtain patent effect on our financial condition and results Note 25 to the Financial Statements.
These protection can be found above.
of operations, not least because we may be liabilities are carefully managed by designated required to make significant provisions in our accounts related to legal proceedings and or technical, legal and business personnel Product counterfeiting and there is no reason for us to believe that Counterfeit medicines may contain harmful governmental investigations, which would associated current and expected expenditure substances, the wrong dose of the active reduce earnings.
In many cases, particularly and or risks are likely to have a materially pharmaceutical ingredient API or no API at all.
in the US, the practice of the plaintiff bar is to claim damages compensatory, punitive adverse effect on our financial condition and Counterfeit medicines are a danger to patients results of operations as a general matter, in all parts of the world: the International and statutory in extremely high amounts.
although they could, to the extent that they Medical Products Anti-Counterfeiting Taskforce Accordingly, it is difficult to quantify the exceed applicable provisions, have a materially IMPACT of the World Health Organization potential exposure to claims in proceedings of the type referred to in Note 25 to the adverse effect on our financial condition and WHO estimates that approximately 10% results of operations for the relevant period.
to 30% of medicines in emerging economies Financial Statements.
In addition, a change in circumstances are counterfeit, with parts of Latin America, including a change in applicable laws or Asia and Africa having a greater percentage Recent insurance loss experience in the pharmaceutical industry, including product regulations may result in such an effect.
By contrast, in developed countries with effective regulatory systems, counterfeits liability exposures, has increased the cost represent less than 1% of the market.
of, and narrowed the coverage afforded by, pharmaceutical companies product liability insurance.
In order to contain insurance costs in recent years, we have continued to adjust our coverage profile, accepting a greater degree of uninsured exposure.
The Group ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 80 has not held product liability insurance since Failure to observe continuing Inability to manufacture sufficient quantities February 2006.
In addition, where claims are regulatory oversight of the product candidate for development made under insurance policies, insurers Once a product has been approved for or commercialisation activities in a timely may reserve the right to deny coverage on marketing by regulatory authorities, it is and cost-efficient manner.
If such denial of coverage is subject to continuing control and regulation, ultimately upheld, this could result in material such as the manner of its manufacture, Unfavourable data from key studies.
additional charges to our earnings.
distribution, marketing and safety surveillance.
In addition, the facilities in which products are Excessive costs of, or difficulty Difficulties of obtaining and maintaining produced are subject to continuing inspections, in, manufacturing.
regulatory approvals for new products and minor changes in manufacturing We are subject to strict controls on the processes may require additional regulatory Erosion of patent term and other intellectual manufacture, labelling, distribution and approvals, either of which could result in us property rights, and infringement of those having to incur significant additional costs.
rights and the intellectual property rights marketing of pharmaceutical products.
The requirement to obtain regulatory approval Regulatory authorities have wide-ranging owned by third parties.
based on a products safety, efficacy and administrative powers to deal with any failure quality before it may be marketed for a to comply with continuing regulatory oversight Failure to show value or a differentiated and this could affect us whether such failure profile for our products.
specified therapeutic indication or indications in a particular country, and to maintain and is our own or that of third parties with which to comply with licences and other regulations we have relationships.
These powers include As a result, we cannot be certain that relating to its manufacture, are particularly withdrawal of a marketing approval previously compounds currently under development granted, product recalls, seizure of products, will achieve success.
There can also be no important.
The submission of an application to regulatory authorities which are different, closure of manufacturing sites and other guarantee that new products in the pipeline with different requirements, in each region or sanctions for non-compliance.
Regulatory will achieve market success or come to country may or may not lead to approval to sanction, following a failure to comply with market before the expiration of our patents such continuing regulatory oversight, could or the erosion of our current product brands.
Regulators can refuse to grant approval or may require additional data have a materially adverse effect on the conduct Furthermore, a succession of negative before approval is given, even though the of our business, our financial condition and drug project results and a failure to reduce medicine may already be launched in other results of operations.
In addition, because development timelines effectively could our products are intended to promote the adversely affect the reputation of our R&D parts of the world.
The countries that constitute key markets for our pharmaceutical products health of patients, any supply interruption capabilities.
The failure of R&D to yield new include the US, the countries of the EU and could lead to allegations that public health products that achieve commercial success Japan.
The approval of a product is required has been endangered, and could lead to may have a materially adverse affect on our legal proceedings being filed against us, financial condition and results of operations.
by the relevant regulatory authority in each country, although a single pan-EU marketing damage to our reputation and loss of authorisation approval can be obtained confidence in our products.
Acquisitions and strategic alliances through a centralised procedure.
formed as part of our externalisation BuSINESS EXECuTIoN RISKS strategy may be unsuccessful In recent years, regulatory authorities and Challenges to achieving commercial We seek acquisitions of complementary sponsor companies have been under increased success of new products businesses, technology licensing public pressure to apply more conservative The development of new products is complex arrangements, strategic alliances and and involves the commitment of substantial collaborations to expand our product benefit risk criteria before a pharmaceutical product is approved.
In addition, third party effort, funds and other R&D resources.
portfolio and geographical presence as part interpretation of publicly available data on It involves a high degree of risk and uncertainty of our business strategy.
Examples of such our marketed products has the potential to and can take many years.
New products are recent strategic acquisitions, arrangements, important to replace the declining sales of collaborations and alliances include: influence the approval status or labelling of a currently approved and marketed product.
older products following expiry of intellectual Further, predicting when a product will be property protection.
Our development of any Acquisition of MedImmune to accelerate approved for marketing remains challenging.
product candidate may fail at any stage our biologics capability.
of the process, and we may ultimately be For example, a review of the FDA performance data indicates that for new drug and biologic unable to achieve commercial success for Collaboration with Bristol-Myers Squibb applications approved in 2008, the average any number of reasons, including: Company to develop and commercialise review time ie the time from submission two investigational compounds being Failure to obtain the required regulatory studied for the treatment of Type 2 to approval increased markedly from 2007, in part due to the FDA failing to meet the approvals for the product candidate or diabetes, saxagliptin and dapagliflozin.
review time targets for new drug applications the facilities in which it is manufactured.
specified under the Prescription Drug User Collaboration with POZEN Inc. to develop Adverse reactions to the product a fixed dose combination of enteric Fee Act IV.
Delays in regulatory reviews could impact the timing of new product launch.
candidate or indications of other coated naproxen and immediate release safety concerns.
esomeprazole for chronic pain PN400, utilising POZENs proprietary technology.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 DIREcTORS REpORT 81 Agreement with Abbott for the development systems and facilities, and personnel with Delay to new product launches of Abbotts next-generation fenofibrate different organisational cultures.
Integration Our continued success depends on the ABT-335 and Crestor in a single pill, of an acquired business may also divert development and successful launch of fixed-dose combination treatment to management resources that would otherwise innovative new drugs.
The anticipated target all three major blood lipids LDL-C be available for continuing development of launch dates of major new products have bad cholesterol, HDL-C good cholesterol our existing business.
The integration process a significant impact on a number of areas and triglycerides.
may result in business disruption, the loss of of our business, including investment in large key employees, slower execution of various clinical trials, the manufacture of pre-launch Collaboration deals with Columbia stocks of the products, investment in work processes, compliance failures due to a University and Newcastle University to change in applicable regulatory requirements marketing materials ahead of a product support our early stage discovery activities.
and other issues such as a failure to integrate launch, sales force training and the timing information technology and other systems of anticipated future revenue streams from We may not complete these types of commercial sales of new products.
These further details of the risks associated with transactions or collaborative projects in information technology and outsourcing can launch dates are primarily driven by the a timely manner, on a cost-effective basis, be found below.
development programmes that we run and or at all, and may not realise the expected the demands of the regulatory authorities benefits of any acquisition, licensing in the approvals process, as well as pricing Reliance on third parties for supplies arrangement or strategic alliance.
Other of materials and services negotiation in some countries.
Delays in companies may also compete with us for Like most, if not all, major research-based anticipated launch dates can arise as a result these opportunities.
The success of such pharmaceutical companies we increasingly of adverse findings in pre-clinical or clinical current and future arrangements is largely studies, regulatory demands, competitor rely on third parties for the timely supply of dependent on the technology and other specified raw materials, equipment, contract activity and technology transfer.
Any delay intellectual property we acquire and the manufacturing, formulation or packaging to the anticipated launch dates may therefore resources, efforts and skills of our partners.
services and maintenance services that are impact our business and operations in a Disputes and difficulties in such relationships number of ways.
Significant delay to the key to our operations.
We actively manage may arise, often due to conflicting priorities these third party relationships to ensure anticipated launch dates of new products or conflicts of interest which may erode or continuity of supplies on time and to our could have a materially adverse effect on our eliminate the benefits of these alliances if, required specifications.
However, events financial condition and results of operations.
for example, the agreements are terminated: beyond our control could result in the insufficient financial or other resources are delayed, incomplete or failure of supplies, Failure of information technology made available to the alliances: intellectual which could have a materially adverse effect and outsourcing property is negatively impacted: obligations on our financial condition and results of We are dependent on effective information are not performed as expected: controls and technology IT systems.
Recently, we have established commercial limitations are imposed over the sourcing centres in China and India to identify support key business functions such as our marketing and promotion of products to be high quality suppliers in those regions.
R&D and manufacturing capabilities, and are co-developed: or challenges in achieving Further information is contained in the an important means of internal communication commercial success of the product are and communication with customers and Working with Suppliers section on page 75. encountered during the development process.
Any significant disruption of these Also, under many of our strategic alliances, Failure to manage a crisis IT systems or the failure of new IT systems we make milestone payments well in advance We handle chemical and biological materials, to integrate with existing IT systems could of commercialisation of products, with no materially and adversely affect our operations.
operate research and manufacturing plants assurance that we will ever recoup those and distribute products worldwide.
Major We also have a number of outsourcing payments.
If these types of transactions are disruption to our business and damage to our arrangements in respect of critical processes, unsuccessful, this may have an adverse reputation may be triggered by an operational services and the support of our IT infrastructure effect on our financial condition and results and our increasing dependency on these incident or actions by third parties.
circumstances, a plan for addressing outsource providers could impact on our operational and other issues should ensure ability to deliver on business targets and In addition, integration of an acquired business a timely response and the ability to resume to maintain our compliance status and could involve incurring significant debt and reputation.
Risk associated with outsource business as usual.
Failure to institute proper unknown or contingent liabilities, as well communication to internal and external providers is mitigated by our contracting as having a negative effect on our reported stakeholders and mobilise a rapid operational approach which enables us to monitor closely results of operations from acquisition-related response could have a materially adverse any degradation in services and enact staged charges, amortisation of expenses related remedies.
Our engagement of multiple effect on our financial condition and results to intangibles and charges for impairment of of operations.
Further information about our outsource providers mitigates against risk of long-term assets.
These effects, individually business resilience plans and processes are over-reliance on any one outsource provider.
or in combination, could cause a deterioration contained in the Business Resilience Plans of our credit rating, increased borrowing section on page 75. costs and interest expense.
We could also experience difficulties in integrating geographically separated organisations, ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008 82 Productivity initiatives We are implementing various productivity initiatives and restructuring programmes, with the aim of enhancing the long-term efficiency of the business.
However, the anticipated cost savings and other benefits are based on preliminary estimates and the actual savings may vary significantly.
In particular, these cost reduction measures are based on current conditions and do not take into account any future changes to the pharmaceutical industry or our operations, including new business developments, wage and price increases and other factors.
If inappropriately managed the expected value of the initiative can be lost through low employee morale and hence productivity, increased absence levels and industrial action.
Our failure to implement successfully these planned cost reduction measures, either through the successful conclusion of employee relations processes including consultation and engagement, talent management and recruitment and retention, or the possibility that these efforts do not generate the level of cost savings we anticipate, could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and reputation.
See the People section on page 28 for information about mitigating the risk of significant business change.
ASTRAZENECA ANNuAl REpoRT ANd FoRm 20-F INFoRmATIoN 2008
