Risk Management The Board is responsible for setting the Companys risk strategy by assessing, evaluating and managing the risks to its business.
The table below summarises the main risks and the steps taken to mitigate these.
Risk Mitigation Strategic Investment acquisitions and development projects underperform Focused, specialist operator undertaking detailed investment financial objectives appraisals, including due diligence reviews.
Exposure to development is monitored and project phasing reviewed.
Failure to spot business opportunities and to innovate Detailed knowledge of core markets maintained and coverage and scope of business model reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Market Property markets are cyclical.
Performance depends on general The economy and the investment and occupational markets economic conditions, a combination of supply and demand for are evaluated as part of the Companys strategy process covering oor space as well as overall return aspirations of investors the key areas of investment, development, leasing and asset management and updated regularly throughout the year.
Constrained credit markets have served to put downward pressure on property valuations as have slower occupational demand with the potential for increased void levels and tenant defaults Financial Inability to raise finance to implement strategy Spread of sources and maturities of facilities.
Sufficient facilities maintained for spending commitments.
Adverse interest rate movements Appropriate balance of fixed rate debt maintained based on existing and forecast market conditions.
Financial ratios are monitored and reported regularly to the Board.
Failure to comply with covenants in nancing agreements Financial ratios are monitored and reported regularly to the Board.
Explore all options to provide additional financial flexibility.
Operational Failure to let at expected rental levels or within time projections Specialist market knowledge.
Detailed analysis on each project.
Unique B-Serv customer care programme.
Failure of major tenant Largest non-government tenant only 2.3% of rent roll.
Regular monitoring of tenant lease payments.
Loss of key staff Remuneration structure reviewed and benchmarked.
Succession planning for key executive positions.
Environmental liabilities Environmental policy and procedures in place and environmental audits performed on new acquisitions.
Health and safety system failure Regular risk assessments, annual audit and performance reviews.
