Section 2: Business review RISK MANAGEMENT RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS The nature, likelihood and materiality of product and service revenue growth above The Group, in common with other international the risks affecting each Group business market sales and service strategies for businesses, is exposed to a number of are assessed by operational management customer satisfaction, staff training and potential risks which may have a material on an annual basis.
On the basis of these development: effect on its reputation, financial or operational assessments, the Risk Committee produces performance.
It is not possible to identify or a risk map for the Group as a whole, and the acquisitions delivery of acquisitions that anticipate every risk that may affect the Group, summary of material risks is reviewed by the meet the Groups strategic requirements or the materiality of that risk.
The Board has Audit Committee and endorsed by the Board.
for appropriate value and integration after overall responsibility for risk management The risk assessment process applies both to full risk assessment of targets: and internal controls and is assisted by the normal operational activities and to projects Audit Committee.
which are significant to the Group, where a outsourcing of supplies of components risk register is drawn up and monitored by the and products protection of the Further details of the Companys system of Group Risk Manager throughout the project.
Companys intellectual property: quality internal controls are contained in the corporate and security thereof: governance report on pages 37 and 38.
As described in the corporate governance report, there is an embedded process for product and service development and The Audit Committee has one meeting a monitoring and controlling the identied risks market introduction prioritisation of year dedicated to reviewing risk.
In addition, through monthly financial and operational development activity and effectiveness internal control and risk management actions, reporting procedures.
In addition, appropriate of the money spent: and together with Risk Committee updates are levels of cover are maintained under the kept under review at the Audit Committee Group insurance programme in respect employee safety monitoring of working meetings held to consider the interim and of insurable risks.
practices to ensure high standards of full year results.
It is assisted by the Risk health and safety and environmental Committee and the Group Risk Manager.
The Group Risk Manager monitors the compliance.
effectiveness of risk management and internal The Risk Committee is chaired by the Finance controls through site reviews of Group FINANCIAL RISKS Director and comprises the Chief Operating businesses.
His visit programme is approved As an international business, the major officer and other senior operational and head annually by the Audit Committee.
After each financial risks faced by the Group are liquidity ofce management, including the Group Risk site visit a report is prepared and presented risk, currency risk and interest rate risk.
Its core functions are to: to local area Group management, and to the The Board regularly reviews these risks and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
A copy is approves policies covering the use of financial assess and report to the Audit Committee on also made available to the external auditors.
instruments to manage financial risk and the effectiveness of the Groups non-financial overall risk limits.
A detailed summary of the and financial internal control systems: The Group Risk Manager is able to call on Groups financial risks and how these risks are additional resources from central staff and managed can be found in the financial review ensure that an embedded framework external consultants as necessary.
External on pages 23 and 24. for managing risks is in place throughout consultants also review health and safety the Group: and and environmental practices at selected sites FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS on the basis of a rolling schedule agreed with Certain statements in this annual report provide an appropriate level of reporting the Group Risk Manager.
Although the Company on the status of risk management to the believes that the expectations contained in operational management and to the OPERATIONAL RISKS such statements are reasonable, it can give Audit Committee.
There have been no major operational risks no assurance that these expectations will identied during the year other than those prove to be correct.
Actual results may differ The Risk Committee meets twice a year typical in a competitive environment key materially from those expressed in or implied and the minutes are also circulated to the areas identied for ongoing management by these forward-looking statements.
All directors are attention continue to be: entitled to receive the Risk Committee papers, and to attend the meetings.
