Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2008 31 Risk management The Group views effective risk management as integral to the delivering of superior returns to shareholders.
Principal risks and uncertainties facing the business and the processes in place by which the Company aims to manage those risks are: Risk Mitigation Commentary Market risk Research into the economy and the investment and occupational markets Our market is evaluated as part of the Groups annual strategy process covering the pages 16 and 17.
key areas of investment, development and asset management and Performance depends on general Development updated regularly throughout the year.
economic conditions, a combination pages 20 and 21 of supply and demand for floor space Prior to committing to a development the Group conducts a detailed as well as overall return aspirations Financial and Operational appraisal process which evaluates the expected of investors.
returns from a development in light of likely risks.
During the course of a development, the estimated returns are regularly monitored to allow prompt decisions on leasing and ownership to be determined.
Pro-active management of tenants to ensure changing needs are met.
The Groups rents remain low by comparison to the market.
The impact of changes in legislation Through the use of experienced advisers and direct contact, senior Group Development particularly in respect of environmental representatives spend considerable time ensuring that buildings are pages 20 and 21. legislation and planning regulations.
maintained and refurbished or redeveloped in line with current regulations Environment and the portfolio and changing tenant demands including, for example, changing pages 33 and 34. environmental legislation requirements in the most cost effective manner.
Planning applications are proactively managed.
The Company monitors Development Development changes in planning legislation and has strong relationships with planning pages 20 and 21.
Failure to obtain or delays in gaining authorities and consultants.
Specialist advisers are used to forecast both labour and Development construction costs.
Procurement strategies are employed to mitigate this risk as far as possible.
Detailed appraisals are produced at key stages of the development process to ensure that decisions are based on up-to-date forecasts.
Market analysis including a good understanding of tenants requirements Development which influence building design and sensitivities are included within the pages 20 and 21. development appraisals.
Case study The Company has resource dedicated to the letting of the developments pages 6 and 7. supported by a strong network of specialist leasing agents.
Investment The Company has dedicated resources whose remit is to constantly Capital recycling research each of the sub-markets within central London seeking the right pages 24 and 25.
Difficulty in sourcing investment balance of investment and development opportunities suitable for current opportunities at attractive prices.
Case studies and anticipated market conditions.
pages 12 and 13, and pages 14 and 15 Business plans are produced on an individual asset basis to ensure Capital recycling Portfolio returns impaired by inappropriate recycling of capital.
the appropriate churn of those buildings with relative limited pages 24 and 25. potential performance.
Case studies pages 10 and 11, and pages 14 and 15 Attracting and retaining the The Company has a remuneration system that is strongly linked to Our people page 30. right people performance and a formal appraisal system to provide regular assessment of individual performance and the identification of training needs.
Achieving the Companys aims requires people of the highest calibre.
Reputation The Company has dedicated HSE personnel to oversee the Companys Environment and the portfolio HSE Management Systems including regular risk assessments and annual pages 33 and 34.
Health & Safety and Environment audits to proactively address key HSE areas including energy usage and HSE.
Health and safety employee, contractor and tenant safety.
Our financial position Financial risks Cash flow and funding needs are regularly monitored to ensure sufficient undrawn facilities are in place.
Note 14 forming part of the Funding maturities are managed across the short-, mediumand long-term.
The Groups funding measures are diversified across a range Group financial statements pages 69 to 71. of bank and market bonds.
Strict counterparty limits are operated on deposits.
Formal policy to manage interest rates.
Our financial position pages 26 to 29.
Note 14 forming part of the Group financial statements pages 69 to 71.
Financial ratios are monitored and regularly reported to the Board.
Non compliance with REIT regulations.
The Groups accounts and forecast financial measures are regularly Our financial position compared to REIT limits and reported to the Board.
