RISK MANAGEMENT HOW WE MANAGE RISK Risk management is integral to the achievement of our financial and operating objectives, although severe market risk remains outside our control.
Our risk management policies are designed to reduce the chances of financial loss and enhance performance when the right opportunities arise.
We have developed a risk management framework to identify and control risk.
The six principal risk areas in that framework, and the steps we take to mitigate them, are shown in the table below.
We have also included references to the pages in this Annual Report where these risks, or the parts of the business affected by them, are discussed further.
RISK MITIGATION COMMENTARY Business strategy Implementation of a strategy inconsistent We commission and evaluate research into the Property markets and outlook page 13 with the market environment.
economy and investment and occupational markets and use this to prepare an annual Business Plan and regular financial forecasts.
Property portfolio and allocation, page 22 Over-concentration of activities and Hammersons portfolio is diversified by country investment exposure in particular and sector and its allocation is regularly Principal risks and uncertainties, page 15 markets.
Treasury Breach of borrowing covenants, Financial ratios are monitored and regularly Chairmans Statement, pages 5 to 7 triggering default and or repayment.
Financial Review, pages 31 to 35 Insufficient liquidity to progress the Future investment requirements are reviewed Notes 19 and 20 to the accounts on development programme.
and sufficient facilities put in place in advance.
pages 81 to 88 Financial Review, pages 34 and 35 Adverse currency or interest rate Fixed rate borrowings are used where Principal risks and uncertainties, page 15 movements.
appropriate and foreign currency denominated Financial Review, pages 34 and 35 assets financed by borrowings in the same currency.
Tenant default Financial loss arises through tenant Our occupier base is large and diverse by Chairmans Statement, pages 5 to 7 default.
The majority of our tenants are of sound financial standing.
We regularly Principal risks and uncertainties, page 15 analyse our retailers performance and the credit rating of all our key occupiers to identify Income security and quality, page 27 tenants at risk in order to take appropriate action.
We have clear policies and procedures for rent collection and how we deal with occupiers in difficulty.
Property development Poor control of the development Detailed analysis, including market research, is Current and future developments, pages programme and failure to address undertaken prior to the approval of each 29 and 30 investment and occupational market development project.
The Groups overall exposure to development Principal risks and uncertainties, page 15 is monitored and projects phased.
A programme of post completion reviews ensures potential improvements to processes are identified.
Property investment Acquisition of properties that fail to meet Acquisitions are thoroughly evaluated, including performance expectations.
The performance of individual properties is benchmarked against target returns.
Business organisation and human resources Failure to recruit and retain key staff with Recruitment procedures and the remuneration Remuneration Report, pages 45 to 52 appropriate skills and calibre.
structure are regularly reviewed and benchmarked.
Succession plans are developed for senior Corporate Governance, page 39 positions.
