PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES LIQUIDITY RISK Due to falling property values, and the strengthening euro, the Groups gearing has increased significantly from 57% at the end of 2007 to 118% at 31 December 2008.
Over the last 18 months, we have taken measures to manage gearing, including selling assets, reducing development expenditure and cutting overheads.
Since 30 June 2007, we have used the net proceeds from asset sales of 783 million to repay debt and we continue to pursue asset sales as a means of reducing gearing.
However, given the lack of debt finance available to potential purchasers to fund acquisitions, negotiations regarding sales are proving protracted and the outcomes uncertain.
In the event that Hammerson is unable to sell properties and that the market value of the property portfolio continues to decline, there is a risk that the Group could breach its borrowing covenant in the future.
The most stringent borrowing covenant is that gearing should not exceed 150%.
We have therefore considered the option of seeking to renegotiate the financial covenants both in our bank facilities and bonds.
However, in current debt market conditions, any renegotiation would be difficult to achieve, particularly in relation to the Company's bonds, and would also result in significantly increased financing costs.
Against this background, we have concluded that it is in shareholders' best interests for Hammerson's capital base to be increased substantially through the underwritten rights issue.
EXCHANGE RISK As at 31 December 2008, 40% of the Group's assets employed and 47% of its net debt was denominated in euros.
A 1% strengthening of the euro relative to sterling has the effect of increasing shareholders funds by around 9 million whilst gearing would be marginally higher.
PROPERTY VALUATIONS The value of Hammersons property portfolio is affected by the conditions prevailing in the property investment market and the general economic environment.
Accordingly, the Groups net asset value can rise and fall due to external factors beyond managements control.
The disruption in global financial markets is continuing to restrict the availability of finance to real estate companies generally, causing values to weaken and making investors cautious about property investment.
Our property portfolio is valued in compliance with international standards by external professionally qualified valuers.
The primary source of evidence for valuations should be recent, comparable market transactions on arms length terms.
The current economic environment means that there have been few transactions for the types of property owned by Hammerson.
Consequently, there is a greater degree of uncertainty in respect of the figures reported by our valuers.
Until the number and consistency of comparable transactions increases, this situation is likely to remain.
Nevertheless, Hammerson has a high quality portfolio which is diversified by country and sector, which should help to mitigate the impact of the current state of the financial and property markets on the Group.
The Property markets and outlook section of this report on page 13 provides further discussion of these issues.
TENANT DEFAULT Some tenants, particularly in the UK retail sector, are facing difficult operating conditions resulting in an increased risk that they may be unable to pay their rents.
However, the large number of tenants and the diversity of their businesses and geographical spread mean the risk of individual tenant default to Hammerson is low.
Furthermore, our occupational leases are long-term contracts, thus making the income relatively secure.
Additional information on the quality of income is provided on pages 27 to 29.
INTEREST RATES Interest is a significant cost for Hammerson and we set guidelines for our exposure to fixed and floating interest rates and use interest rate and currency swaps to manage this risk.
At 31 December 2008, 65% of the Groups gross debt was at fixed rates of interest.
The short-term outlook for interest rates is that they will remain low and this should benefit Hammerson.
However, with the disruption to financial markets and the restricted availability of bank credit which is resulting in lenders seeking higher borrowing margins, there continues to be uncertainty over the future level of interest rates.
DEVELOPMENT AND LETTING The present general economic weakness has made potential occupiers more cautious about entering into commitments to lease space.
Therefore it is taking longer to agree new leases at our current and recently completed developments.
The table on page 30, shows the progress made to date on letting the current schemes.
For the majority of our current construction contracts, the prices are fixed and the potential impact of cost inflation is limited.
We will not commit to any major new development schemes until market conditions improve.
