Business overview Principal risks The following represent the most significant risks and uncertainties which could impact the long term performance of Cobham.
Risk management 2007 risk profile Principal risks and uncertainties An annual review of risks is conducted at the Two risks reported in the 2007 Annual Report The following represent the most significant Group level as part of the Company wide are no longer considered key uncertainties: risks and uncertainties which could impact the planning process, to which all businesses acquisitions and market access.
A total of six long term performance of Cobham.
The principal risks and associated acquisitions were completed in 2008 and they gives examples of mitigation activities and is mitigation activities identified at the Group are performing on or ahead of plan, except not set out in order of priority.
level are communicated to the Divisional the smaller S-TEC acquisition, which has been Presidents for consideration and inclusion impacted by the downturn in the general in their risk reviews.
They in turn review and aviation market.
In terms of market access, report progress in their monthly reports.
the Group has recruited additional specialists to strengthen the formal systems and policies associated with export controls and licensing.
Principal risks and uncertainties Risk Description Mitigation Comment Shortage of Our ambitious growth plans are dependent on our Rigorous talent management plans and reviews.
appropriate skills ability to attract, retain and recruit the best talent.
Unless we have the appropriate quality and quantity Ensure that our work is challenging and rewarding.
of skills throughout the organisation we will find it Increase participants on Company wide, coordinated development programmes.
increasingly difficult to execute these business plans.
Ensure that employee appraisal systems are used effectively throughout the Company.
Fixed price Fixed price design and development contracts Rigorous application of the Groups Lifecycle Management process to all bids, contracts inherently carry higher risk than fixed price contracts and development projects throughout the business.
A failure to anticipate and Consistently apply meaningful metrics to support the review of contracts across resolve technical problems, estimate and control the Group.
costs and offset inflationary pressures can result in Ensure that effective training is provided across all disciplines.
Maintain efficient and effective customer communications.
Lower growth Greater than 40% of the Groups revenue is derived Continue to ensure that we are capable of supplying the technologies, products rate in the US from military and government contracts in the USA.
and services that are core to the US defence market needs.
Defence market The level of growth is dependent on a complex Invest in the talent and technologies to maintain an effective competitive edge.
mix of strategic defence and security imperatives, Balance our portfolio by increased level of business in higher growth, emerging economic and political factors.
markets such as India, the Middle East and South Korea.
Exchange rates The global nature of the Groups business means Continue to hedge all material firm transactional exposures as well as to manage it is exposed to volatility in a number of foreign anticipated economic cash flow exposures over the medium term.
currencies, the most significant being the US dollar Seek to minimise foreign exchange mismatches when negotiating contracts.
Consider exchange rates carefully during acquisition and disposal planning.
Liquidity The Group needs to refinance debt facilities as they Maintain a mix of short, medium and long term borrowings with lenders.
mature and consider the impact of exchange rate Maintain undrawn committed borrowing facilities in various currencies to provide movements on facility head room.
flexibility in the management of the Groups liquidity.
Maintain a conservative maturity profile with a spread of maturity dates.
Continue to apply rigorous authorisation procedures for investment.
26 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 www.
