Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Group views effective risk management as integral to delivering SEGROs strategic priorities and the process for identifying, assessing and reviewing risks faced by the Group are described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 60.
As a consequence of prevailing market conditions, a number of risks identified in last years Annual Report have increased significantly and other risks have emerged which were not previously considered material.
The table below outlines the principal risks and uncertainties we face in delivering our strategic priorities in 2009.
Financial Risks Risk Mitigating factors and additional commentary General economic environment Changes in the macro-economic environment may affect The Board monitors the external financial environment closely and the Group in a number of ways, including: has established a number of strategic priorities in order to respond A decline in the value of the Groups property assets to anticipated changes in the global economic environment.
A loss of rental income and increased vacant property costs due to a reduction in the demand for flexible business During 2008, the slow-down in the global economy and rapid space, the exercise of lease break options by customers, deterioration in international financial and property markets had an the failure of tenants to renew expiring leases or the adverse impact on the environment in which the Group operates.
bankruptcy of customers An inability to sell assets at acceptable prices due to a There are few, if any, geographic markets in which the Group decline in the demand for investment properties operates which will not face an economic recession in 2009 which is likely to mean these risks become a reality to varying degrees in all areas of the business.
Liquidity, covenants and availability of credit facilities Liquidity risk is the risk of the Group having insufficient The Group has a flexible funding strategy and manages liquidity funds available to meet the needs of the business or the in accordance with Treasury policies which are designed to inability of a counterparty to honour its pre-existing lending ensure the Group has adequate funds for its ongoing needs.
The policies are described in the Financial Review on page 52.
A decline in the value of the Groups property assets or a The Board monitors covenant ratios closely and completes material loss of rental income could result in the Groups scenario analyses to inform its financial planning.
As UK failure to comply with the financial covenants within its property values have been falling rapidly, this risk has increased credit facilities.
A breach of covenant could accelerate the in significance.
The Group took a number of steps in 2008 Groups obligations to repay those borrowings or to in order to mitigate the risk of a covenant breach and to provide cancellation of those facilities.
additional liquidity including a reduction in planned capital expenditure: further, in early 2009, we successfully renegotiated In such circumstances, the failure of the Group to negotiate certain of the Groups financial covenants in order to provide a covenant waiver could force the Group to sell assets at further financial headroom.
distressed prices and, ultimately, could bring into question the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
The Groups current financial position is described on page 51.
Interest rates The Group is exposed to changes in interest rates affecting The majority of borrowings are fixed and details of the Groups the cost of debt.
approach to interest rate management are set out on page 52 Foreign exchange rates A reduction in the sterling value of assets, earnings or The majority of foreign currency assets are matched by borrowings could arise if foreign currencies principally the borrowings denominated in the same currencies.
This provides euro depreciate against sterling and vice versa if foreign a natural hedge against the value of the Groups overseas assets currencies appreciate against sterling.
and earnings but significant exchange rate changes can also impact the Groups gearing ratio: e. g. in December 2008, the decline in sterling against the euro caused the gearing ratio to increase by approximately 14 per cent.
See page 52 for a discussion of the Groups foreign exchange rate risk management policies.
Tax risks and REIT compliance Potential tax penalties or loss of REIT status by failing to comply The Group maintains internal monitoring procedures to track with the new REIT rules in the UK.
compliance with the appropriate rules.
The Directors believe the Group to be in compliance with all REIT requirements for 2008 and expect to remain so in 2009.
Annual Report 2008 SEGRO plc Directors Report continued 2.
Real Estate Investment Risks Risk Mitigating factors and additional commentary Increased vacancy through customer default and reduced demand A potential loss of rental income and increased vacant SEGRO has over 1,700 customers in a wide range of business property costs, including empty rates liabilities, could result sectors and geographic territories: there is limited exposure from customer insolvency, customers exercising break clauses to any single customer.
or terminating occupancy at the end of a lease.
The Group stays close to its customers, monitoring the credit worthiness of the customer base and working closely with individual customers facing financial difficulty.
We have a vigorous and pragmatic approach to leasing and we aim to provide a high level of customer service so as to minimise the likelihood of customers leaving the Groups properties at the end of a lease or at the point of a break option.
Despite these mitigating factors, the Directors believe there is increased risk that vacancy rates will rise during 2009, given the economic environment.
Inability to acquire or dispose of assets at attractive prices The Groups strategy relies on being able to acquire The Group develops asset management plans for all estates properties and land for development and to dispose of which are intended to identify the optimum point at which properties.
Property market conditions may not be conducive to develop, refurbish, redevelop or sell each asset.
Local to acquiring and disposing of properties at acceptable prices.
property teams in each market are well placed to identify The Group may not have sufficient funds available to suitable properties to acquire.
The Group was successful in acquire properties.
The Group could misjudge the property both acquiring properties and in making disposals in the first cycle and miss both attractive acquisition opportunities three quarters of 2008.
However, property investment market and the right time to sell properties.
conditions deteriorated significantly in the fourth quarter, after which it became very difficult to achieve sales at acceptable prices in most markets.
The Groups Capital Approvals Committee oversees all significant acquisitions and disposals.
Investment decisions are based on experience and analysis, with reference to data from a wide range of external specialists and internal sources.
Decline in the value of property assets The value of property assets could decline as a result of a Property investment market conditions have been weak variety of factors including: throughout 2008 and are expected to remain so in 2009 A decline in investment market conditions reducing the which may lead to a further decline in the valuation of the demand for the Groups properties Groups properties.
A weakening in demand for flexible business space affecting vacancy rates or market rental levels The Group actively monitors the external environment Changes in legislation or customer requirements which including the macro-economic situation, local market conditions, render some of the Groups properties obsolete the property investment market, customer trends, legislative The over-development of properties by the Group or its changes and competitor activity in order to mitigate the risk of competitors causing an excess supply of flexible business space loss of value.
In the present economic environment, it may not be possible to sell certain assets at the optimum point or at acceptable prices.
Development Risks Letting and end value of development projects Developments may fail to deliver expected financial returns Sensitivity analysis is carried out on all potential investments to due to changes in the demand for space or a reduction in ensure that target returns can still be achieved with a delay to the value of completed developments.
leasing assumptions and with lower end value assumptions.
The Group adapts the pace of speculative development to current and anticipated market conditions so as to reduce the risk of un-let developments.
During 2008, the Group progressively reduced the amount of speculative development projects under development.
Development Risks continued Risk Mitigating factors and additional commentary Project management risks Developments may fail to deliver expected financial returns due Most sites are acquired with outline zoning or planning consent to delays in planning approval, increased construction costs or already in place.
We work closely with local communities and other project management factors.
other stakeholders to help reduce the risk that planning approvals are delayed or refused.
Contingencies are built into all development appraisals to allow for cost overruns.
We seek to transfer construction risk to our specialist construction partners.
We oversee construction projects using in-house and external project managers and we undertake regular project reviews to monitor progress against plans.
Holding excess development land The cost of holding development land may damage the The Group aims to balance the requirement for development Groups overall financial performance if new developments are land with the cost of holding a non-productive asset and the postponed or cancelled.
Executive Committee regularly reviews the Groups land holdings.
The recent slowdown in the economic environment is likely to reduce the amount of development undertaken in 2009.
Whilst we believe it is important to maintain an appropriate supply of land, we will seek to reduce land holdings where feasible in 2009 and do not anticipate adding materially to the overall land bank.
Details of the Groups land holdings and development pipeline are provided within the Property Analysis section of the website www.
Operational Risks Key people Failure to attract, retain and motivate key employees The Remuneration Committee oversees the remuneration structure needed to deliver the Groups strategic goals.
which is regularly benchmarked against external market indicators.
Succession plans are developed for senior positions.
All employees have personal development plans and on-going training.
Legal and regulatory Failure to comply with legal or regulatory requirements.
In The business and its portfolio are actively managed to maintain addition, the introduction of new requirements could impact compliance with legislation and reduce the potential impact of the Groups reputation and financial position.
Corporate sustainability Failure to achieve the Groups sustainability objectives and The Group Sustainability Committee sets targets, monitors damage to the Groups reputation and possible criminal or performance and drives a programme of continuous improvement civil action.
and the Group continues to invest in sustainable developments also see page 54. Business disruption or IT system failure Business disruption following a major physical event or A basic IT disaster recovery plan is in place and we are planning IT incident.
a further upgrade during 2009. Business Information System efficiency The business may operate inefficiently or management may Information technology and business information systems have been take sub-optimal business decisions if information systems are improved with a new Group-wide financial consolidation system, not continually improved to reflect current technological and a wide area network and other system enhancements introduced external developments.
A new property management and accounting platform is planned for implementation in Continental Europe during 2009.
Health and safety The risk of injury or illness to employees or third parties.
The Group Health & Safety Manager establishes appropriate policies, training and monitors accident reports which are reviewed and approved by the Executive Committee.
All significant accidents are reported to the Board.
