MANAGING OUR RISKS The Group views effective risk management as integral to the facing the business and the controls and processes in place by which delivering of superior returns to shareholders.
The Board regularly the Group aims to manage these risks are set out in the table below.
reviews the Groups risk management activities with a view to The internal control process including the role of the Risk Committee confirming that, to the extent reasonably possible, all principal which is an integral part of the risk management process is explained sources of risk are identified.
The principal risks and uncertainties in more detail on page 42 of the Corporate Governance Report: Risk Mitigation Weekly monitoring of occupancy levels and update of pricing Operational Fall in occupancy levels at each property.
Weekly monitoring of reasons for customers vacating and monitoring of trends.
On-site staff maintain regular contact with customers and local monitoring of competitors offering space.
Property development Regular monitoring of government announcements and active involvement on industry responses.
Changes to policy and or procedures increase time to obtain planning consent.
Maintain good working relationships with the Mayor of London and local London authorities.
Alignment of our regeneration proposals with the London Plan and local strategic plans.
Changes in economic environment Timing of actual developments can be deferred with properties retained for existing rental use.
impacts the viability or returns from planned developments.
Vacant possession not obtained until exchange achieved for properties being sold for alternative use.
Independent valuations conducted quarterly by CB Richard Ellis.
Property valuation Economic and market factors adversely Alternative use opportunities regularly reviewed across all properties and planning consent progressed.
Market yields and pricing of property transactions monitored closely across the London market.
Property investment Thorough due diligence conducted ahead of any property acquisitions.
Properties acquired do not meet performance expectations.
All acquisitions required to deliver a return of at least 8.5% on a current use basis for the property.
Regular monitoring of acquisition performance against target returns.
Treasury Covenants tested on monthly results, budgets and forecasts and reported regularly to the Board.
Breach of borrowing covenants triggering default.
Insufficient liquidity to progress development plans.
Business plan regularly reviewed and sufficient facilities put in place ahead of funding requirements.
REIT conditions monitored and tested on a regular basis Regulations REIT conditions breached and REIT status and reported to the Board.
Eligibility of shareholders to receive PIDs clarified prior lost or tax penalties incurred.
Close working relationship maintained with HMRC and all relevant issues openly disclosed.
Business continuity Succession plans for all key positions.
Competitive salary and incentive schemes in place.
Failure to recruit and retain key staff with appropriate skills.
Ongoing investment in training and development for all staff.
Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25
