FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P28-71 5 9 08 10:08 Page 67 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 RISK MANAGEMENT The following section forms part of the audited financial statements.
The groups funding, liquidity and exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange rate risks are managed by the groups treasury department.
The treasury department uses a combination of derivative and conventional financial instruments to manage these underlying risks.
Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of board-approved policies and guidelines, which are recommended and subsequently monitored by the finance committee.
This committee is described in the corporate governance report.
These policies and guidelines include benchmark exposure and or hedge cover levels for key areas of treasury risk.
The benchmarks, hedge cover and overall appropriateness of Diageos risk management policies are reviewed by the board following, for example, significant business, strategic or accounting changes.
The framework provides for limited defined levels of flexibility in execution to allow for the optimal application of the board-approved strategies.
Transactions giving rise to exposures away from the defined benchmark levels arising on the application of this flexibility are separately monitored on a daily basis using value at risk analysis.
These derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value and gains or losses are taken to the income statement as they arise.
At 30 June 2008 gains and losses on these transactions were not material.
The finance committee receives monthly reports on the activities of the treasury department, including any exposures away from the defined benchmarks.
Currency risk The group publishes its consolidated financial statements in sterling and conducts business in many foreign currencies.
As a result, it is subject to foreign currency exchange risk due to exchange rate movements, which will affect the groups transaction costs and the translation of the results and underlying net assets of its foreign operations.
Hedge of net investment in foreign operations The group hedges a substantial portion of its exposure to fluctuations on the translation into sterling of its foreign operations by holding net borrowings in foreign currencies and by using foreign currency swaps and forwards.
In February 2008, the board reviewed and approved the following revised foreign exchange risk management policy to effectively manage planning and rebalancing processes.
Where a liquid foreign exchange market exists, the groups policy is to seek to hedge currency exposure on its net investment in foreign operations within the following percentage bands: 80% to 100% for US dollars, 80% to 100% for euros and 50% to 100% for other significant currencies.
The groups previous policy was, where a liquid foreign exchange market exists, to seek to hedge currency exposure on its foreign equity investments before net borrowings at approximately the following percentages: 90% for US dollars, 90% for euros and 50% for other significant currencies.
Exchange differences arising on the retranslation of foreign currency borrowings including foreign currency swaps and forwards, to the extent that they are in an effective hedge relationship, are recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense to match exchange differences on foreign equity investments.
Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings not in a hedge relationship and any ineffectiveness are taken to the income statement.
Transaction exposure hedging In February 2008, the board reviewed the groups foreign exchange risk management policy and approved the following revised policy.
For currencies in which there is an active market, the group seeks to hedge between 60% and 100% of forecast transactional foreign exchange rate risk, for up to a maximum of 21 months forward, using forward foreign currency exchange contracts with coverage levels increasing nearer to the forecast transaction date.
The groups previous policy for currencies in which there is an active market, was to seek to hedge between 80% and 100% of forecast transactional foreign exchange rate risk, for up to a maximum of 21 months forward, using forward foreign currency exchange contracts.
The effective portion of the gain or loss on the hedge is recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense and recycled into the income statement at the same time as the underlying hedged transaction affects the income statement.
Any ineffectiveness is taken to the income statement.
Hedge of foreign currency debt The group uses cross currency interest rate swaps to hedge the forward foreign currency risk associated with certain foreign currency denominated bonds.
Hedges are documented and tested for hedge effectiveness on an ongoing basis.
Diageo expects hedges entered into to continue to be effective and therefore does not expect the impact of ineffectiveness on the income statement to be material.
Interest rate risk The group has an exposure to interest rate risk, arising principally on changes in US dollar, euro and sterling interest rates.
To manage interest rate risk, the group manages its proportion of fixed to floating rate borrowings within limits approved by the board, primarily through issuing fixed and floating rate term debt and commercial paper, and by utilising interest rate derivatives.
These practices serve to reduce the volatility of the groups reported financial performance.
In June 2007, the board reviewed the groups interest rate risk management policy and approved the following revised policy, which allows for flexibility in executing the policy to facilitate operational efficiency and effective hedge accounting.
The new policy was implemented during the year ended 30 June 2008.
Fixed rate borrowings are maintained within a band of 40% to 60% of projected net borrowings for a time period approved by the board, and the overall net borrowings portfolio is managed according to a duration measure.
The board approved template specifies different duration guidelines and fixed floating amortisation periods time taken for the fixed element of debt to reduce to zero depending on different interest rate environments.
During the year ended 30 June 2007, the profile of fixed rate to floating rate net borrowings was targeted according to a duration measure that was equivalent to an approximate 50% fixed and 50% floating amortising profile.
The number of years within the amortising profile depended on the template approved by the board.
The majority of Diageos existing interest rate hedges are designated as hedges.
Designated hedges are expected to be effective, and therefore the impact of ineffectiveness on the income statement is not expected to be material.
