212833 DIAGEO REPORT P16-27 5 9 08 10:20 Page 24 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION CONTINUED Switzerland.
Certain central finance activities, including elements of group brand.
The new company owns the exclusive and perpetual global rights to financial control and treasury, are also performed in the business service market, sell and distribute Ketel One vodka products, including Ketel One centre in Budapest.
Additional markets and supply entities may transfer vodka, Ketel One Citroen vodka and any line extensions of Ketel One vodka to Budapest during the next few years.
and Ketel One Citroen vodka.
The business is operated pursuant to a global agreement and ancillary agreements relating to intellectual property, supply, The costs of the business service centre and other corporate costs which distribution services and certain other matters.
Diageo will pay a total of cannot be directly allocated to the business areas are reported separately 473 million including acquisition costs for a 50% equity stake in the within Corporate costs in the analysis of business performance.
Also company and is entitled to certain governance rights under the global included in Corporate are the revenues and costs related to rents receivable agreement.
Diageo consolidates the company with a minority interest.
The in respect of properties not used by Diageo in the manufacture, sale or Nolet Group has an option to sell their stake in the company to Diageo for distribution of premium drink products and the results of Gleneagles Hotel.
$900 million 452 million plus interest from 9 June 2011 to 9 June 2013.
If the Nolet Group exercises this option but Diageo chooses not to buy Associates Diageos principal associate is Mot Hennessy.
It also owns their stake, Diageo will pay $100 million 50 million and the Nolet Group shares in a number of other associates.
In the year ended 30 June 2008, may then pursue a sale of their stake to a third party, subject to rights of the share of profits of associates after tax was 177 million 2007 149 first offer and last refusal on Diageos part.
million: 2006 131 million, of which Mot Hennessy accounted for 161 million 2007 136 million: 2006 122 million.
On 29 February 2008, Diageo acquired Rosenblum Cellars in North America for a total cost of 54 million including acquisition costs.
Diageo owns 34% of Mot Hennessy, the spirits and wine subsidiary of LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA LVMH.
LVMH is based in France On 1 May 2008 Diageo formed a new venture with Heineken and Namibia and is listed on the Paris Stock Exchange.
Mot Hennessy is also based in Breweries Limited NBL for their combined beer, cider and ready to drink France and is a producer and exporter of a number of brands in its main businesses in South Africa, called DHN Drinks Pty Limited DHN Drinks.
business areas of champagne and cognac.
Its principal champagne The new venture builds on the success of brandhouse Beverages Pty brands are Mot & Chandon including Dom Prignon, Veuve Clicquot Limited brandhouse, the parties existing venture in South Africa, which and Mercier, all of which are included in the top 10 champagne brands was formed in July 2004.
Diageo and Heineken each own 42.25% of DHN worldwide by volume.
Mot Hennessy also owns Hennessy, which is the Drinks and NBL owns 15.5%.
The cost of this acquisition in the period was top cognac brand worldwide by volume, and Glenmorangie, a malt whisky.
43 million, with additional consideration of up to 11 million payable through 31 December 2009.
Each party will share in the profits of DHN Since 1987, a number of joint distribution arrangements have been Drinks in proportion to their shareholding.
Brandhouse will continue to established with LVMH, principally covering distribution of Diageos market and distribute the parties products in South Africa.
Diageo and premium brands of scotch whisky and gin and Mot Hennessys Heineken also entered into a second venture in South Africa to be called premium champagne and cognac brands in the Asia Pacific region and Sedibeng Brewery Pty Limited on 1 May 2008 whereby a brewery and France.
Diageo and LVMH have each undertaken not to engage in any bottling plant will be constructed in Gauteng province, South Africa, champagne or cognac activities competing with those of Mot Hennessy.
which will produce Amstel and certain other key brands.
Heineken owns The arrangements also contain certain provisions for the protection of 75% and Diageo owns 25% of Sedibeng Brewery Pty Limited.
A cost of Diageo as a minority shareholder in Mot Hennessy.
The operations of 8 million was incurred for this acquisition during the year ended 30 June Mot Hennessy in France are conducted through a partnership in which 2008, with additional costs expected to be payable until completion of Diageo has a 34% interest and, as a partner, Diageo pays any tax due on construction of the brewery.
its share of the results of the partnership to the tax authorities.
DISPOSED BUSINESSES Acquisitions and disposals Diageo has made a number of acquisitions Pillsbury General Mills Diageo acquired an investment in the shares of and disposals of brands, distribution rights and equity interests in General Mills on the disposal of Pillsbury to General Mills in October 2001. premium drinks businesses including the following: On 4 October 2004, Diageo sold 50 million shares of common stock in General Mills and transferred a further 4 million shares to the Diageo UK On 3 July 2006, Diageo completed the purchase of the Smirnov brand pension fund and Diageo ceased to be an affiliate of General Mills for US in Russia through the formation of a 75% Diageo-owned joint venture federal securities laws purposes at that time.
This company unites the Smirnoff Smirnov brands in Russia sold its remaining 25 million shares of common stock of General Mills.
under common ownership and is the exclusive distributor of Smirnov and Diageos spirits brands in Russia.
Burger King Diageo completed the disposal of Burger King on 13 December 2002.
On 27 January 2007, Diageo completed the acquisition of a 43% equity stake in Sichuan Chengdu Quanxing Group Co Limited Quanxing.
RISK FACTORS Quanxing then held 39.48% of the equity in Sichuan ShuiJingFang Joint Diageo faces competition that may reduce its market share Stock Co Limited ShuiJingFang, a leading maker of premium Chinese and margins Diageo faces substantial competition from several white spirits, or baijiu.
ShuiJingFang is listed on the Shanghai Stock international companies as well as local and regional companies in the Exchange.
The agreed purchase price for the 43% equity interest in countries in which it operates.
Diageo competes with drinks companies Quanxing was RMB517 million 37 million.
Quanxing subsequently across a wide range of consumer drinking occasions.
Within a number increased its equity stake in ShuiJingFang to 39.7%.
On 30 July 2008, of categories, consolidation or realignment is still possible.
Consolidation Diageo acquired a further 6% of the equity of Quanxing.
Diageo now owns is also taking place amongst Diageos customers in many countries.
49% of Quanxing and continues to equity account for this investment.
Increased competition and unanticipated actions by competitors or customers could lead to downward pressure on prices and or a decline On 9 June 2008, Diageo completed the acquisition of a new 50:50 company in Diageos market share in any of these categories, which would adversely based in the Netherlands with the Nolet Group, owners of the Ketel One affect Diageos results and hinder its growth potential.
24 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PERFORMANCE SUMMARY BUSINESS DESCRIPTION BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE OTHER INFORMATION 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P16-27 5 9 08 10:20 Page 25 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 Diageo may not be able to derive the expected benefits from its Diageos reported after tax income is calculated based on extensive tax and strategy to focus on premium drinks or its systems change and accounting requirements in each of its relevant jurisdictions of operation.
cost-saving programmes designed to enhance earnings Diageos Changes in tax law including tax rates, accounting policies and accounting strategy is to focus on premium drinks to grow its business through standards could materially reduce Diageos reported after tax income.
organic sales and operating profit growth and the acquisition of premium drinks brands that add value for shareholders.
There can be no assurance Diageo is subject to litigation directed at the beverage alcohol that Diageos strategic focus on premium drinks will result in better industry and other litigation Companies in the beverage alcohol opportunities for growth and improved margins.
industry are, from time to time, exposed to class action or other litigation relating to alcohol advertising, alcohol abuse problems or health It is possible that the pursuit of this strategic focus on premium drinks consequences from the misuse of alcohol.
If such litigation resulted in could give rise to further acquisitions including associated financing, fines, damages or reputational damage to Diageo or its brands, Diageos disposals, joint ventures or partnerships.
There can be no guarantee that business could be materially adversely affected.
any such acquisition, disposal, joint venture or partnership would deliver the benefits intended.
Contamination, counterfeiting or other circumstances could harm the integrity or customer support for Diageos brands and Similarly, there can be no assurance that the systems change and costadversely affect the sales of those brands The success of Diageos savings programmes implemented by Diageo in order to improve brands depends upon the positive image that consumers have of those efficiencies and deliver cost-savings will deliver the expected benefits.
brands, and contamination, whether arising accidentally, or through deliberate third-party action, or other events that harm the integrity or Systems change programmes may not deliver the benefits consumer support for those brands, could adversely affect their sales.
intended and systems failures could lead to business disruption Diageo purchases most of the raw materials for the production of its Certain change programmes designed to improve the effectiveness and spirits and wines from third-party producers or on the open market.
efficiency of end-to-end operating, administrative and financial systems Contaminants in those raw materials or defects in the distillation or and processes continue to be undertaken.
This includes moving transaction fermentation process could lead to low beverage quality as well as processing from a number of markets to business service centres.
There can illness among, or injury to, Diageos consumers and may result in reduced be no certainty that these programmes will deliver the expected operational sales of the affected brand or all Diageo brands.
Also, to the extent that benefits.
There is likely to be disruption caused to production processes third parties sell products which are either counterfeit versions of Diageo and possibly to administrative and financial systems as further changes to brands or inferior brands that look like Diageo brands, consumers of such processes are effected.
They could also lead to adverse customer or Diageo brands could confuse Diageo products with them.
Any failure of information systems could adversely cause them to refrain from purchasing Diageo brands in the future and impact on Diageos ability to operate.
As with all large systems, Diageos in turn could impair brand equity and adversely affect Diageos business.
information systems could be penetrated by outside parties intent on extracting information, corrupting information or disrupting business Demand for Diageos products may be adversely affected by processes.
Such unauthorised access could disrupt Diageos business and or changes in consumer preferences and tastes Diageos collection of lead to loss of assets.
The concentration of processes in business service brands includes some of the worlds leading beverage alcohol brands as centres also means that any disruption arising from system failure or physical well as brands of local prominence.
Maintaining Diageos competitive plant issues could impact on a large portion of Diageos global business.
position depends on its continued ability to offer products that have a strong appeal to consumers.
Consumer preferences may shift due to a Regulatory decisions and changes in the legal and regulatory variety of factors including changes in demographic and social trends, environment could increase Diageos costs and liabilities or limit its public health regulations, changes in travel, vacation or leisure activity business activities Diageos operations are subject to extensive regulatory patterns, weather effects and a downturn in economic conditions, which requirements which include those in respect of production, product liability, may reduce consumers willingness to purchase premium branded distribution, importation, marketing, promotion, labelling, advertising, products.
In addition, concerns about health effects due to negative labour, pensions and environmental issues.
Changes in laws, regulations publicity regarding alcohol consumption, negative dietary effects, regulatory or governmental policy could cause Diageo to incur material additional action or any litigation or customer complaints against companies in the costs or liabilities that could adversely affect its business.
In particular, industry may have an adverse effect on Diageos profitability.
governmental bodies in countries where Diageo operates may impose new labelling, product or production requirements, limitations on the advertising The competitive position of Diageos brands could also be affected adversely and or promotion activities used to market beverage alcohol, restrictions by any failure to achieve consistent, reliable quality in the product or service on retail outlets, other restrictions on marketing, promotion and distribution levels to customers.
or other restrictions on the locations or occasions where beverage alcohol is sold which directly or indirectly limit the sales of Diageo products.
In addition, both the launch and ongoing success of new products is Regulatory authorities under whose laws Diageo operates may also have inherently uncertain especially as to their appeal to consumers.
The failure enforcement power that can subject the group to actions such as product to launch a new product successfully can give rise to inventory write offs recall, seizure of products or other sanctions, which could have an adverse and other costs and can affect consumer perception of an existing brand.
effect on its sales or damage its reputation.
Growth in Diageos business has been based on both the launch of new products and the growth of existing products.
Product innovation remains In addition, beverage alcohol products are the subject of national import a significant aspect of Diageos plans for growth.
There can be no assurance and excise duties in most countries around the world.
An increase in as to Diageos continuing ability to develop and launch successful new import or excise duties could have a significant adverse effect on Diageos products or variants of existing products or as to the profitable lifespan sales revenue or margin, both through reducing overall consumption and of newly or recently developed products.
by encouraging consumers to switch to lower-taxed categories of beverage alcohol.
25 212833 DIAGEO REPORT P16-27 5 9 08 10:20 Page 26 DIAGEO | ANNUAL REPORT 2008 BUSINESS DESCRIPTION CONTINUED Any significant changes in consumer preferences and failure to anticipate beverage products.
Diageo may also be adversely affected by shortages of and react to such changes could result in reduced demand for Diageos raw materials or packaging materials.
In addition, energy cost increases products and erosion of its competitive and financial position.
result in higher transportation, freight and other operating costs.
Diageo may not be able to increase its prices to offset these increased costs If the social acceptability of Diageos products declines, Diageos without suffering reduced volume, sales and operating profit.
Diageo has sales volume could decrease and the business could be materially experienced significant increases in commodity costs and energy costs, and adversely affected In recent years, there has been increased social and these costs could continue to rise.
political attention directed to the beverage alcohol industry.
Diageo believes that this attention is the result of public concern over problems Diageos business may be adversely impacted by unfavourable related to alcohol abuse, including drink driving, underage drinking and economic conditions or political or other developments and risks health consequences from the misuse of alcohol.
If, as a result, the general in the countries in which it operates Diageos business is dependent social acceptability of beverage alcohol were to decline significantly, sales on general economic conditions in the United States, Great Britain and of Diageos products could materially decrease.
A significant deterioration in these conditions, including a reduction in consumer spending levels, could have a material Diageos operating results may be adversely affected by increased adverse effect on Diageos business and results of operations.
In addition, costs or shortages of labour Diageos operating results could be Diageo may be adversely affected by political and economic adversely affected by labour or skill shortages or increased labour costs developments in any of the countries where Diageo has distribution due to increased competition for employees, higher employee turnover networks, production facilities or marketing companies.
Diageos or increased employee benefit costs.
Diageos success is dependent on operations are also subject to a variety of other risks and uncertainties the capability of its employees.
There is no guarantee that Diageo will related to trading in numerous foreign countries, including political or continue to be able to recruit, retain and develop the capabilities that it economic upheaval and the imposition of any import, investment or requires to deliver its strategy, for example in relation to sales, marketing currency restrictions, including tariffs and import quotas or any restrictions and innovation capability within markets or in its senior management.
on the repatriation of earnings and capital.
Political and or social unrest, The loss of senior management or other key personnel or the inability to potential health issues including pandemic issues and terrorist threats identify, attract and retain qualified personnel in the future could make it and or acts may also occur in various places around the world, which will difficult to manage the business and could adversely affect operations have an impact on trade, tourism and travel.
These disruptions can affect and financial results.
Diageos ability to import or export products and to repatriate funds, as well as affecting the levels of consumer demand for example in duty free Diageos operating results may be adversely affected by disruption outlets at airports or in on trade premises in affected regions and to production facilities or business service centres Diageo would be therefore Diageos levels of sales or profitability.
affected if there were a catastrophic failure of its major production facilities or business service centres.
See Business description Premium drinks Part of Diageos growth strategy includes expanding its business in certain Production for details of Diageos principal production areas.
In addition, countries where consumer spending in general, and spending on Diageos the maintenance and development of information systems may result in products in particular, has not historically been as great but where there systems failures which may adversely affect business operations.
There is no guarantee that this strategy will be successful and some of the markets represent a higher risk in terms of Diageo has a substantial inventory of aged product categories, principally their changing regulatory environments and higher degree of uncertainty scotch whisky and Canadian whisky, which mature over periods of up to 30 over levels of consumer spending.
As at 30 June 2008, the historical cost of Diageos maturing inventory amounted to 1,939 million.
The maturing inventory is stored primarily in Diageo may also be adversely affected by movements in the value of, and Scotland, and the loss through contamination, fire or other natural disaster returns from, the investments held by its pension funds.
of all or a portion of the stock of any one of those aged product categories could result in a significant reduction in supply of those products, and Diageo may be adversely affected by fluctuations in exchange rates.
consequently, Diageo would not be able to meet consumer demand for The results of operations of Diageo are accounted for in pounds sterling.
those products as it arises.
There can be no assurance that insurance Approximately 29% of sales in the year ended 30 June 2008 were in US proceeds would cover the replacement value of Diageos maturing dollars, approximately 23% were in sterling and approximately 19% were inventory or other assets, were such assets to be lost due to contamination, in euros.
Movements in exchange rates used to translate foreign fire or natural disasters or destruction resulting from negligence or the acts currencies into pounds sterling may have a significant impact on Diageos of third parties.
In addition, there is an inherent risk of forecasting error in reported results of operations from year to year.
determining the quantity of maturing stock to lay down in a given year for future consumption.
This could lead to an inability to supply future demand Diageo may also be adversely impacted by fluctuations in interest rates, or lead to a future surplus of inventory and consequent write down in value mainly through an increased interest expense.
To partly delay any adverse of maturing stocks.
impact from interest rate movements, the profile of fixed rate to floating rate net borrowings is maintained according to a duration measure that is An increase in the cost of raw materials or energy could affect equivalent to an approximate 50% fixed and 50% floating amortising Diageos profitability The components that Diageo uses for the profile.
See Business review Risk management.
production of its beverage products are largely commodities that are subject to price volatility caused by changes in global supply and demand, Diageos operations may be adversely affected by failure to weather conditions, agricultural uncertainty and or governmental controls.
renegotiate distribution and manufacturing agreements on Commodity price changes may result in unexpected increases in the cost of favourable terms Diageos business has a number of distribution raw materials, glass bottles and other packaging materials and Diageos agreements for brands owned by it or by other companies.
These agreements vary depending on the particular brand, but tend to be for a 26
