Operating and financial review Risks and uncertainties Risk is an inherent part of doing business and the Board is fully committed to identifying, evaluating and managing signi cant risks facing the business, as described in more detail in the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report.
A more extensive analysis of risk factors facing the business can be found in the Admission to the Of cial List prospectus prepared for the purpose of Admission which is available on our website.
The main speci c risks and uncertainties, which could have a material impact on Dominos long-term performance and achievement of its strategy, are as follows: Risks speci c to the business of the Group The Group is highly The Master Franchise Agreement MFA and the Know-How Agreement pursuant to which Dominos Pizza dependent on key Group Ltd DPG is granted the right by Dominos Pizza International Franchising Inc. DPIF to establish and contracts and business operate the commissaries are the two contracts that the Group is most dependent on.
The term of the MFA relationships continues inde nitely until all of the franchise agreements that DPG has with its franchisees have either not been renewed or have been terminated.
Franchise agreements have an initial term of 10 years and can be renewed at the franchisees option and the renewed franchise agreement will be subject to further renewal in accordance with the terms of the standard franchise agreement at that time.
Therefore if all of the franchisees do not renew their franchise agreements and DPG cannot nd replacement franchisees, there would eventually come a time when there are no franchise agreements in effect and therefore the term of the MFA and related Know-How Agreement would end.
The chances of this situation arising are remote as to date all franchisees have chosen to renew their agreements for a further term or have sold their store to another franchisee who then commences a new 10 year term.
DPGs right to grant franchises for new Dominos stores in the UK and the Republic of Ireland is dependent on the continuation of the development term of the MFA.
The development term is a 10 year renewable term that was last renewed with effect from 1 January 2007.
The current development term requires DPG to increase the number of stores in the territory by 27 stores per year over the next 10 years, from a base of 450 stores.
If these targets are not met, DPG would not receive a royalty waiver which would mean that DPG would have to pay DPIF a higher annual royalty.
Currently DPG has signi cant headroom and if it continues opening stores at the rate of 50 per year, the full requirement of the current 10 year development term would be met in five and a half years.
If DPG has failed to open and maintain the minimum number of stores or is in material breach of the MFA, then DPIF is not obliged to renew the development term.
This would mean that although DPG would continue to serve as the franchisor to all existing stores, it would not be able to grant franchises for any new Dominos stores.
The MFA may be terminated by DPIF if DPG breaches the agreement, although all potential breaches are within the direct control of DPG.
Depending on the nature of the breach, DPG may have the right to cure the breach within an allocated time period.
On termination of the agreement by DPIF, DPIF has the right to require the sale or the assignment to it of any stores or franchise agreements at their fair value.
The Board considers that their compliance with the material terms of the MFA is such that there is very little possibility of termination.
The Group may not If the Group is unable to open new stores successfully, the Groups future growth in revenue and pro ts be able to achieve may be adversely affected.
The Group currently plans to expand at a rapid rate, opening a targeted 50 its planned rate of new stores each year against the requirement of 27 per year.
The ability to open the target number of expansion stores will depend on a number of factors for example, general economic conditions and the availability of adequate nancing for franchisees, some of which are beyond the Groups control but currently there is a plentiful supply of potential sites and strong appetite from both new franchisees and the existing franchisee community to open new stores.
The Group acknowledges that it is only through the delivery of a highly pro table business model that it can convince franchisees to invest, enabling the Group to grow further.
In relation to securing The Group is also dependent on securing successful planning permission in respect of development of new new locations, the store sites.
However, the Group has an excellent track record of securing suitable sites and getting such Group cannot predict sites trading by working constructively with planners, landlords, developers and franchisees.
the timing or ultimate success of the site selection and the franchise process Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc 21 Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Operating and financial review Risks and uncertainties continued Risks speci c to the business of the Group continued The failure of a The Group depends, in large part, on the Dominos brand.
The vast majority of stores are owned and franchisee could operated by franchisees who are responsible for delivering the high standards of the Dominos brand to damage the Groups customers.
Whilst franchisees are required to operate within the Groups standards for store operation, reputation and brand they are given a degree of autonomy to ensure they operate in a way that suits their local area.
The Group provides that franchisees must adhere to strict quality, safety and image regulations that the Group enforces through the implementation of training and careful monitoring, funded by both the franchisees and the Group, and through store visits and frequent appraisals.
A reduction in the One of the key functions of the Groups business is the manufacture of dough and the distribution of all volume of sales of food and packaging items used in the stores by the Groups own commissaries based in Milton Keynes the Group due to a UK, Penrith UK, and Naas Republic of Ireland.
The Group works in partnership with its suppliers to failure in the Groups manage the risk of any delays or interruptions in the supply chain, which may affect franchisees trade.
manufacturing and delivery processes Failure of the Groups The success of the Groups sales through channels of e-commerce is highly dependent on the ability of the IT systems could impact Group to maintain operational and ef cient IT systems in order to facilitate online sales and orders made via the volume of the SMS.
Furthermore, the Groups stores utilise IT systems to place delivery orders to the Groups commissary Groups sales sites and the Group also uses the same IT systems to calculate the royalties payable by each of the stores.
The Group recognises the essential role that IT plays across its operations in allowing it to trade ef ciently so that it can achieve commercial advantage through implementing IT innovations that improve the customer ordering experience and make life easier for franchisees.
General risks Economic and market Changes in the general economic climate, such as those caused by the global credit crunch can have a risks detrimental effect on consumer expenditure and therefore Group revenues.
However, the Group believes that a number of prevailing trends bene t the Groups business, including a population with increasingly greater disposable incomes who are cash-rich and time-poor and an increased trend of busier and more hectic lifestyles leaving less time for home-cooking.
The Group constantly works with its franchisees to ensure that the Dominos proposition for customers is the most compelling in the home delivery pizza market.
The Group is exposed to uctuations in food prices particularly and so works hard to mitigate the impact of any cost pressures on itself and its franchisees through xed price contracts where appropriate, although there are signs that the level of in ationary pressures on food prices that have been a feature of the last few years may be easing in the near term.
Regulatory risks The Groups operations are subject to a broad range of regulatory requirements particularly in relation to planning, health and safety, employment, advertising and licensing laws and in terms of regulations over the Groups products and services.
The Group monitors regulatory developments and has a strong compliance regime, both in terms of its own operations and those of its franchisees.
Consumer taste and Food service businesses are affected by changes in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic perception of the brand conditions, local and national competition and demographic trends.
Any material change in market perception of the home delivery and convenience food industry, or the Dominos brand in particular, could adversely affect the business of the Group.
In addition, increasing government and media initiatives to create greater awareness of healthy eating could impact on the publics perception of the convenience food industry.
The Group recognises the link between a balanced diet, lifestyle and health and therefore provides nutritional information on its website to allow customers to make an informed choice and also offers a reduced fat mozzarella cheese.
The Group works relentlessly to re ect changes in consumer tastes and improve its offering by investing in price, quality and service in order to deliver the optimum home delivery pizza service to its customers.
In terms of marketing power and therefore brand awareness, each store contributes between four and five per cent of net sales to a national advertising fund which gives signi cant marketing spending power 18m in 2008 in a currently fide ationary media market.
22 Dominos Pizza UK & IRL plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
