Risk Management The Group has further strengthened its procedures for understanding and managing its significant risks.
The procedures adopted by the Group to manage its key www.
asp, on the Groups risks, including environmental, social and governance risks, website, require all employees to comply with all relevant and to comply with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee laws and regulations in the countries in which they operate.
are described in the Corporate Governance section on The Group recognises the risk that substantial fines, or other pages 40 to 42.
In April 2008, a Group Risks Committee penalties, may be imposed for non-compliance with laws was established.
This is comprised of the Group Chief and regulations relating to competition, environmental, Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Group Human health and safety or other matters, and has control Resources Director, the Company Secretary, the Divisional mechanisms, ongoing programmes and systems, and Chief Executives and the Head of Operational Audit and special initiatives in place for monitoring compliance.
It will meet at least four times a year to review the risks faced also carries out training programmes for employees and by the Group and the adequacy and suitability of the has systems in place to share expertise and best practice mitigation arrangements in place to manage those risks.
The Group has a Workplace Malpractice Policy, and a process for employees to report any suspected The Groups exposure to individual risks is limited and wrongdoing in confidence, that is in place across its diversied by the fact that it has several distinct types of international operations where such reporting is activity, with 30 business sectors operating from over 100 permitted by law.
sites in 20 different countries, and it sells to a broad range of customers.
Any significant commercial and other risks Political instability that are specic to a business segment are described within profits from the Groups wholly-owned operations are not the narrative on that segment.
The principal Group-wide key subject to any significant degree of political risk as they risks and the way they are managed are described below.
are almost entirely located in countries which are members The Group seeks to mitigate its insurable risks through an of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and insurance programme that covers property and liability Development OECD, members of which are committed risks where it is relevant and cost-effective to do so.
to democratic government and the market economy.
The Groups adjusted after tax profits from associated Movements in foreign exchange rates and interest rates undertakings, which totalled 3.4 million in 2007 08, These risks and the way in which they are managed are currently exposed to some political risk as they are through the Groups Treasury Committee and its subsidiary substantially derived from Rubezhansk, a paper and committees or groups are described on pages 28 and 29. corrugated packaging business located in Ukraine, a country which has recently experienced political instability.
The funding position of the Groups UK dened benefit The Groups ability to manage this risk is also lessened pension scheme and the consequent impact of any deficit on since it has inuence, rather than control, over these corporate activity operations.
The Group maintains a close relationship with The funding of the Groups dened benefit scheme is local management and regular visits are made to Ukraine sensitive to a number of factors.
The Group faces the risk by Group executives to ensure a good understanding of that this funding position will deteriorate over time, in the business and the context in which it is operating.
particular if actual longevity exceeds current assumptions and investment returns are lower than expected.
The Group Volatility and increasing energy prices and the schemes trustee have sought to mitigate this risk The Groups exposure to energy costs is described on page through the schemes investment strategy and through 28 and is being managed in a number of ways.
The Group having increased the contributions made to the scheme is looking to maximise in-house energy generation from its by both the members and the Group.
The regulatory combined heat and power CHP plants in the UK and environment for pension schemes and their trustees has France and a UK waste-to-energy plant, thereby taking changed in recent years, in particular with the Pensions advantage of the greater efficiency of the CHP process.
Act 2004: the presence of a deficit in a scheme may now It is also investigating the potential for the use of renewable oblige the trustee or possibly the Pensions Regulator to or low-carbon energy sources, including refuse-derived fuel.
seek some further funding of the scheme in the event of The Group continues to undertake a wide range of energya significant corporate action or perceived decline in the saving projects aimed at increasing its energy efficiency Groups financial covenant.
and reducing its energy usage.
In 2007 08, the Group reduced its energy usage by 2% compared with 2006 07.
The continuing availability of borrowing facilities, including The Group maintains a centralised energy-purchasing compliance with borrowing covenants approach in the UK and France, which enables it to obtain The Groups borrowing facilities and their management economies of scale in buying and to apply specialist through the Treasury Committee are described on pages expertise, including the application of hedging techniques.
Regulatory developments in the energy market are monitored Serious breaches of the law or other regulations and the Group collaborates, when appropriate, with other The Groups Key Corporate Values, which are described heavy energy users in the paper and other industry sectors in more detail in the Corporate Responsibility Review to inuence government on energy policy and the operation on page 33 and are available in full at of energy markets.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2008 31 Business Review Risk Management continued Increasing costs in the medium-term related supply to the Groups paper mills.
It achieves this through to climate change and carbon dioxide CO emissions long-term contracts with major suppliers of waste paper 2 As a result of its substantial energy usage, the Group is and the collection of waste from smaller suppliers through likely, in the medium-term, to be increasingly subject to its network of collection depots.
regulation and taxation of its CO emissions.
The details 2 Of the Groups total polymer and lm purchases in of this and the actions being taken to reduce the Groups 2007 08, polycarbonate, polypropylene and high density future energy usage and CO emissions are described in 2 polyethylene accounted for approximately 50% with the the Corporate Responsibility Review on page 35 and in the remainder comprising a large number of different polymers statement of the Groups strategy for managing its energy and lms.
The Group has developed a good level of costs on page 31. knowledge in polymer purchasing and uses a number of Changes in packaging demand as a result suppliers to ensure it is purchasing at competitive prices.
of environmental concerns Product liability The continuing concerns of consumers, retailers and The Groups packaging products, many of which are government about conservation of resources and waste supplied into the food and beverage industries, may give reduction may result in lower total usage of packaging rise to potentially substantial product liability claims in the or changes in the pattern of demand for certain types of event of a failure of the packaging to perform its function packaging.
The positive role that most packaging plays when in use or from contamination of the product by its in contributing to reducing total waste in the supply chain packaging.
The potential for such claims is reduced by the and the actions that the Groups packaging businesses fact that the majority of the Groups packaging is used as have been taking for a number of years to minimise the secondary, or transit, packaging and does not come into use of resources, are described in the Packaging and the direct contact with the products it ultimately protects.
The Environment section of the Corporate Responsibility Review Group takes all reasonable steps to ensure the safety and on pages 34 and 35.
Our packaging businesses work adequate performance levels of its packaging through with the other members of their product supply chains to design, manufacturing control processes, technical testing minimise the total environmental impact of the production, and other means while having appropriate product liability distribution, use and disposal of goods.
It also looks to minimise its product Recycling, the Groups UK waste collection business works liability risk through its relevant terms and conditions closely with DS Smith Packaging, our UK box business, in of trading.
marketing our cradle-to-cradle environmental capability which encompasses: the Groups expertise in designing Other social and environmental matters packaging that will minimise waste throughout the supply The Groups management of other social and environmental chain: the environmental benets of the recyclability of risks is described in the Corporate Responsibility Review on corrugated packaging: and Severnsides capability for pages 33 to 37. managing customers entire waste recycling and disposal needs.
The Group also collaborates with other companies which produce, specify or use packaging to increase the understanding of government and other opinion-formers of the positive role packaging does, and can in the future, play in achieving more sustainable consumption.
Volatility of pricing and availability of globally traded raw materials In 2007 08, the Group purchased approximately 100 million of waste paper and approximately 85 million of polymers and lms as the principal raw materials in its Paper and Plastic Packaging businesses, respectively.
These products are globally traded and subject to variations in supply and demand which result in volatility in their pricing.
The Group endeavours to recover any raw material cost increases through good material usage programmes and through price rises.
Approximately one-third of the Groups corrugated and plastic packaging customer contracts include arrangements to link selling prices to an index of raw material prices.
The achievement of price increases for the majority of our Packaging business is substantially determined by the state of supply and demand in the relevant market at any time.
Due to the variety of contractual arrangements with customers, margins may be squeezed for a period of time until price increases are achieved to recover input cost increases.
The Groups Severnside Recycling business collects and trades waste paper to ensure a continuous cost-competitive 32 www.
