Principal Risks and Uncertainties In the day to day operations of the Group, we face Another economic factor to consider is the price of risks and uncertainties.
Our job is to mitigate and fuel, which is usually the single greatest element in manage these risks, and the Board has developed a the cost of running a generator.
Over the last few formal risk management process which is described years, the price of fuel has been extremely volatile, on page 50 of this report.
Set out below are some of but this does not seem to have any noticeable impact the principal risks and uncertainties which we believe on peoples willingness to rent: people rent generators could adversely affect us, potentially impacting the because they need power, not because it is a cheap employees, operations, revenue, pro ts, cash ows or way of generating electricity.
The major impact on assets of the Group.
This list is not exhaustive there our business of the oil-price is that, at times when are many things that could go wrong in an operation it has been high, it has produced huge wealth in as large and geographically diverse as ours and the oil-producing countries which has been re-cycled list might change as something that seems immaterial into infrastructure investment, which has in turn today assumes greater importance tomorrow.
stimulated demand for our services.
If the oil-price is persistently low by which we mean under $40 per Economic conditions barrel we would expect to see an adverse impact There is a link in our business between demand for on our business in oil-producing countries.
our services and levels of economic activity: this link is particularly evident in the Local business.
If GDP Exchange rate uctuations can have a material impact growth slows, demand for rental equipment is likely to on our performance: the Groups asset values, earnings slow even faster, and the operational gearing inherent and cash ows are in uenced by a wide variety in our business models means that variations in demand of currencies owing to the geographic diversity can lead to much larger variations in pro tability.
of the Groups customers and areas of operation.
We also have some businesses which, by their nature, The majority of the Groups revenue and costs are are exposed to particular sectors for instance our denominated in US dollars.
The relative value of Australian business is highly dependent on mining currencies can uctuate widely and could have a activity, and a large proportion of our Middle East material impact on the Groups asset values, costs, business comes from construction.
earnings, debt levels and cash ows.
Further discussion of this topic can be found on pages 38 to 39.
We mitigate this risk in a number of ways.
First, having a global footprint is a great advantage because we can Political move both existing rental eet and new investment The Group operates in over 100 countries around from low-growth economies to higher-growth the world, including Africa, Asia and South America.
environments: for example, we have moved eet from In some jurisdictions there are signi cant risks of Europe and North America to the Middle East, and political instability which can result in civil unrest, part of the eet used to perform the Beijing Olympics equipment seizure, renegotiation or nulli cation of came from Europe and North America.
Secondly, we existing agreements, changes in laws, taxation policies try to ensure that, as they grow, our businesses build a or currency restrictions.
Any of these could have a customer-base which is as diverse as possible, to reduce damaging effect on the pro tability of our operations sectoral exposure.
In the Middle East, for instance, in a country.
we are investing in our temperature control business which in time will reduce our exposure to construction: Prior to undertaking a contract in a new country, in North America we have special initiatives in place we carry out a risk assessment process to consider to develop our business in under-penetrated sectors.
risks to our people, assets and to payments.
The safety Thirdly, in the event of a more generalised downturn of our employees is always our first concern.
If the in demand, we can quickly reduce capital expenditure.
level of risk is considered unsatisfactory we will Given the large depreciation element in the businesses decline to participate in any contract: where there cost base 116 million in 2008, reducing capital are potential issues, we develop detailed contingency expenditure below depreciation makes the business plans.
Our greatest exposure lies in our International very cash generative which, in turn, will reduce debt Power Projects business, and they perform risk and interest cost.
The 24 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report Group uses a wide range of tools and techniques Failure to conduct business dealings to manage financial risk, including insurances, with integrity and honesty bonds, guarantees and cash advances.
Some of the countries in which the Group operates have a reputation for corruption and, given that many Failure to collect payments of our contracts involve large sums of money, we are The majority of the contracts the Group enters at risk of being accused of bribery and other unethical into are small relative to the size of the Group and, behaviour.
The first and most important way of if a customer fails to pay a debt, this is dealt with in avoiding this risk is to ensure that people, both the normal course.
However, some of the contracts inside and outside the Group, know that Aggreko the Group undertakes in developing countries are does not engage in, and will not tolerate, bribery, substantial, and are in jurisdictions where payment corruption or unethical behaviour.
We have a strict practices can be unpredictable.
The Group monitors Ethics Policy, a copy of which is available on our the risk pro le and debtor position of all such website www.
Rather than just publishing contracts regularly, and deploys a variety of techniques it, we get every employee to sign it when they join to mitigate the risks of delayed or non-payment: these the business: every consultant acting on our behalf include securing advance payments, guarantees and agrees to abide by it, and every consultancy or agency various types of insurance.
As a result of the rigorous agreement has an explicit term stating that the approach to risk management, the Group has agreement will be terminated immediately if the historically had a low level of bad debt.
However, consultant or agent does not abide by our policy.
while the rapid growth in our International Power The Group has a comprehensive and detailed set Projects business makes it less likely that any bad debt of procedures, approved by the Board, which governs would be material to the Groups balance sheet, the the appointment of agents and sales consultants, all increased number of contracts and countries we of whom are subject to due diligence investigations operate in increases the likelihood of a loss and make by third-party investigators.
Payments made to agents it inevitable that at some stage a major customer will and sales consultants are subject to audit by both default on us.
This could have a noticeable impact internal and external auditors.
on earnings in a particular reporting period.
Acquisitions Events It is part of our strategy to acquire businesses in our The business is, by nature, driven by events.
People core market which can add value to Aggreko.
In the hire generators because some event or need makes last five years, we have acquired three small businesses it essential.
Aggrekos revenues, cash ows and pro ts the temperature control business of Prime Energy can be in uenced signi cantly by external events as in the USA, the assets and business of Power Plus evidenced in the past by hurricanes in North America Rentals & Sales Ltd in Canada and, since the year or by the contracts to supply power to military camps end, the power rental business of Cummins, India in the Middle East.
These events are, by their nature, and one large global business GE Energy Rentals.
dif cult to predict and, combined with the high We are well aware that buying businesses can be risky: operational gearing inherent in our business, can lead in our business, the greatest areas of risk are: to volatility in terms of performance.
By developing the business globally as well as by increasing and over-paying broadening the Groups revenue base, the impact of a single event on the overall Group will reduce.
acquiring liabilities we do not know about or Additionally, the ability to move equipment around understand: and the world allows the Group to adjust to changes in utilisation caused by any changes in demand.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25 Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued We mitigate these risks by having a rigorous acquisition Product technology and emissions regulation process, which is overseen by the Board.
All acquisitions The majority of Aggrekos eet is diesel-powered, and are subject to detailed financial modelling, using some of our equipment is over ten years old.
As part of different scenarios, so we can understand the likely the increasing focus on environmental issues, countries returns in various circumstances.
We undertake detailed are introducing legislation related to permissible levels due diligence, particularly on the operational side, and of emissions and this has the potential to affect our we look for extensive warranties and covenants from business.
Our engines are sourced from major vendors.
Finally, we have a well-developed and effective manufacturers who, in turn, have to develop products acquisition integration model as demonstrated by the which conform to legislation, so we are dependent on success of the GE-ER integration.
them being able to respond to legislation.
We also have to be aware that when we buy a generator, we want Operational incidents to be able to rent it for its useful life and to be able The business of the group involves transporting, to move it between countries.
installing and operating large amounts of heavy equipment, which produces lethal voltages or very To mitigate these risks, we adopt a number of strategies.
high pressure air, and involves the use of millions First, we retain considerable in-house expertise on of litres of fuel which could cause serious damage to engine technology and emissions so we have a good the environment.
Every day, we manage the risks understanding of these issues.
Secondly, we have very associated with this business, and we have carefully close relationships with engine manufacturers, so we get designed procedures to minimise the risk of an good forward visibility of their product development accident.
However, if these procedures are not pipeline.
And when new products appear particularly followed, accidents can happen and might result those with improved emissions performance we try in injury to people, claims against the Group, and to introduce them into the eet as quickly as possible, damage to its reputation and its chances of winning to ensure that over time our eet evolves to ever-better and retaining contracts.
An example of this is the signi cant investment we have made in the The Group has a proactive operational culture that development of our gas-fuelled technology: these puts health and safety at the top of its agenda in order engines have signi cantly reduced emissions compared to reduce the likelihood of an accident.
We work very with other fuel types.
Thirdly, if emissions-compliance closely with our customers, employees and Health & becomes such an issue that it begins to impact our Safety authorities, to evaluate and assess major risks to business in a material way in some territories, our ensure that health and safety procedures are rigorously global footprint will be a major advantage as it gives followed.
The Group has developed health and safety us numerous options for the re-deployment of our eet.
KPIs which are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis and are discussed on page 28.
People Aggreko knows that it is people that make the Competition difference between great performance and mediocre Aggreko operates in a highly competitive business.
This is true at all levels within the The barriers to entry are low and, in every major business.
We are keenly aware of the need to attract market in which we operate, competitors are constantly the right people, establish them in their roles and entering or leaving the market.
We welcome this manage their development.
As a framework for people competition as it keeps us sharp and also helps to development, we have in place a talent management grow the overall rental market which, in many programme which covers most of the management countries, is under-developed.
Under this programme, we try to identify the development needs of each individual from the We monitor competitor activity carefully, but outset, as well as identifying successor candidates for ultimately our only protection from suffering material senior roles.
We have also worked with one of the damage to our business by competitors is to work worlds leading business schools to develop and relentlessly to provide our customers with a high quality deliver a tailor-made group wide management and differentiated service proposition at a price that education programme.
they believe provides good value.
26 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report Another risk is that competitors seek to recruit our and controls are in place to make sure that all key personnel.
For many years, Aggreko has been a Group communication corporate, regional and target for recruitment and we manage this on a daily local is consistent and co-ordinated.
We actually regard it as a compliment that so also applies very clear rules to prevent market abuse many companies want to recruit our people.
The main and insider dealing.
mitigation for this is to make sure that people enjoy working for Aggreko, that they feel that they are Accounting and Treasury major fraud recognised, cared for, and have challenging and There is a risk that fraud or accounting discrepancies interesting jobs.
Reward is also an important part of the may occur if the financial and operational control equation, and there can be little doubt that our policy framework is inadequate.
This may distort the reported of rewarding people well for good performance, and results.
In order to mitigate this risk, signi cant work of having a successful Long-term Incentive Plan, has been undertaken to put in place a robust control has acted as a powerful retention tool.
Additionally, a strong Internal Audit function reviews the operation of this control framework Information Technology and reports regularly to the Audit Committee.
The risk Our business involves high transaction volumes, is also mitigated by recruiting and developing a strong complex logistics, and the need to track thousands finance function which is focused on ensuring the of assets on hundreds of sites.
We are therefore heavily accuracy and integrity of the reported results.
dependent on the resilience of both the application software we use an ERP system called Movex and Liquidity of the data-processing and network infrastructure.
The nature of our business model is that, in periods A serious failure in this area would immediately of growth, we consume cash: this is because we can and materially affect our business.
only grow by increasing the rate of investment in eet assets beyond the rate of depreciation.
Conversely, in The Group has a detailed disaster recovery plan in periods of weaker demand, we would normally hold place which is tested on a regular basis.
Our main data back eet investment, at which point the business centre in Glasgow has high levels of resilience built will become highly cash-generative.
Another feature into it, and we also have a physically separate thirdof our business is that we are rich in tangible assets, party disaster-recovery site.
Additionally, we now have which means that financial institutions are happy a second data centre operational in Dubai which will to lend to us on competitive terms.
By nancing allow the Group to continue processing data in the increases in eet through debt, we enhance the event of a major incident.
returns we make on shareholders equity.
Investor Relations and Market Abuse The availability of bank finance at competitive rates is The Groups reputation and or share price could suffer therefore an important element in our ability to grow due to inappropriate or inadequate engagement with the Groups revenues without recourse to shareholders.
For example, we might fail to communicate Being of a generally conservative disposition, the consistent, co-ordinated messages to investors or fail Group has a policy of keeping a wide margin of to provide adequate information on performance and safety between forecast nancing requirements and events in the business.
Since, inevitably, management committed debt facilities: at 31 December 2008, is in possession of market-sensitive information from Aggreko had interest cover of 14x and net debt to time to time, the business is at risk from market abuse EBITDA of 1.13x.
Net debt was 364.0 million with and insider dealing.
committed bank facilities of 510.4 million.
Since the year end the Group has re nanced or replaced Our approach to this is to recognise that investors 158.9 million of facilities due to mature in September have legitimate interests in the Groups business, and 2009 with new facilities totalling 195.0 million.
that shareholder value will be enhanced by timely, The maturity pro le of the borrowings is detailed in clear, open, honest and transparent communication Note 17 in the Financial Statements with the next with markets and investors.
Accordingly, the Groups maturity not due until 2011.
The facilities now in Chief Executive and Finance Director co-ordinate place are currently anticipated to be ample for meeting all communications with markets and investors, the Groups requirements for the foreseeable future.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 27
