business review Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 13 Business review Finance report Principal risks and uncertainties The Group has a process that identifies certain risks that Health, safety, environmental HSE and property damage could affect the business operations and hence the financial risks are managed conscientiously and to a high standard, results and or value of Elementis.
These risks are reviewed by as our HSE performance statistics show within the Corporate the Board annually and further information about this process social responsibility report, but it is still possible that an is given in the statement on internal control on page 28. accident may occur at a manufacturing facility, with risk of harm to people or the environment.
To reduce this risk the In 2008 the Group continued to invest time and resource across Company has an established incident reporting and investigation a range of risk management strategies.
These included system including near miss reporting.
Lessons are learned actions to reduce the severity and likelihood of some risks, from root cause analysis and specific corrective actions are and working closely with the Groups insurance broker and backed by annual improvement plans on a site and global major insurer to transfer other risks.
These are backed up by regular equipment and site best efforts, it is recognised that there remains the audits to mitigate against loss arising from faulty equipment possibility that an identified risk may turn into a reality, or or processes.
that a previously unidentified risk manifests itself, causing loss to the Company.
As reported last year, to cover this Some of the Groups manufacturing facilities are located in eventuality the Group has developed and rolled-out a parts of the world where natural hazards such as hurricanes, Business Continuity Plan BCP which is designed to help tornadoes, earthquakes and floods are a predictable risk.
ensure that the business can continue to operate in the Good design and management of all facilities is backed by event of a major incident or crisis.
The BCP is embedded close collaboration with our property insurers.
This provides throughout the organisation and is periodically tested, a good level of confidence that property is protected from audited and subject to continual improvement.
damage and consequent business interruption.
Nevertheless accidents can happen and Elementis has insurance to commercial risk protect against catastrophic loss.
The current economic climate represents the main risk and uncertainty facing the Groups businesses but its The Group has taken steps to be prepared to initiate effective geographical spread of customers and its breadth of product business continuity to reassure shareholders, customers applications will help to reduce the Groups exposure to and other stakeholders that, in the unlikely event of a major local economic downturns.
incident or crisis, Elementis would remain viable in business.
One of the priorities following the acquisitions made last year The principal drivers of our businesses are well understood was the rolling-out of Group HSE procedures and the BCP to by management and one of these is that a significant increase the newly acquired businesses, which is progressing well.
in raw material prices and energy costs can be detrimental to the Groups financial result.
With regard to raw materials, financial risk the Group aims to continually improve efficiencies of use Elementis maintains a comprehensive insurance programme and, where possible, to explore using alternative sources of with limits and deductibles that are set to optimise the total raw materials.
Supply chain trends are monitored and where cost of risk borne by the Group, and works closely with appropriate long term contracts are secured with existing underwriters and the Groups insurance brokers to ensure suppliers.
Alternative sources of supply are also identified that appropriate cover is in place.
The management of risk to minimise the effect of any disruption from supplier is undertaken through focused risk reduction measures, failure.
The Company also maintains a strategic stock of attention to limits of cover, claims management, programme raw materials to mitigate against the effect of any short structure and insurance premiums.
Fixed price contracts are used to provide greater certainty on energy costs.
As with all businesses there is a risk of failure of financial controls.
Elementis uses an external controls assurance Operational and hazard risk provider to perform an internal audit function and conduct The Group is highly dependent on IT systems for managing a comprehensive programme of internal audits across the its businesses and has an on-going review programme in Group.
In addition to the due diligence that was carried out place to ensure that systems are maintained adequately prior to making our two acquisitions last year, our internal and any repairs or upgrades are made as necessary.
auditors were asked to undertake a targeted review of the Elementis is confident that it has a high level of resilience new businesses to provide an early assessment of their level in its IT systems and infrastructure, and that IT management of internal control.
Significant issues and corrective actions has adopted good industry practices for protecting against from the work of the internal audit service are reported to malicious attacks.
There remains, however, the threat of site and group management for review and follow-up, and disruption to voice and data infrastructure, which is a risk the Audit Committee reviews all internal audit reports common to many organisations.
Elementis plc Annual report and accounts 2008 14 Business review Finance report Principal risks and uncertainties regulatory and legal risk In terms of the key legal risks, there is a risk of material As a manufacturer of specialty chemicals, Elementis is toxic tort and environmental claims from historical and subject to regulations governing the chemicals, processes ongoing operations.
Despite the insurance in place there and equipment used.
The trend globally is for increasingly is always the possibility of an underinsured or uninsured stringent environmental performance and protection of claim and in the extreme an insured limit might be exceeded.
Elementis is committed to responding to these However, Elementis has a robust programme in place to challenges but there is a risk that tighter requirements may actively manage and defend against legal action or claims involve costs that reduce profitability or may even make relating to its operations, products and manufacturing production of a particular product uneconomic.
The programme is led by the Group General the REACH regulations which affect the manufacture and Counsel, who is supported by an in-house team and import of chemical products in the EU potentially subject professional advisers.
Litigation reports are reviewed manufacturers to costly registration and testing that would periodically by the Board.
have to be borne by the Company or passed on to customers.
Elementis has active REACH management Treasury policies and objectives programmes in place, with appropriate reporting to the Treasury activities are governed by policies and procedures Board, and further information is given in the Corporate approved and monitored by the Board.
The Group operates social responsibility report.
a central treasury function which manages and monitors external and internal funding requirements and the following Other risks faced by the Company include governance and treasury risks: compliance risk.
Lack of Board oversight and processes or ineffective management teams can lead to significant credit risk: financial loss or loss of strategic direction.
These risks are liquidity risk: and mitigated by regular Board meetings with a comprehensive agenda, regular evaluations of Board and management market risk.
team members and regular Board reviews of strategy, These risks and the Groups policies to manage them are business plans and compliance programmes.
set out in note 22 to the financial statements.
Breach of anti-trust, HSE or other laws or regulations from historical or ongoing operations can lead to a major financial loss or public censure or both, thereby damaging the creditworthiness and or reputation of the Company: the latter can damage the Companys long and short term market value.
These risks are mitigated by our risk management programmes, including: web-based compliance Brian Taylorson training for employees: regular HSE compliance audits, finance director supported by external advisers and the internal audit 24 February 2009 service: and insurance.
The current economic climate represents the main risk and uncertainty facing the Groups businesses but its geographical spread of customers and its breadth of product applications will help to reduce the Groups exposure to local economic downturns.
