Only use the LF version of Meta for this job : no non-aligned numbers!!
22 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review continued Slowdown in the growth of the economies of key customers Risk Management The Groups sales of products from some Divisions are predominantly to customers based in Russia and China.
In 2008, the Group made in total 54.0% of its sales revenue to these countries.
The Group made Introduction 31.6% of its ferroalloy sales, 93.1% of its iron ore sales and 62.4% of The Board is responsible for the Groups systems of Risk Management its alumina and aluminium sales to customers in Russia and China.
and Internal Control and for reviewing effectiveness in operation.
This These economies experienced high rates of growth in the first half of review is performed annually and relies on work performed by the Audit 2008 but these levels of growth are not expected in 2009.
Committee with respect to the Groups compliance with the Turnbull Guidance.
The assessment of risks has been in place during 2008 and The significant slowdown in the global economy as a whole and the up to and including the date of approval of the 2008 Annual Report and consequential impact on the export led growth of the economies full financial statements.
Further details are presented in the Corporate of these countries has brought about a decrease in demand for Governance Report on page 59. the Groups products and may also create downward pressure on sales prices.
Effective systems of Internal Control: Response to the slowdown in the growth of the economies of play a key role in the management of risks that are significant to the key customers fulfilment of the Groups business objectives: The steps the Group took to address the downturn were: contribute to safeguarding the shareholders interests and the Groups assets: Production was cut back in the Ferroalloys and Iron Ore Divisions facilitate the effectiveness and efficiency of operations: by, respectively, approximately 35% and 50%.
help ensure the reliability of internal and external reporting: and Staff costs were reduced by the suspension of sub-contractors, assist compliance with laws and regulations.
reduced shifts, job shares, unpaid leave and salary and hiring freezes, initially on a temporary basis.
Key Business Risks and the responses by executive management Reductions to the costs of raw materials and other Inputs to the This section sets out the Key Business Risks being faced by the Group production processes were secured.
and the ways in which executive management have responded to The capital expenditure programme was reviewed with priority these risks.
being given to replacement and productivity enhancing projects with other projects deferred.
10 Russia real GDP growth 8 6 4 2 0 2 4 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 China real GDP growth 14 12 10 8 6 4 2 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 Country risks whenever they may arise, for example when the new Tax Code in the The Groups businesses could be adversely affected by any new Republic of Kazakhstan was enacted in December 2008. regulations which are introduced by the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan, such as: Health, safety and environmental exposures and regulations The nature of the industry in which we operate means our activities Controls on imports, exports and sales prices.
are highly regulated by health, safety and environmental laws.
As Terms of mining and other licences.
regulatory standards and expectations are constantly developing, Restrictions on the remittance of funds from the Republic of we may be exposed to increased compliance costs and unforeseen Kazakhstan.
New forms or rates of taxation, duties and royalties.
Response to risks related to health, safety and environmental In addition, any increased requirements relating to regulatory, exposures and regulations environmental and social approvals could result in significant delays in The Corporate Responsibility Review is set out on pages 50 to 55. the construction of new investment projects, and may adversely impact the economics of those projects, the expansion of existing operations Unexpected natural and operational catastrophes and the financial results of the Groups operations.
Our operational processes and geographic locations may be subject to operational accidents.
Our operations may also be subject to Response to country risks unexpected natural catastrophes such as earthquakes and flooding.
Senior management of the Groups operations in the Republic of Existing insurance arrangements may not provide cover for all of the Kazakhstan are engaged in an active dialogue with the Government of costs that may arise from such events.
The impact of these events the Republic of Kazakhstan and with local authorities in many regions could lead to disruptions in production and loss of facilities adversely and towns, as well as directly with the Groups workforce, to fully affecting our financial results.
reflect the Groups responsibilities to these stakeholders.
Response to the risk of unexpected natural and The Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan is also a significant operational catastrophes shareholder in the Group and two representatives of the Government We have commissioned external consultants to complete a detailed are non-executive Directors and attend Board meetings.
review of the adequacy of the Groups insurance contracts and to Through these different types of engagement with the Government of advise on the implementation of more effective contingency plans the Republic of Kazakhstan the Group is able to anticipate likely to mitigate the potential impact of these risks.
changes in regulations and to put in place plans to respond to changes DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
Percentage Percentage Only use the LF version of Meta for this job : no non-aligned numbers!!
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 23 Commodity prices Response to commodity price risks The Group generates most of its revenue from the sale of commodities, The Group monitors market prices, global sales volumes and internal primarily ferrochrome, chrome ore, iron ore, alumina and aluminium.
levels of inventory of key commodities to help inform production and Historically, the prices for these products have been volatile and have sales planning decisions and avoid surplus inventory.
fluctuated widely in response to changes in supply and demand, market uncertainty, the performance of the global or regional The management of the Sales and Marketing business produce economies and cyclicality in industries that purchase these products.
regular forecasts of the sales volumes and prices for each of the This was particularly evident in the last quarter of 2008 and first Groups commodities and discuss and agree appropriate production quarter of 2009 when prices fell substantially.
and distribution plans with the management of the Groups operating companies.
These external factors and the volatility of the commodity markets make it difficult to estimate future prices.
A substantial or extended The Group does not hedge its exposure to the risk of fluctuations in the decline in commodity prices would materially and adversely affect prices of its commodity products.
the Groups businesses and the financial results and cash flows of operations.
Commodity Quarterly movements in sales prices in 2007 08 US$ impact 4,000 5% reduction in sales price, relative HC FeCr 3,000 to the average price of US$2,608 for 2008, would reduce underlying 2,000 EBITDA by US$112 million 1,000 0 Q1 2007 Q2 2007 Q3 2007 Q4 2007 Q1 2008 Q2 2008 Q3 2008 Q4 2008 700 Cr ore 5% reduction in sales price, relative 525 to the average price of US$533 for 2008, would reduce underlying 350 EBITDA by US$19 million 175 0 Q1 2007 Q2 2007 Q3 2007 Q4 2007 Q1 2008 Q2 2008 Q3 2008 Q4 2008 150 5% reduction in sales price, relative Iron ore to the average price of US$101 for 100 2008, would reduce underlying 50 EBITDA by US$72 million 0 Q1 2007 Q2 2007 Q3 2007 Q4 2007 Q1 2008 Q2 2008 Q3 2008 Q4 2008 500 5% reduction in sales price, relative Alumina to the average price of US$380 for 375 2008, would reduce underlying 250 EBITDA by US$26 million 125 0 Q1 2007 Q2 2007 Q3 2007 Q4 2007 Q1 2008 Q2 2008 Q3 2008 Q4 2008 3,500 Aluminium 5% reduction in sales price, relative 3,000 to the average price of US$2,691 for 2008, would reduce underlying 2,500 EBITDA by US$14 million 2,000 1,500 Q1 2008 Q2 2008 Q3 2008 Q4 2008 Credit default of key customers Human resource talent pool The impact of the current economic downturn has been to place The Groups growth and future success depend significantly upon its increased financial pressure on the Groups customers and on their continued ability to attract, retain and motivate key senior ability to pay amounts due to the Group in accordance with agreed management.
It also depends on the ability to manage succession terms of trade.
Despite the significant decreases in commodity prices and the deferral of expansion projects there still exists an Response to the risk of credit default by key customers increasing demand for skilled personnel and contractors across a range The Group continues to maintain its relationships with all its key of disciplines.
An inability of the Group to attract and retain such customers but also has plans to develop new customer relationships in people may adversely impact our ability to adequately resource Russia, China and elsewhere in the region which will have the effect of development projects and fill roles and vacancies in existing diversifying customer default risk.
It may also adversely impact the costs and schedule of continuing projects.
The Group maintains credit insurance against the risk of default by major customers, where insurance is available, and reviews the Response to human resource talent pool risks adequacy of cover regularly.
In recent months the availability of credit We have continued to provide stimulating and challenging insurance, particularly in respect of Russian customers, has been opportunities for existing and new employees and this is attractive significantly reduced.
Recently this has had to be balanced with the need to manage our cost base during the current economic crisis.
The Group sets credit limits and payment terms for all its major The Board are committed to the completion of the recruitment customers and monitors compliance with these on a daily basis and processes to appoint a new Chief Financial Officer in the short term reports weekly to the Chief Financial Officer on developments in and a new Chief Executive Officer in advance of Dr Sittards retirement amounts receivable from customers and average days outstanding.
If customers fail to comply with credit limits or payment terms the shipment of goods may be suspended until a satisfactory payment schedule has been received from the customer.
DO NOT USE TRACKING ON ANY PART OF THIS JOB!
$ per tonne $ per tonne $ per tonne $ per tonne $ per tonne Corporate Information Reserves Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Group Overview Only use the LF version of Meta for this job : no non-aligned numbers!!
24 ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review continued Response to the risk of cost pressures arising from reduced Risk Management continued production volumes The Groups businesses remain relatively low cost typically occupying the lower third of the cost curve.
This remains a key advantage that Cost pressures arising from reduced production volumes we will focus on maintaining and, where possible, reinforcing, through In the last quarter of 2008 and the first quarter of 2009 the Group has the present downturn.
Crucial to our success is that our businesses significantly reduced the volume of production in its major operations remain underpinned by the security of our logistics and low cost to a level which is consistent with expectations of global sales volumes energy supply.
of the relevant commodities in the first half of 2009.
The Group has secured reductions in staff costs, raw material input Our production cutbacks have resulted in an increase in fixed costs per costs and in many other costs of production and distribution.
The recent devaluation of the Kazakhstani tenge against the US dollar, though initially favourable to our cost base, may Cost control continues to be an area of great importance for the Group also result in inflationary pressure in the medium term in the Republic and one where action plans to manage reduced production volumes of Kazakhstan.
have been the subject of very significant management focus in the last six months and this will continue throughout 2009.
These procedures seek to suppliers, contractors and other third parties for both operational and manage procurement risks by: capital expenditure purposes.
In making these acquisitions the Group runs the risk that goods or services may not be acquired on the most the implementation of tendering procedures for all significant economical terms from suppliers and contractors.
contracts: the creation of an open access ENRC KZ procurement internet website: the development of a list of approved suppliers: the restriction of the use of intermediaries: and the application of rigorous budgetary cost control.
In addition the Group has engaged Boston Consulting Group to carry out a wide ranging review of the Groups procurement procedures and to make recommendations for improvements.
t 000 t 000 t 000 t 000 t 000 Only use the LF version of Meta for this job : no non-aligned numbers!!
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2008 25 Capital projects Financial counterparty default The Groups mining operations are capital intensive.
The development The Group has significant surplus funds, arising from IPO proceeds and exploitation of mineral reserves and the acquisition of machinery and from operational cash flows, which it invests with counterparties and equipment require substantial capital expenditure.
primarily in the UK and the Republic of Kazakhstan.
In making these investments the Group runs the risk that a counterparty may Capital projects are subject to a number of risks: default on the repayment of the invested funds when they fall due.
At 31 December 2008 the amounts invested with financial institutions The assumptions about future commodity prices, on which the were US$2,687million.
economic case for the investment was based, may prove to be too optimistic.
Response to financial counterparty default risk The resources required to complete the project may not be available To minimise the risk of the default of a financial counterparty with in the right volume or at the right quality or price.
which the Group has invested surplus funds strict criteria for The implementation of the project may prove to be more complex or investment have been adopted and were approved by the Board in technically difficult than originally envisaged and, in extreme cases, December 2008. may not be possible to complete.
The project may be completed but may be delivered late and or at a Investments may only be made with counterparties which are included significantly higher cost than planned.
Individual counterparty exposure limits are based on published credit ratings or, where these are not available, Response to capital project risks by an internal assessment of the counterpartys financial strength.
The Group has redesigned the policies which are to be adopted before a capital project may obtain approval to proceed.
In particular the On a monthly basis the Group Treasury Committee reviews the credit technical and economic aspects of each significant project are subject ratings of all approved counterparties and may propose adjustments to a detailed feasibility phase of review and those projects that pass to the maximum credit limits.
Any changes to credit limits require the this review are then further assessed by management.
approval of the Chief Financial Officer.
All existing projects are subject to scrutiny by management at a A consolidated counterparty exposure report is recalculated on a quarterly review meeting to ensure that the bases and assumptions, on weekly basis and a monthly report is produced by the Group Treasurer which the project was originally approved, continue to hold.
for review by the Chief Financial Officer and is also included in the Treasury report to each meeting of the Board.
The Group continued the approved capital expenditure programme until the last quarter of 2008 when, in the light of the changing Foreign exchange rate exposure economic conditions, the Group reviewed all its capital expenditure The presentational currency of the Group is the US dollar and the plans, with priority being given to continuing with replacement majority of sales are US dollar denominated.
However significant costs investment or efficiency projects.
The Group continues to re-evaluate which are incurred in the Republic of Kazakhstan are denominated in the timing of expansion projects and may consider deferrals to the the Kazakhstani tenge and the Group has operational exposures to planned schedules of expenditure.
The Group also plans to use this other foreign currencies.
period to seek ways to reduce project costs.
Response to foreign exchange rate risks The Group continues to believe that the relatively low product costs of The Group considers the exposure to the Kazakhstani tenge to be an its core commodities, derived from the quality of the Groups mining ongoing economic risk.
Although there are hedges in place through to assets and its captive energy supply, underpin the long-term capital 2009 that were transacted in 2007 the Group is not currently entering projects of the Group.
into new contracts to actively hedge this exposure.
Management review economic exposures on a regular basis.
Integration of acquired businesses Some of our future growth will stem from acquisitions.
There are numerous risks which may be encountered in business combinations, and we may not be able to successfully integrate acquired businesses which could negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations.
Response to risks in the integration of acquired businesses We have increased the number, seniority and experience of our in-house mergers and acquisitions team and employ external advice on occasions to supplement our in-house expertise.
For each acquisition which the Group has made and for all prospective acquisitions a member of the Groups management team is appointed to take responsibility for the integration of the acquired business.
Corporate Information Reserves Financial Statements Corporate Governance Business Review Group Overview
