Risks and uncertainties Experians vision is that its people, data and technology become a necessary part of every major consumer economy around the world.
The main potential risks to achieving this are either specific to Experians business model, such as information security, or more general, such as the impact of competition.
Risks to Experian are anticipated Legislation or government regulations People and regularly assessed and its may alter what data Experian can Experian is dependent upon highly internal controls are enhanced collect and how it is collected skilled personnel, especially its where necessary to ensure that such senior management and other risks are appropriately mitigated.
To the best of Experians knowledge, experienced staff the Group is in compliance with Experian has identified the following data protection requirements Loss of these people could have an major potential risks.
in the jurisdictions in which adverse effect on the companys it operates.
Experian actively ability to deliver its corporate Data monitors its collection and use of objectives.
Experian aims to provide The data that Experian holds personal data, while the Groups compensation and benefits that may be inappropriately used legal, regulatory and government are competitive with other leading affairs departments work closely companies, as well as fulfilling Experian has established rigorous with senior management to adopt future career opportunities.
information security policies, strategies to educate lawmakers and standards, procedures, and influence the public policy debate, Other risks recruitment and training schemes, where appropriate.
There may be an economic downturn which are embedded throughout its in one or more of Experians major business operations.
Experian also Technology markets, which impacts the demand screens new third party partners There could be security breaches of for consumer credit in particular carefully and conducts targeted Experians systems and processes or audits on their operations.
The its systems could fail Experian is not immune from loss and or potential misuse of economic risks in any of its markets.
consumer data is addressed through Experians data centres are protected However, the breadth of Experians continued investment in IT security against damage from fire, power portfolio by product, by geography, by infrastructure, including the significant loss, telecommunications failure, sector and by client partly mitigates use of data and communications natural disaster, hardware or software the impact of this risk.
malfunction, computer viruses or other purposeful attacks, such as Experian could face increased physical break-ins or hacking.
To competition, especially in the credit mitigate the risk from insecure or reporting industry unreliable IT systems, Experian maintains off-site copies of all Experian mitigates this risk through information contained in databases continued research and investment and runs back-up data centres.
in people, technology and products The Group also has established as prioritised by its strategic plan.
support arrangements with third party vendors and strict standards, procedures and training schemes for technology services, physical security, information security and business continuity.
34 Experian Annual Report 2008 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements 2 5 Risks and uncertainties 38 64 65 144 Expanding Experians email marketing business into important new markets Experian acquired Emailing Solution, a leading French permission-based email marketing company, in May 2007.
The acquisition extended the geographical reach of Experians existing CheetahMail business into one of the largest and fastest growing email markets in Europe.
Emailing Solution was founded in 2001 and provides email marketing services in France and Spain to over 500 brands, including AXA, Orange and Hewlett Packard.
Now part of Experian CheetahMail, clients have access to a wider range of services and a broader distribution network.
There may be consolidation among The outcome of litigation could be Experian could fail to protect Experians clients, which may cause unfavourable to Experian adequately against its exposure to price compression and a reduction in financial risks its revenue and profits Experian carries insurance cover against such risks and employs As described in note 3 to the Group No single client accounts for more expert legal personnel in-house, financial statements on page 81, than 2% of Experians revenue, as well as retaining the services of Experians financial risk management which reduces the probability of this several leading legal practices, to focuses on the unpredictability potential risk having a significant assist in the effective management of financial markets and seeks to impact on the business.
and disposal of legal proceedings.
minimise potential adverse effects on the Groups financial performance.
Acquisitions may not meet Experian could fail to protect expectations adequately its valuable intellectual property rights or face claims Experian assesses all acquisitions for intellectual property right rigorously, using both in-house infringement experts and professional advisers.
In addition, the Group conducts Experian seeks patent protection and extensive post-acquisition reviews appropriate agreements regarding to ensure performance remains its intellectual property rights, consistent with the buy plan.
where appropriate and feasible, and continues to monitor this situation.
