Directors Report continued The Directors are proposing that a Special Resolution A copy of the New Articles of Association will be on be submitted at the Annual General Meeting as it display at the registered office of the Company and was last year to empower them to buy back up to at the offices of McGrigors LLP, 5 Old Bailey, London 15% of the issued share capital of the Company.
EC4M 7BA during normal business hours on any This authority shall expire on the date of the Annual week day up to and including the date of the Annual General Meeting in 2009 or on 31st July 2010, General Meeting and at that meeting.
The Company may then either cancel any shares it buys back, or hold them Copies of the new Articles of Association have also as own shares held in terms of the Companies been submitted to the UK Listing Authority and are Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares available for inspection at the UK Listing Authoritys Regulations 2003.
Document Viewing Facility, which is situated at: Financial Services Authority, 25 North Colonnade, Special Resolution to be proposed at the Annual Canary Wharf, London E14 5HS.
General Meeting in relation to changes to the Companys Articles of Association Recommendation Resolution 11 proposes, as a Special Resolution, the Your Board considers the proposals and the adoption of new Articles of Association of the Resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Company.
Company law has undergone substantial Meeting of the Company to be in the best interests of change following the commencement of the staged the Company and its shareholders as a whole and implementation of the Companies Act 2006 the accordingly your Directors unanimously recommend 2006 Act.
As a result, the Board considers it that shareholders vote in favour of the Resolutions prudent to replace the Companys existing Articles of set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, as Association with new Articles the New Articles that the Directors intend to do in respect of shares take account of these developments.
It is also some beneficially owned by them.
time since the existing Articles of Association were amended and the New Articles also reflect current Risk Management Policies and Objectives best practice.
The risk management policies and objectives may be found on pages 81 and 82 of the Accounting Policies.
A summary of the material changes brought about by 48 the proposed adoption of the New Articles is set out in the Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 135 to 136 of this document.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature have not been noted in the Appendix.
Further amendments to the New Articles may be required in the coming years as a result of full implementation of the 2006 Act in October 2009.
Any further amendments will be put to shareholders at the 2010 Annual General Meeting.
