The banking covenants cover Tangible Net Worth Risk TNW, gearing and interest cover.
The minimum The management of the business and the execution TNW is 200m: the gearing level is based on not of the Groups strategy are subject to a number more than 100% of TNW.
The interest cover is based of risks.
The key business risks affecting the on a minimum of 2.5 times profit before interest and Group are considered to relate to the retail tax.
The TNW covenant is tested monthly, with the and property markets and the current global other covenants tested half yearly at 30th June and economic environment.
The headroom on all of the financial covenants at the end of 2008 Bank Funding and Financial Covenants was comfortable.
As has been well publicised, the availability of bank funding deteriorated markedly in 2008, increasing the Business Risk risk of refinancing for normal trading companies.
With The Board does not consider that the Group faces this tightening in credit markets, the decision was any substantive strategic risks as both business taken to refinance all of the Groups borrowings segments are in business areas where there will be rather than wait until 2009 to complete the refinancing ongoing demand for those services.
The ports of the 100m Revolving Credit Facility which matured business has evolved over many years and with in that year.
The Company entered into negotiations existing trade patterns, our ports are ideally located with BOS to refinance that part of the facility which for that business, whether it be mainly within Europe matured in June 2009.
At the same time, a number of as regards the Scottish Ports or serving London and other banks were approached for funding.
Following the South East of England from Tilbury and Chatham.
prolonged discussions, the Company renegotiated its The Group has a strong record of investing in total facilities with BOS and Lloyds TSB with the modern plant and equipment and this, together with result that, with effect from January 2009, the total increased training for our employees, will enable us facilities available to the Group amounted to 275m to meet the challenges of the future in offering our 2007 300m, comprising of two revolving credit port customers a quality cost effective service for facilities totalling 250m which mature on 30th June their needs.
2012 and a multi-option finance facility of 25m which matures on 30th June 2010.
The BOS revolving credit facility replaces the previous revolving credit facility 29 and the long-term loan.
The average margin increased by nearly 100% to 162 basis points.
The opportunity was taken to fix the interest rate on 200m of borrowings which has resulted in an average interest rate including margin of 4.4% compared with 6.3% in 2008.
The bank funding is on an unsecured basis.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review continued The ports business has a very wide spread of In 2008, with the unprecedented swift decline in customers and commodities and is capable of property values over a short period of time, we adapting to market change as witnessed over the last experienced a situation where the recoverability of ten years by the business in sludge traffic, bauxite, the two remaining large property debtors outstanding fertiliser manufacture and export of coal being in 2008 changed from a position where the security replaced by increased container volumes, the import taken out to cover the indebtedness moved from full of coal, new business such as animal feed, ro-ro cover to very little cover over the year.
As a result, a traffic and new paper customers.
provision of 3.9m was made in this years accounts.
There are no other significant property debtors on the The property business has its foundation in the Balance Sheet.
ownership of land which the Group has, particularly at Leith.
With the benefit of being able to develop Valuation Risks such a significant brownfield site over many years, Although the majority of the year end 2007 Market the main variable is what the take-up rate for this land Value of our property development assets was not might be.
Given the extent of our landholding, it is reflected in the Balance Sheet at that date, the more important to put in the infrastructure and add dramatic decline in property prices has had an even value, development by development, rather than aim greater effect on the underlying value of our property for an artificial target of land sales.
This is even more development assets at the end of 2008 where we important now in the current economic environment.
have written down 27.7m in property infrastructure It is also more challenging to match spend on costs.
If there is a further fall in the value of land, then infrastructure with adding value where there is little this may require a further write-down of the property or no third party transactional activity to rely on for development assets.
We have seen a fall in the valuation of our investment Financial Risks properties by 19.2m in 2008 compared to an The financial risks are limited to the normal increase of 12.8m and 24.1m in 2007 and 2006. commercial risks associated with running a business.
This reduction would have been more severe but for We have no major currency exposure as all our the fact that the rent per acre for such assets business is done within the UK, however, we do continued to show reasonable increases in 2008 30 acquire assets from overseas where we have seen which offset, to some extent, the outward shift in the a significant deterioration in the exchange rate.
yields used to value these assets.
These are Our policy is to buy currency as soon as we know long-term assets and fundamental to the business we have a foreign exchange liability.
and so are less likely to be sold.
Nevertheless, if property values continue to decline in 2009, our investment properties will not be immune to the general movement in values.
Towards the end of 2008, the shift in yields reduced The Company has agreed a Recovery Plan with the the valuation of OTL from 130m at 31st December Trustees of the Scheme which will require an increase 2007 to 90m at 31st December 2008.
As a result, in contributions going forward, but at a lower cash OTL was likely to breach its Loan to Value Covenant.
rate than previously when the Company made larger Following discussions with BOS, its lender, it was payments into the Pension Scheme than required to agreed to refinance the company with additional encourage the amalgamation of its two pension funds being made available from the shareholders schemes.
The employer contribution rate will including up to 6.5m from the Company.
It was also increase from 14.6% to 17.1%.
The Trustees agreed agreed that the next date for the Loan to Value that the employees should contribute towards the Covenant to be tested would be 30th April 2010 with increased costs of the Scheme.
The way in which this the valuation as at 31st March 2010.
The minimum is achieved is being discussed.
The Recovery Plan Loan to Value at that date is 78m allowing agreed with the Actuary requires an additional annual headroom on the 2008 value of 12m.
The bank payment by the Company of 3.3m for the next seven loans to OTL are non-recourse to the Company.
It is expected that this sum will be reduced by approximately 600,000 per annum which is the The Forth Ports Group Pension Scheme Companys estimate of the increased contribution The Group operates a defined benefit scheme which required by the employees.
is more fully explained in Note 32 of the accounts.
The triennial valuation of The Forth Ports Group Modest changes to the assumptions can have a Pension Scheme the Scheme was carried out as significant effect on the liability position of the at 5th April 2008.
The valuation showed a deficit at Scheme.
Full details of the assumptions used are that date of 30.7m compared with 23.9m as at 5th given in Note 32 to the Accounts, however, a 0.25% April 2005.
The funding level at April 2008 was up increase or decrease in the discount rate would result marginally at 85%.
Higher than assumed investment in a reduction increase in the liabilities of 7.6m.
If the returns and increased employer contributions in inflation assumption was varied by 0.25%, the effect excess of the cost of benefit accruals were more than would be 4.2m.
The other significant assumption is offset by the interest on the deficit and the changes in life expectancy.
The Scheme uses the PA92 Year of the inflation and mortality assumptions.
Birth tables with medium cohort improvements, with members treated as though they were four years 31 older than actual age.
The average life expectancy of the members has increased, on average, by one year since the previous triennial valuation.
The cost approximates to an increase in liabilities of 3.9m.
Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business Review continued The two principal fund managers remain Lazard Any significant risk from any of the above risk Asset Management and Legal and General.
The categories would be debated by the Board and an performances by the fund managers both exceeded agreed procedure of handling that risk would be the benchmark returns over the pension year.
The delegated to the relevant Executive Director as Statement of Investment Principles has not changed appropriate.
The Board has an annual review of the the allocation of the assets which remains at 60% in key risks likely to be faced by the Group.
This risk equities and 40% in Government gilts corporate matrix is updated annually by the Group Risk and bonds.
With the significant fall in equities over the Insurance Manager who oversees the procedures year, the actual allocation as at 31st December 2008 involved in the identification of business risks and was 53% equities and 46% gilts corporate bonds with their compliance by the Group.
Essential Business Relationships The Scheme had an accounting net deficit after tax As part of the normal operation of the Group, we under IAS19 of 3.7m at 31st December 2008 2007 have many business relationships to maintain be they 0.4m.
As has been seen over the last two years, with major customers, major suppliers, elected the deficit position can vary widely.
The Group paid members of Parliament UK, Scottish and European, in 9.5m to the Scheme in 2008 2007 9.5m.
local elected councillors and council officials.
We also deal with many Government agencies such as General the MCA, Scottish Environmental Protection Agency, Whilst the Board believes that the Group has a good Scottish Natural Heritage and others.
In the Boards reputation in the market place, it cannot be view, there is no one single business relationship or complacent.
The nature of the ports industry is such group of business relationships which is, in itself, that the day-to-day work carried out requires our material to the success of the Group.
Nevertheless, it employees to be totally aware of their working is important for both business segments to be able to environment as there is always the possibility of communicate effectively with all the stakeholders with accidents occurring.
Some of the cargoes which are whom we have a business relationship and to work handled are dangerous and require to be handled in with them to achieve our joint aims.
There is always the risk of accident but we have emergency plans in 32 place which are reviewed regularly and updated where necessary.
The level of gearing as measured by total Group revenue amounted to 185.9m 2007 net debt divided by total shareholders equity 165m.
The underlying Group operating profit amounted to 90% compared with 70% at 31st amounted to 48.1m compared with 37.4m in 2007.
Taxation Should the Group, for any reason, seek to refinance Excluding joint ventures and associates, the effective its borrowings with another financial institution, then rate of tax for the Group before exceptional items and the facility agreements have the right to demand a revaluations for the year was 28.7% compared with prepayment fee equal to 2% of the amount prepaid 25.5% in 2007.
The increase in the actual rate is due and or cancelled within the first twelve months and principally to the previously announced decision by 1% thereafter.
the Chancellor of the Exchequer to withdraw Industrial Buildings Allowances progressively over The Groups business is not particularly seasonal in the next three years.
This measure was approved by nature, however, its cash flow requirements may be Parliament in July 2008, resulting in the Groups affected by the timing of major capital expenditure deferred tax liability increasing by 27.2m.
In 2008, the peak borrowing requirement reported in last years Annual Report and Accounts, net of cash was 223m in June with a minimum this increase in liability relates to long-life assets requirement of 210m in February.
On the basis of which are unlikely to be sold.
This change is the budget for 2009, the Group will not require an expected to increase the cash tax paid to HM increase in its facility over the next twelve months.
Revenue & Customs by approximately 1.5m annually.
With the significant losses in 2008, a refund Accounting Policies of corporation tax of 4.3m was made to the As with most companies, the critical accounting Company in March this year.
As a result, the cash tax policies are Revenue Recognition and Employee charge in 2009 will be significantly reduced.
In the former, the two key areas of judgement are first the determination of any shortfall Cash Flow positions on guaranteed minimum tonnage minimum The Group operating cash flow amounted to 58.8m revenue contracts in the ports business and second, 2007 65.8m.
In 2008, 8.5m was collected from determining the liability for costs to complete the 33 property debtors leaving 1.6m to be collected net various property developments and allocating those of provisions.
costs over the various developments.
The charge to the Income Statement for pension costs will be Capital Expenditure determined by the assumptions made by the Actuary Capital expenditure in 2008 amounted to 23.1m and accepted by the Company in relation to the 2007 13.4m.
10.8m was spent purchasing the discount rate on gilts and corporate bonds, the 65 acres of land at Tilbury.
The spend on property expected rate of return on the assets and the development assets amounted to 6.5m.
These are discussed further in Note 32 to the Accounts.
Capital Structure The Company has 45.6m shares in issue with a In addition to the above, the Group has brought out nominal value of 50p per share.
No new shares were a new accounting policy on Exceptional Items which issued during the year.
The net debt at 31st seeks to identify those material items of income and Annual Report December 2008 amounted to 208m 2007 expenditure which the Group has disclosed and Accounts separately because of their quantum or incidence 2008 Business Review continued so as to give a clearer understanding of the Groups General financial performance.
This policy is particularly Certain sections of the Business Review contain important in relation to the 2008 accounts given the forward-looking statements that are based on very significant economic impact of the fall in the managements expectations, projections and property markets.
The 2008 results were materially assumptions.
We believe that these expectations, affected as disclosed in Note 4 to the Accounts by projections and assumptions are reasonable, based the property write downs covering both property on the information available to us.
However, these development assets and investment properties.
statements are not guarantees of future performance A change in the corporation tax law relating to the and involve inherent risks and uncertainties and other abolition of Industrial Buildings Allowances also factors which may cause actual achievements to had a major effect, although this was a one-off differ materially from those expressed or implied by occurrence.
The Group does not undertake any obligation to update or publicly release any revisions The accounting policy on inventories and, in to forward looking statements in light of new particular, in relation to property development assets, information or future events.
was also deemed to be critical in 2008 following a major reduction in the market value of the Groups property development assets.
This indirectly affected the cost of the property development assets held on the Balance Sheet by reference to the reduction in expected sales proceeds, the fact that certain areas of the land bank are not currently considered realisable for development and the long-term nature of the developments.
The decision was taken to provide 27.7m against the carrying value of these assets.
New International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted in the year are discussed in the 34 Accounting Policies section.
