Business review Risks and uncertainties This section highlights some of the developments e. g. entertaining at home, of testing our disaster-recovery systems healthier lifestyles, less available leisure time.
relating to our brewing operations.
We risks and uncertainties which affect likewise aim for similar or better approaches Greene King but is not intended to We constantly look to broaden our appeal to our third-party suppliers, producers and be an extensive analysis of all risks to customers by delivering quality and value supply chain partners.
In so doing, we aim to facing the business.
for money, excellent service and up-to-date minimise the likelihood of failure or loss but product offers.
We have a diversied business equally have back-up plans to cope with Greene Kings risk management processes are encompassing pubs, restaurants, brewing and difficulties should such an eventuality rise.
designed to identify and evaluate risks based drinks distribution, as well as a good on the likelihood of occurrence and scale of geographic spread.
Financial and management control risks potential impact on the company.
Each risk Our business is growing, both organically has an identied owner within the senior Training and risk management systems are in and via acquisition.
Within this ever-changing management team, responsible for ensuring place to deal with the regulatory requirements, environment, we try to foster an that any identied risk improvement measures and careful planning is undertaken to deal with entrepreneurial spirit at Greene King, are implemented and tested in a timely manner.
preferring to empower our employees as opposed to excessively controlling them.
A company-wide risk committee has been People risks We run our operations along divisional lines established to discuss in detail and monitor the This is a people business.
Having a strong team with lean structures to support them and internal controls which have been put in place is a source of material competitive advantage significant operational and financial autonomy to ensure that the risks are appropriately in our managed and tenanted pubs, our on a day-to-day basis.
In this environment, we managed.
Executive oversight is then carried brewing operations and our head ofce.
seek to ensure that for both the financial and out by the senior management of each management controls that we put in place, business unit, with the executive directors We aim for an environment where we can the balance is right between such controls reviewing group risks on a quarterly basis.
recruit the best people and then through being effective and appropriate without training, development and progression ensure being unnecessarily controlling and restrictive.
The audit committee receives regular reports we retain them.
Our licensee recruitment and Further details on the companys internal on the risk management processes in each of training programmes, and the variety of rental controls are contained in the corporate the businesses within Greene King.
Once a agreements on offer, are designed to attract governance section on pages 78 to 81. year it reviews the companys top risks, prior and retain the best quality licensees.
to their submission to the board, which retains Reputational risks ultimate responsibility for the companys risk Supply chain risks We are a consumer-facing business in sectors management framework.
It is fundamental to the operation of our that hold important positions within the UKs business that we are able to supply our pubs culture and heritage.
As a result, there is Regulatory, economic and social risks and restaurants, not only with our own beers, enhanced interest in the well-being of our We recognise that our businesses face daily but also with the goods and services of third businesses from stakeholders and other and ongoing challenges of increasing regulation parties.
We take a serious approach to risk interested parties.
We endeavour to ensure e. g. smoking bans, decreasing tolerance of management in our internal production and that we have a sufficient appropriate response alcohol related disorder, licensing, health & distribution activities, always looking to to any potentially damaging event and therefore safety : potential economic changes e. g. improve and learn from other best-in-class avoid reputational damage, potential loss of credit crunch, ination, recession : and social operators.
We have an on-going programme trade and damage to our share price valuation.
GREENE KING PLC 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 08
