Directors Report Business Review Corporate Responsibility Building a sustainable business At Hays, we believe that corporate responsibility is about building a sustainable business.
Because only with a sustainable business can we full our responsibilities to shareholders, staff, clients and to the wider environment in which we work.
For Hays, this hinges on the core skill on which our reputation is built: placing the right person in the right job.
This in turn depends on the calibre of our staff, the quality of service we provide and the policies to which we work.
So the corporate responsibility programme at Hays focuses on activities which help us to build a sustainable position as the global leader in specialist recruitment.
Attracting and retaining staff Because our business is entirely dependent on our staff not only those who deal with clients and candidates but those who support them we aim to create a work environment that delivers performance and fosters loyalty and commitment.
Engaging employees We get a significant response each year to TALKback, our employee engagement survey that runs across all the countries in which Hays operates.
Gathering employees views and enabling us to address their concerns, TALKback shows that our levels of engagement are improving year-on-year.
We also continue to get high scores on our employees attitude to customer care and in our 2008 survey, staff showed a much improved positive view of management communication.
Creating a consistent process For our business model to succeed, we must apply the same approach to recruitment wherever we operate, that way, the successful Hays model is reinforced.
Our One Hays Induction Academy global induction process, which staff will undertake during their first 12 weeks of joining, is being rolled out to all new recruitment consultants.
We are also developing a One Hays Technical Academy which will deliver consistently high quality training to all recruitment consultants throughout their first three years with Hays.
Developing our managers The calibre of our managers and our talent pipeline is crucial.
For existing managers, we are rolling out a programme which will make sure that our methods for appraisal, objective-setting and development are consistent throughout the Group.
The initial 100 senior managers from a group of 200 in total are taking part in the Hays Advance management development programme.
The Board has also established The Waxman Scholarship.
This award provides tailored executive development opportunities which are aligned with the succession planning needs of the business and was set up on co-founder and former CEO Denis Waxmans retirement to recognise his contribution to specialist recruitment.
Building customer service Loyal customers are crucial to the success and sustainability of Hays business.
We have many different types of customer: companies, from multinationals through to small and medium-sized rms: and candidates, from those seeking their first specialist job through to those progressing to senior roles.
To ensure that our service inspires our customers to stay with us, we run a customer feedback programme which records customer loyalty and the degree to which they are inclined to recommend us to others.
We seek out issues that Hays needs to resolve and record customer suggestions for improvement.
By using this feedback to improve our service, we enhance customer loyalty, grow our share of customers spend, promote positive referrals and build our candidate database.
Implementing policies that support our business aims Strengthening governance, ethics and reputation Our good conduct is a foundation for the trust our customers place in us.
Our business operates in accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council.
We are in the process of implementing our Code of Conduct and Ethics policy for employees, which will aim to ensure the Groups values are upheld.
We have a whistle-blowing policy that provides a condential process for reporting any breaches of law or
