Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Risk management Further information Overview Type of risk Description of risk Mitigating steps As with all businesses, management of the Groups operations and execution of Financial risks the Groups growth strategies are subject Commodity Adverse movements in the Silver and gold prices to a number of risks, the occurrence of price risk prices of silver and gold could continuously monitored with steps any one of which may adversely affect have a material impact on the taken in late 2008 to mitigate the the execution of growth strategies and Groups results of operations.
impact of changes in commodity hence the performance of the Group.
The Group has significantly improved its risk framework over the past few years, Credit risk Loss of Group revenue resulting The Group has identified the with good progress being made in better from a customers inability to following actions which it has understanding and managing the pay.
implemented is in the process of Groups significant risks.
The Group has a implementing: risk management system in place to Amendments to the support the identification and contractual terms of sale management of the Groups significant which, amongst other things, risks.
This is supported by a Risk provide for advance payments Committee which was established during and delay the transfer of title the year and comprises the CEO, the obtaining parent company Vice Presidents, and the head of the guarantees internal audit function.
The Risk Risk profiling of key and new Committee is responsible for customers.
implementing the Groups policy on risk Liquidity The Group may be unable to The Group constantly monitors management and internal control in raise funds to meet its financial the Groups level of short and support of the Companys business commitments as they fall due.
medium term liquidity and objectives, and monitoring the access to credit lines to ensure effectiveness of risk management within appropriate level of financing.
Foreign currency With the Groups products Impact of fluctuations on The key business risks affecting the Group revenues kept under constant risk generally priced in US dollars, are set out in the table opposite.
The and its cost base spread across review by management and steps the Group has taken to mitigate periodically reviewed by the several different countries and these risks, when they are within its currencies, fluctuations in Board.
exchange rates of local currencies against the US dollar may impact the Groups results.
Further information on financial risks can be found in note 36 to the Consolidated Financial Statements 36 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008 Risk management Type of risk Description of risk Mitigating steps Operational risks Costs Increase in production costs will impact on the The Group seeks to enter into, whenever possible, long-term Groups profitability.
supply contracts at favourable prices.
Business Assets used in operations may break down The Group currently has combined property damage and interruption and insurance policies may not cover against business interruption insurance policies for all operations, all forms of risks due to certain exclusions and adequacy of coverage is regularly reviewed in and limitations.
conjunction with consultants to ensure appropriate level of cover for the industry and for operations in Latin America.
Reserve and The Groups future profitability and operating For many years the Group has accomplished an excellent resource margins depend upon its ability to replenish track record of reserve and resource replacement.
replacement reserves with geological characteristics to enable mining at competitive costs.
Reserves stated in this Annual Report are estimates.
Personnel Loss of key senior management and personnel, in The Group considers its ability to attract and retain highly particular, highly skilled engineers and geologists.
qualified personnel as critical to success.
To this end, the Group seeks to provide competitive compensation Lack of availability of individuals with relevant mining arrangements and well-defined career plans.
experience situated in the locality of the Groups operations, or the inability of the Group to obtain all necessary services or expertise locally or to conduct operations on projects at reasonable rates.
Political, legal and regulatory risks Costs associated with ensuring compliance with Regional risk assessments are performed on consideration of investment in new countries incorporating reviews of all relevant laws and regulations are substantial and future changes may require additional political environments and likelihood of changes in expense, restrictions on or suspensions of, the relevant royalties and taxes.
Local teams in each country of Groups operations and may result in delays in operation monitor and react as necessary to policy the development of its properties.
changes impacting on the business.
Further mitigation is achieved through broadening of the geographic spread of the Groups assets, ensuring risks are diversified across a number of countries.
Corporate social responsibility related risks Health and safety Group employees working in the mines may be In 2008, the organisation began implementation of a safety exposed to health and safety risks.
Failure to management information system in partnership with DNV.
manage these risks may result in a work slowdown, stoppage or strike and or may damage the reputation of the Group and hence its ability to operate.
Environmental The Group may be liable for losses arising from As part of the Groups approach to environmental risk environmental hazards associated with the management, the Environmental Department engages the Groups activities and production methods, or services of external consultants to perform periodic audits of may be required to undertake extensive remedial the Groups operations with findings reported to senior clean-up action or pay for governmental management and corresponding recommendations remedial clean-up actions.
implemented under agreed action plans.
Social Communities living in the localities of the Groups The Groups Community Relations Department maintains operations may oppose the activities carried out permanent dialogue and cooperation with communities by the Group at existing mines or development surrounding the Groups operations.
A number of projects and prospects which may also impact sustainability programmes have been developed by the on the Groups ability to obtain concessions for Group to promote self-dependence.
37 Hochschild Mining plc Annual Report & Accounts 2008
