DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Principal Risks and Operating Environment A detailed assessment of strategic risks within our operating environment is undertaken by management and is embedded into our corporate planning process.
Each area of the business is required to formally However, it is our belief that the WHO should Our View review its principal areas of risk and uncertainty not attempt to regulate areas that fall outside its We support sensible regulation but believe so that major risks are reviewed at all levels across mandate or competence, as many FCTC provisions that bans on smoking in public places are the Group.
This is an ongoing process, ensuring seek to go beyond reasonable objectives and disproportionate and unnecessary.
Our experience there are clear and consistent procedures for impose a supranational regulatory regime covering in markets where smoking restrictions or total bans monitoring, updating and implementing appropriate a wide range of areas better addressed by national are in place supports our view on the impact of controls to manage the identied risks.
The Board regulators, who are familiar with local conditions.
this legislation: while there may be an initial dip has responsibility for the Groups systems of Moreover, it gives the WHO authority to establish in cigarette consumption, this tends to diminish internal control.
We are subject to the same rules in areas outside its core competence areas over time.
However, we are concerned that these general risks and uncertainties as any other that fall under the jurisdiction of other bodies such unnecessary restrictions have an adverse effect business: for example, the political stability in as the World Trade Organization or the International on smokers and on the venues which may wish the countries in which we operate and source our Organization for Standardization.
raw materials, the impact of natural disasters and changes in general economic conditions including 2008 Update We believe that concerns about smoking in public currency and interest rate uctuations, changes in New work has been agreed by the parties places can be resolved through common sense taxation legislation and the impact of competition.
to the FCTC, including the development of and courtesy and by introducing practical solutions Outlined below is a description of the principal risks guidelines on advertising and sponsorship, such as well-ventilated smoking and no-smoking and uncertainties that are specific to and may packaging and labelling, smoking cessation, areas into work places, restaurants and other impact our business.
Not all these factors are and education.
The development work for public places.
There may be other risks a further protocol that would focus solely on crossand uncertainties which are unknown to the Group 2008 Update border advertising has been suspended following or which may not be material now but could be A proposal for a directive banning smoking the decision to develop a comprehensive guideline material in the future.
A more detailed description in all enclosed work places, including catering on advertising, sponsorship and promotion.
of risks relating to the Group is set out in establishments, within the EU is expected to be Little progress has been made regarding the Part II of our rights issue prospectus dated announced by the EU Commission through the development of the protocol on illicit trade which 20 May 2008, available on our website: Director General Employment and Social Affairs addresses issues such as licensing, tracking and www.
This requires consultation with tracing, duty free, supply chain, anti-money the social partners: trade unions and employers laundering provisions and internet sales.
As a Regulation or their representative organisations.
The previous consequence, adoption of the protocol is likely consultation in 2004 led to the conclusion that to be moved back from 2010 to 2012.
The tobacco industry is subject to substantial social partners were not in favour of an EU-wide and increasingly restrictive regulatory practices.
If such a directive was 2 UK Consultation on the Future of Tobacco In many of the markets in which we operate, approved by the Council and Parliament, it would Control there are regulatory restrictions affecting the override national legislation that allows for In May 2008 the UK Department of Health issued development, manufacture, sale, distribution, exemptions in hospitality venues.
a consultation document on the future of tobacco marketing and advertising of tobacco products.
control which covered many areas including Any future increases in regulation of the tobacco Comprehensive smoking bans in hospitality proposals to ban product display, vending sales industry could have an adverse effect on the venues are in place in a number of markets and 10 packs.
We submitted a detailed response demand for our products or increase the including Ireland, the UK, Norway and New rigorously opposing these proposals, and this costs related to compliance.
Key regulatory Zealand, as well as in several Canadian provinces document is available via our corporate website: developments in 2008 are outlined below.
In France, a smoking ban in www.
hospitality venues took effect in January 2008.
1 WHO Framework Convention In Germany, there is a national ban on smoking in Our View on Tobacco Control public places: however, the regulation of smoking We agree with reasonable regulation and The World Health Organizations WHO Framework in hospitality venues is determined individually by remain committed to working constructively Convention on Tobacco Control FCTC, ratied 16 Federal states, resulting in varying degrees of with governments and other regulatory bodies by 160 countries, provides all ratifying countries around the world.
However, legislation must restrictions, ranging from full bans to exemptions with a framework within which national authorities for small venues.
meet the principles of good regulation by being may decide on the most appropriate tobacco proportionate, supported by compelling evidence control regulation for their national circumstances.
4 Pictorial Health Warnings The FCTC contains wide-ranging provisions, There is a general trend towards introducing In our view the proposals outlined in the including those on advertising, ingredients, pictorial health warnings.
Countries such as Department of Healths consultation document product testing, taxation and illicit trade.
Canada, Brazil, Australia, Thailand and Singapore do not meet these criteria.
The Department of have had pictorial health warnings on cigarettes Our View Health is expected to publish a summary of all and other tobacco products for several years, We respect the WHOs overall objective of the the responses received, before 8 December 2008. while others have passed legislation which will attainment by all peoples of the highest possible become effective in the near future.
level of health and agree with some principles 3 Smoking in Public Places of the Convention, most notably the need to Our View Authorities have introduced tighter regulations prevent youth smoking and combat illicit trade We do not believe that pictorial health warnings on smoking in public places in many of in tobacco products.
are necessary, as such warnings are designed the markets in which we operate.
22 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 solely to shock and stigmatise smokers, and we promotion of products.
The term re-safe, which years.
A technical consultation document was disagree with their use.
We believe that pictorial was adopted widely by USA media, is in our view published in March 2007 seeking overall excise duty simplication and a narrowing of differentials health warnings make no overall contribution to unhelpful and dangerously misleading.
We prefer between ne cut tobacco and cigarette excise duty.
the public awareness of the risks associated with the term lower ignition propensity.
smoking, which are already well known.
A formal report, published in July 2008, contained We believe that the most effective way to reduce rm proposals to amend the structure and minimum We support the principle of adult choice and res is through a range of measures including levels of excise duty relating to tobacco products believe that we are entitled to use our packaging public education, re protection and prevention as well as product denitions.
Discussions in to enable our consumers to distinguish our programmes.
the Member States, European Parliament and products from those of our competitors.
2008 Update European Council are now in progress.
The new 2008 Update A standard for LIPPs is being developed in the EU Tobacco Excise Tax Directive is expected A number of markets in which we operate already EU, and could be implemented in 2010.
A final to be adopted in 2009, with implementation have, or will implement, pictorial health warnings safety assessment was approved by the European from 2010.
Considerable negotiation over the in the near future.
New Zealand introduced pictorial Commission in November 2007 and a mandate proposals in consultation with the 27 Member health warnings earlier this year while the UK has now been passed to the European Committee States is expected.
Further increased levels Government required them from October 2008 for Standardization to establish a standard.
are proposed from 2014. on all tobacco product packs.
The Australian Government has published We continue to work with customs authorities a national LIPPs standard and is discussing around the world to counter the illicit trade in 5 Product Display Bans at Point of Sale the safety assessment process that is required tobacco products.
We have now signed formal Product display bans have been in place in parts before its implementation.
Memoranda of Understanding MoU in 13 countries of Canada for a number of years now.
In Europe, including the UK, Ireland, Turkey and China, with Iceland is currently the only country with a product similar industry-wide co-operation agreements display ban in place.
Excise Duty in Australia and the Ukraine.
Our View Tobacco products are subject to excise duty Further information regarding certain investigations Imperial Tobacco encourages governments to which, in many of the markets in which we operate, initiated in January 2003 in relation to alleged foreign respect the principles of adult choice and freedom represents a substantial percentage of the retail trading and related violations by a number of people, of competition when regulating tobacco products.
price and has been steadily increasing in recent including former Reemtsma employees, during a We are opposed to regulation that restricts years.
Increasing levels of excise duty are likely period prior to our 2002 acquisition of Reemtsma, or prohibits retailers from displaying tobacco to encourage consumers in affected markets to is included in the Corporate Governance Report.
products at the point of sale.
switch from premium-priced cigarettes to lowerpriced cigarettes and ne cut tobacco, or to turn We are concerned that smokers are unreasonably Key Market Dependency to the black market.
Substantial increases in excise and unjustifiably denied the opportunity to view duty and any signicantly unfavourable change the range of tobacco products available from The continued organic growth of the business in the tax treatment of ne cut tobacco, if widely their chosen retailer.
The display of products is is underpinned by our key markets.
Any material adopted, may have an adverse effect on the size an important aspect of the consumer purchasing decline in the performance of these markets may of individual duty paid markets for our products.
process: it provides consumers with the information impact our future profit development.
to make a genuine selection from the wide range Excise duty increases encourage both legal and 2008 Update of tobacco products, brands and prices that are illegal cross-border trade from countries with Our business prole and brand and product available in retail outlets, whilst contributing to fair lower levels of duty and the production of portfolio have been considerably strengthened and undistorted competition between tobacco counterfeit tobacco products.
Within such an manufacturers and retailers.
We are also concerned following the Altadis acquisition.
Our extended environment there is a risk that we and or our that prohibiting or restricting the display of tobacco international footprint provides a more balanced employees may be subject to investigation by products is likely to further fuel the illicit trade exposure to mature and emerging markets, customs or other authorities.
Although we have in tobacco products.
while our enlarged portfolio includes international implemented procedures to detect and control strength in cigarette and world leadership in ne 2008 Update illegal trading of our products, such procedures can cut tobacco, cigars, rolling papers and tubes.
The Republic of Ireland is set to introduce a provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance We now also have a leading logistics platform product display ban in July 2009.
Norway is also of detecting non-compliance by managing rather in Europe.
This provides us with enhanced growth expected to announce new regulations in 2009. than eliminating risk.
opportunities and has resulted in individual key In September, we submitted our response to the Our View markets contributing a lower percentage of the UK Governments consultation on future tobacco We remain totally opposed to the illicit trade in Groups adjusted profit from operations.
control measures in England, Wales and Northern both smuggled genuine and counterfeit tobacco Ireland, which among other issues, sought views pr oducts.
We are committed to working on proposals to ban or restrict product display or Competition Law with government authorities and international to retain the status quo.
For further information our organisations around the world and we continue submission is available via our corporate website: We have significant market positions in certain to invest considerable resources in working www.
As a result, we may be subject to to counter the illicit trade in tobacco products.
currently under consideration in Scotland and in the enhanced regulatory scrutiny as to competition Australian state of New South Wales.
law in these countries, which could result in 2008 Update adverse regulatory action by relevant authorities, In general, levels of excise duty have been steadily 6 Lower Ignition Propensity Products LIPPs including the potential for monetary fines, increasing in recent years in a number of markets Canada and a number of states in the USA have and negative publicity.
in which we operate and this trend continued in EU introduced regulations that all cigarettes sold Member States in 2008.
All the Member States that 2008 Update in the market must comply with lower ignition joined the EU in May 2004 and January 2007 have Along with a number of other companies we propensity standards.
continued to implement excise duty increases as supplied information to the UK Ofce of Fair Trading they move towards the EU excise tax minima.
Our View OFT in October 2003 and April 2005 in relation to an enquiry into the operations of the UK tobacco Both regulators and the industry must take In the EU, the Tobacco Excise Tax Directive care with the terms used in any regulations and contains a provision for its evaluation every four supply chain.
On 25 April 2008 the OFT issued www.
com 23 DIRECTORS REPORT: BUSINESS REVIEW: STRATEGIC AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Principal Risks and Operating Environment continued a Statement of Objections SO to a number of has been served upon us.
We are not facing any We can offer no assurance that we will be able retailers and two tobacco manufacturers, including claims in France.
Following our acquisition of to realise the potential benets of the acquisition Logista in May 2008, we are currently facing Imperial Tobacco, alleging those parties had to the extent envisaged and within the timeframe a claim in Italy which is at an initial stage.
engaged in unlawful practices in relation to retail contemplated.
If we are unable to successfully prices for tobacco products in the UK.
On 11 July integrate Altadis, this could have a negative impact In Poland, we faced a claim led by three 2008, the OFT announced that six companies on the revenue, profit and financial condition of prisoners in April 2008, in response to which had reached early resolution agreements and had the enlarged Imperial Tobacco Group.
The statement of claim was agreed to pay individual penalties with a combined subsequently withdrawn in September 2008, 2008 Update maximum value of 173.3 million.
and the court has discontinued the proceedings.
In June 2008 we announced a number of We understand that a claim was led against restructuring projects in Europe which we propose Imperial Tobacco was not one of those companies.
us and other tobacco companies in Bulgaria We take compliance with competition law very to implement progressively over the coming years seriously and reject any suggestion that we have in March 2008 but we have not yet been formally as part of the integration of Imperial Tobacco and acted in any way contrary to the interests of served with any court documents.
The projects affect sales and marketing, consumers.
Imperial Tobacco has co-operated to do so, no proceedings have been commenced manufacturing and central support functions against us in The Netherlands.
in a number of markets, and will strengthen fully with the OFT throughout and continues to do so.
We provided our submission to the OFT the enlarged Groups competitive position Following our acquisition of Commonwealth Brands responding to the allegations in August 2008. by addressing over-capacity and improving in April 2007, we are currently facing three claims efficiencies.
Consultations have been concluded brought by individuals in the United States.
Two In the event that the OFT decides that a company in several markets, enabling the implementation of these claims are brought by prisoners and were has infringed UK competition law, it may impose of projects to begin.
Elsewhere, consultations are served on Commonwealth Brands in January 2008. a ne which could be material and have adverse ongoing and are being conducted in a constructive effects on the companys profitability.
In the event In the first prisoner claim the court has dismissed and productive manner.
that such a fine is imposed on the Company the case.
That dismissal has been appealed, but Commonwealth Brands believes the appeal was we would be able to appeal the decision to not led in time.
In the second prisoner claim the Competition Appeal Tribunal and, ultimately, Financing the court has also dismissed the case, but that on a point of law to the Court of Appeal.
Further The Group has significant borrowings which judgment could still be appealed.
The other information is available in the Corporate may impair operational and financial exibility and case is inactive and has been for some time.
The Groups indebtedness could Commonwealth Brands has applied to dismiss potentially cause Imperial Tobacco to dedicate the case.
Two Tobacco-Related Litigation a substantial portion of cash ow from operations further claims against Commonwealth Brands have to payments to service debt, depending on the been dismissed.
These dismissals are consistent We may incur substantial costs in connection with level of borrowings, prevailing interest rates and with the considerable improvements we have health-related litigation.
Various tobacco litigation exchange rate uctuations, which would reduce seen in the USA litigation environment.
claims are pending against the Group.
To date, the funds available to the Group for working no tobacco litigation claim brought against Imperial We also understand from media reports that capital, capital expenditure, acquisitions, dividends, Tobacco has been successful and or resulted in the Saudi Ministry of Health has issued legal and other general corporate purposes.
However, if any individual proceedings against a number of international claim were to be successful, it may result in It could also limit the Groups ability to borrow tobacco companies and their agents to recover a significant liability for damages, and may lead additional funds for these purposes and limit the costs of providing medical care to individuals.
to further claims against us.
Regardless of the exibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes It is reported that Imperial Tobacco is one of these in technology, customer demand, competitive outcome of pending litigation, the costs of defendants, however, we have not been served defending such claims can be substantial pressures and the industry in which the Group with any court documents to date.
To date, no and may not be fully recoverable.
This could place the Group at a judgment has been entered against Imperial Tobacco competitive disadvantage compared to its and no action has been settled in favour of a claimant 2008 Overview competitors that are less leveraged, and increase in any tobacco-related litigation involving Imperial We are not facing any active tobacco-related our vulnerability to both general and industryTobacco or any of its subsidiaries.
Imperial Tobacco litigation in the UK.
In the Republic of Ireland, specic adverse economic conditions.
Our credit has been advised by its lawyers that it has meritorious the number of tobacco-related claims has fallen ratings may be adversely affected by various defences to the legal proceedings in which damages from 307 in 1997, to 11.
Ten of these claims are factors if this happens and or if conditions in are sought for alleged tobacco-related health effects.
The other claim is credit markets are unfavourable at a time when We will continue to vigorously contest all such inactive.
The dismissal motion in respect of one we are looking to renance our current sources litigation against us.
claimant was heard by the Dublin High Court in of nancing, we may not be able to obtain new 2006.
In April 2007, the court ruled that this claim sources of nancing or only at higher costs.
This decision has been The Acquisition of Altadis appealed and the dismissal motions in respect 2008 Update Altadis was acquired by way of a public tender of the nine other active claims have been stayed Following the completion of a rights issue, our offer and we did not have access to perform pending the appeal.
No date has been set for reported net debt was 11.7 billion, as at 30 significant due diligence prior to the completion the appeal hearing.
In September we had issued of the acquisition.
In the event that liabilities new capital market debt equating to 8 per cent Following our acquisition of Altadis in January or other problems concerning Altadis arise, the of our committed nancing at a rate above our 2008, we are currently facing two claims in Group has no warranty or indemnity protection.
overall cost of debt, which remained stable Spain.
A claim on behalf of an individual has at 5.5 per cent.
been dismissed pending appeal to the Spanish While we believe that we have a proven track Supreme Court.
record of integrating acquisitions, their success is dependent on our ability to integrate without A claim on behalf of the Regional Government significant disruption to either business.
of Andalucia has also been dismissed and subsequently appealed to the Spanish Supreme The integration of Altadis may involve particular Court.
The Regional Government is attempting challenges and require management attention that to restart this claim, although no statement of claim would otherwise be devoted to running our business.
24 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2008 In this section: United Kingdom 26 Germany 27 Spain 28 Rest of EU 29 Americas 30 Rest of the World 31 Manufacturing 32 Logistics 33 Corporate Responsibility 35 Operating Review
