Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 27 Principal business risk factors Enterprise risk identication The brand partners whom we represent The Group also has in place funding and management may also be affected by the current with Private Placement loan notes totalling The Group applies an effective system of downturn, which in turn could have an $550m.
Loan notes totalling $350m mature risk management in terms of identifying impact on the Group.
However, we believe in May 2017 and a further $200m of loan and monitoring actions to manage these that our brand partners are amongst the notes mature in May 2019. risks.
Further details of the Groups risk strongest in the industry and are therefore In July 2008 the Group put in place a management process can be found best placed to weather the current three year syndicated 185m revolving on page 47 and 48. market conditions.
credit facility and a 40m bilateral facility Risk is a part of doing business: the risk Treasury management and policy with relationship banks.
These facilities management system aims to provide The centralised treasury department were not drawn at the year end.
assurance to the Board on the effectiveness manages the key financial risks of the The committed bank facilities and Private of our control framework in managing risk Group encompassing funding and Placement borrowings are all the subject against a background of highly diverse liquidity risk, interest rate risk, counterparty of one financial covenant being an interest and competitive markets.
The key benets risk and currency risk.
The Treasury function cover covenant based on an adjusted of the system include: maximised resource operates as a service centre under BoardEBITA measure to interest on consolidated efficiency through controlled prioritisation approved objectives and policies.
The covenant is tested on a of issues, benchmarking between Funding and liquidity risk trailing 12 month basis at 30 June and business units, sharing of best practice The Groups policy is to ensure that the 31 December each year and is required and effective crisis management.
funding requirements forecast by the to be not less than three to one.
The Group The following provides an overview of the Group can be met within available, was compliant with this covenant during principal business risk areas facing the committed facilities.
the year and regularly monitors actual Group along with a description, where and prospective compliance.
The inventory lead time in the automotive relevant, of the mitigating actions in place.
industry can present a liquidity risk in a The proceeds of the Rights Issue, Market conditions contracting market, however this is offset announced on 19 March 2009, are Over the past 12 months, the global car by strict controls on inventory levels which intended to reduce indebtedness, which industry has suffered an unprecedented were tightened across the Group during in the short term will increase headroom, and rapid downturn.
This downturn and the year.
Access to supplier credit also delay the renancing of existing facilities.
the broader economic conditions have reduces the Groups exposure to current In the longer-term, this will better position had an impact on the Group.
The Group credit markets, as this funding is generally the Group to take advantage of is focusing on five core business priorities available on extended and favourable market recovery.
This focus is terms, even in a contracting market, and Currency risk intended to position the Group to take this credit funds the largest cash outows The Group has transactional currency advantage of improvements in the markets of the Group.
exposures, where sales or purchases by in which it operates as and when they The effect of the current general reduction an operating unit are in currencies other begin to recover.
in credit availability has not yet increased than in that units reporting currency.
Another aspect of the current market the liquidity risk exposure of the Group, as For a significant proportion of the Group conditions is the availability of credit for the actual liquidity position of the Group is these exposures are removed, as trading our customers.
Inchcape is using its secure in the medium term, due to the is denominated in the relevant local relationships with external finance current committed and available currency.
In particular, local billing providers and its brand partners to try and borrowing facilities in place.
arrangements are in place for many secure such credit on acceptable terms.
businesses with our brand partners.
At the end of the year the Groups principal For those businesses that continue to be Brand partners committed facility for general corporate The strength of relationships with our purposes, was a five year syndicated billed in foreign currency, Group policy is that committed transactional exposures brand partners is critical to the ongoing 500m revolving credit facility put in place are hedged into the reporting currency success of the Group.
We maintain with relationship banks in April 2007.
In April of that business.
If possible, foreign these relationships through constant 2008 the maturity of this facility was focus on performance, effective extended for an additional year to 2013. exchange exposures will be matched communication and ensuring that This facility was drawn by 370m at the year internally before hedging externally.
our objectives are closely aligned to end.
A three year term loan of 35m put in those of our brand partners.
place in April 2007 was fully drawn during the year.
com 28 Business review Financial review continued Principal business risk factors continued The Group also faces currency risk on the expectations for future exchange rate borrowed at oating rates only after taking movements.
The purchase of options into account existing interest rate hedging translation of its earnings and net assets, a significant proportion of which are in are approved instruments for hedging activities with the exception of US$75m translation exposures.
at a xed rate of 5.94% in the UK and currencies other than Sterling.
This approach reects into Sterling, currency movements can Hedging instruments are approved by the the reduction in interest rates during 2008 affect the Group income statement and Board and are restricted to forward foreign and the benign interest outlook.
exchange contracts, currency options and foreign exchange currency swaps.
Foreign Group policy permits the xing of up to 30% Historically the Group has adopted a policy exchange currency swaps are also used of gross borrowings at xed interest rates if of not hedging the translation of its overseas to hedge transaction exposures arising deemed appropriate by management.
This policy has been reviewed in on cross border Group loans.
the light of the increasingly high proportion Should further interest rate hedging of the Groups earnings from overseas and Interest rate risk activities be undertaken in the future, a new policy has been adopted, effective The Groups interest rate policy has the Board has approved the use of for 2009, which gives management the the objective of minimising net interest interest rate swaps, forward rate opportunity to hedge translation exposures.
expense and protecting the Group from agreements and options.
Any hedges put in place take into account material adverse movements in interest current exchange rates and management rates.
Throughout 2008 the Group has Inchcape plc Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 01-37 38-57 58-120 Inside back cover 29 Counterparty risk The Groups operations also expose it The amount due from counterparties, to the risk of litigation.
In order to mitigate arising from cash deposits and the use this risk, processes are in place which of financial instruments, creates credit risk.
are aimed at reducing the potential for Limits are in place which reduce credit litigation and for escalating any problems risk by stipulating the aggregate amount which do arise with a view to managing and duration of exposure to any one the exposure appropriately.
counterparty dependent upon the Attracting, developing and retaining applicable credit rating.
Credit ratings and talented employees the appropriate limits are reviewed regularly.
The ability of the Group to achieve its There is also a risk in the current strategic objectives depends partly on economic climate where the Group its ability to recruit, retain and develop operates distribution businesses relating highly skilled competent people at all to the financial health of the Groups levels.
The Group has a talent review third party dealer networks.
However, the process, remuneration is externally Group has a long and successful history benchmarked to ensure ongoing of managing distribution businesses and competitiveness and succession plans an experienced management team are developed for all key positions.
Refer to page 32 for further information Pensions about our people strategy.
The Group has dened benefit pension schemes to which it may be required to increase its contributions in the event of an adverse change in the Groups financial position and or to fund an increase in the cost of future benets.
The Group maintains an open dialogue Barbara Richmond with the pension trustees to ensure that Group Finance Director they have appropriate information upon 19 March 2009 which to base their decisions.
Acquisition integration The Group has grown considerably in recent years as a result of acquisitions.
Due to the unprecedented economic downturn, it is possible that the Group will not realise all the projected benets of the acquisitions, however the Group continues to integrate the acquired entities successfully.
Litigation and regulatory risk The Group is subject to laws and regulations in each of the countries in which it operates, all of which are subject to change and which if breached could have an impact on its business.
The Group ensures that it obtains timely information about forthcoming changes and that it has robust procedures in place to minimise any risk of detriment or non-compliance.
