Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements continued For the Year Ended 31 December 2008 26 Financial Instruments a Financial Risk Management The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments: Capital risk management Market risk Credit risk Liquidity risk This note presents information about the Groups exposure to each of the above risks, the Groups management of capital, and the Groups objectives, policies and procedures for measuring and managing risk.
The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Groups risk management framework.
The Board has established a Treasury Committee which is responsible for developing and monitoring the Groups risk management policies.
The committee meets and reports regularly to the Board of Directors and the Risk Committee a sub-Committee of the Audit Committee on its activities.
The Group Treasury function provides services to the Groups businesses, co-ordinates access to domestic and international financial markets and monitors and manages the financial risks relating to the operations of the Group through internal risk reports which analyse exposures by degree and magnitude of risks.
These risks include market risk including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk and price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow interest rate risk.
The Treasury Committee has put in place policies that have been established to identify and analyse risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls and to monitor risks and adherence to limits.
These policies provide written principles on funding and investment policies, credit risk, foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk.
Compliance with policies and exposure limits is reviewed by the Treasury Committee.
This committee is assisted in its oversight role by Internal Audit, who undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Audit Committee.
Capital risk management The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities in the Group will be able to continue as a going concern while maximising the return to stakeholders as well as sustaining the future development of the business.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Groups overall strategy remains unchanged from 2007.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt, which includes the borrowings disclosed in Note 25, cash and cash equivalents and equity attributable to equity holders of the parent, comprising issued capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in Notes 22, 27 and 28 respectively.
Gearing ratio The Groups Treasury Committee reviews the capital structure on a quarterly basis and as part of this review, the committee considers the cost of capital and the risks associated with each class of capital.
Consistent with others in the industry, the Group monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio.
This ratio is calculated as the net debt divided by total capital.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings including current and non-current borrowings less cash and cash equivalents.
Total capital is calculated as equity including capital, reserves and retained earnings.
70 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008
