BUSINESS REVIEW I m p r o v e r o t i Business review 25 Managing risk Process and framework Hotel safety framework IHG has an established risk management process and framework embedded in all regions.
The long-term strategic goals are aligned with the IHG core purpose Great Hotels Guests Love and include these key elements: CRISIS & SECURITY INCIDENT safety and security of guests, employees and other third parties: brand strength supported by operational excellence in risk FIRE LEISURE management at all hotels and corporate locations: and PROTECTION SAFETY Risk groups RISK maintenance and promotion of the reputation of the Company.
GROUPS Our approach has been to enable and support hotel owners, GUEST FOOD staff and corporate functions to manage risk effectively.
This SAFETY SAFETY is accomplished by giving them a systematic approach and STAFF SAFETY framework to follow and by providing them with tools to do the job.
The Risk Management function aims to share specialist knowledge and capability globally.
RISK POLICY & Safety and security in hotels PROFILE STANDARDS A strategic framework for hotel safety and security has been designed for owned and managed hotels and is illustrated REVIEW WAYS OF opposite showing the identified groups of risks and describing RISK & REPORT WORKING MANAGEMENT the management activities carried out to mitigate the risks.
ACTIVITIES The red wheel illustrates the groups of risks which IHGs risk RISK TRAINING Risk FINANCING & COMMS managers around the world work on with IHG general managers management and their management teams in order to minimise the risks and OPERATE activities & CONTROL keep the hotels safe.
Over the years we have developed risk management strategies to assess and treat individual types of risk.
This has involved developing policies, standards and guidelines, raising awareness Corporate risk management levels, training staff on the controls and systems which have been The management activities shown above are being adapted and developed for their use and reviewing and reporting upon progress applied to manage corporate risks.
This initiative is led by the and continued risks.
These management activities are represented Executive Committee, facilitated by the Risk Management function by the purple wheel.
and integrated with quarterly strategic reviews.
Security risks, particularly the threat of terrorism, have increased.
IHGs Risk Management function has recently reviewed the way in In recent years, IHG has developed an increasingly sophisticated which corporate risk and the major risks to IHG are managed and response that is intelligence-led and risk-based.
The security risk is seeking to develop a framework to improve risk management environment is highly dynamic and needs to be managed both capability further, represented diagrammatically below: centrally and locally in hotels.
In common with all risk strategies, there are three elements that must be developed and maintained: physical and technical systems, people capabilities and processes and procedures.
REVIEW IDENTIFY & RISK PRIORITISE PROCESS RISK GROWTH REPORT ON QUANTIFY PROFIT GOVERNANCE RISKS CONTINUITY AND CULTURE DEVELOP IMPLEMENT RESPONSE AND TEST PLAN AND SOLUTIONS n o M M a n a g e 26 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Business review continued Each year, risk identification workshops are run with the senior IHG 2009 risk factors management.
The output is a Group Risk Register, divided into The risks below are not the only ones that the Group faces.
areas of accountability for each member of the Executive Committee.
Some risks are not yet known to IHG and some that IHG does not currently believe to be material could later turn out to be material.
The Executive Committee uses the findings to identify the major All of these risks could materially affect the Groups business, areas of risk for IHG and to assign accountability for cross-functional revenue, operating profit, earnings, net assets and liquidity and or leadership between them.
The Executive Committee prioritises capital resources.
and co-ordinates efforts to optimise the management of major risks to IHG.
The Group is reliant on the reputation of its brands and the protection of its intellectual property rights Risk owners first quantify the likelihood and potential impact and Any event that materially damages the reputation of one or more then identify existing controls as well as the ability, benefit and cost of the Groups brands and or failure to sustain the appeal of the to improve them.
This work is documented in Risk Action Plans Groups brands to its customers could have an adverse impact that support the risks that are reported in the Group Risk Register.
on the value of that brand and subsequent revenues from that Executives review the risks at quarterly strategic reviews as part brand or business.
of their business review with the Chief Executive and strategy team.
In addition, the value of the Groups brands is influenced by a Global Risk Management also submits periodic incident reports number of other factors, some of which may be outside the Groups and two major reports each year to the Executive Committee and control, including commoditisation whereby price and or quality the Board on hotel safety and security as well as a further report becomes relatively more important than brand identifications due, on the major risks to IHG.
in part, to the increased prevalence of third-party intermediaries, The Internal Audit function is separately responsible for providing consumer preference and perception, failure by the Group or its assurance across the Group.
They report their findings to the Audit franchisees to ensure compliance with the significant regulations Committee.
This ensures separation of duties between the Risk applicable to hotel operations including fire and life safety Management and Internal Audit functions and hence supports requirements, or other factors affecting consumers willingness to good governance.
purchase goods and services, including any factor which adversely affects the reputation of those brands.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its In particular, where the Group is unable to enforce adherence to effectiveness.
In order to discharge that responsibility, in 2008 its operating and quality standards, or the significant regulations the Board considered the most recent Major Risk Review which applicable to hotel operations, pursuant to its management and involved extensive consultation throughout the business.
franchise contracts, there may be further adverse impact upon brand reputation or customer perception and therefore the value The Group is subject to a variety of risks which could have a of the hotel brands.
negative impact on its performance and financial condition.
The following section describes some of the risks that could materially Given the importance of brand recognition to the Groups business, affect the Groups business.
The factors below should be considered the Group has invested considerable effort in protecting its in connection with any financial and forward-looking information intellectual property, including registration of trademarks and in this Annual Report and the cautionary statements contained on domain names.
However, the controls and laws are variable and page 103. subject to change.
Any widespread infringement, misappropriation or weakening of the control environment could materially harm the value of the Groups brands and its ability to develop the business.
The Group is exposed to a variety of risks related to identifying, securing and retaining management and franchise agreements The Groups growth strategy depends on its success in identifying, securing and retaining management and franchise agreements.
This is an inherent risk for the hotel industry and franchise business model.
Competition with other hotel companies may generally reduce the number of suitable management, franchise and investment opportunities offered to the Group and increase the bargaining power of property owners seeking to engage a manager or become a franchisee.
The terms of new management or franchise agreements may not be as favourable as current arrangements and the Group may not be able to renew existing arrangements on the same terms.
BUSINESS REVIEW Business review 27 There can also be no assurance that the Group will be able to The Group is exposed to the risk of events that adversely impact identify, retain or add franchisees to the Group system or to secure domestic or international travel management contracts.
For example, the availability of suitable The room rates and occupancy levels of the Group could be sites, planning and other local regulations or the availability and adversely impacted by events that reduce domestic or international affordability of finance may all restrict the supply of suitable hotel travel, such as actual or threatened acts of terrorism or war, development opportunities under franchise or management epidemics, travel-related accidents, travel-related industrial action, agreements.
In connection with entering into management increased transportation and fuel costs and natural disasters, or franchise agreements, the Group may be required to make resulting in reduced worldwide travel or other local factors investments in, or guarantee the obligations of, third parties or impacting individual hotels.
A decrease in the demand for hotel guarantee minimum income to third parties.
There are also risks rooms as a result of such events may have an adverse impact that significant franchisees or groups of franchisees may have on the Groups operations and financial results.
In addition, interests that conflict, or are not aligned, with those of the Group inadequate preparedness, contingency planning or recovery including, for example, the unwillingness of franchisees to support capability in relation to a major incident or crisis may prevent brand improvement initiatives.
operational continuity and consequently impact the value of the brand or the reputation of the Group.
Changes in legislation or regulatory changes may be implemented that have the effect of favouring franchisees relative to brand The Group is reliant upon its proprietary reservations system and owners.
is exposed to the risk of failures in the system and increased competition in reservations infrastructure The Group is exposed to the risks of political and economic The value of the brands of the Group is partly derived from the developments ability to drive reservations through its proprietary HolidexPlus The Group is exposed to the inherent risks of global and regional reservations system, a central repository of all hotel room adverse political, economic and financial market developments, inventories linked electronically to multiple sales channels including recession, inflation, availability of affordable credit and including IHG owned Internet websites, third-party Internet currency fluctuations that could lower revenues and reduce intermediaries and travel agents, call centres and hotels.
A recession reduces leisure and business travel to and from affected countries and adversely affects room rates and or Lack of resilience in operational availability could lead to occupancy levels and other income-generating activities, resulting prolonged service disruption and may result in significant in deterioration of results of operations and potentially reducing the business interruption and subsequent impact on revenues.
value of properties in affected economies.
The owners or potential Lack of investment in these systems may also result in reduced owners of hotels managed or franchised by one group face similar ability to compete.
Additionally, failure to maintain an appropriate risks which could adversely impact IHGs ability to retain and e-commerce strategy and select the right partners could erode secure management or franchise agreements.
More specifically, the Groups market share.
the Group is highly exposed to the US market and, accordingly, is The Group is exposed to certain risks in relation to technology particularly susceptible to adverse changes in the US economy.
and systems Further political or economic factors or regulatory action could To varying degrees, the Group is reliant upon certain technologies effectively prevent the Group from receiving profits from, or selling and systems including IT systems for the running of its business, its investments in, certain countries, or otherwise adversely affect particularly those which are highly integrated with business operations.
For example, changes to tax rates or legislation in processes.
Disruption to those technologies or systems could the jurisdictions in which the Group operates could decrease the adversely affect the efficiency of the business, notwithstanding proportion of profits the Group is entitled to retain, or the Groups business continuity or disaster recovery processes.
The Group interpretation of various tax laws and regulations may prove to may have to make substantial additional investments in new be incorrect, resulting in higher than expected tax charges.
technologies or systems to remain competitive.
Failing to keep pace with developments in technologies or systems may put the The Group requires organisational capability to manage changes Group at a competitive disadvantage.
The technologies or systems in key personnel and senior management that the Group chooses may not be commercially successful or the In order to develop, support and market its products, the Group must technology or system strategy employed may not be sufficiently hire and retain highly skilled employees with particular expertise.
aligned with the needs of the business or responsive to changes The implementation of the Groups strategic business plans could in business strategy.
As a result, the Group could lose customers, be undermined by failure to recruit or retain key personnel, the fail to attract new customers or incur substantial costs or face unexpected loss of key senior employees, failures in the Groups other losses.
succession planning and incentive plans, or a failure to invest in the development of key skills.
Some of the markets in which the Group The Group is exposed to the risks of the hotel industry supply operates are experiencing economic growth and the Group must and demand cycle compete against other companies inside and outside the hospitality The future operating results of the Group could be adversely industry for suitably qualified or experienced employees.
Failure to affected by industry overcapacity by number of rooms and weak attract and retain these employees may threaten the success of the demand due, in part, to the cyclical nature of the hotel industry, Groups operations in these markets.
Additionally, unless skills are or other differences between planning assumptions and actual supported by a sufficient infrastructure to enable knowledge and operating conditions.
Reductions in room rates and occupancy skills to be passed on, the Group risks losing accumulated levels would adversely impact the results of Group operations.
knowledge if key employees leave the Group.
28 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2008 Business review continued The Group may experience a lack of selected development The Group is required to comply with data privacy regulations opportunities Existing and emerging data privacy regulations limit the extent to While the strategy of the Group is to extend the hotel network which the Group can use customer information for marketing or through activities that do not involve significant amounts of promotional purposes.
Compliance with these regulations in each its own capital, if the availability of suitable development sites jurisdiction in which the Group operates may require changes becomes limited for IHG and its prospective hotel owners, in marketing strategies and associated processes which could this could adversely affect its results of operations.
increase operating costs or reduce the success with which products and services can be marketed to existing or future The Group is exposed to risks related to corporate responsibility customers.
In addition, non-compliance with privacy regulations The reputation of the Group and the value of its brands are may result in fines, damage to reputation or restrictions on the influenced by a wide variety of factors, including the perception use or transfer of information.
of key stakeholders and the communities in which the Group operates.
The social and environmental impacts of business are The Group is exposed to the risks related to information security under increasing scrutiny, and the Group is exposed to the risk The Group is increasingly dependent upon the availability, integrity of damage to its reputation if it fails to demonstrate sufficiently and confidentiality of information and the ability to report responsible practices in a number of areas such as safety and appropriate and accurate business performance, including security, sustainability, responsible tourism, environmental financial reporting, to investors and markets.
management, human rights and support for the local community.
The reputation and performance of the Group may be adversely The Group is exposed to the risk of litigation affected if it fails to maintain appropriate confidentiality of The Group could be at risk of litigation from many parties, including information and ensure relevant controls are in place to enable guests, customers, joint venture partners, suppliers, employees, the release of information only through the appropriate channels regulatory authorities, franchisees and or the owners of hotels in a timely and accurate manner.
Claims filed in the US may include requests for The Group is exposed to funding risks in relation to the defined punitive damages as well as compensatory damages.
Exposure benefits under its pension plans to litigation or fines imposed by regulatory authorities may also The Group is required by law to maintain a minimum funding level affect the reputation of the Group.
in relation to its ongoing obligation to provide current and future The Group may face difficulties insuring its business pensions for members of its UK pension plans who are entitled Historically, the Group has maintained insurance at levels to defined benefits.
In addition, if certain plans of the Group are determined by it to be appropriate in light of the cost of cover and wound up, the Group could become statutorily liable to make an the risk profiles of the business in which it operates.
However, immediate payment to the trustees to bring the funding of defined forces beyond the Groups control including market forces, may benefits to a level which is higher than this minimum.
The limit the scope of coverage the Group can obtain and the Groups contributions payable by the Group must be set with a view to ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates.
Other forces beyond making prudent provision for the benefits accruing under the the Groups control, such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters plans of the Group.
may be uninsurable or simply too expensive to insure.
Inadequate In particular, the trustees of IHGs UK defined benefit plan may or insufficient insurance could expose the Group to large claims demand increases to the contribution rates relating to the funding or could result in the loss of capital invested in properties, as well of this plan, which would oblige relevant employers of the Group as the anticipated future revenue from properties, and could leave to contribute extra amounts.
The trustees must consult the plans the Group responsible for guarantees, debt or other financial actuary and principal employer before exercising this power.
In obligations related to such properties.
practice, contribution rates are agreed between the Group and The Group is exposed to a variety of risks associated with the trustees on actuarial advice, and are set for three-year terms.
its ability to borrow and satisfy debt covenants The last such review was as at 31 March 2006.
The Group is reliant on having access to borrowing facilities to meet its expected capital requirements.
The majority of the Groups borrowing facilities are only available if the financial covenants in the facilities are complied with.
If the Group is not in compliance with the covenants, the lenders may demand the repayment of the funds advanced.
If the Groups financial performance does not meet market expectations it may not be able to refinance its existing facilities on terms it considers favourable.
The availability of funds for future financing is, in part, dependent on conditions and liquidity in the capital markets.
