O Ou ur r a ap pp pr ro oa ac ch h t to o r riis sk k a an nd d r riis sk k m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t 18 18 IIn nt te er rn na at tiio on na al l P Po ow we er r A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 08 8 O Our ur appr appro oac ach h t to o r riis sk k and and r riis sk k m mana anage gem me en nt t O Ou ur r r ri is sk k m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t p ph hi il lo os so op ph hy y i is s d fide es si ig gn ne ed d t to o d fide ea al l w wi it th h t th he e d diiv five er rs se e s se et t o of f r riis sk ks s ffa ac ce ed d b by y o ou ur r b bu us siin ne es ss s a an nd d c co on nt ta aiin ns s b bo ot th h b bo ot tt to om m-uup p a an nd d t to op p- -d do ow wn n e elle em me en nt ts s t to o s su up pp po or rt t t th he e iid fide en nt tiifi fic ca at tiio on n, r re ep po or rt tiin ng g a an nd d m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t o of f r riis sk ks s.. IIn nt te er rn na at tiio on na al l P Po ow we er rs s 1 1, 3 36 65 5M MW W IIn nt te er rn na at tiio on na all P Powe ower r ow own ns s c co oa all- - r re ed d p po ow we er r s st ta at tiio on n a at t Pa Paiit to on n iin n IIn ndo don ne es sia ia o or r h ha as s eq equ uiit ty y in int ter ere es st ts s in in o ov ver er 45 45 p plla ant nts s P Pe er rc ce en nt ta ag ge e o of f p po or rt tf fo ol li io o l le es ss s t th ha an n 1 15 5 y yea ear rs s o olld d ap app pr ro ox xima imat te ely ly 70 70% % B Bu usi sine fines ss s o ov five er rv viie ew w 19 19 IIn nt te er rn na at tiio on na all P Po owe wer rs s p pr riin nc ciip pa all a ac ct tiiv viit tiie es s a ar re e t th he e R Riis sk k m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t f fr ra am me ew wo or rk k d fide ev five ello op pm me en nt t, a ac cq qu uiis siit tiio on n a an nd d o op pe er ra at tiio on n o off p po owe wer r IIn nt te er rn na at tiio on na al l P Po ow we er r o ow wn ns s, o or r h ha as s e eq qu uiit ty y iin nt te er re es st ts s g ge en ne er ra at tiio on n p plla an nt ts s t to og ge et th he er r w wiit th h c cllo os se elly y r re ella at te ed d iin n, o ov five er r 4 45 5 p plla an nt ts s a an nd d s so om me e c cllo os se elly y lliin nk ke ed d a ac ct tiiv viit tiie es s, s su uc ch h a as s d fide es sa alliin na at tiio on n, r re et ta aiill a an nd d d diis st tr riic ct t b bu us siin ne es ss se es s llo oc ca at te ed d iin n 2 21 1 c co ou un nt tr riie es s.. O Ou ur r p po or rt tffo olliio o he hea at tiing ng.. T The hes se e p pr riinc nciip pa all a ac ct tiiv viit tiie es s ar are e s su upp ppor ort ted ed b by y c co on nt ta aiin ns s a alll l m ma ajjo or r t te ec ch hn no ollo og giie es s a an nd d ffu ue el l t ty yp pe es s o ou ur r ne net tw wor ork k o off lloc oca all, r reg egiio on na all and and c cor orp por ora at te e o offfi fic ce es s w wiit th h t th he e e ex xce cep pt tiio on n o of f n nu uc clle ea ar r p po ow we er r.. O Ov five er ra allll, w wh hi ic ch h c ca ar rr ry y o ou ut t a ac ct ti iv vi it ti ie es s s su uc ch h a as s t tr ra ad di in ng g, fi fin na an nc ci ia al l a ar ro ou un nd d 7 70 0% % o of f t th he e p po or rt tffo olliio o e en nt te er re ed d s se er rv viice ce lle es ss s m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t a an nd d t tr rea eas su ur ry y o op pe er ra at tiio on ns s.. A Allll o off t th he es se e t th ha an n 1 15 5 y ye ea ar rs s a ag go o.. G Ge eo og gr ra ap ph hiic ca alllly y t th he e p po or rt tffo olliio o iis s a ac cti tiv viiti tie es s h ha av five e in inh he er re en nt t r riisk sks s.. d diiv five er rs se e, h ha av viin ng g a a p pr re es se en nce ce iin n d fide ev five ello op pe ed d a an nd d d fide ev five ello op piin ng g c co ou un nt tr riie es s w wiit th h a a v va ar riie et ty y o of f c cu ullt tu ur ra all, O Ou ur r g ge en ne er ra al l a ap pp pr ro oa ac ch h t to o r riis sk k m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t iis s s se et t p po olliit tiic ca al l a an nd d lle eg ga al l s sy ys st te em ms s.. O Ou ur r r riis sk k m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t o ou ut t h he er re e.. T Th hiis s iis s ffo ollllo ow we ed d b by y a a d fide es sc cr riip pt tiio on n o of f t th he e p ph hiillo os so op ph hy y iis s d fide es siig gn ne ed d t to o d fide ea al l w wiit th h t th he e d diiv five er rs se e s se et t p pr riin nc ciip pa al l r riis sk ks s a an nd d e ex xp po os su ur re es s ffa ace ced d b by y t th he e b bu us siin ne es ss s.. o of f r riis sk ks s ffa ace ced d b by y o ou ur r b bu us siin ne es ss s.. T To o r re efl fle ec ct t t th he e p pr ro ofi fille e o of f o ou ur r b bu us siin ne es ss s w we e h ha av five e d fide ev five ello op pe ed d a a s sy ys st te em m t th ha at t c co on nt ta aiin ns s b bo ot th h b bo ot tt to om m- -u up p a an nd d t to op p- -d do ow wn n e elle em me en nt ts s t to o s su up pp po or rt t t th he e iid fide en nt tiifi fic ca at tiio on n, r re ep po or rt tiin ng g a an nd d m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t o of f r riis sk ks s.. Our approach to risk and risk management 20 International Power Annual Report 2008 Each year, the business carries out a Group-wide, Corporate level risk review.
This is based on the outcome of the Policy, delegations and exposure limits are set business planning exercise, updated as necessary at the corporate level, with the Board of to take account of post business plan events.
The Directors taking ultimate responsibility.
assessments are synthesised into a risk report, that Acceptable business practices and engineering identifies all the principal risks, which is reviewed and operational standards are set centrally.
Where risks are considered to exceed the Groups risk appetite, the Risk Regional businesses Committee directs which actions are to be taken.
Market and trading risks are managed The risk report is reviewed by the full Board.
regionally within the framework set at the Schematically the annual risk report system corporate level.
Political risks are also functions as follows: managed regionally with support from the corporate centre.
Review by full Board Business units Risk assessments and mitigation action plans Review by Risk are mainly originated in business units.
Health, Committee Safety and Environmental HS&E compliance activities are also managed locally, within a Actions central policy framework.
Local business Synthesis by risk report managers are accountable for managing the working group risks within their areas of responsibility.
This principle also applies to the managers of our regional and corporate functions.
Risk assessment by business units and functions There is a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by the Group.
Activities are co-ordinated by the Risk Committee, In order to compare risks across the Group on which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer CFO a systematic basis, we segment our activities as and comprises Executive Directors and senior shown below.
In reality, certain risk exposures managers.
interact and other exposures apply to more than one risk area for example, regulatory risk applies The Risk Committee has responsibility, on behalf to all of our activities.
Such cross-segmental risks of the Board, for ensuring: are assessed in each of the areas in which they occur.
the adequacy of systems for identifying and assessing significant risks Financial risks that appropriate control systems and other mitigating processes are in place Market and trading risks that residual exposures are consistent with the Groups strategy and objectives Fuel supply risks During the business planning process, each Country and political risks significant business unit and functional group identifies and assesses the key risks associated Construction and operational risks with the achievement of its principal business objectives and their potential impact.
During the Health, safety and environmental risks year, significant changes in the risk profile are highlighted through the business performance Staffing and human resources risks reporting process.
Business overview 21 Principal risks and exposures Risk Impacts Mitigating factors financial volatility application of Group policies and procedures Adverse conditions in setting limits on trading counterparty our electricity sales or reduction in profitability exposures and maintenance of financial fuel purchase markets and cash flow headroom at the corporate level and or counterparty potential impact on loan covenants default risk structuring of project companies as standalone businesses and use of non-recourse project finance to limit Group impact reduction in financial resources maintenance of financial headroom at the Price volatility or available for growth corporate level changes in market conditions result in reduced ability to forward trading through investment grade financial exceptional trading sell output institutions credit support for specific projects additional support is requirements provided, for example Mitsui provides a credit support facility for International Power Mitsui IPM trading in the UK reduction in profitability and a rolling forward contracting programme Market spreads outturn cash flow typically aims to lock in margins below expectation potential impact on loan covenants 34% of our net capacity has long-term Eco Elctrica, Puerto Rico contractual arrangements shielding our annual profitability from significant volatility reduced availability and increased maintenance of strong liquidity Capital market access cost of non-recourse project and high credibility and experience in delivering corporate financing bankable solutions reduced availability and increased strong banking relationships with major cost for refinancings project financing banks worldwide maintenance of stringent project evaluation criteria reduction in profitability and structured approach to the management Unplanned availability cash flow of engineering risk losses potential impact on loan covenants appropriate budgeted spend on plant maintenance strong corporate and asset Operations and Engineering teams Challenging delays and increases in the price of long-standing relationships with all major Engineering, greenfield development impacts EPC contractors Hidd, Bahrain Procurement and growth rate ongoing review of contracting strategies Construction EPC to meet changing market conditions market conditions new entrant pricing should reflect the cost of building new plant reduction in profitability and plant upgrades and carbon trading processes Changes in cash flow to meet new environmental legislation in our environmental developed markets regulatory regimes potential impact on loan covenants limit our ability to new-build plant uses high efficiency turbines increased potential capital profitably operate our with proven environmental technology expenditure to ensure longer asset fossil fuel plants lives under tighter legislation approximately 6% of net operating capacity made up of wind generation increased trading risk senior representation in industry groups and ongoing advocacy These risks are discussed in greater detail overleaf, along with other factors that could potentially have a material impact on our business.
Our approach to risk and risk management 22 International Power Annual Report 2008 Counterparty risk Financial risks In merchant markets we manage our credit Our business can be subject to financial volatility.
exposure to trading and financial counterparties This can originate from a number of sources, by establishing clearly defined limits, policies and including the project company, counterparty-related procedures.
Energy trading activities are strictly events and general market conditions.
However, monitored and controlled through delegated our capital structure and corporate financial authorities and procedures, which include specific headroom are designed to address these risks.
criteria for the management of credit exposures Our business is strongly cash generative and in in each of our key regions.
With respect to our addition, at the corporate level, we have a number treasury activities, the financial counterparty of loan facilities which provide us with a prudent credit exposure is limited to arrangements with level of financial headroom cash plus undrawn relationship banks, money market funds and to and available credit lines, net of known financial commercial paper that has an investment grade obligations.
These facilities can be applied to various credit rating.
aspects of our business should the need arise: for example, to support growth or trading credit Counterparty exposures arising from sale and requirements.
These facilities will meet the short to purchase agreements with our customers are medium-term funding requirements envisaged by monitored and managed locally with oversight the business.
Longer-term funding requirements, from Group treasury.
In the unlikely event that or funding for a particularly large transaction, may a counterparty default occurs, International Power be sourced from a combination of these facilities and has the ability to continue to sell the power under suitable long-term instruments, such as bonds, or by the contract to the market.
In addition, Group raising additional equity.
The actual choice of funding treasury manages the consolidated counterparty instrument s will depend on the size and nature of credit positions, with the active involvement of the transaction and market conditions at that time.
Further information on credit risk is included in the financial statements In merchant markets, we are usually required to on page 156.
Risks associated with specific Power provide credit support for our trading operations.
Purchase Agreements PPAs are included in the Fuel and electricity markets periodically experience country and political risks section on page 25. sharp price movements and when these occur this has an immediate and corresponding effect on our Currency and interest rate exposures trading credit support requirements, which can In order to mitigate foreign exchange exposure be volatile as a consequence.
The maintenance within project companies, borrowings of the entity of corporate financial headroom offers protection are normally made in the currency of the project against increases in trading credit support company revenues, which is usually the project requirements.
In addition, in Project development can, on occasions, also require countries with historically weaker currencies than credit support.
This support can take the form those of the major economies, we aim to have PPA of parent company guarantees or credit support tariffs denominated in, or indexed to, a major instruments issued by banks.
In the event that credit international currency such as the US dollar.
This support facilities are unavailable to support the protects future returns against large and rapid growth developments that we are planning, this devaluations of the local currency.
could require us to reduce our development When one of our project companies makes sales activities.
However, we consider that a prudent level and purchases in a currency other than its functional of corporate financial headroom and strong free currency, this gives rise to a currency transaction cash flow generation, together with additional exposure.
We match transaction exposures, in bilateral facilities with banks, should enable us to advance where possible, and hedge any unmatched continue to pursue attractive opportunities.
transactions as soon as they are committed.
We use At the individual business level, we mainly finance foreign currency contracts and similar instruments our projects with non-recourse debt.
Transaction exposures also arise non-recourse finance as this insulates the Group when dividends or other funds are remitted from Blackstone, US from adverse events occurring at the project level, our overseas investments.
We may utilise these limiting our balance sheet exposure on a given exposures, where possible, to hedge existing project to the loss of the equity in that project.
transaction exposures on sales and purchases through matching.
Liquidity in the financial markets has reduced following the fallout from the US subprime market Variability in interest payments can introduce and subsequent global credit impacts.
Although further volatility into project returns.
We mainly this has increased the cost of non-recourse finance mitigate this risk by fixing borrowing rates, and or reduced its availability, we believe that we principally by using interest rate swaps.
A limited should be able to continue to refinance high quality number of our PPAs also have interest rate projects in our key markets.
Overall, 78% of our has only limited project refinancing commitments borrowings were protected from interest rate becoming due in 2009.
The US Combined Cycle Gas fluctuations in these ways at the end of 2008.
Turbine CCGT fleet, and Hazelwood in Australia will require refinancing in 2010 and there is a risk that it will not be possible to refinance on the same terms.
Accordingly we are taking early steps to ensure the Group is well positioned to manage these risks.
Deeside, UK Business overview 23 At Group level, in order to hedge our investments in Following a strategic review of the Groups foreign operations, borrowings to fund investments exposure to pension risk over the longer-term and in foreign operations are generally in the same a period of consultation with employees and their currency as the underlying investment.
As a result, representatives, both of our defined benefit plans any changes in the value of our foreign operations, in the UK were closed to new members during arising from movements in foreign exchange rates, 2008.
Existing members will continue to accrue are offset by a change in the value of the foreign future service benefits under these plans.
From currency borrowings used to fund the investment.
1 June 2008, all new UK employees are eligible It is not our policy to hedge the currency translation to become members of a defined contribution exposure relating to foreign operations with pension plan.
derivatives, such as foreign exchange contracts or The closed UK defined benefit pension schemes, currency swaps, though we do hedge this exposure which have approximately 700 active members, through matching against existing transaction carried out their latest triennial actuarial valuations exposures on sales and purchases, where possible.
These valuations revealed that To the extent that foreign currency borrowings are the plans had a combined deficit of approximately less than foreign currency investments, this exposes 12 million.
Deficit repair arrangements have our balance sheet net assets to fluctuations that are been agreed with the trustees of these plans and, not related to underlying business performance.
as part of this, the Group made deficit repair Similarly, our Group earnings are exposed to payments of approximately 3.8 million in 2007 translation exposures on earnings from foreign and approximately 0.8 million in 2008.
In addition, operations during the period.
following the valuations, the Groups contributions to For 2008 and 2007, average and year end rates fund the cost of members future service benefits were of exchange to sterling, for major currencies which also increased in line with the actuarial advice received.
are significant to the Group, were: Due to the adverse market conditions since 31 March 2007, relative to the assumptions used Average At 31 December 2008 2007 2008 2007 in determining the actuarial liabilities, the deficits in the UK defined benefit plans have increased.
US dollar 1.85 2.00 1.44 1.99 The next actuarial valuations of these plans are Australian dollar 2.18 2.39 2.06 2.27 scheduled for 31 March 2010, at which point their Euro 1.26 1.46 1.03 1.36 Czech koruna 31.64 40.43 27.77 36.20 financial position will be re-evaluated and the Groups contributions to repair the deficits, and to fund the estimated cost of members future Further information on market risk, interest rate service benefits, will be adjusted if necessary.
risk and foreign currency risk is included in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements on pages The long-term nature of the UK plans, with 153 to 156. currently few retired members, allows any increased deficits to be funded through payments Investment structures and contingent liabilities spread over a number of years.
As the plans have The capital-intensive nature and global spread of been closed to new entrants, this also mitigates our business, together with the rapidly growing body the potential growth of net liabilities.
of tax legislation, continues to make tax planning Our Australian businesses sponsor three defined and forecasting an increasingly complex process.
benefit plans, two of which are closed to new We closely monitor actual and potential changes members.
Existing members continue to accrue in tax legislation in order to assess the continued future service benefits under these plans.
The effectiveness of our corporate structures and financial majority of new employees participate in planning assumptions.
We are supported by internal accumulation funds where employer contributions and external tax experts in making these assessments.
The employer contribution rates to our International Power has a number of actual and defined benefit plans are reviewed periodically, potential liabilities arising from certain tax planning with such reviews typically occurring as at 30 June assumptions that have not yet been confirmed and 31 December.
Given that all but one of these by the relevant fiscal authorities.
We have plans have been closed to new members, as with appropriately provided for those sums that our UK plans, the risks of significant increases we believe will ultimately be paid.
in the Groups contributions have been limited.
Funding of pension obligations The Group operates a range of pension plans internationally, with the most significant defined benefit arrangements in the UK and Australia.
These latter schemes guarantee their members retirement benefits calculated by reference to their final salary at retirement, which gives rise to the risk that our pension funds will not be sufficient to meet these obligations.
Retirement benefits under our UK defined benefit plans are paid in the form of a lifetime pension plus a lump sum.
Substantially all of the benefits from our Australian defined benefit plans are paid in the form of a lump sum on retirement.
Our approach to risk and risk management 24 International Power Annual Report 2008 We do not always match the expected output Financial processes and internal control of a plant with power sales and fuel and other We consider that we have an appropriate and commodity purchases.
Mismatched positions robust internal control system.
During the past few have the potential to result in losses.
This potential years, we have reviewed our systems of financial exposure is addressed in our trading policies, which control to ensure they were able to meet the limit the potential size of mismatched positions.
requirements of section 404 of the US SarbanesOxley Act for the year ended 31 December 2006.
In addition to asset-backed trading we carry out Although, since deregistration from the Securities some proprietary trading trading not linked to and Exchange Commission in 2007, we are no the expected output of our power plants.
Our longer subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, we have non asset-backed trading activities have strict continued to provide comprehensive control risk limits and controls and any exposures are coverage of our business.
In order to measure our performance, the delivery Framework for trading activities of our strategy and to provide an early warning of variances to our forecasts, we monitor a number Our trading activities operate within a robust of performance indicators.
The principal financial framework of policies and oversight functions.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs are Profit From Trading and forward contracting strategies are Operations PFO, Earnings Per Share EPS and continually reviewed by regional and corporate free cash flow, details of which are set out on trading and risk management professionals, to pages 28 to 30. ensure they are best suited to both local market conditions and corporate risk guidelines.
A Insurance risk management Group-wide oversight of our trading operations is Our risk management processes assist us in the provided by a Global Commodities Risk Committee identification of events that can be partly or entirely GCRC which includes the Chief Financial Officer mitigated through the use of insurance.
Risks that CFO, the head of corporate finance, and the global we insure include, inter alia, business interruption, trading and risk managers.
The GCRC acts under Directors and officers liability and property the authority of the Board, and delegates limits damage.
Where we are legally required to effect and authorities to local risk committees, which have third party liability insurances these are also in place.
been established in each of our trading operations to oversee the management of market, operational Due to the current economic climate, we have and credit risks arising from our marketing and broadened our exposure to insurance companies trading activities.
The local risk committees include by extending the capacity of other insurers in the the local trading manager, global and local risk insurance programme.
This will ensure that the managers, Regional Directors and senior managers.
continuity of insurance cover can be maintained in the event of the failure of an insurance company Fuel supply risks within the programme.
Fuel supply security is fundamental to our business.
Most of our markets have robust supply Market and trading risks infrastructures.
Other factors such as mines local A significant number of the projects in which we to the power plant, fuel storage, dual-fuel capability have an interest, operate on a merchant basis and sourcing from a number of reputable suppliers without a PPA and are, therefore, vulnerable to enhance our security of fuel supply.
Consequently, market forces including climatic conditions which we have experienced very few fuel supply determine the price and amounts of power sold interruptions that have had an impact on and fuel and emissions allowances purchased.
However, the performance of our particular, the majority of our plants in the UK, growing wind energy portfolio is dependent upon North America and Australia operate on a wind conditions, which may vary from year-to-year.
In order to limit our exposure to market movements, and if trading conditions allow, We procure fuel under a variety of contractual we forward sell a proportion of our anticipated arrangements ranging from long-term Fuel Supply output and buy the related commodities including Agreements FSAs to on-the-day merchant gas fuel, transmission rights, capacity and emission purchases.
The principal determinant of our fuel credits.
The key risks facing our market and trading supply activity is the need to match purchases to activities and their mitigating factors are as follows.
power sales, both in terms of volume and price.
Hence, we operate long-term FSAs at power plants Hedging activities where we have long-term PPAs and predominantly Uncontracted output is subject to price and volume short-term merchant supply arrangements in volatility.
To reduce the impact of this uncertainty, we our merchant power markets.
This strategy helps typically operate a rolling hedge programme under mitigate against fuel price impacts, particularly in which we increase the proportion of output that is the climate of high fuel prices which existed during sold forward as the production date approaches.
2008, and protects operational profitability from Whilst we generally aim to hedge a relatively high the effect of fuel price volatility.
proportion of our output for the following year, this strategy is dependent on market conditions.
Due to market liquidity considerations, we are generally unable to hedge high levels of output beyond two years ahead.
Business overview 25 It is not always possible to achieve an exact balance Construction and operational risks between fuel purchases and power production.
This Our policy with regard to new-build is, wherever is particularly an issue for our projects with PPAs, possible, to award major projects on an EPC basis where the associated FSAs often have minimum to suitably qualified contractors.
EPC contracts fuel purchase obligations.
By structuring the transfer the majority of the design and construction purchases flexibly and incorporating appropriate risks to the contractor, and provide substantial force majeure protection, we are able to mitigate protection through liquidated damages in the this risk by ensuring, as far as possible, that the price event of failure on the part of the contractor to and volume obligations in the PPA and FSA mirror meet contractual completion or plant performance Paiton, Indonesia one another and, to date, we have not experienced targets.
Where there is a project specific need to a significant financial impact due to mismatches adopt a risk sharing approach within the contract, between our FSAs and PPAs.
this is done on the basis of deliverable technical and performance assumptions and with due regard to Country and political risks the ability to manage these risks.
We supplement A number of our projects with long-term PPAs this contractual protection with insurances.
are in countries that carry a degree of country The rapid global growth in the demand for new risk.
In Pakistan, payments from the state-owned power capacity and rising raw material prices during customer, the Water and Power Development 2008 have contributed to significant price increases Authority WAPDA, were delayed in 2008. and longer lead times for the delivery of power plant However, our plants are continuing to receive equipment.
Recent world economic events may payments for the majority of current output begin to ease this situation, however, there remains and have also been receiving interest on a risk that greenfield project development timescales overdue amounts.
Our share of the receivable, will be extended further and, in addition, the ability in March 2009, was US$149 million 108 million.
to secure extensive commercial protection from the With respect to the overdue amounts, the original equipment manufacturers will become more management of the three project companies difficult.
This risk is generally greater for coal-fired are in active dialogue with the offtaker.
WAPDA, plant because of longer construction lead times.
which does not dispute either the tariff or the We continue to work with the main suppliers, such overdue amounts, has been unable to pay due to a as Alstom, General Electric, Mitsubishi and Siemens, cash flow issue within the government of Pakistan.
with whom we have long-term relationships, with There are a number of initiatives currently emphasis on our growth plans and long-term underway to resolve the cash flow issue in Pakistan, opportunities.
including an International Monetary Fund IMF US$7.6 billion loan package.
A key condition of the A key operational risk is unplanned availability IMF loan is that the government has to implement loss, which can therefore lead to a reduction in a plan to clear the overdue receivables in the energy profitability and cash flows.
We remain confident of a satisfactory long-term PPAs are generally rewarded for high outcome.
We continually review our PPAs and levels of availability, and therefore unplanned believe that further payment defaults remain a outages can result in a loss of significant revenue.
In the past, some PPA tariffs have been For our merchant plants, unplanned outages can re-opened by our offtakers and renegotiated, result in the need to buy back power which has but we do not currently foresee the prospect been forward contracted.
During 2008, despite of further PPA tariff renegotiations.
some unplanned outages, our portfolio achieved an average technical availability rate of 89.1%, Country risk assessment is an important element of compared to a North American Electric Reliability our due diligence prior to participating in a project.
Council NERC average rate of 85.3%.
A GroupWe favour projects where the need for power is wide integrated Operations and Engineering team acute, the magnitude of government subsidy is ensures that our experiences are shared throughout limited, and international arbitration is available for the portfolio, and this, combined with an ongoing resolving disputes.
Once projects are operational, maintenance programme, maximises commercial International Power always strives to be a good availability at all our plants.
corporate citizen, supporting the local, regional and national communities wherever possible.
We Power plants are characterised by high also attempt to maintain good relationships with temperatures, pressures, voltages and rotational political institutions and our customers.
Providing a safe environment for people on our sites and in surrounding areas is a major Furthermore, non-recourse debt arrangements priority.
We achieve a safe environment by using limit our financial exposure to the loss of our equity a combination of engineering and operational investment and future cash flows from the project.
procedures and standards, provision of training, Thus, whilst the loss or impairment of assets performance monitoring and by employing in a project company might affect the financial experienced staff.
In addition, we are currently performance of the Group, other operating applying a new engineering risk assessment companies would remain unaffected.
approach to assist in the identification and management of the key engineering risks across the plant portfolio.
Our approach to risk and risk management 26 International Power Annual Report 2008 We are a minority participant in a number of Environmental regulation projects and cannot set operational standards Environmental legislation is one of the key drivers in such cases.
In these circumstances we provide of the long-term development of the electricity support, where appropriate, and use our influence industry.
Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas as an experienced plant operator to achieve emissions are expected to impose increasing standards that are consistent with our own.
commercial constraints on our ability to emit However, our ability to influence partners varies.
Although the majority of our fleet comprises gas-fired and renewable generation, During construction we closely monitor progress with relatively low or nil CO2 emissions, it is clear by reference to four major factors: safety, that there will be increasing constraints on our construction programme, cost and quality.
Once ability to use fossil fuels to generate power.
The a plant is in operation we monitor performance by impact of carbon reduction measures is currently reference to a number of safety and performance most apparent at our European plants, where indicators including, for example, Accident we are required to ensure that we have sufficient Frequency Rate AFR, technical availability, carbon credits to support our expected levels of net maximum capacity, thermal efficiency generation.
Certain of our projects have change and forced outage rate.
of law protection, which enables us to pass on any carbon costs to the offtaker.
In such cases Health, safety and environmental risks the economic impact of carbon risk is removed.
In Excellent HS&E performance is critically important addition, International Power employs regulatory for our business.
Risks range from harm to our and legislative experts who will advocate the staff and to our reputation in the wider community, Companys position during any proposed changes to enforced plant closures and substantial fines.
Health, safety and environmental European Union EU member states are compliance activities committed to meeting existing EU-wide legislation At plant level, HS&E requirements are set by designed to tackle climate change.
Under the Kyoto corporate, local and national standards and Protocol, the EU is planning an 8% reduction from regulations, and individual plants operate within 1990 levels in greenhouse gas emissions by 2012, site specific environmental licensing limits.
We have and is seeking to achieve this through a number of an ongoing HS&E audit programme to provide measures.
Firstly, the EU Emissions Trading Scheme assurance in this area and we monitor closely the EUETS cap and trade mechanism is designed to AFR and breaches of environmental permits.
promote the reduction of CO 2 emissions across The AFR and reportable environmental incidents European industry.
In addition, the EU Renewables are amongst our KPIs.
Directive sets individual national targets for the amount of electricity to be obtained through Plant operating and monitoring procedures are renewable sources.
In December 2008, EU member effective in ensuring that we comply with the states agreed new, longer-term binding targets: conditions of our environmental licences and a 20% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by consents.
Whilst we have experienced occasional 2020 again from 1990 levels and 20% of energy breaches of our environmental operating limits, use to come from renewable sources by 2020. there have been no recent incidents that have posed These targets are apportioned between member a significant threat to the environment, or to our states and implemented through new directives.
ability to run our plants.
From 2013 full auctioning of CO2 allowances is to Sites are required to adhere to a set of corporate be implemented for the power sector across the health and safety standards and to local regulations.
EU, although certain central and eastern European Health and safety performance is the responsibility countries will retain some free allowances declining of our plant managers, who are supported by local to zero by 2020, in recognition of their high health and safety specialists.
Our global health and dependency on fossil fuels and low GDPs.
safety manager is responsible for ensuring that our corporate policies and standards remain current and are understood by all of our sites.
Business overview 27 In December 2007, under a new federal At the global level, there is uncertainty over what government, Australia ratified the Kyoto Protocol.
will replace the Kyoto Protocol on climate change Carbon dioxide measurement and reporting when it expires at the end of 2012.
Most legislation was passed in July 2008 and the governments in developed countries have government is planning to introduce an emissions introduced legislation to incentivise renewable trading scheme across most industrial sectors, generation, to the point where growth in renewable including the power sector, by mid 2010. generation may have a material impact on our fossil International Power Australia is engaged with both fuelled plants.
In response, we continued to make the federal and state governments on the design major investments in renewable energy during and implementation of the scheme.
We also have dedicated resources to review proposals are for a minimum 5% reduction in CO technology trends in order to ensure that we are 2 emissions against 2000 levels by 2020, with the well positioned to participate in the drive towards potential for this target to rise to 15% pending the a lower carbon environment.
UN meeting in Copenhagen planned to be held at the end of 2009.
Under the proposals, there is Staffing and human resources risks currently a period of five years where, in effect, Despite the current economic downturn, there no charge will be applied for a portion of emissions remains competition for well qualified and from coal-fired power plants, and our Hazelwood experienced staff, particularly engineers, from and Loy Yang B assets would be eligible for this other power companies and similar industries.
The details of the proposals are yet to be In this competitive environment, attracting the finalised, with the government aiming to introduce right staff to International Power is a challenge.
the legislation into Parliament in May 2009.
The By offering market remuneration and focusing impact of the legislation upon our assets in Australia on career development options within our will remain uncertain until some time after international portfolio, International Power is legislation is finalised.
still managing to recruit talented staff, though the talent pool can be limited in certain skills In the US, the newly elected government is and geographic regions.
progressing fast in developing its carbon emissions reduction plans.
There are currently state and In addition, a number of coal-fired power plants federal programmes in development which would have an ageing staff profile.
Succession planning establish incentives for low carbon emissions.
At the helps identify areas at risk, though there is a risk that state level, the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative employment costs will rise above the local inflation programme is now in effect in the north eastern rate to attract enough suitable staff to and mid Atlantic states, and aims to reduce CO keep plants fully operational.
The first auction of A few of our sites have high union representation.
emission allowances was held in September 2008 We have not been affected by industrial action for and the scheme commenced on 1 January 2009.
At several years but this remains a risk.
We maintain the federal level, the new administration is expected appropriate dialogues with staff unions to ensure to introduce emissions legislation in 2009 that will that we are aware of any potential issues in good become effective in 2012 or later.
We expect the time to mitigate our risks.
legislation to include a combination of carbon allocations and auctions.
The overall efficiency of In order to reduce, where required, the threat our US power stations means that the US business of terrorism, we liaise with local law enforcement Indian Queens, UK should be well positioned to meet the requirements organisations on security issues and we also utilise of this new legislation.
International Power will be the services of a global security consultancy, to actively engaged in advocating the Companys ensure that our risk assessments and physical position during the legislative process.
security measures fully reflect local conditions.
The consultancy additionally has the capacity There is no imminent legislation expected in to provide personal security services if required.
either the Middle East or Asia.
Our projects in these regions operate under long-term PPAs, and many of these have change of law protection, which would enable us to pass on any carbon costs to the offtaker.
