Interserve text 2009 24 3 09 09:59 Page 26 Directors report Business review continued Principal risks and uncertainties Interserve operates in a business environment in which a Major contracts number of risks and uncertainties exist.
While it is not possible As Interserve focuses on large-volume relationships with certain to eliminate these completely, the established riskmajor clients for a significant part of its revenue, termination management and internal control procedures, which are of one or more of the associated contracts would be likely to regularly reviewed by the Group Risk Committee on behalf of reduce revenue and profit for the Group.
In addition, the the Board, are designed to manage their effects and so to management of such contracts entails potential risks including contribute to the creation of value for the Groups shareholders mis-pricing, inaccurate specification, failure to appreciate risks as we pursue our business objectives.
The Group continues to being taken on, poor control of costs or of service delivery, be dependent on effective maintenance of its systems and sub-contractor insolvency and failure to recover, in part or in controls.
Over and above that, the principal risks and full, payments due for work undertaken.
In PFI PPP contracts, uncertainties which the Group addresses through its riskwhich can last for periods of around 30 years and typically management measures are: require the Special Purpose Companies SPCs established by Interserve and one or more third parties to provide for the Market change future capital replacement of assets, there is a risk that such a Among the market changes which could affect Interserves company may fail to anticipate adequately the cost or timing business are: shifts in the economic climate both in the UK and of the necessary works or that there may be increases in costs, internationally: a deterioration in the profile of our including wage inflation, beyond those anticipated.
counterparty risk: alterations in the UK governments policy with regard to expenditure on improving public infrastructure, Among the Groups mitigation strategies are targeting work buildings and services: delays in the procurement of within, or complementary to, its existing competencies, the government-related projects: saturation of or a downturn in fostering of long-term relationships with clients, operating our markets in the Middle East: fluctuations in the proportion an authority matrix for the approval of large bids, monthly of our earnings derived from associates and joint ventures: management reporting with key performance indicators at shifts in the political climate in some of the regions in which contract and business level, the use of monthly cost-value we operate: changes in our competitors behaviour: and the reconciliation, supply chain management, taking responsibility imposition of unusually onerous contract conditions by major for the administration of our PFI PPP SPCs, securing Board clients.
Any of these might result in a failure to win new or representation in them and ensuring that periodic benchmarking sufficiently profitable contracts in our chosen markets or to and or market testing are included in long-term contracts.
complete those contracts with sufficient profitability.
Key people The Group seeks to mitigate these risks by fostering long-term The success of Interserves business is dependent on recruiting, relationships with its clients and partners, its predominantly retaining, developing, motivating and communicating with governmental quasi governmental medium to long-term appropriately skilled, competent people of integrity at all revenue streams, careful supply chain management and by levels of the organisation.
The members of the management operating in various regions of the world, including the Middle team contribute to Interserves ability to obtain, generate and East, where we are able to transfer resources to maximum manage opportunities.
We have various incentive schemes and effect between the differing economies of that region.
The run a broad range of training courses for people at all stages in Group also has in place syndicated and bi-lateral committed their careers.
With active human resources management and loan facilities.
We constantly monitor market conditions and Investors in People accreditation in many parts of the Group, assess our capabilities in comparison to those of our we manage our people professionally and encourage them to competitors.
Whether we win, lose or retain a contract we develop and fulfil their maximum potential with Interserve.
analyse the reasons for our success or shortcomings and feed the information back at both tactical and strategic levels.
26 Interserve Plc Annual report 2008 Interserve text 2009 24 3 09 09:59 Page 27 Health and safety regime Damage to reputation The nature of the businesses conducted by the Group involves Issues arising within contracts, from Interserves management exposure to health and safety risks for both employees and of its businesses or from the behaviour of its employees at third parties.
Management of these risks is critical to the all levels can have broader repercussions on the Groups success of the business and is implemented through the reputation than simply their direct impact.
Control procedures adoption and maintenance of rigorous operational and and checks governing the operation of our contracts and of occupational health and safety procedures.
A commitment to our businesses are supported by business continuity plans and safety forms part of Interserves mission statement and the arrangements for managing the communication of issues to subject leads every Board meeting both at Group and divisional Interserves stakeholders.
Each member of the Executive Board undertakes dedicated visits to look at health and safety measures in place at our operational sites and we have ongoing campaigns across the Group emphasising its importance.
Financial risks The Group is subject to certain financial risks which are discussed in the Financial review on pages 22 to 25.
In particular, Interserve carries out major projects which from time to time require substantial amounts of cash to finance working capital, capital expenditure and investment in PFI projects.
Failure to manage working capital appropriately could result in the Group being unable to meet its trading requirements and ultimately to defaulting on its banking covenants.
Interserve has policies in place to monitor the effective management of working capital, including the production of daily balances, weekly cash reports and forecasts together with monthly management reporting.
Interserve recognises a pension deficit on its balance sheet.
The deficits value is sensitive to several key assumptions, and any significant changes in these may result in the Group having to increase its pension scheme contribution with a resultant impact on liquidity.
