com Directors Report Business Review Risks and Uncertainties Risk framework will affect the Groups income or the value of its The Board has overall responsibility for the assets and liabilities.
These risks are managed by establishment and oversight of the Groups risk the Groups treasury function as described below.
The Board has an Treasury management established, structured approach to risk The Board is responsible for approving the treasury management, which is described in the Corporate policy for the Group.
The Groups treasury and Governance Report which starts on page 36. funding activities are undertaken by a centralised The Vice President of Risk Management and Internal treasury function which reports to the Chief Audit, who reports to the Chief Financial Officer and Financial Officer.
Its primary activities are to manage the Audit and Risk Committee, has accountability the Groups liquidity, funding requirements and for the system of risk management and reporting financial risk, principally arising from movements the key risks and mitigating actions.
Risks are in interest and foreign currency exchange rates.
formally identified and recorded in a risk matrix for The Groups policy is to ensure that adequate each operating division, which calculates gross risk liquidity and financial resource is available to and net risk after mitigating controls are applied.
support the Groups continuing activities and The risk matrix is updated annually and is used to growth whilst managing these risks.
The Groups plan the Groups internal audit and risk strategy.
In policy is not to engage in speculative financial addition to the risk matrix, all senior executives and transactions.
Generally, the Group seeks to apply their direct reports are required to complete an hedge accounting in order to manage volatility in annual return to confirm that management controls profit or loss.
There have been no significant have been effectively applied during the year.
changes in the Groups policies in the last year.
The return covers operations, compliance, risk Group Treasury operates as a service centre within management and finance.
The Vice President of clearly defined objectives and controls and is Risk Management and Internal Audit attends the subject to periodic review by internal audit.
meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee and Foreign currency risk meets with the members of that committee alone, The Group operates in more than 100 countries at least once a year.
and has 217 2007: 180 subsidiaries, of which 180 In common with all businesses, the Group is 2007: 161 report in currencies other than sterling.
affected by a number of risk factors, some of which The net assets of foreign subsidiaries represent are outside our control.
Although many of the risk a significant portion of the Groups shareholders factors influencing the Groups performance are funds and a substantial percentage of the Groups macroeconomic and likely to affect the performance revenue and operating costs are incurred in of business generally, others are particular to currencies other than sterling.
Because of the high Interteks operations.
Specific risks which we are proportion of international activity, the Groups aware of are detailed below, however there may be profit is exposed to exchange rate fluctuations.
other risks that are currently unknown or are Two types of risk arise as a result: i translation risk, currently regarded as immaterial which could turn that is, the risk of adverse currency fluctuations out to be material.
Any of these risks could have the in the translation of foreign currency operations potential to impact the performance of the Group, and foreign assets and liabilities into sterling and its assets, liquidity and capital resources.
ii transaction risk, that is, the risk that currency fluctuations will have a negative effect on the Market risk value of the Groups commercial cash flows in Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, various currencies.
such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates, 28653 pp028-035.
indd 28 6 3 09 00:01:05 29 Annual Report 2008 29 i Translation risk periodically adjusted on the basis of prevailing The results of the Groups overseas activities are and anticipated market conditions and the Groups translated into sterling using the cumulative average gearing and interest cover, which are monitored by exchange rates for the period concerned.
Details of the interest rate hedges sheets of overseas subsidiaries are translated at in place at 31 December 2008 are given in note 28 actual exchange rates applicable at the balance to the financial statements.
Liquidity risk Key rates used during the year were as follows: Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group fails to meet its financial obligations as and when they fall due.
Balance sheet Income statement Value of 1 Actual rates Cumulative average rates The management of operational liquidity risk aims 31 Dec 08 31 Dec 07 2008 2007 primarily at ensuring that the Group always has US dollar 1.46 1.99 1.87 2.00 a liquidity buffer that is able, in the short term, Euro 1.02 1.36 1.26 1.46 to absorb the net effects of transactions made Chinese renminbi 9.95 14.57 13.03 15.24 and expected changes in liquidity both under Hong Kong dollar 11.28 15.51 14.59 15.62 normal and stressed conditions without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Material changes in the exchange rates can create Groups reputation.
Group Treasury manages this volatility in the results when they are translated liquidity risk through the use of daily headroom into sterling.
In order to mitigate this translation calculations as well as forecast headroom exposure, the Groups policy is to match the calculations.
Group Treasury are in regular contact currency of external borrowings to the currency with the banks and capital debt markets as well of expected cash flows and the currency of net as other potential providers of debt to ensure a investments.
At 31 December 2008, over 70% proper understanding of the availability and of the Groups borrowings were denominated in pricing of debt funding.
US dollars and Hong Kong dollars.
The Group has a sterling denominated multicurrency bank debt facility that was placed in ii Transaction risk December 2004.
This facility was originally due to The Groups policy requires overseas subsidiaries expire on 15 December 2009, however the Group to hedge all significant transaction exposures with exercised its option to extend the facility by a year in Group Treasury where they are managed centrally.
2005 and by a further year in 2006, so the facility is Subsidiaries transaction exposures include now due to expire in December 2011.
The margins committed foreign currency sales and purchases currently paid on the borrowings in this facility are in together with the anticipated transactions the range of 0.3% to 1.5% over LIBOR.
In June and reasonably expected to occur during future periods.
July 2008, the Group raised a further 75.0m under The Groups policy is also to hedge transaction this facility from three new banks under the same exposures arising from the remittance of overseas terms and conditions and margin by joining the dividends and interest as soon as they are existing syndicate of 10 banks.
Transaction exposures are hedged forward using forward currency contracts which In 2008 the Group also raised US$200.0m by way mature in less than 12 months.
of senior note issues which have a blended fixed Interest rate risk and exposure borrowing rate of 6.71% made up as follows.
In The Groups policy is to ensure that between June, US$100.0m cash was raised that is repayable 33% and 67% of its exposure to changes in interest on 26 June 2015 at a fixed interest rate of 5.54%.
rates on borrowings is on a fixed rate basis.
This is In December, US$25.0m cash was raised that is achieved by entering into interest rate swaps.
The repayable on 21 January 2014 at a fixed interest balance between fixed and variable rate debt is rate of 7.50%.
com Directors Report Business Review Risks and Uncertainties raised that is repayable on 10 June 2016 at a fixed before the company transacts any business with the interest rate of 8.00%.
These senior notes were customer.
Each division has a range of targets for immediately applied against bank debt borrowings days sales outstanding and to encourage and to increase the amount of liquidity headroom reward good performance, these form part of the on the facility.
bonus criteria for the divisional managers.
The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that The sterling equivalent of the gross drawn and represents our estimate of likely losses in respect of available borrowings as at 31 December 2008 trade and other receivables.
The main components were 519.4m 2007: 343.5m of which of this allowance are a specific loss component that 421.6m 2007: 231.2m was drawn and relates to individually significant exposures and a 97.8m 2007: 112.3m was available when collective loss component established for groups translated at the year end exchange rates.
The of similar assets in respect of losses that have been Group also reported a cash balance of 113.3m incurred but not yet identified.
The collective loss at 31 December 2008.
The borrowings and cash allowance is determined based on historical data are mostly in currencies other than sterling and so of payment statistics for similar financial assets.
the value of these can fluctuate when translated Due to the current economic recession there is an into sterling.
The liquidity headroom is sterling increased risk that certain of our customers may denominated and so this can also fluctuate face financial difficulties and as a result be unable depending on the sterling value of the drawn to meet our credit terms or cease trading.
The Group has prepared forecasts, reinforced our credit checking procedures and have including scenarios adjusted for significantly worse increased our vigilance in monitoring and reacting economic conditions and we have concluded to changes in our clients circumstances.
that these facilities are expected to be adequate ii Counterparty to support the Groups medium-term funding The Group monitors the distribution of cash deposits, requirements.
borrowings and hedging instruments which are The analysis of the debt and a description of the assigned to each of the Groups counterparties and borrowings and their respective maturity dates is which are subject to periodic review.
given in note 17 to the financial statements and the currency of the debt is shown in note 28.
Tax risk Tax risk is the risk that the value of tax assets and Surplus cash is placed on deposit with short-term liabilities in the Groups balance sheet is misstated, maturities providing liquidity when required.
resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Credit risk The Group operates in more than 100 countries Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the and is subject to wide range of complex tax laws Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial and regulations.
At any point in time it is normal for instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations, there to be a number of open years in any particular and arises principally from the Groups receivables territory which may be subject to enquiry by local from customers.
Where the effect of the laws and regulations is unclear, estimates are used in i Trade receivables determining the liability for the tax to be paid on There is no concentration of credit risk with respect past profits which are recognised in the financial to trade receivables as the Group has a large statements.
The Group considers the estimates, number of customers who are internationally assumptions and judgements to be reasonable but dispersed.
All companies in the Group are required this can involve complex issues which may take a to operate a credit policy under which each new number of years to resolve.
The final determination customer is analysed individually for creditworthiness 28653 pp028-035.
indd 30 6 3 09 00:01:06 31 Annual Report 2008 31 of prior year tax liabilities could be different from commercial transaction can be of significant value, the estimates reflected in the financial statements.
the claims notified to the Group can allege substantial damages.
Risk of financial irregularities To reduce the likelihood of claims arising, the Group Risk of financial irregularities is the risk that assets of the Group could be misappropriated resulting in has extensive quality assurance and control procedures financial loss to the Group, as well as the risk of to ensure that work is performed in accordance with management misrepresenting results.
All incidents that could potentially result in a claim against the Group are reported to The Group comprises 217 subsidiaries, operating in compliance officers and are logged in a data base over 100 countries.
Despite a rigorous programme of incidents.
The Company Secretary reports of internal audits and management reviews, we significant claims to the Audit and Risk Committee.
cannot be certain that internal and external audit Legal counsel is appointed if appropriate.
The Group procedures will always identify any financial mitigates the risk of financial loss arising from irregularity.
The Group regularly reminds the litigation by maintaining insurance against potential operating company officers of their fiduciary claims, however there can be no assurance that claims responsibilities and maintains a culture of openness brought against the Group will always be covered by to promote disclosure.
As described above, each of insurance, or that such insurance, if available, will be the senior executives and their direct reports are sufficient to cover fully the damages or other expenses required to complete an annual return to confirm which the Group may be required to pay.
that management controls have been effectively applied during the year.
Environmental risk Environmental risk is the risk that assets of the Group Risk of litigation could be damaged or destroyed by an environmental Risk of litigation is the risk that the Group could incident and that the Group could incur loss of revenue suffer a material financial loss resulting from a as a result of the ensuing disruption to operations.
legal judgement against the Group or one of its subsidiaries.
Such a judgement could also result Intertek operates facilities in more than 100 in adverse publicity which could damage the countries which are subject to local, environmental reputation of the Group.
Disasters such as fire, hurricanes, floods and earthquakes can cause The Group is regularly notified of, or involved in, damage to property and personnel and can disrupt a number of claims and proceedings which are operations, causing loss of revenue.
The Group incidental to its ordinary course of business.
Claims maintains disaster recovery plans at key facilities for can arise in the context of a dispute between such events and endeavours to ensure that the parties to a commercial transaction in which adequate insurance is in place.
the Group has provided testing, inspection or certification services.
Often the Groups role in Political risk the transaction will be incidental to the underlying Political risk is the risk that the Group could suffer dispute, but the claim will be notified to the Group financial losses due to the action of a government.
in order to toll the relevant statute of limitations in The Group operates in some countries where there respect of such a claim.
In certain situations, a claim is potential risk of political instability which can make may only be notified to the Group after resolution it difficult to operate.
In particular, government of the underlying commercial dispute and, in such contracts in the Government Services division can cases, a considerable period of time may elapse be subject to change or termination at short notice.
between the performance of services by the Group The Group manages this risk by maintaining close and the assertion of a claim in respect of such relationships with government representatives, services.
In either case, because the underlying however the risk cannot be entirely mitigated.
