risKs ANd uNcertAiNties Invensys operates globally in varied markets and is affected by a the timing and frequency of substantial contract awards, number of risks inherent in its activities, not all of which are within particularly in the groups rail group business, are uneven its control.
The revenue of the Groups Rail Group business depends on a small number of large railway operators, such as Network Rail The Risk Committee has accountability for overseeing the risk and London Underground in the UK and other large rail and management processes and procedures, and reports to the Board mass transit operators in Europe, Asia Pacific and the US.
New through the Audit Committee on the key risks facing the business.
contract awards are often associated with major transport It also monitors the mitigating actions put in place by the relevant infrastructure upgrades and as a result are by nature large and operational managers to address identified risks.
As part of the infrequent.
Funding for these new projects is often dependent on regular review of activities, disclosures in the Annual report have governmental investment decisions, and these may be affected been revised to reflect the global changes to the business and the by changes in political and economic conditions.
As a result, the competitive business environment in which it operates.
timing of contract awards is uncertain and delays in awards may result in volatility in the results of the Rail Group business.
The principal risks, which could cause the Groups actual results to vary materially from historic and expected results, are set out The business monitors sales activity, sales cover in its order book below.
and the impact of potential delays on the expected results to allow appropriate mitigating actions to be considered.
the group faces intense competition, and failure to maintain a competitive and technologically advanced product range the groups Process systems business is reliant on the capital could reduce its margins and revenue growth expenditure requirements from the oil, gas and chemical Invensys operates in highly competitive markets and the Groups sectors products and services are characterised by continually evolving A substantial part of the Groups Process Systems business is industry standards and rapidly changing technology driven by associated with the supply of technology, software and consulting the demands of the Groups customers.
Failure to keep pace with to the oil, gas and chemical industries.
Capital expenditure technological changes and system or application requirements in requirements from customers in these industries are often the industrial sectors may result in loss of market share and lower highly cyclical and linked to the international supply, demand margins.
In addition, competitors are consolidating and offering and pricing of hydrocarbons.
These may fluctuate depending on a widened product portfolio to provide integrated or bundled natural events, economic conditions, political developments or solutions to customers, thus providing enhanced competition conflicts involving major oil exporting countries.
in addition to the inherent uncertainties of any competitive bid process, demand for products and services may fluctuate The Group invests in research and development to develop new significantly based on the timing of investment decisions made technologies and products to sustain or improve its competitive by multinational customers.
However, all new technologies and products involve business risk in terms of possible abortive expenditure, reputation The business tracks major sales opportunities and regularly risk and the potential for onerous contracts and customer claims.
reviews the status of the order book.
Progress against plans is monitored through regular operational business reviews.
The Group reviews its portfolio of technologies as part of the strategic planning process.
In addition, the businesses control individual development projects through a stage gate review process.
42 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 the group is subject to ongoing litigation and environmental These risks are managed principally through the regular liabilities operational business reviews.
As a consequence of the past disposal of a significant number of businesses, the Group has retained certain liabilities in relation the group may be subject to liability as a result of product to environmental claims including the cost associated with the liability claims remediation of contaminated sites no longer owned by the Group, Errors and defects in the Groups products, systems or disputed taxes, litigation including personal injury claims arising applications, which may be utilised in safety-critical applications, from alleged exposure to asbestos and silica, indemnity claims could cause injury to persons or damage to property and and other disposal costs relating to the disposed businesses.
These occurrences could result in claims, loss of risks have receded over time as warranties and indemnities in revenue, warranty costs, costs and damages associated with relation to past disposals have expired, existing disputes have been product recalls, litigation, delays in market acceptance or harm settled and remediation work on contaminated sites has been to the Groups reputation for safety and quality.
The Group also has environmental liabilities in relation to the remediation of vacant sites owned by it.
All of the above Each business has an established quality control function and if liabilities are subject to a number of uncertainties, assumptions an event occurs there are processes to investigate and manage and contingencies.
The Group continually monitors the remaining liabilities, regularly The Group could be exposed to deterioration in its financial reviews the related provisions and aims in negotiations to limit results if the performance improvement initiatives of certain the risk of future liabilities or disputes.
However, there can be no of the groups operations are not successful assurance that the liabilities will not be substantially higher or In response to increased competition and to enhance business become payable sooner than anticipated or that the provisions opportunities, a number of significant business improvement in the Groups accounts in respect of any such liabilities will be initiatives have been identified.
The objective of these initiatives sufficient or if currently unknown liabilities should arise.
is to increase market competitiveness by changing the mix of products and services offered to customers and by improving operating in global markets subjects the group to risks operational and manufacturing efficiencies.
Initiatives include associated with changes in political and economic conditions the modification of business practices and in certain instances and in applicable laws and regulations the transfer of business operations.
Whilst the Group has The Group operates in global markets, with facilities in more than committed substantial resources to complete these performance 60 countries.
It is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations improvement initiatives successfully, there can be no assurance and standards in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
In that these will ultimately be completed as planned.
addition, a number of its production, engineering and back office services have been or are in the process of being relocated to These activities are monitored through the regular operational countries in Asia and Eastern Europe.
review process to confirm progress on their implementation and to minimise any associated risks.
Also, a significant portion of its revenues is from customers outside Europe and North America, and the Group has become the group may be exposed to liability through the actions of increasingly engaged with the development of new business in joint venture partners, co-source partners or its supply chain these markets.
This brings increased risk through exposure to the The business activities of the Group are often conducted in different laws, regulations, political and economic conditions and conjunction with joint venture, consortium, co-development and other variable factors in these growth territories.
co-source partners whose day-to-day management actions are outside of the control of the Group.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008 43 risKs ANd uNcertAiNties CONTINUED A significant element of the Groups risk profile is the delivery the group may be exposed to additional liabilities with performance of its supply chain.
Given the nature of the Groups respect to its uK and us pension plans businesses, a quality or other failure in the supply chain could The Group has a high proportion of pensioners relative to its present a risk to safety and delivery which could have a material active workforce.
With respect to both the Group pension plans adverse effect on the Groups business, financial performance for its UK operations and for its US operations, any decline in and reputation.
the equity market, improvements in life expectancy, changes in expected morbidity rates or future decreases in interest rates Assessment, mitigation and management of these risks are could increase the funding deficit and require additional funding addressed by the businesses in conjunction with the Groups contributions in excess of those currently expected.
UK deficit legal, supply chain and risk functions.
funding payments may be revised in the light of the forthcoming triennial valuation and the Group has recently appointed undertaking large, long-term projects exposes the groups independent actuaries to assist with the review.
business to risk of loss A significant amount of the Groups business involves long-term In addition to regular financial reporting under IAS 19, the Group projects that can take many months or even years to complete.
regularly monitors the performance of the principal UK and US These projects may be subject to delays and cost overruns due schemes.
to delays in equipment deliveries, engineering problems, work stoppages, unanticipated cost increases, shortages of materials if the group is unable to recruit and retain skilled or skilled labour or other unforeseen problems inherent in the personnel, it may not be able to effectively implement nature of such projects.
The future success of the Group will depend in part upon the The Group has established a process with clear delegated ability to recruit, develop and retain highly skilled personnel in authorities for the approval of major contracts which includes a competitive market environment for technology companies.
a system for the approval of bids submitted to customers.
Contracts with a large monetary value or onerous contractual The Group has invested in its HR function and processes to terms require Board approval.
Contract execution is monitored mitigate the risk.
44 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2008
