BUSINESS REVIEW Whilst the group has benefited considerably from the Risks and Uncertainties development of such legislation its growth could be adversely affected if the pace of legislative change slowed significantly.
There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which Johnson Matthey monitors the development of legislation could have a material impact on the groups long term globally and coordinates its development work to ensure it can performance.
achieve greatest advantage from each new requirement.
Regular reviews are undertaken at the business and group level to Technological Change and Patents monitor growth and to investigate other areas of potential if Much of the groups business is focused on selling products legislation slows.
which are technologically advanced or employ technologically advanced processes in their manufacture.
In most cases these Global, Political and Economic Conditions products are subject to continuous improvement as new Johnson Matthey operates in over 30 countries around the technology is developed.
The group is exposed to the risk that world including several within Africa, Asia and Latin America.
if it does not keep up with changes in the market place its While benefiting from the opportunities and growth in these products will no longer be competitive.
This is both a threat regions the group is exposed to the economic, political and and an opportunity since Johnson Matthey can gain business as business risks associated with such international operations.
The groups strategy to meet this risk is to invest group encounters different legal and regulatory requirements significantly in research and development to maintain or achieve including those for taxation, environmental, operational and leadership positions in those markets which offer sufficient competitive matters.
It is exposed to the effect of political risk added value to justify the long term investment required.
which can include sudden changes in regulations, expropriation The groups results are also impacted by the status of of assets, imposition of trade barriers and wage controls, limits patents.
These include patents which the group itself registers on the export of currency and volatility of prices, taxes and and maintains, as well as the risks arising from new third party currencies.
The group is exposed to possible natural catastrophe patents and the benefits that arise from the expiry of third risk, for example through major earthquake or flood, and party patents.
All the groups divisions have significant registered possible terrorist action.
Management monitor such risks, intellectual property.
The pharmaceutical materials businesses maintaining adequate insurance cover and amending business supply active pharmaceutical ingredients to generic procedures as appropriate to mitigate any exposure while manufacturers and can benefit when third party patents expire.
remaining in compliance with local and group requirements.
If actual patent lives differ from the expectations of the relevant group business, such as by being extended or successfully Environmental Liabilities challenged, this can affect the groups results.
The group has established policies both to monitor its existing patent portfolio The environmental laws of various jurisdictions impose actual and those of third parties, taking appropriate action as and potential obligations on the group to remediate necessary in respect of infringement.
contaminated sites, both those currently owned and, also in some cases, those which have been sold.
Johnson Mattheys Legislation environmental policies are set out on the companys website at www.
The group incurs costs annually in meeting Much of the stimulus for the development and growth of these obligations and also maintains provisions for potential Johnson Mattheys products arises from new legislation liabilities.
If existing provisions are inadequate to cover any governing the environmental or health impact of its customers liabilities or the associated costs arising from environmental products in different jurisdictions worldwide.
This is most obligations this could materially impact the groups results.
significant for Emission Control Technologies where historic and future growth depends on global tightening of emissions limits Commercial Relationships for on road and non road vehicles.
Legislation is also relevant for some of the groups other businesses.
Process Technologies Johnson Matthey benefits from close commercial relationships and Fine Chemicals & Catalysts manufacture products to with a number of key customers and suppliers.
The loss of any remove contaminants or to produce particularly pure of these key customers or suppliers, or a significant worsening chemicals.
Colour Technologies is supported by legislation in commercial terms could have a material impact on the phasing out lead, cadmium and other heavy metals from glass groups results.
The development of the fuel cells industry Johnson Matthey devotes significant resources to is also impacted by clean air regulations and the drive towards supporting these relationships to ensure they continue to zero emissions within both local and national legislation.
From time to time the group undertakes surveys of customer satisfaction which are reviewed by the board.
Some of the relationships are supported by long term contracts, notably the groups relationship with Anglo Platinum.
24 Johnson Matthey Heavy duty diesel catalyst manufacturing in the USA.
Foreign Exchange Pensions Johnson Matthey operates globally with the majority of the The groups defined benefit pension funds are well funded with groups operating profit earned outside the UK.
It has significant a net surplus at 31st March 2008 of 46.1 million.
However, investments outside the UK with the single largest investment this position is exposed to the risk of changes in interest rates being in the USA.
As such the group is exposed to movements and the market values of investments as well as inflation and in exchange rates between sterling and other world currencies, increasing longevity of the members.
The assumptions used in particularly the US dollar, which could adversely or positively calculating the funding position of the pension funds are shown impact results.
The groups policies for managing its foreign in detail on pages 71 and 72.
These risks are mitigated by currency exposures are set out in more detail on pages 27 paying appropriate contributions into the funds and through and 90. an investment asset allocation policy which has a high level of probability of avoiding a material deficit based on the results of an asset liability matching study.
Precious Metal Prices and Controls A large proportion of the groups activities involve managing Customer Market Dynamics precious metals which have inherent risks associated with them in addition to bringing valuable business opportunities.
The group sells products to manufacturers who in turn use While the group could be vulnerable to a global disruption these products to serve a diverse range of end markets.
The in the supply of platinum group metals, it has access to world groups performance is therefore impacted by the dynamics of markets for these metals and is not dependent on any one its customers end markets and their performance within these source for obtaining supplies for operations.
A significant loss of market share at or by a major Precious metals have high prices which can fluctuate automotive customer could negatively impact the groups significantly and this can have a material impact on Johnson results.
The group also has exposure to the wider automotive Mattheys results.
The groups policies for managing this risk are sector as a whole which is served by a number of the groups set out in more detail on page 27.
The high value of precious divisions.
While global car production levels have some effect metals means that any process losses could be material and on the sales of Johnson Mattheys products, other factors such there remains the possibility of theft or fraud.
Johnson Matthey as tightening emissions legislation and the increasing technical has extensive experience in operating with precious metals and demands from catalysts play a more significant role.
employs strict security, assay and other process controls and Risks are mitigated by monitoring both industry reviews to minimise any exposure.
Policies are reviewed developments and market share at customers to prevent the regularly by the Chief Executives Committee and reported to group from becoming unduly dependent on any single customer.
Annual Report & Accounts 2008 25 BUSINESS REVIEW New autocatalyst manufacturing facility in Krasnoyarsk, Russian Federation.
Competitor Risk Energy and Raw Materials The group operates in highly competitive markets.
Significant The groups products contain a broad array of raw materials product innovations, technical advances or the intensification of and its operations require significant levels of energy, notably price competition could all adversely affect the groups results.
Any increases or volatility in prices Johnson Matthey invests significant resources in research and and any significant decrease in the availability of energy or raw development in order to ensure the introduction of both new materials could affect the groups results.
Johnson Matthey products and improved production processes to allow the coordinates its global purchasing activities to obtain the best group to be at the forefront of its chosen markets.
The group possible prices and uses hedging and other contractual means also continually works to streamline its cost base to ensure it where appropriate to minimise this risk and to benefit where remains competitive.
The high price of oil also benefits the group by stimulating demand for new catalysts and technologies supplied by Process Technologies.
Litigation and Investigations The group is subject to a broad range of laws, regulations and Credit Risk standards in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
Failure to comply properly with these laws, regulations and The group derives a significant proportion of its revenue from standards could significantly damage the reputation and sales to major customers, particularly in Emission Control performance of Johnson Matthey.
Sales to individual customers are frequently high if Regular internal reviews are undertaken to assess the value of precious metals is included in the price.
The failure compliance with local and group policies, and provisions are of any such company to honour its debts could materially made to rectify or compensate for any breaches.
In the impact the groups results.
ordinary course of business, Johnson Matthey is subject to Johnson Matthey derives significant benefit from trading inspections and monitoring by certain regulatory or with its large customers and manages the risk at many levels.
enforcement bodies and by the quality departments of some of Each business and division has a credit committee that regularly its major customers.
If existing provisions are inadequate to monitors its exposure.
The Audit Committee receives a report cover any liabilities arising from such investigations this could every six months that details all significant credit limits, amounts materially impact the groups results.
due and amounts overdue within the group and the relevant actions being taken.
As at 31st March 2008, no single outstanding balance exceeded 2% of the groups market capitalisation.
Further details of the groups credit control procedures are set out on page 89.
