Directors Report: Business Review Risk Factors Managing Group risk Kazakhmys has signicantly improved its risk framework over the past The following, which include two new risks: assets controlled few years, with good progress being made in better understanding by third parties and liquidity risk, represent the significant and managing the Groups significant risks.
Overall management of risks identied by Kazakhmys that could materially affect these risks is vested in the Board, with the Audit Committee having the Groups financial condition, performance, strategies delegated authority for reviewing the Groups risk management and prospects.
There may be other risks unknown, or framework.
Kazakhmys has a risk management system in place to currently believed immaterial, by Kazakhmys which could support the identication and management of the Groups significant turn out to be material.
These risks should be carefully risks.
The Groups approach to internal control is business risk driven, considered in conjunction with the cautionary statement with emphasis on both business and financial risks as explained in set out on the inside back cover.
the Governance Framework on pages 54 to 59.
Operational risks Health, safety and the environment Action Mining is a hazardous industry and failure to adopt and embed Kazakhmys recognises that the highest standards of health, health, safety and environmental management systems could result safety, environmental and community practices are vital to in harm to Kazakhmys employees, the environment and the its success, and are a key responsibility of all employees.
communities in which the Group operates as well as fines and The Groups policies and procedures in these areas are penalties and damage to its reputation.
Policies and measures designed to identify relevant risks and opportunities and at a national and international level to tackle climate change will provide a clear framework for doing business.
Further details increasingly affect the business, presenting environmental and are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report regulatory risks.
Impact Health, safety and environmental incidents could lead to a number of adverse consequences, including harm to people, the environment and communities near Kazakhmys operations as well as production disruption, reputational damage and financial loss.
Business interruption Action The business of mining, smelting and rening metals and the Work is being carried out across the Group, with the support production of power involves a number of risks and hazards, of appropriate in-house and third party specialists, to address including, but not limited to, geological and technological operational risk issues.
A combined property damage and challenges, weather and other natural phenomena such as ood business interruption catastrophic insurance programme and earthquake, equipment failure and loss of key inputs such is in place to mitigate the financial impact of a major incident as coal, which can cause material mine or plant shutdowns or at the Groups main concentrating, smelting and rening periods of reduced production.
Impact Any disruption to operational activities could have a negative impact on the Groups profitability and cash ows, and may require the Group to make large unplanned capital expenditures.
In addition to revenue losses, long-term business interruption could result in a loss of customers.
Assets controlled by third parties Action Some Kazakhmys Group assets are managed by third parties under Management service agreements entered into with third management service agreements.
Management of these assets may not parties contain clear business objectives and require that comply with the Groups operating standards, controls and procedures.
an appropriate level of standards, controls and procedures is maintained.
The operation of assets controlled by third Kazakhmys also holds a 26% investment in ENRC PLC.
The business parties is monitored on an ongoing basis including dialogue and financial performance of this investment is not controlled by with the management of the third parties.
Kazakhmys monitors the business and financial performance Impact of its 26% investment in ENRC PLC.
The Group has the ability Failure to adopt equivalent standards, controls and procedures at to exercise its rights as the single largest shareholder of these third party managed businesses could lead to higher costs, ENRC PLC to inuence the strategic decisions of ENRC PLC.
reduced output and an adverse impact on Kazakhmys results and reputation.
Decisions made by the board of ENRC PLC could have a material impact on the reported earnings of Kazakhmys.
Furthermore, changes in market or macroeconomic conditions could impact the cash ows and the valuation of Kazakhmys investment in ENRC PLC.
48 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Directors Report: Business Review New projects Action The identication and development of new projects involves many Prior to an investment decision being made, certain activities risks including geological, engineering and regulatory risks.
If the are performed including, where appropriate, feasibility and Group fails to adopt an appropriate procurement and project other technical studies.
The Group ensures that sufficient management strategy, it may experience delays to project schedules expertise, from both in-house and third party specialists, is and cost.
Regulatory risks include failure to obtain and maintain utilised on projects throughout their life cycle.
Furthermore, applicable permits, licences or approvals from the relevant authorities there are procedures in place addressing areas such as to carry out or operate certain works.
budgeting and management of capital expenditure projects.
There are numerous uncertainties in estimating mineral reserves.
Reserves are estimated using available geological, technical and economic information.
The process involves a number of informed judgements and assumptions that are valid at the time but may change when new information becomes available.
Impact Projects may fail to achieve the desired economic returns due to an inability to recover mineral reserves and higher than expected capital and operating costs.
Changes in reserves could result in asset write-offs, negatively impacting the Groups financial performance.
Political risk Action Most of the Groups mining and power operations are in Kazakhstan.
Kazakhstans Government has actively pursued a programme Accordingly, the Group is substantially dependent on the economic of economic reform, helping to make it one of the most and political conditions prevailing in Kazakhstan.
As Kazakhstan has politically stable and economically developed countries in a relatively short history as an independent nation, there remains the Central Asia.
While a number of former Soviet republics have potential for social, political, economic, legal and scal instability.
experienced periods of political instability, this has not been the case for Kazakhstan.
The Board continues to view the Impact political, social and economic environment within Kazakhstan Political instability or social unrest may lead to a change in favourably, and looking forward, remains optimistic about Government policy, which could result in the supportive business the conditions for business in the region.
Changes to Kazakhstans property, tax or mining regimes or other changes that affect the supportive business environment in Kazakhstan could negatively affect the Groups business, financial position and performance.
Subsoil use rights Action In Kazakhstan and certain other countries in which the Group The Groups management makes every effort to engage with operates, all subsoil reserves belong to the State.
Subsoil use rights the relevant regulatory authorities and ensure compliance are not granted in perpetuity, and any renewal must be agreed before with all relevant legislation and subsoil use contracts.
the expiration of the relevant contract or licence.
Rights may be terminated if the Group does not satisfy its licensing or contractual obligations, which may include periodic payment of royalties to State authorities and the satisfaction of mining, development, environmental, health and safety requirements.
Impact As many of Kazakhstans subsoil use laws have been adopted relatively recently, the legal consequences of a given breach may not be predictable.
However, non-compliance with the requirements of subsoil use contracts could potentially lead to regulatory challenges and subsequently to fines litigation and ultimately to the loss of operating licences.
The loss of any of the Groups subsoil use rights could have a material adverse effect on its mining operations.
com 49 Directors Report: Business Review Risk Factors continued Financial risks Commodity prices Action Kazakhmys results are strongly inuenced by commodity prices The Group keeps under regular review its sensitivity to which are dependent on a number of factors impacting world uctuations in commodity prices, and a sensitivity analysis supply and demand.
Due to these factors, commodity prices may showing the impact on profits of a 10% movement in be subject to significant uctuations from year to year.
The Groups commodity prices is set out on page 25.
The Group normal policy is to sell its products under contract at prices does not as a matter of course hedge commodity prices, determined by reference to prevailing market prices on international but may hedge a proportion of future cash ows of global metal exchanges.
certain commodities where the Board determines it is in the Groups interest.
Commodity price uctuations can also have an impact on demand for specialist staff, equipment, materials and supplies in the mining sector, which can cause skills and material shortages and create cost pressure on the Groups operating and capital costs, which affect financial performance.
Impact Commodity prices can uctuate widely and could have a material impact on the Groups asset values, revenues, earnings and cash ows.
In addition, commodity price increases could cause supply or capacity constraints in areas such as specialist staff or mining equipment.
Liquidity risk Action The Group is exposed to liquidity risks, including risks associated The Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate with renancing borrowings as they mature, the risk that borrowing committed borrowing facilities and working capital funds.
facilities are not available to meet cash requirements, and the risk The Board monitors the net debt level of the Group taking that financial assets cannot readily be converted to cash without into consideration the expected outlook of the Group.
Further details are set out in the Financial Review on page 46.
Impact Failure to manage nancing risks could have a material impact on the Groups cash ows, earnings and financial position as well as reducing the funds available to the Group for working capital, capital expenditure, acquisitions, dividends and other general corporate purposes.
Taxation Action As the tax legislation in Kazakhstan has been in force for a relatively The Group makes every effort to comply with tax legislation, short period of time, tax risks in Kazakhstan are substantially and works closely with the tax authorities to ensure greater than typically found in countries with more developed compliance.
Further details are set out in the Financial tax systems.
Tax law is evolving and is subject to different and Review on page 44. changing interpretations, as well as inconsistent enforcement.
Tax regulation and compliance is subject to review and investigation by the authorities who may impose severe fines, penalties and interest charges.
Impact The uncertainty of interpretation and application, and the evolution, of tax laws create a risk of additional and substantial payments of tax by the Group, which could have a material adverse effect on the Groups cash ows, earnings and financial position.
50 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2008 Contents Directors Report: Governance 52 Board of Directors 54 Governance Framework 60 Directors Remuneration Report 66 Other Statutory Information 70 Independent Auditors Report Financial Statements 71 Consolidated Financial Statements 78 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 133 Consolidated Five Year Summary 134 Production and Sales Figures 140 Mining Reserves and Resources Shareholder Information 146 Shareholder Information 148 Glossary www.
