30 Risks King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 The Board considers risk assessment, identi cation of mitigating Health & Safety actions and internal control to be fundamental to achieving With over 85,000 employees and six million customers King shers strategic objectives.
The Corporate Governance report visiting King sher stores each week there is always a risk on pages 37 to 41 describes the systems and processes through of accidents involving either customers or staff and, as a result, which the directors manage and mitigate risks.
The Board robust health and safety systems are a priority.
While regulatory considers that the principal risks to achieving its objectives are requirements vary from country to country, each operating set out below.
The Board recognises that the nature and scope company is required to designate a director with speci c of risks can change and so regularly reviews the risks faced by responsibility for health and safety, who is then responsible the Group as well as the systems and processes to mitigate them.
for ensuring that a written health and safety policy is communicated to all staff, that appropriate health and safety arrangements Economic conditions are in place to protect our employees and that we comply with The economy is a major in uence on consumer spending.
The ultimate responsibility within The current economic outlook, particularly with regards to trends each operating company remains with the unit head.
in employment, in ation, taxation, consumer debt levels and interest rates, is likely to impact consumer demand for discretionary King sher Head Of ce is responsible for facilitating the sharing spending on the home and places our business plans and of best practice and the development of minimum Group forecasts at risk.
Whilst predicting future trends is very dif cult, standards, which in some cases will be higher than local King sher re ects the latest  estimates regulatory requirements and has this year validated progress in its internal plans.
through independent third party veri cation.
International expansion not only provides opportunities for Attracting and retaining the best people sustainable growth and returns but also economic diversi cation.
Retail is fundamentally a people business and the ability to attract, The UK now accounts for less than half of Group sales and recruit and retain quality staff is a risk in a highly competitive labour the international element will continue to grow at a faster pace.
We continue to invest in our people, ensuring that we This year, King sher accelerated the rate of investment into recruit and retain the right calibre of staff with the skills, experience Russia to take full and timely advantage of this exciting and and talent to grow the business.
We have introduced appropriate fast-growing economy.
management development programmes to ensure that we assess, manage and develop our peoples leadership skills, talents and New and emerging markets experiences from the Board down.
Given current global economic conditions and liquidity constraints there is a risk that we will be unable to exploit new opportunities Strategy effectiveness for entering new and emerging markets.
We remain, however, In retail, change remains the only constant and we continually committed to developing our existing investments, particularly seek to identify, and anticipate the risks regarding our assumptions in Russia and China.
and understanding of consumer trends and respond to our customers demands for goods and services.
In order to ensure These markets, which offer opportunities for long-term sustainable that our strategies meet both current and future customer needs, growth with superior returns, will continue to present challenges each individual operating company is responsible for implementing in terms of managing cultural and political nuances and risks.
the necessary processes and procedures to monitor the ef ciency, We will continue our policy of identifying and recruiting strong economy and effectiveness of the delivery of its strategic plans.
local management teams, who understand the local culture, Similarly, corporate planning processes are in place to ensure that market and risks, and, in some cases, collaborating with joint our businesses strategies are aligned and contribute to delivering venture partners to mitigate country speci c risks.
King sher also provides guidance, policies and procedures to ensure that new investments and initiatives are subject to an appropriate level of due diligence and probity and are supported by a robust process of economic and business appraisal.
Where issues do arise, the Group acts quickly to address them and learn from the experience.
indd 30 22 4 08 12:23:41 22 4 08 12:23:41 31 King sher Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Investment opportunities Business continuity Investment in the business is fundamental to achieving King shers A crisis can come in many different forms and there is a risk that aim of providing shareholders with sustainable returns.
Despite either a single catastrophic loss or a cumulative series of failures dif cult economic conditions and concerns regarding prospects will impact our ability to trade or have a major impact on our for consumer spending throughout 2008, we remain committed to reputation.
Crisis management programmes are established our modernisation programmes at B&Q UK and Castorama France.
throughout the business and clear communication strategies are in place in order to manage any major crisis.
We also continue to invest in our growth UK and international businesses.
These businesses continue to deliver sustainable Our level of crisis readiness is subject to review by both internal growth as well as offering opportunities for economic diversi cation and external audit as directed by both local audit committees and offsetting tough trading conditions in our developed markets.
and the King sher Audit Committee.
We are also supported by a comprehensive risk nancing programme to ensure we King sher will continue to review the balance of risk between are appropriately insured.
its ability to generate suf cient cash to maintain its investment programme, paying a dividend to shareholders and maintaining Corporate responsibility a healthy balance sheet in the face of the pressures created by King sher is committed to promoting both ethically sound and the global credit crunch and its associated impact on global sustainable business ethics and practices in addition to promoting liquidity and cash markets.
products to help our customers make choices regarding their contribution to creating a more sustainable environment.
King sher has also sought to maximise its financial resources through ongoing reviews of its business portfolio, for example the This commitment is based on an understanding of the risks, sale of the joint venture in Taiwan and the closure of South Korea, to both our brand and our customers expectations, of not operating and will continue to initiate programmes to reduce current working in an ethical manner and is supported by a long-term and capital in order to free up funds to finance investment opportunities.
demonstrable investment in promoting ethics, social responsibility and environmental sustainability, supported by a clear policy Group synergies and framework which sets consistent and measurable targets In ever increasingly competitive and cost-sensitive consumer and standards for all of our operating companies.
markets it is imperative that we are able to drive ef ciency and promote innovation through the effective leveraging of our Group We also engage with key Non-Governmental Organisations and structure and by taking advantage of the potential economies industry forums e. g. Forum for the Future, FTSE4Good, Business of scale created by the breadth and range of our operations.
in the Community to ensure that we are at the forefront of the environmental debate and assume a leadership position amongst This year has seen the continued development of the bene ts our peers.
For more details see pages 24 and 25. derived from Group Commercial, particularly with regards to an increased emphasis on both direct sourcing and collaborative Regulatory product initiatives, particularly between our two biggest The geographic and cultural diversity of the markets in which businesses, B&Q UK and Castorama France.
we operate exposes us to wide-ranging and complex legal and regulatory risks.
Individual operating companies, supported Similarly, the creation of King sher Information Technology Services where necessary by Group Governance & Corporate Services, is driving greater ef ciency and bene ts of scale for our information are responsible for ensuring that they have access to adequate technology architectures, hardware and capabilities.
and suf cient legal and governance resource.
The careful management of formats such as Brico Dpt, Screw x Operational management is also responsible for liaising with and Trade Depot, which complement our more developed either local legal resources or Group Governance & Corporate businesses, will also continue to drive enhanced overall value Services to resolve any potential issues arising from new legislation for the King sher Group as a whole.
or any suspected breaches of existing legislation and practices.
Where new operating companies are either acquired or created, formal Group-fide ned governance structures are established from the outset and, at a minimum provide guidance regarding local capital expenditure sign-off, Board, and Audit Committee processes and procedures, the implementation of which are subject to a review by the Director of Governance as well as Internal Audit.
