RISK MANAGEMENT The following are considered to be the Key risks are reviewed by key risks faced by the Group.
The risks listed the Board of Ladbrokes plc do not necessarily comprise all those associated with the Group, and are not on a regular basis and, where set out in any order of priority.
Additional risks appropriate, actions are taken not presently known to the Group, or that to mitigate the risks that the Group currently deem immaterial, may are identified.
also have an adverse effect on its business.
Details on the governance arrangements by which risks are monitored and managed are set out in the Corporate governance section on pages 31 to 34.
Risk type Description Risk management Market risk Economic, consumer and environmental factors Performance is continuously monitored and, where within key markets reducing customers appropriate, operational changes are instituted disposable income.
in response to the trading environment, including Changing consumer trends and opportunities for in relation to marketing, product development, betting and gaming.
yield management, cost control and investment.
Competition from existing competitors or new entrants.
Industry regulatory Regulatory, legislative and fiscal regimes for betting Legislative and regulatory developments in all key markets legislative risk and gaming in key markets around the world can are monitored closely, allowing the Group to quickly assess change, sometimes at short notice.
Such changes and adapt to changes in the environment and minimise could benefit or have an adverse effect on the risks to the business.
Groups results and additional costs might In the UK, the Group continues to work closely with the be incurred in order to comply with any new laws Gambling Commission and the relevant trade organisations or regulations.
in order to influence change as it occurs.
Costs in relation to the financing of the UK horseracing industry.
Bookmaking risk Revenue and operating results may vary significantly The Groups core expertise is risk management and from period to period.
through its history, it has developed the skills and systems Customer betting patterns, particularly with regard to be able to offer the breadth of betting opportunities to those who bet large stakes, the outcome of and to accept large bets across the range.
individual events or a prolonged period of good The Group has in place a highly experienced or bad results could have a material effect on results.
Technology risk A failure in the infrastructure and operation of core Advanced security systems are deployed to protect systems could have an adverse impact on operations all personal, financial and transactional data.
Sophisticated hardware and security mechanisms The integrity and availability of systems is vital are used, ensuring all sensitive and confidential data is to deliver a high quality service to customers.
To ensure fail-safe integrity of all data, a series of storage systems replicate all data processed by our online services.
Technology, infrastructure and communication systems, as well as application systems are regularly updated.
Rigorous testing regimes are utilised to ensure the continued high quality of our products and services is maintained.
Infrastructure suppliers, network and telecommunication suppliers and application service suppliers are long-term partners in providing an infrastructure which seeks to ensure the delivery of sophisticated, high performance transaction processing systems.
Financing risk Availability of debt financing and the costs The Group has a staggered debt maturity profile to of borrowing.
reduce re-financing risk and actively monitors the debt markets to be able to raise debt as appropriate.
