Governance ` Risk factors Risk factors Risk area Potential impact Mitigation actions Major contract related risks The complexity, variability and duration of solution The Group manages project and operational risk and service contracts all place risk management and through the application of process, underpinned by control at a premium.
If the Group fails to adequately a comprehensive, well proven quality management assess its risks, implement the required controls or system detailed in Cortex.
Communication, training monitor its position diligently, any resulting failure and adoption of Cortex by all staff are essential.
to deliver a contract could adversely affect its Feedback from audits, lessons learnt and the `` relationship with the client and Logicas reputation capture of revised metrics leads to updates on a and ultimately affect the results of the Group.
We are currently evaluating making Cortex development tools and methodologies more prescriptive and automating more.
A review of our Opportunity, Bid, Delivery and Risk Management processes is also in progress across the Group.
Business continuity risks associated Logica enjoys a leading position in many markets Actions are in hand to improve our focus on customer and geographies based on our domain expertise, satisfaction.
Our account and delivery management with operational failure, information repeatable and leading edge solutions and services, processes include both active and reactive systems and data security our reputation for technical excellence and reliable mechanisms.
Our goal is to ensure that management delivery, and a signi cant number of long standing reacts to issues before damage results.
However, a failure of our systems, or a failure a focus on standardisation of processes, systems `` of our operational and company management and tools across the Group aimed at improving processes, could lead to a loss of con dence in operational effectiveness and resilience through the Group which would undermine our market the One Logica programme.
Business continuity risks associated There is increasing concern generally about the threat Business continuity plans are maintained and are of a continental or global in uenza or related virus being tested for range of disaster scenarios in each with a pandemic, terrorist incident or pandemic, and the threat of a terrorist attack.
An geographic location in which the Company operates.
other external event, including incident affecting a key group of staff could impact Lessons are learnt from incidents across the Group exposure to geopolitical, economic the operation of the Company, and in turn con dence and improvements to these plans are in progress.
in Logicas ability to deliver.
As the Group operates The Group has also established an approach to the and social disruption, particularly in on an international basis, it is also exposed to the risk pandemic threat and monitors the World Health parts of Europe and in India`` of political, financial, economic and social unrest in Organisation Pandemic Alert status.
The Group the territories in which it operates.
These risks are adopts a balanced business and market portfolio generally outside the control of the Group but could to endeavour to protect itself against risks that are still result in the loss of services that would prejudice restricted to individual territories and market sectors.
our ability to respond to agreed service levels or ful l other obligations.
Achieving the objectives set for the The Programme for Growth is the basis on which Each work stream is sponsored by an Executive Logica expects to improve returns to shareholders.
Committee EC member who is personally Programme for Growth A programme of signi cant cost reductions is taking responsible to the Group Chief Executive for place, in order to fund a number of investments ensuring the objectives are achieved.
Seamus which will deliver revenue growth above the market.
Keating, CFO, oversees and manages the whole The key risks are delivering suf cient cost savings project.
A programme plan for each work stream in an uncertain economic climate, ensuring that the details key dates and milestones.
A project manager `` investment reaches the right programmes and can be leads each work stream with responsibility for reduced if conditions deteriorate, achieving the right resourcing and ensuring delivery on time and balance of management attention between business to budget.
Progress is reviewed monthly by the as usual and change and failing to hit externally Executive Committee.
Investment levels are reported milestones impacting our reputation with adjusted in the light of trading conditions and investors and customers.
Dependence on recruitment and The ability of the Group to meet the demands of The Group has well established recruitment the market and compete effectively with other IT processes and adopts a range of proven methods to retention of suitably quali ed personnel suppliers is, to a large extent, dependent on the maximise key staff retention.
The Group also provides skills, experience and performance of its personnel an infrastructure which supports the development and an appropriate balance of onshore, nearshore of its personnel through a range of structured career and offshore resources.
The loss of key personnel or development programmes focused on each key signi cant numbers of staff, or the failure to attract a ` competency, which include succession planning ` suf cient number of suitably quali ed and experienced as well as leadership, talent management and personnel in our key onshore, near shore and offshore personal development.
locations, could have serious consequences on the Groups ability to service client contracts.
66 Logica Annual report and accounts 2008 Governance ` Risk factors Risk area Potential impact Mitigation actions Achieving operational process The market is increasingly demanding the ability to The Group is investing in the development and deliver globally, exploiting the bene ts of our growing industrialisation of our processes known as Cortex, excellence in our global blended global presence.
The ITIL service management and our Management Information Systems.
We delivery model processes currently being adopted will strengthen are introducing more prescription, ef ciencies and the ability of the Group to deliver services and automation where possible.
Global Operations is application management on a global basis from any focused on improving the ef ciency of our IT and `` delivery centre.
The next challenge is to develop, offshore delivery processes and accelerating the supported by tools, the industrialisation of design development of our blended delivery model.
Our challenge is to achieve the changes necessary in a suf ciently timely manner, and within normal business constraints.
Regulatory compliance risks Given the enlarged group and increasing compliance, Our Risk and Compliance Management processes the Group needs to ensure that the various have been revised.
They now include pro-active compliance risks are effectively understood and monitoring of the complete breadth of compliance managed.
The main risk areas are 1 data and requirements across the individual geographies and information security, including Data Protection regulatory domains.
Formal risk assessments are `` regulations, 2 environmental standards and being used to identify speci c mitigating actions Corporate Responsibility, and 3 global staff mobility required.
Standard governance processes are being issues including adherence to immigration and tax implemented across the Group.
Major client dependencies and regional The Group has a number of signi cant global and As well as maintaining a geographical spread, the regional clients and operates in key markets in the Group has a well balanced spread of business market sector risks main European geographies.
A change in the strategy across market sectors and a wide range of clients.
or in the buying pattern of a key client, or changes in It manages more local regional shifts of focus and those local markets, may affect the Groups results.
resource in response to country market uctuations.
A more macro level change in any one market could We have identi ed 57 focus accounts from across `` also adversely affect the results of the Group, and the Group which are receiving particular attention this is addressed in the risk below.
to ensure stability, account growth and customer satisfaction are all achieved.
In 2008, no customer accounted for more than 2% of revenue.
Macro economic and industry level The Group is exposed to unrest in world market To meet market demands, the Groups Industry sectors, such as finance, oil and gas, due to a Boards are tasked with producing innovative trends and changes affecting the global range of factors largely outside of its control.
Many solution and service propositions, essential to both competitive landscape market sectors in which the Group operates have stimulate new client revenue opportunities and meet been susceptible to rapidly changing technologies, existing needs.
The Programme for Growth has also regulation, variations in market economic conditions identi ed a number of key focus areas where we see and uctuations in client demand.
The geographies both market demand and particular opportunity for we operate in have expanded in response to global Logica in the near future.
A proactive knowledge `` trends, including offshoring and the changing management programme across the Group, economic position of India and China.
The Group combined with increased collaborative competency needs to be able to continue to respond and team development, an Innovation team and the recent adapt whilst, in a timely and cost-ef cient manner, institution of Global Operations helps to ensure that continuing to deliver existing products and services.
technology advancement challenges are met.
Failure to do so will be a risk to the Groups success.
Loss of authorisation or accreditation A portion of the Groups revenue is dependent on Alliance management is tasked with developing continued authorisation and accreditation by certain engagement plans with key suppliers that link Logica from vendors or disruption of key vendors of IT software and hardware.
Without these to these organisations at management levels and supplier relationships service authorisations and accreditations, the Group across functions, maintaining a mutually positive and `` may be unable to offer certain products and services.
Failure to maintain authorisations and accreditations may also result in the Group failing to ful l contractual obligations.
