34 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Introduction Risk is an inevitable facet of business and Lonmin faces many risks to the delivery of its intended business outcomes.
Lonmin has a formal process that identifies and reviews risks and devises mitigation plans to address the known risks with progress against these action plans being reviewed regularly.
The Companys strategy takes into account these known risks, but risks will exist of which we are currently unaware.
As required by law, there is a discussion below of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group based on our current understanding but readers should be aware that this is not an exhaustive list and new risks may emerge or the severity or probability of the occurrence of known risks may change from time to time.
Strategic Risks The Board of the Company has adopted its present strategy as it believes it is the one most likely to add the greatest value for shareholders and other stakeholders.
The strategy is a product of our current understanding of the balance between supply and demand for Platinum Group Metals PGMs, the implications of this for the pricing of the individual metals in the future, and the risk of successfully executing the strategy.
It is possible that, with time, factors become known that indicate that the strategy currently being pursued is not the most efficacious and that alternative strategies may have been more appropriate.
Operational Risks Skills Shortage: There is a significant shortage of skills in the mining industry and generally in South Africa and hence there is severe competition to secure the best people.
There is a risk that the Group may not be able to attract, retain and develop the skilled people needed to execute the strategy.
The Group has put in place reward schemes to attract and retain people in key roles.
Access to funding: The Group requires access to funding as its existing operations need continued expenditure to maintain and expand above the current level of production.
Access to funding is also required to meet all of its liabilities in full, including any contingent liabilities.
Whilst the Group enjoys excellent relationships with its lenders and is currently able to support the level of debt it plans to carry, there is a risk that this could change in the future.
This is particularly relevant given current world economic conditions where access to liquidity may come at a premium or may not be possible at all.
Further information about how the Group manages liquidity and interest rate risk is included in the Financial Review.
Adequacy and quality of existing mineral reserves: In order to access the ore body, shafts need to be sunk and the underground infrastructure built ahead of time.
This work is generically referred to as development and requires considerable capital investment.
The quality of mineral reserves is based on geological estimates.
There is therefore risk associated with the variability in any ore body such as the Bushveld Igneous Complex and while we have significant experience of our ore body and have the benefit of a relatively constant ore body thickness and grade, there is no absolute assurance that we will not encounter variability in future.
These risks also apply when the Group acquires resources.
The Groups reserve estimates take into account actual exploration and production results, depletion, new information on geology and fluctuations in production, operating and other costs and economic parameters such as platinum price.
As a control, the Group undertakes an annual audit of mineral reserves by a competent person working to globally accepted standards, with independent confirmation occurring every year.
These factors could result in reductions in mineral reserve and resource estimates which could impact on our life of mine plans, the net present value of the Group and could negatively affect our reputation.
Rising costs: The threat of rising costs could undermine the competitiveness of mining and metals companies generally.
This risk impacts on the entire value chain from exploration through to metal refining and distribution of final product.
The increasing cost of energy, materials and labour could threaten new mines reaching planned production and existing production processes face increasing cost pressure.
The Groups labour costs are incurred primarily in South Africa where inflation rates, and hence wage settlements, are significantly higher than average.
As mentioned in the CEOs review, we are currently undertaking a major exercise to look at all our costs and review our competitiveness.
Access to secure energy & water: Lonmin is highly dependent on electricity and water to mine and extract PGMs.
Whilst load shedding by Eskom, our power supplier in SA, has now stopped and existing operations are being supplied by appropriate levels of power, there is a risk that load shedding could return in the future.
There is also a risk that new projects will not receive adequate power allocation from Eskom and or water supply is not readily available to service a project.
There is a risk therefore that projects may have to be delayed or cancelled altogether.
Whilst Eskom is addressing the power demand issues, it could be some time before clarity over future supply of power is obtained.
PGM Industry Risks Demand side risks: Demand for Platinum, Palladium and Rhodium is primarily driven by the autocatalysis sector, with the main factors being the emissions standards imposed by legislation, the global trend towards diesel engine vehicles which predominantly use Platinum as their catalyst and the global demand for motor vehicles which has been impacted by the recent financial crisis.
There is also some effect on demand from the engine size of the vehicles being manufactured and there will be changes in demand for each of the individual metals as the weightings used for catalysis alter with technological innovations.
The Platinum jewellery sector tends to be price-sensitive although, within this, the bridal jewellery market shows less sensitivity to price.
In recent years, the price-led reduction in demand for Platinum jewellery has led to the emergence of a market for Palladium jewellery, modestly increasing demand for that metal.
The remainder of the demand for PGMs comes from a variety of industrial applications, many of which are relatively new and for which the demand sensitivity to price through the full commodity cycle has yet to be fully experienced and understood.
Although the overall demand for PGMs generally is forecast to remain strong, there is a risk as autocat manufacturers thrift and substitute.
There is also a risk of a technological breakthrough enabling the wholesale replacement of PGMs as the primary material for autocatalysis.
Within the jewellery sector, there is the risk of a reduction in demand for PGMs in general, and Platinum in particular, due to increased substitution by other precious metals.
We monitor exposure to market segments and periodically review this.
Overview Review of Operations Financial Review Sustainable Development Review Governance Accounts Operating Statistics 2008 Annual Report and Accounts Lonmin Plc Principal Risks and Uncertainties 35 PGM Industry Risks continued Supply side risk: An oversupply of PGMs would have the same economic impact on commodity pricing as a reduction in the level of market demand.
The vast majority of the worlds PGM resources are in South Africa which currently hosts over 75% of total worldwide platinum production although there are significant commercial PGM ore bodies in Zimbabwe, Russia, Canada and the USA.
At the macro-economic level, the relative levels of country risk associated with each jurisdiction may have an impact on the quantities of PGMs produced in each year, with the risk that there may be fluctuations in the level of supply caused by local economic and regulatory conditions.
The decisions made by each of the major PGM producers will also have an effect on the overall level of market supply and, although each of the industry majors has an aggressive growth profile and a number of smaller competitors have ambitious plans, there must be significant uncertainty as to whether or not all of the projects currently planned by the PGM industry will ultimately be developed to full production.
There remains a degree of risk that a major new ore body will be discovered that would fundamentally alter the balance between supply and demand and, therefore, the long-term price of PGMs in general and platinum in particular.
Commodity price risk: the market price for PGMs can fluctuate widely, both from the impact of the normal supply and demand factors but also as a consequence of speculation in the individual metals.
There is a risk that the price of any given metal may fall and that speculation may accentuate this trend.
The price of PGMs may also be affected by various other uncertain market factors such as financial market expectations regarding interest and inflation rates and movements in the relative worth of currencies.
Further information about how the Group manages commodity price risk is included in the Financial Review.
Mining Sector Risks Industry consolidation: The key drivers for mergers and acquisitions in the sector have been high commodity prices, resource security, delays in completing new projects and risk diversification.
Merger and acquisition transactions originating from entities in Brazil, Russia, India and China the BRIC countries have increased dramatically driven by lack of sufficient natural resources to maintain current growth rates and entities seeking greater access to raw materials outside of these countries.
There is increasing pressure on companies including Lonmin to either transact or grow.
Increased Regulation: Mining companies globally are subject to a variety of local industry-specific laws and regulations.
As these laws and regulations increase in complexity and reporting requirements become more burdensome, the cost to the Group increases along with the risk of unintentional non-compliance.
This may lead to regulatory fines litigation, loss of operating licence and or loss of reputation.
Risks of disruption to production: Mining is susceptible to numerous events that may have an adverse impact on the performance of the Group, either by causing severe damage to capital assets, or by necessitating the suspension or even termination of operations.
These events include, but are not limited to, the availability of critical inputs including power and water, environmental hazards, industrial accidents, underground fires, labour disputes, encountering unexpected geological formations, unanticipated ground and water conditions, accidents in underground operations, failure of mining pit slopes and tailings dam walls, legal and regulatory restrictions and changes to such restrictions, seismic activity: and other natural phenomena, such as floods or inclement weather conditions.
Employee-related risks: Mining operations in South Africa are highly unionised and, in Lonmins case, a single union represents the vast majority of the Groups workers.
There is, therefore, a risk that strikes or other types of conflict with unions or employees may occur which, if material, could have an adverse effect on the Groups performance and its financial condition.
HIV AIDS remains the major healthcare challenge faced by the Groups operations, with a 2003 epidemiological survey one of the largest ever undertaken in South Africa suggesting that 23% of our employees are HIV positive.
In response, the Group has initiated a programme of anti-retroviral drugs for those whom it might benefit, backed up by appropriate encouragement to undertake an HIV test through a voluntary counselling and testing programme.
While the results of this have been very encouraging, with the vast majority of those who may benefit now on ART and generally back at work, HIV AIDS will pose an ongoing and conceivably increasing risk for the foreseeable future.
The other principal challenges facing the Group are tuberculosis and other occupational lung diseases, particularly among those who have previously worked in South Africas gold mines, whilst there always remains a risk that another health pandemic could affect our workforce.
Safety and Sustainability: Lonmin is committed to Zero Harm to our employees, to the environment and to the communities in which we operate.
This is one of Lonmins key values in which we invest significant time, effort and money.
However, whatever effort we put into these areas, there is a risk of injury, environmental discharge or negative impact on the community arising from our operations.
Any breach of regulations or non-compliance with Lonmins own best practice standards in health & safety, environmental performance & community relations may damage our reputation and, as a result, our licence to operate.
Lonmin actively manages these risks by monitoring trends and engaging others in our goals but there is a risk that isolated incidents could lead to adverse consequences including production disruption and reputational damage.
Land claims: Due to historical factors, the ownership of land in South Africa can be subject to challenge from those alleging wrongful dispossession.
In common with the rest of the industry, the Group faces a number of such claims.
Successful land claims on property falling within the Groups mining licence areas could increase the Groups cost base as compensation would be payable to land owners for any loss or damage suffered by them as a result of prospecting or mining operations conducted by the Group on their property.
com 36 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Macro-economic factors Risks associated with the countries in which we operate: The Group operates in six countries with some activities being conducted through joint venture arrangements.
In each jurisdiction, the legal and regulatory regimes will continue to evolve in response to external events and the Group must address the obligations and responsibilities that this creates.
While the Group does and would lobby for change where appropriate, any such changes are ultimately driven by the governments of those countries and are outside the Groups control.
There is, therefore, a risk that change may be introduced which materially disadvantages the Group and with which it must comply.
In South Africa the Government has been drafting and debating a Royalty Bill which will come into effect on 1 May 2009.
More detail on how this Royalty will impact Lonmin is included in the Financial Review under Fiscal Risk.
Foreign exchange risk: The Group faces the risk of fluctuations in profitability caused by movements in foreign exchange rates and is particularly sensitive to movements in US Dollar South African Rand currency pair.
Most of the Groups operations are in South Africa and so incur costs in Rand while the revenue stream is almost wholly denominated in US Dollars.
Further information about how the Group manages foreign exchange risk is included in the Financial Review.
World economic conditions: Demand for the Groups products is a factor of world economic conditions.
For example, during a consumer boom, more automobiles will be sold, creating greater demand for PGMs.
However, during a world economic slowdown or recession, it is possible that demand for all products, including those containing, or made in processes requiring the use of, PGMs would reduce and commodity prices generally would fall.
As a consequence, the Groups prosperity is intricately linked to general economic conditions and there is a risk of material deterioration in the Groups performance and finances during such macro-economic events.
