P R I N C I PA L R I S K S A N D U N C E R TA I N T I E S MANAGING RISKS Successful business is not about taking no risk, but rather understanding which are necessary to achieve our objectives and mitigate those while capitalsing on opportunities.
Anglo Platinum is exposed to a variety of risks and uncertainties that may have a financial or reputational impact on the Group and which may also impact the achievement of social, economic and environmental objectives.
These risks include strategic, commercial, operational, compliance and financial risks.
Marcus Maepa is a safety officer at Union Mine.
He has been at the mine for 23 years and has worked his way through the ranks into his current position as safety officer.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 97 P R I N C I PA L R I S K S A N D U N C E R TA I N T I E S Anglo Platinum is exposed to a variety of risks LIQUIDITY The failure to meet safety objectives impacts on and uncertainties that may have a financial or The Group is exposed to liquidity risk, arising from the well-being of our employees, employee reputational impact on the Group and which the need to finance its ongoing operations and morale, on the achievement of production may also impact the achievement of social, growth.
If the Group is unable to obtain sufficient targets and the reputation of the Group.
These credit owing to capital market conditions, it may These impacts have consequences for many of risks include strategic, commercial, operational, not be able to raise sufficient funds to develop our stakeholders, including investors, the compliance and financial risks.
Understanding new projects, fund acquisitions or meet its government and trade unions.
Furthermore, it risk and developing appropriate responses to ongoing financing needs.
As a consequence, the may impact on Anglo Platinums ability to them is crucial to Anglo Platinums success.
The ability to operate and grow may be adversely attract and retain skilled staff in a globally principal risks and uncertainties facing the affected.
Group have been categorised into headline risk areas.
The Groups approach to risk management The Group is also exposed to counterparty Employee risk mitigation strategies include the is set out in the Sustainable Development risk from customers, suppliers and business implementation of the safety standards, training Report on pages 23 to 27. partners, should they become unable to meet and management systems, participation in the their obligations to Anglo Platinum it could Anglo American plc peer-review programme, The key risks that have been identified as facing result in financial losses.
compliance with the fatal risk standards and the Anglo Platinum are presented below, including implementation of safety risk management the associated risk mitigation strategies.
The Groups treasury function, which is processes including the rollout of an extensive outsourced to Anglo American, is responsible training programme across the Group.
for managing the Groups funding requirements COMMODITY PRICES and liquidity risk in conjunction with the Anglo Platinum sets a very high priority on The global financial crisis, with indications of a Groups management.
The treasury department safety, health and the environment.
It invests recession in the global economy, has resulted in also has a role to play in managing counterparty considerable resources in seeking to improve a significant reduction in the price of platinum risk, particularly with banks in which Anglo the safety performance of the Groups group metals PGMs and other commodity Platinum places cash deposits.
operations, and in research and development prices, resulting in adverse movements in to minimise its impact on the environment and operating results, asset values, revenues and improve its energy efficiency.
The recovery of prices is largely EMPLOYEE SAFETY AND constantly reviewing practices in order to linked to the recovery of the global economy, HEALTH improve safety performance, and works closely but at present there is little understanding of Mining is a hazardous industry.
Failure to adopt with unions and governments in striving to how long current, weak conditions will last.
An high levels of safety management can result in a produce a safer mining industry.
extended recession in key markets and reduced number of negative outcomes, such as harm growth in China may not support a recovery of to our employees and contractors.
In addition Anglo Platinum recognises that the HIV AIDS PGM prices.
If the global economic environment to this, failure to provide a safe working pandemic is a significant threat to the Groups remains weak for the medium to long term, the environment may result in government economic growth and development.
Anglo Groups ability to deliver growth in future years authorities closing mines on a temporary or Platinum provides antiretroviral therapy to may be adversely affected.
permanent basis or refusing mining-right employees with HIV AIDS and also undertakes applications.
The Groups Enhanced Safety education and awareness programmes to help Response strategies include a review of the Improvement Plan ESIP and other safety protect employees and their families against Groups 2009 operational and capital initiatives are ongoing and have yielded initial becoming infected or spreading infection.
expenditure plans given the current market results.
Safety will remain a key risk until all the conditions, and active management of liquidity.
underlying issues have been addressed and will The risk of cholera outbreaks on a regional require continued management focus, given the basis, especially in areas that are close to Marginal mines will be subject to continual 17 fatalities in 2008. infected regions in neighbouring countries, is reviews, and appropriate action will be taken to being monitored and countered by awareness mitigate costs and increase cash generation.
campaigns and the monitoring and treatment of water resources.
ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 98 Metal exposure and other occupational health Lower-than-planned production may also infrastructure may delay projects and result in risks are actively monitored and managed impact the Groups ability to deliver metals in unexpected costs.
Specific electricity-related risk through the Groups structures.
This risk has events include load shedding, localised outages, both financial and reputational consequences.
imposed longer-term reduced consumption, In order to mitigate this risk, the Group has new project supply not being approved and a COMMUNITY RELATIONS implemented monthly production reviews by significant increase in electricity costs.
The nature of Anglo Platinums mining the Operations Committee to focus on safety, operations is such that disputes in relation to operational excellence, people and the future.
The electricity crisis is mitigated by high level community matters may arise from time to time.
discussions with Eskom: a continuous information These disputes are not always predictable and Production results are monitored daily and flow in terms of power and distribution may cause disruption to projects or operations.
monthly, action plans are formulated and requirements: and monitoring of Eskoms The Groups operations can have an impact on production plans revised accordingly.
progress with project delivery, including the local communities including, from time to time, commissioning of an external study on power the need for communities to relocate.
All Anglo Platinum operations manage relationships with local communities, COST ESCALATIONS have completed risk assessments and developed the government and non-governmental Cost pressures on operational and capital business continuity management plans in organisations could result in reputational risk expenditure have been further exacerbated by response to the possibility of a sustained power and also in our inability to obtain mining increasing steel, oil, labour, electricity and other outage.
Preparation measures are in the process property rights, which would limit our growth key inputs costs.
Capital cost escalations have a of being implemented, including the acquisition opportunities.
significant impact on marginal projects in of additional emergency-power generators and particular and in turn affect the project pipeline.
the establishment of a Crisis Command Centre to The Group has developed and continues to The slowdown in the global economy should manage a national electricity or other significant refine a process to manage relationships with ease some of the inflationary pressures on crisis.
communities effectively and actively seeks certain key commodities going forward.
engagement with all those communities However, the lag between PGM price reductions affected by the Groups operations.
and the rate at which the cost of input SKILLS SHORTAGES commodities are expected to decrease may There has been an industry-wide shortage of Community relations, especially arising from the place further strain on the Group.
experienced professional and technical skills Eastern Limb expansion programme, continue across the board, both internally and in terms of to impact capital projects and Anglo Platinums Initiatives to leverage the Groups spend via contractors.
This impacts the quality and reputation.
As part of the relocation review the Supply Chain project are in progress.
Other efficiency of work performed, through either process, Anglo Platinum continually reviews the mitigation strategies include an increased focus lack of experience or capacity constraints, process followed in community resettlement on core mining efficiency, the enhancement of which in turn influence investment confidence.
and includes the lessons learnt in refining the long-term planning and budgeting processes, The retention of artisans and other technical way it deals with communities.
the improvement of the cost-control skills is critical going into the future.
Lack of environment, the introduction of scorecards mine technical services and other specialised and raising the level of operational review and skills are viewed as a high risk to long-term OPERATIONAL analysis.
plans, affecting the Companys ability to meet PERFORMANCE its growth requirements and leading to the Failure to meet production targets can result in understaffing of critical technical functions and increased unit costs that are pronounced at INFRASTRUCTURE the inability to perform planned maintenance operations with higher levels of fixed costs.
Unit The acute shortage of and dependency on schedules.
The current economic slowdown is costs may exceed targeted unit costs, adversely infrastructure power, water, housing, likely to mitigate the risk somewhat.
affecting performance and the results of transportation places sustained production, operations.
safety and growth at risk.
The unavailability of ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 99 P R I N C I PA L R I S K S A N D U N C E R TA I N T I E S Anglo Platinum has intensified its recruitment This may lead to higher costs and lower the results of those operations.
The Group has processes, implemented retention strategies production, and have a negative effect on no control over changes in local market interest through its employee share option plan, operational results or on the reputation of rates or over political acts or omissions that may introduced market allowances for artisans and Anglo Platinum.
deprive it of the economic benefits of engineers, increased learnerships for artisans and ownership of its assets.
In response to potential is building a mine training centre at Twickenham The Group seeks to mitigate this risk by developments such as these, the Group actively Mine.
It has formed alliance partnerships with undertaking a thorough evaluation process monitors regulatory and political developments.
Engineering, Procurement and Construction before committing to any joint venture and by Management EPCM contractors, implemented implementing adequate governance processes Anglo Platinum has a project at Unki Mine in performance management and communication in such joint ventures.
The political instability in Zimbabwe policies, introduced a comprehensive talentat present is of concern to Anglo Platinum, and management programme supported by Anglo Platinum manages its relationships with may have operational and longer-term coordinated systems, and is offering ongoing its partners on a basis of mutual respect and consequences for the Groups future plans in skills training and graduate programmes.
in terms of seeking mutual benefit.
appropriate management structures in place to ensure that the needs of these arrangements The Companys relationship with the South PROJECT EXECUTION are met.
African Government is actively managed via The inability to manage and deliver a large Anglo Platinums Executive Committee and capital project pipeline will impact Anglo The current global financial crisis, together with various Anglo American relationships.
Platinums reputation and strategic intentions, the material decline in platinum group metal and its capacity to meet its growth objectives prices, is impacting the completion of the and targeted platinum ounces.
Anglo Platinum is in the ACCESS TO MINERAL process of reviewing this transaction.
Together RESOURCES AND RESERVES The Company is currently reviewing its project with Anooraq, it remains committed to Anglo Platinum has received letters of grant for portfolio and resetting its priorities as a result of concluding the transaction during the first half new order mining rights for Rustenburg, the change in global outlook, the increased cost of 2009.
Amandelbult, Union, Lebowa, Mogalakwena, and scarcity of capital, resources availability, Twickenham, Der Brochen and BRPM mining power supply constraints and the strategic fit areas.
Where required, revised social and labour going forward.
However, if the global economic POLITICAL INSTABILITY plans are being submitted.
The application for environment remains weak for the medium to Anglo Platinum may be affected by political or conversion of mineral rights associated with long term, the Groups ability to deliver growth in regulatory developments in the countries and the Modikwa Joint Venture is being prepared as future years may be adversely affected.
jurisdictions in which it operates, including a joint submission from both partners.
changes to fiscal or other regulatory regimes.
These may result in restrictions on the export of Whereas Anglo Platinums key mining rights JOINT VENTURES currency, the expropriation of assets, the have largely been received, consequential and Some of the Groups operations and associates imposition of royalties and requirements for preservation risks require attention.
The Group are managed, and in some instances controlled, local ownership or beneficiation.
Political is implementing and monitoring the mining by joint-venture partners and associates or instability may also result in civil unrest, and in charter requirements and continues with other companies.
The management of these the nullification of existing agreements or negotiations around some of its prospecting assets need not comply with Anglo Platinums mining leases and permits.
Any of these threats rights in order to obtain security of tenure.
safety, health, environmental or other standards.
may adversely affect the Groups operations or ANGLO PLATINUM LIMITED 2 0 0 8 100
