Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation UXVUXGZK MU KXTGTIK XKVUXZ OXKIZUXY XKVUXZ IUTZOT[KJ Shareholders We actively seek the views of our major shareholders, not only How do we engage with our shareholders?
in respect of our financial results and strategic progress, but We strongly believe in regular engagement with our shareholders also in a consultative manner.
Accordingly, we consulted with and schedule a quarterly pattern of presentations and our major shareholders on several occasions during the year conference calls with our investors.
We also engage with them on specic matters arising as a result of the disposal of on an ad hoc basis in order to respond to any specic questions Allscripts and the subsequent return of capital.
We also that they may have at any time between scheduled events.
consulted with major shareholders during the year on directors remuneration.
In addition, in reporting to shareholders on the corporate transactions that we undertook during the year, we provided We engage with our other shareholders through the AGM, a high degree of transparency on the financial details of the other general meetings and our website www.
transactions, on the underlying strategic rationales and on the impact of these transactions upon the financial targets and Who are our substantial shareholders?
financial statements of the Group.
During all stages of the The voting interests in the ordinary share capital of the transactions we clearly stated our expectations for progress Company of our substantial shareholders as have been towards their completion.
notied to the Company as at 28 July 2011 are shown below Holder % issued share capital No.
of ordinary shares Nature of holding ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L. P. 20.21 77,500,319 Total VA Partners I, LLC, ValueAct Capital Management, L. P. ValueAct Capital Management, LLC, ValueAct Holdings, L. P. 20.21 77,500,319 Indirect 1 ValueAct Holdings, L. P. and ValueAct Holdings GP, LLC Schroders plc 11.94 51,417,864 Direct 45,783,197 Indirect Crdit Agricole Cheureux International Limited 5.19 17,603,724 Direct FMR LLC and its Group 5.14 25,890,800 Indirect Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd 5.06 27,677,470 Total Comprising: Thereadneedle Asset Management Ltd 0.14 745,317 Direct 4.81 26,298,748 Indirect 0.12 633,405 CFDs Standard Life Investment Ltd 4.99 19,140,585 Total Comprising: Vidacos Nominees Limited 2.81 10,784,422 Direct 2.18 8,356,163 Indirect Lloyds TSB Group plc on behalf of various nominees 3.02 16,492,181 Indirect 1 This notication has been reported on an aggregated basis and includes the 20.21 % holding of ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L. P. shown above.
About the 2011 Annual General Meeting changes on our share capital is given in Note 31 on page 113 This year the AGM will be held on 28 September 2011 at The of the financial statements.
Shares held in treasury were Lincoln Centre, Lincoln Inn Fields, London at midday.
The consolidated in the same way as all other shares.
During the Notice of AGM accompanies this annual report and explains year, 6,415,383 shares were transferred out of treasury to meet the business to be considered at the meeting.
Both this annual the Companys obligations under its employee share plans.
report and the Notice of AGM are available on our website www.
The rights and obligations of our shareholders are contained in our articles.
Shareholders are entitled to receive the annual Share capital report, to attend and speak at general meetings, to appoint 1 Our share capital comprises ordinary shares of 1 7 pence each proxies and exercise voting rights.
No shares carry any special which are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The issued share capital of the Company, together with details In accordance with the authority granted at a general meeting of the movements in the Companys issued share capital during held on 11 February 2011, the Company may make market the year, are shown in the notes to the financial statements.
purchases of up to 33,563,163 of its own shares representing At close of business on 28 July 2011, the Company held approximately 10% of its issued share capital.
This authority 362,505,513 ordinary shares in issue of which 23,225,756 expires at the conclusion of the 2011 AGM and remained in were held in treasury.
We completed a tender offer on 16 December 2010 under Other disclosures that we are required to make which we bought back and cancelled 169,354,057 ordinary Principal activities and business review shares of one pence each.
On 14 February 2011 we completed Our principal activities are the development, management 1 a share capital consolidation of 7 new ordinary shares of 1 7 and licensing of a variety of software products and solutions pence in the Company for every 8 ordinary shares held on to customers in the financial services industry.
Further details on the impact of these with other world class companies to sell and distribute Misys products and solutions.
60 Annual Report 2011 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation The Companies Act 2006 requires us to present a fair review ofce or employment due to a takeover.
Further information of the business performance and development of the Group.
A can be found in the remuneration report.
review of the activities of the Group, its financial performance and significant contracts likely future business developments is provided in the Chairmans ValueAct Capital Master Fund L. P. ValueAct Capital has a statement, the Chief Executives review, the business review, the holding of approximately 20.21% in the Company on an financial review on pages 18 to 47, all of which are incorporated aggregated basis.
Jeff Ubben who is a non-executive Director of into this report by reference.
A description of the principal risks the Company, is Chief Executive officer, Chief Investment officer and uncertainties is included in this report.
and a principal investor in ValueAct Captial and accordingly Going concern has an interest in all contracts between the Company and In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial undertakings which are part of the ValueAct Group.
statements, the Directors have considered the business activities as set out on pages 26 to 35 as well as the Groups During the year and up to the date of this report, no other Director principle risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 56 to 59. has had any interest in any material contract with the Company.
After making due enquiries and embracing the normal forecasting process, the Directors consider that the Group Creditor payment policy and the Company have adequate resources and committed It is our policy to agree terms and conditions with our suppliers borrowing facilities to continue in operation for the foreseeable in advance of conducting business.
We seek to abide by the future and accordingly have continued to adopt the going payment terms that we agree with our suppliers whenever we concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
are happy that the contractual obligations have been met.
Events after the balance sheet date The trade creditors of the Group at 31 May 2011 represent 34 On 21 June 2011 the Board announced that it had received a days 2010: 31 days and of the Company represent nil days preliminary approval that may or may not lead to an offer being 2010: nil days as a proportion of the total amount invoiced made for the Company by suppliers during the year.
The Company had delegated its trade to other Group subsidiaries.
On 23 June 2011 Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. confirmed that it had made a preliminary approach regarding Articles a possible cash offer for Misys plc.
The articles of the Company may be amended by a special resolution of shareholders passed at a general meeting of Financial instruments the Company.
Information on financial instruments is disclosed in the notes to the financial statements.
Indemnities and insurance We provide our Directors and ofcers with insurance cover Dividends to cover their costs in defending themselves in civil legal The Board continues to believe that shareholder interests proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect are being best served by re-investing cash ow into the of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any development and future growth of each of the Groups proceedings.
We have also granted qualifying third party businesses.
The Directors do not therefore propose to indemnities for the purposes of s. 234 of the Companies Act recommend payment of a final dividend for the year 2010: nil.
2006 to our Directors in their capacity as Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Neither the insurance nor People the indemnity provide cover where the Director has acted We are dependent on the skills and commitment of all our fraudulently or deceitfully.
employees in order to achieve our organisational goals.
Further information on our approach to employee engagement, equal Provision of information to the auditors opportunities and training and development can be found in Each Director that holds ofce as at the date of this report the People section of the business review on pages 36 and 37. confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and Research and development that he has taken all steps which he ought to have taken as a In the markets in which we operate, effective research and Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information development is vital to maintaining competitive advantage and and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
securing future business and income streams.
Our approach to research and development is detailed throughout the This annual report has been prepared for, and only for, the business review.
members of the Company and no other persons.
By their nature, the statements concerning the risks and uncertainties significant agreements and change of control facing the Group in this annual report are affected by future There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or events and circumstances which can cause results and terminate upon a change of control of the Company following developments to differ materially from those anticipated and a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts, bank loan which are beyond our control.
The forward-looking statements agreements, property lease arrangements and employee reect knowledge and information available at the date of share plans.
With the exception of the bank loan agreements preparation and we have no obligation to update these noted above, there is no individual contractual arrangement forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this annual report that is considered to be essential to the continuing operation should be construed as a profit forecast.
Tom Kilroy In addition, there exist agreements between the Company, Company Secretary its Chief Executive, its Chief Financial officer and certain other 28 July 2011 senior employees which provide for compensation of loss of Annual Report 2011 61 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation OXKIZUXY XKS[TKXGZOUT XKVUXZ Misys has experienced significant change in the past year with the disposal of Allscripts and the subsequent return of capital, followed soon thereafter by the acquisition of Sophis in early 2011.
Individually, these transactions were so significant in relation to Misys capital base that in each case the Committee was required to review very carefully their implications for share based rewards.
In doing so the Committee had to ensure that achievements were fairly rewarded and that for the future, incentive arrangements were adjusted so as to be no more or less stretching than before.
The Committee reviewed our reward strategy to ensure that it reects our growing needs to attract and retain talent in Asia and other emerging markets and that it remained aligned to a key principle: that management should be focused on delivering value to our shareholders.
John King Throughout the year we actively consulted with and secured the support of our largest shareholders: most specically on recalibrating our EPS based incentives, re-setting dilution limits and establishing a new bespoke incentive for our CEO.
Shareholders overwhelmingly approved specic proposals put to them at the general meeting held in August 2010 to approve the Allscripts sale and capital return.
Accordingly, for the years impacted by the changes to the capital structure of the Company, the base EPS used to calculate performance measures in the Omnibus Plan was increased.
This ensured that our Omnibus Plan EPS performance measures continued to be stretching and fullled a commitment made to shareholders when the Allscripts transaction was approved.
Shareholders also approved new dilution targets under our share plans to take account of the reduction in our issued share capital through the Tender Offer and Share Capital Consolidation.
If we had taken no action in this regard we would have immediately breached our existing limits and severely impacted our ability to attract and retain talent within the organisation.
The Board believes that Mike Lawrie continues to provide exceptional leadership to the Company.
Therefore, in recognition of the importance of the CEO to ensuring a continued focus on performance, we approved the CEO Incentive Plan, a bespoke arrangement that is designed to secure the tenure of the CEO beyond the expiry of the Transformation Incentive Plan on 1 November 2011.
Finally we looked at ways to further improve the effectiveness of the Committee.
We reviewed and enhanced our rolling agenda to better align it to the business and to provide the Committee with a clear structure to its work during the year.
I hope that you will agree with our approach to the various challenges that have faced us during the year and I am confident that we have taken the right steps to secure and reward the management team in a way that will allow the business to move to the next stage of its journey.
The remuneration report has been prepared by the remuneration committee and approved by the Board for submission to shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
John King Chairman, remuneration committee 28 July 2011 62 Annual Report 2011 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation Who is on our Committee?
The Committee approves the design and targets for all incentive schemes, including annual bonus plans and share Committee Members incentive plans that include the executive Directors and the John King Chairman Independent Director EVPs.
The totality of all awards and option grants made under Independent on each of the Companys share incentive plans is considered James Crosby appointment to the Board and approved by the Committee having due regard for the John Ormerod Independent Director Companys dilution limits.
Vesting under many of the awards made is subject to achievement against performance targets Timothy Tuff appointed to the which are monitored by the Committee.
Committee on 23 March Independent Director Philip Rowley Independent Director The Committee keeps under review the appropriateness of the remuneration strategy as aligned to business strategy and Deloitte LLP were retained to provide independent advice to against business performance with respect to its peers in order the Committee.
Deloitte LLP and Hewitt New Bridge Street Ltd to ensure that the overall objective of attracting leading talent also advised the Committee on the performance monitoring of is achieved.
In addition, Pinsent Masons LLP provided legal advice to both the Company and the Committee We have prepared this report in accordance with the on share plans, other general employment matters and certain Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Schedule 8 of the commercial matters.
Towers Watson advises the Company on Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Group Accounts its UK pension arrangements.
and Reports Regulations 2008 and the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
We will be asking you to approve an advisory The Committee also received support from an independent resolution on the report at the 2011 AGM, which we hope you consultant, Paul Williams, on various matters including a review will support.
of the Companys approach to pay and benets.
The auditors are required to report on the Directors The Committee also consults with the EVP of HR, the EVP emoluments table and the tables of share options and awards General Counsel and Company Secretary, the CEO and along with all associated footnotes.
Accordingly, these tables the CFO on a regular basis.
No member of the Committee, and footnotes form the audited section of this report.
nor any party from whom advice was sought, participated in discussions relating to their own remuneration.
How does the Committee ensure it delivers on its responsibilities?
The Committee met 11 times during 2010 11 with Committee The Committee reviewed and amended the annual rolling members attending 100% of meetings.
Full details of the calendar of business in order to improve the effectiveness of attendance at meetings is shown in the corporate governance the Committee.
It now ows from a review of remuneration report on page 52. strategy at the start of the year, through consideration of specic policy matters leading nally to approvals.
It is What responsibilities does the Committee have?
designed to deliver a complete and holistic review by the The Committee is responsible for agreeing the framework Committee on all aspects of remuneration.
In addition, at each and broad remuneration strategy and policy for the executive meeting the Committee receives any relevant industry updates Directors and other senior executives, both of which are and reviews the share dilution limit schedule to ensure it designed to support the business growth agenda and attract, remains fully informed on all matters that may impact its retain and motivate talented leaders.
In doing so we determine decision making.
the individual remuneration and benets packages for the executive Directors and EVPs and other direct reports to the The annual rolling calendar is set out below: CEO, ensuring that they are structured to reward performance and not failure.
Date Purpose Matters considered The Committee also reviews and determines the fees of the Trends in reward and governance Chairman of the Board, although the Chairman is not present January Strategic outlook Reward issues during any discussion in relation to his remuneration.
Committee Past performance March effectiveness Future objectives goals Review of reward principles April Policy setting Benchmarking review Salary reviews Bonus reviews Share awards July Approval Directors remuneration report Investor engagement September AGM CEO scorecard Annual Report 2011 63 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation OXKIZUXY XKS[TKXGZOUT XKVUXZ IUTZOT[KJ What has the Committee done during the year?
The matters considered by the Committee in 2010 11 in addition to those as set out in the annual rolling calendar are shown in the chart below: We reviewed the ongoing mechanism in place for the CEO having due regard to the Boards view that his continued service of the Company is vital to achieving its objectives.
The CEO Incentive Plan is a one-off 3 year incentive plan subject to stretching performance measures that align his interests to those of shareholders.
We engaged with our shareholders over the impact on Ensured retention of key staff by the Companys share plans rewarding them for delivering value resulting from the disposal of to our shareholders under the Allscripts, the return of capital and return of capital following the the acquisition of Sophis.
Secured CEO the reduction of our issued share retention capital, we renewed our Dilution Made certain other adjustments Limits under our plans to 10% in to the baseline EPS to reect the 10 years and introduced a new changed capital structure of the 2% per annum ow rate.
The EPS Company including the impact of performance measure was the convertible on EPS.
re-based to remove the volatility caused following the disposal of Engaged with Reviewed performance Allscripts and the acquisition of shareholders measures following the Sophis.
This ensured that disposal of Allscripts management was rewarded for performance but that the targets in future years remained stretching.
Completed Benchmarked a full review of the against our peers Committees remit and effectiveness Engaged Boardroom Review to Completed a benchmarking review complete an external effectiveness against our peers for executive review of the Committee.
Updated its annual rolling calendar.
Improved the interface with management and information provided to the Committee.
General reward principles For executive Directors s to support the development of Misys as a global employer s a significant proportion of total compensation is performanceof choice related s that total remuneration opportunity is targeted at markets performance-linked incentive awards are designed to competitive levels encourage executive Directors to create long-term shareholder value and align their personal interests with those of the Company s reward is based on performance s business performance measures are based on targets that are relevant to the business and aligned with shareholders interests s employees have the opportunity to participate in ownership s executive Directors are expected to build and maintain a of Misys shares meaningful shareholding in the Company to provide further alignment of their interests with those of shareholders s employees are eligible to participate in employee benets s business performance measures are established and executive which are a portion of total reward Directors are paid for performance Our remuneration philosophy The remuneration philosophy is designed to align with the business and its growth strategy.
It recognises that in order to deliver on the growth strategy the Company needs to be able to attract, and keep, the best available global talent in the markets within which it operates.
This means offering competitive remuneration that is delivered through performance-driven compensation.
Exceptional remuneration will only be awarded for exceptional performance.
64 Annual Report 2011 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation In applying its remuneration principles during the year, the Committee considered data on recent changes in pay and conditions for other senior executives throughout the Group.
The Companys policy is to pay an appropriate market rate for each employees function and location.
EVPs are also expected to build and maintain a meaningful shareholding in the Company over time.
The Committee was satisfied that Directors pay and conditions have, on average, not improved more than those of other employees in the financial year.
How is our remuneration policy structured?
The table below summarises the Companys policies in respect of each of the key elements of executive Directors and EVPs remuneration.
Element Policy Details Base salary s Provides the xed element of the s Reviewed annually and normally set for the remuneration package 12 months commencing 1 August Annual bonus s Incentivises the achievement of specic s Targets based on Group operating profit and goals in the short term specic operational and individual objectives s Element of deferral aids retention and s 50% of bonus is normally deferred into provides alignment with shareholders shares Medium and long-term incentives s Incentivises executives to achieve medium s The Misys Omnibus Plan is designed to and long-term financial performance deliver a combination of matching shares, improvement performance shares and share options s Aligns the interests of executives and shareholders s Provides for the retention of key individuals Pension and benets s Provides post-retirement benets for s Pension contributions are on a dened participants in a cost-efficient manner contribution basis Shareholding guidelines s Executive Directors to build up a holding s Supports alignment with shareholders equivalent to 100% of base salary interests What do our Directors receive?
In each year, a significant portion of each executive Directors total remuneration is performance based and is dependent upon the achievement of stretching annual and longer term targets.
The chart below shows the proportion of xed and variable pay for the Chief Executive, the CFO and an average for the EVP population.
CEO 30% 40% 30% CFO 35% 35% 30% EVPs 35% 35% 30% 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Salary Bonus Long-term incentives The above pay mix chart has been calculated on the basis of xed remuneration delivered to the executive Directors through salary.
Annual bonuses have been valued at target, and long-term incentives have been calculated on an expected value basis.
An expected value calculation provides a single valuation for a long-term incentive award, based upon the probability of achieving the performance conditions associated with the award.
How does Misys compensation compare?
We commissioned Deloitte LLP to perform an in-depth benchmarking exercise in respect of our executive Directors and EVPs against global practices of global companies of a similar size and complexity in both the UK and US markets.
The benchmarking results were considered by the Committee when considering the total reward packages for the executive Directors and other senior management at the level immediately below the Board.
Annual Report 2011 65 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation OXKIZUXY XKS[TKXGZOUT XKVUXZ IUTZOT[KJ Executive Directors remuneration Benets Salary The Chief Executive is eligible to receive certain benets The Committee reviews the salaries of executive Directors on including private health insurance, life assurance cover, UK an annual basis.
When considering the xed element of the accommodation and expatriate tax advice.
The CFO receives remuneration packages, full regard is given to the total a car cash allowance and private medical insurance for himself remuneration package including variable and deferred pay.
The executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the savings-related SAYE share option plan The Chief Executive is domiciled in the United States and operated in the UK on the same terms as other employees.
his annual base salary is paid in US dollars.
Pensions Base salary is the only element of remuneration which is The Companys pension policy is to provide dened pensionable for executive Directors.
contributions to executive Directors, either through the Companys dened contribution pension plan or as an Annual bonus allowance for use in their personal pension plans.
The CFO The Misys Senior Executive Bonus Plan MSEBP provides participates in the Companys dened contribution pension incentives in both the short and medium-term for executive plan.
The Chief Executive receives a contribution equivalent Directors based on stretching financial, operational and to 20% of his base salary to a deferred compensation plan personal objectives.
At least half of any annual award will established in the US.
For UK purposes this plan is treated normally be deferred into shares for a period of one year.
as an employer nanced retirement benefit scheme.
The targets for the annual bonus are established by the Non-executive Directors remuneration Committee at the commencement of each financial year.
Chairman and non-executive Directors For 2010 11, the overall annual bonus potential for the The Chairman and non-executive Directors all have letters of executive Directors is dependent upon their meeting or appointment for a three-year term, which may be extended by exceeding a threshold Group operating profit target with the mutual agreement.
actual level of payment then dependent upon the extent to which targets are met in respect of Group operating profit, The Board considered the level of fees paid to non-executive revenue, cost savings, customer satisfaction scores and Directors unchanged since 2007.
Taking advice from Deloitte personal objectives.
LLP and considering other independent market data, the Board felt that the fees for non-executive Directors should The potential bonus achievements for the executive Directors be adjusted in order to bring them in line with market levels.
are as follows: Accordingly, with effect from 1 March 2011, the base fee for a non-executive Director was increased from 40,000 to 45,000.
The fee for acting as the senior independent Director On target annual bonus Maximum bonus was reduced from 20,000 to 15,000 per annum.
All other 200% of base fees remained unchanged.
Mike Lawrie 100% 120% of base salary salary 150% of base The current fee levels for the non-executive Directors are as set Stephen Wilson 100% of base salary salary out below: For the year just ended, the Committee determined the annual m Fees bonus payment for the executive Directors by reference to 1 Chairman 180,000 specic targets set at the beginning of the year: Basic fee 45,000 s Group financial targets are met or exceeded Additional fee for the Senior Independent Director 15,000 s customer satisfaction levels are met or exceeded Additional fee for chairing the audit committee 8,000 s personal performance targets are met or exceeded Additional fee for chairing the remuneration committee 8,000 Taking into account the extent to which performance Additional fee for chairing the nomination committee 5,000 objectives were met, the Committee approved an annual 1 The Chairman does not receive any additional fees in respect of his bonus payment of 190% of base salary for the Chief Executive appointment to any of the committees.
and 147% for the CFO, half of which will be satisfied in cash and half of which will be deferred into shares for a period of one year.
66 Annual Report 2011 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation Medium and Long-Term Share Incentives The performance targets for these remaining portions are Share awards as follows: Our share plans provide medium and long-term incentives for executive Directors and other key members of staff and s 2008 09 awards the performance target requires growth are designed to achieve medium and long-term growth.
in operating profits of the Banking and TCM divisions over A description of each of the plans and the performance the 3 year period 2008 09 to 2010 11.
The target is conditions for each are set out below.
measured from a base gure of 42.4 million and requires a CAGR of 11.4% for any vesting and 12.5% CAGR for The Misys Omnibus Share Plan the Omnibus Plan full vesting.
The Omnibus Plan is the primary plan operated by the s 2009 10 awards the performance target requires EPS Company and is designed to deliver maximum exibility growth of between 10% CAGR and 12.5% CAGR in for the award of share incentives.
The EPS base gure for 2009 10 has been raised from 10.3 pence to 15.1 pence to reect the Three types of award, all of which are subject to performance Companys altered capital structure following the return conditions, may be granted under the Omnibus Plan: of capital.
s 2010 11 awards none of the awards made in 2010 11 s performance shares awards to acquire shares for no were adjusted.
The performance targets for the whole of cost: these awards requires EPS growth of between 10% CAGR s share options traditional market value share options: and and 12.5% CAGR.
The EPS base gure is 15.1 pence.
s matching shares awards to acquire shares at no cost to the participant and which are linked to the award of deferred shares under the MSEBP.
Vesting is further subject to the Committee being satisfied regarding the overall results of the Company over the All of these awards are subject to performance conditions as performance period, taking into account such factors it set out below.
determines appropriate including the Companys business and shareholder value performance.
Shares awarded as performance shares or share options must meet the following targets in order to be satisfied.
Shares awarded as matching shares in respect of the bonus deferral arrangements of the MSEBP are subject to further performance conditions that utilise a matrix of operating profit Compound annual growth rate CAGR Percentage of total award of Misys adjusted EPS over performance period shares that will vest and revenue targets as shown in the following table.
If specic revenue and operating profit targets are met, up to 50% of the Less than 10% nil award shares may vest one year after grant.
The remaining From 25% to 100% 50% of the award will be tested against the second years From 10% to 12.5% on a straight-line basis targets.
12.5% or more 100% 120% 37.5% 56.25% 75% 87.5% 100% During the year, the Committee implemented adjustments to of target the EPS performance targets for performance shares and 110% 25% 43.75% 62.5% 75% 87.5% share options on the basis of the principles approved by of target shareholders at the general meeting held in August 2010.
The 100% 12.5% 31.25% 50% 62.5% 75% adjustments were designed to recognise the value returned of target to shareholders on the disposal of Allscripts and to align the 90% 0% 0% 31.25% 43.75% 56.25% interests of shareholders and award holders.
In summary: of target 80% 0% 0% 12.5% 25% 37.5% s There was no adjustment to the number of shares in of target outstanding awards and no acceleration of vesting: and 80% 90% 100% 110% 120% s The performance targets for a proportion of awards 50% of target of target of target of target of target have been treated as satisfied in full.
Revenue The remaining portion of awards have been treated as follows: s The original EPS performance targets for Misys including Allscripts were measured to the end of 2009 10 to determine vesting for a time pro-rated element 17% of awards for 2009 10: 33% for 2008 09 awards : and s Performance targets have been increased for the remaining proportion of awards based on the performance of the remaining Misys businesses excluding Allscripts ensuring that they are no less stretching than before.
Annual Report 2011 67 Adjusted Operating profit Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation OXKIZUXY XKS[TKXGZOUT XKVUXZ IUTZOT[KJ The Transformation Incentive Plan TIP The plan has been designed to incentivise the CEO to remain The TIP was established in 2006, at the start of the turnwith the Company to extract further value for shareholders around programme and is a one time plan specically and directly aligns his interests with shareholders as any designed to drive execution of the turnaround strategy by award under this scheme requires a significant increase in the leadership team at the time.
As a condition of receiving shareholder value.
In addition, and in order to receive benets an award, participants were required to make a personal under the plan, he is also required to maintain a minimum investment in the business equal to the value of one quarter shareholding in the Company of 6 times salary and of the award received.
The performance targets applied to this to not reduce his shareholding from its February 2011 level.
award are based on share price growth over a five year period as set out in the following table, measuring share price as an The Committee believes that this plan offers a very significant average over 20 dealing days with straight line vesting between incentive for Mike to remain with Misys and to continue to each point.
In addition the Misys share price on the vesting deliver on the strategy for the benefit of all of the Companys date must also be higher than the price on the grant date for shareholders.
The Board also believes that the scale and any portion of the award to vest.
duration of the financial commitment that Mike is prepared to make for the 3 year life of the Plan should be of great Vesting opportunities are on the third, fourth and fifth reassurance to shareholders.
The second testing date for this award was 1 November 2010, as a result of which 19% of the award All shares awarded under the plan are subject to stretching vested.
The final vesting opportunity will be in November 2011. performance targets measured over a three year period.
Only 8.3% of the award shares will vest upon achievement of the lowest threshold with 100% vesting for maximum performance.
Share price % of award that vests Vesting between each point will be measured by calculating, 2.25 0% on a straight line basis, performance between each target 2.25 12.5% point.
The maximum number of share awards under the plan is 2.50 25% 1,600,000.
Performance targets are measured over a period of any 60 consecutive trading days in the performance period, 3.00 50% and will vest according to the schedule below: 3.50 75% 4.00 100% Share price threshold achieved Maximum number of in the performance period shares which will vest No further awards will be made under this plan.
3.75 133,333 4.00 426,667 As was disclosed to shareholders in the circular relating to the disposal of Allscripts and the proposed Tender Offer, the 4.25 720,000 Committee considered the impact of these events on the 4.50 1,013,333 performance conditions for the TIP.
The Committee concluded 4.75 1,306,667 that it would: 5.00 1,600,000 s not adjust the originally specified share price targets nor In addition no award shares will vest unless the Committee is accelerate vesting of awards: satisfied regarding the Companys underlying financial s treat the Tender Offer price as a measurement share price performance in the performance period.
for the TIP: and s regard the underpin performance condition relating to the In the event of a change of control of Misys, or if he leaves initial share price as satisfied in relation to shares that vested in circumstances of death or ill health, awards only vest to the on the basis of measuring the performance target using the extent performance conditions were achieved.
If he left Misys Tender Offer price.
for any other reason other than dismissal for misconduct, Mike could keep performance vested award shares subject CEO Incentive Plan to time pro-rated reductions and the delayed release of such With the imminent expiry of the TIP and in recognition of the shares until the original three year vesting date and provided importance of the CEO in ensuring a continued focus on that the personal shareholding requirements are maintained performance, the Committee introduced the CEO Incentive until vesting.
The CEO Incentive Plan is a one-off 3 year incentive arrangement designed solely for Mike Lawrie, which was The plan will be available for inspection for 15 minutes before entered into on 28 February 2011 following discussions and until the close of the 2011 AGM since it has not been with major shareholders.
The Plan is bespoke and therefore a approved by shareholders.
Awards under the plan will be relatively unusual plan but the Committee and the Board is of satisfied using shares held in the Employee benefit Trust.
the opinion that it is a natural continuation of the TIP plan which Benets under the plan are not pensionable.
68 Annual Report 2011 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation 1998 Unapproved Plan Executive Directors service contracts The 1998 Unapproved Plan is an unapproved share option Mike Lawries contract provides that he may terminate his scheme.
Whilst there are awards outstanding under the plan, employment with the Company by giving three months written there is no intention to use the plan in the future.
Mike Lawrie notice and the Company may terminate his employment by has one award outstanding under the Plan which was granted giving 12 months written notice.
On termination, Misys has in August 2007, the details of which are set out in the share a contractual obligation to pay in lieu of at least six months of option table on page 72. the notice period other than in the case of summary dismissal.
In the event of a change of control, if the contract is terminated The performance targets applied to this award are based on either directly or indirectly as a result within the following compound annual growth in adjusted EPS over a xed three 12 month period, he will be entitled to receive a sum equal to year period in excess of growth in the UK Retail Price Index 12 months salary, on-target bonus, pension contribution and RPI as follows: health insurance.
Change of control would also bring forward the vesting date for the Chief Executives Transformation Incentive Plan at which point performance conditions would Annual compound growth rate in adjusted EPS % of salary that vests be applied to the outstanding award with no time pro-rating.
51% to 100% Stephen Wilsons contract provides that he may terminate RPI 6% to 9% p. a.
100% to 200% his employment by giving six months written notice and the Company may terminate his employment by giving six months Sharesave SAYE written notice.
On termination, Misys has an absolute discretion The Company operates a savings related SAYE share option to make a payment in lieu of notice for the six month notice plan which all employees are eligible to participate in, including period other than in the case of summary dismissal.
Participants make monthly savings up to a event of a change of control, if the contract is terminated either maximum of 250 per month over a three year period.
At the directly or indirectly as a result within the following 12 month end of the savings period, the funds are used to purchase period, he will be entitled to receive a sum equal to 12 months shares under option.
Shares awarded under this scheme are salary and on target bonus.
not subject to the satisfaction of performance targets.
Dilution limits As a result of the return of capital made to our shareholders during the year, the number of shares in issue was signicantly reduced.
This required us to review our dilution limits under our share plans in order that we could continue to incentivise executives and employees to continue delivering returns to our shareholders in the future.
Accordingly, at the General Meeting held on 15 August 2010, shareholders approved the amendment of the Companys share plans to adopt a new share plans dilution limit of 10% of the Companys issued share capital over 10 years.
This limit applies only to new awards made after the Tender Offer.
In line with the Companys previous grant policy, an additional formal limit was added within the rules such that in any one year awards over new issue or treasury shares would not exceed more than 2% of issued share capital.
The Committee receives regular updates on the dilution position under the Companys share plans and carefully considers the impact on dilution of any awards made.
The Company sources shares for share awards through a mixture of newly issued shares, shares held in treasury and shares acquired and held in the Companys employee share trust.
Shareholding guidelines Executive Directors are required to build and maintain over time a shareholding in the Company equivalent to at least 100% of base salary.
The Chief Executive maintains a shareholding well in excess of this target.
Annual Report 2011 69 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation OXKIZUXY XKS[TKXGZOUT XKVUXZ IUTZOT[KJ Directors contracts External directorships The contractual arrangements with each executive and nonThe Company recognises that executive Directors may executive Director who served in the year are summarised broaden their experience by serving as non-executive Directors below.
Stephen Wilson and Timothy Tuff who were appointed of other companies and they are permitted to accept such during the year will be put forward for election at the 2011 appointments by prior agreement with the Board.
In order to align ourselves with The UK Corporate practice for executive Directors to retain fees received for Governance Code and best practice in this area all other non-executive appointments.
During the year, Mike Lawrie Directors will put themselves forward for re-election at the served as a non-executive Director of Juniper Networks, Inc. 2011 AGM.
for which he received a fee of US $65,000.
In addition, he also participates in its share option plan under which he Date of current contract letter of appointment Notice period holds 78,764 share options.
He also sits on the Board of Trustees of Drexel University, for which he does not receive M Lawrie 13 October 2006 12 months re-elected any compensation.
Stephen Wilson does not hold any at 2010 AGM external directorships.
S Wilson 16 July 2010 6 months to be elected at the Directors interests in shares 2011 AGM The interests of Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out below.
All interests are beneficial and Sir James Crosby 30 January 2009 1 month elected have been adjusted to account for the 7 for 8 consolidation at the 2009 AGM completed on 14 February 2011.
J Ormerod 21 September 2005 1 month re-elected at the 2009 AGM At 1 June 2010 At 31 May 2011 J King 2 November 2005 1 month re-elected or date of 1 June 2010 or date ceased appointment adjusted for 7 for to be a Director at the 2009 AGM Number of shares if later 8 consolidation if earlier P Rowley 5 November 2008 1 month elected 1,3 M Lawrie 1,303,411 1,140,485 1,160,628 at the 2009 AGM S Wilson 35,000 30,625 30,625 T Tuff 23 February 2011 1 month to be Sir James Crosby 53,912 47,173 47,173 elected at the J Ormerod 50,000 43,750 43,750 2011 AGM 3 J King 150,000 131,250 131,250 J Ubben 16 January 2007 1 month re-elected at the 2010 AGM P Rowley 27,305 23,891 23,891 T Tuff 18,000 Performance graph 1,2 J Ubben 146,756,217 128,411,690 70,744,050 The following graph measures the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance over a five year period 1 Mike Lawrie and Jeff Ubben are investors in ValueAct Capital Partners, L. P. as required by the Companies Act 2006.
This is compared which has an interest in ValueAct Capital Master Fund L. P. and as such have an interest in respectively 97,757 and 2,889,122 ordinary shares, being their against the TSR performance of the FTSE TechMark All-Share proportionate interest in the total number of ordinary shares held by ValueAct Index.
The Directors do not believe that this is the ideal group Capital Master Fund L. P. These ordinary shares are shown in their interests in of comparator companies.
It is however the most appropriate the table above.
broad equity market index available against which TSR can be 2 67,812,779 shares are owned directly by ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L. P. and may be deemed to be beneficially owned by i VA Partners I, LLC as measured as it is made up of companies in similar markets and General Partner of ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L. P. ii ValueAct Capital geographic locations to Misys.
Management, L. P. as the manager of ValueAct Capital Master Fund, L. P. iii ValueAct Capital Management, LLC as General Partner of ValueAct Capital 180 Management, L. P. iv ValueAct Holdings, L. P. as the sole owner of the limited partnership interests of ValueAct Capital Management, L. P. and the 160 membership interests of ValueAct Capital Management, LLC, and as the 140 majority owner of the membership interests of VA Partners I, LLC and v ValueAct Holdings GP, LLC as General Partner of ValueAct Holdings, L. P. 120 Jeff Ubben disclaims beneficial ownership of the reported stock except to the extent of his pecuniary interest therein.
100 3 Mike Lawrie resigned as a Director of Allscripts on 20 August 2010 and John King resigned on 17 November 2010.
At their dates of resignation, they both 80 held an interest in 70,000 and 10,000 shares of common stock in Allscripts 60 respectively.
May 06 May 07 May 08 May 09 May 10 May 11 There have been no changes in Directors interests in shares of Misys FTSE TechMark All-Share Index the Company between 31 May 2011 and 28 July 2011.
This graph shows the value at 31 May 2011 of 100 invested in Misys plc on 31 May 2006 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE TechMark All-Share Index plotted over the five year period.
70 Annual Report 2011 Value Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation Directors emoluments Audited information The amounts payable by the Company to each Director in respect of qualifying services for the financial year 2010 11 are set out below.
These gures exclude share benets, which are shown separately.
No Director has waived any emoluments other than in respect of serving on the Allscripts Board for part of the year.
2 Benets in kind include those benets that are normally taxable in the UK.
For Mike Lawrie, this includes accommodation whilst working in the UK.
This amount has been converted to US dollars at an exchange rate of 1.58 dollars to the UK pound, being the average rate for the financial year 2010 11.
The amount for Mike Lawrie also includes his US-based private medical and dental insurance with a value of US $13,989.
3 The amount contributed for Mike Lawrie is paid into a deferred compensation plan in the US.
4 Mike Lawries contractual salary is denominated in sterling and paid in US dollars at a xed exchange rate of 1.91 dollars to the pound being the exchange rate at the time he was appointed in 2006 giving a dollar salary of US $1,088,700.
5 The fee gure for John King includes 41,250 for sitting on the Misys Board, 8,000 for his Chairmanship of the Remuneration Committee and US $35,790 for the period to 17 November for sitting on the Board of Directors of Allscripts of which US $16,393 was paid to him by Allscripts.
He resigned from the Allscripts Board on 17 November 2010.
The US dollar amounts are converted at an exchange rate of 1.58 dollar to the UK pound being the average rate for the financial year 2010 11.
6 Stephen Wilson and Timothy Tuff were appointed to the Board on 1 October 2010 and 23 February 2011 respectively.
