82 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Governance: Remuneration report Basis of preparation of this report and compliance Remuneration and Talent Committee This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
Membership and meeting attendance Italso meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Number Maximum ServicesAuthority and describes how the Board has applied the principles attended possible ofgoodgovernance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued Current members bytheFinancial Reporting Council in June 2010: 2 Tim Baker 4 4 William Hayes 5 5 During the year under review, the Company complied with the detailed code 2 Juan Claro 4 4 provisions set out in Section D of the UK Corporate Governance Code except, Members who stepped down during the year asexplained on page 73: 1 Charles Bailey 1 1 The Chairman, who is the only Executive Director, did not receive any reward 2 Gonzalo Menndez 1 1 structured to vary with individual or corporate performance principle D1 : and Five meetings were held in the year.
Charles Bailey retired from the Board and also therefore from the Remuneration and Talent Committee on 8 June 2011.
Additional appointments were made Key activities in 2011 tothe committees with effect from 1 July 2011, however for the intervening 22 days the Committee did not comprise three independent Non-Executive Directors Reviewed Directors remuneration levels.
No Committee meeting was held during this intervening period.
Reviewed the Directors Remuneration Report prior to its approvalby the Board and subsequent approval by shareholders Unaudited information at the Annual General Meeting.
Role and responsibilities of the Committee Reviewed the structure of senior management remuneration.
The Remuneration and Talent Committee is responsible for setting Approved the introduction of an LTIP scheme for remunerationpolicy and for reviewing the remuneration of any Executive Directors.
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the level and structure of remuneration of Group senior management.
The Committees terms of reference Reviewed succession planning for the senior management team.
were reviewed during the year and updates were made with effect from 22 August Reviewed the Groups Talent Management Strategy.
The terms of reference are available from the Companys registered office and may be viewed on the Companys website www.
Reviewed updated terms of reference for the Committee prior Theterms of reference were updated to ensure they remain in line with current best totheir approval by the Board.
practice, and the changes also include formalising the Committees responsibilities for reviewing succession planning for senior management, reviewingany major changes in compensation policies applying across the Groups companies that 1 havea significant long-term impact on labour costs, and reviewing compensation Charles Bailey retired from the Board on 8 June 2011 and hence ceased to be a member oftheRemuneration and Talent Committee from that date.
Reflecting these changes, the name of the 2 On 1 July 2011 Gonzalo Menndez rotated off the Remuneration and Talent Committee, Committee was changed during the year, from the Remuneration Committee to the wherehe had been chairman of the Committee.
On the same date Tim Baker and Juan Claro Remuneration and Talent Committee.
The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors were appointed to the Committee, with Tim Baker appointed chairman of the Committee.
is determined by the Board as a whole.
No Director participates in the determination of their own remuneration.
Company policy on Directors pay and bonuses As discussed above within the Corporate Governance Report, as at the date of this report the Board had nine Directors, comprised of an Executive Chairman and eight Non-Executive Directors.
The Companys approach to Directors remuneration reflects this predominantly non-executive composition of the Board.
The Companys policy is to ensure that Directors are fairly rewarded with regard toresponsibilities undertaken, and considers comparable pay levels in the United Kingdom, in Chile, and in the international mining industry.
Corporate and individual performance is taken into account in setting the pay level for the Chairman as an Executive Director, and this is reviewed on an annual basis in comparison with companies of a similar nature, size and complexity.
Remuneration levels for Non-Executive Directors are reviewed in comparison with companies of a similar nature, size and complexity, and take into account specific responsibilities undertaken.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 83 The Committee used benchmarking data from a number of sources, but did not The following table summarises Antofagasta plc Board Committee fees payable appoint external consultants to advise on Directors remuneration during the year.
in 2011 and 2010: US$000 Given the predominantly non-executive composition of the Board there are Audit and Risk Committee chairman 20 currentlyno arrangements for Directors to acquire benefits through the acquisition Audit and Risk Committee member 10 of shares in the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, to benefit through Remuneration and Talent Committee chairman 16 performance-related pay or to participate in long-term incentive schemes.
The UK Remuneration and Talent Committee member 10 Corporate Governance Code states that remuneration for Non-Executive Directors Nomination Committee chairman 10 should not include share options or other performance-related elements.
The Board Nomination Committee member 4 does not consider it appropriate to make regular performance-related pay awards Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee chairman such as bonuses to the only Executive Director, Jean-Paul Luksic, given his role witheffectfrom22 August 2011 16 asChairman of the Board and his interest in the Companys shares both directly Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee member andasa member of the Luksic family.
witheffectfrom22 August 2011 10 No Director currently receives pension contributions, which again reflects the predominantly non-executive nature of the Board.
The UK Corporate Governance Service contracts and letters of appointment Code considers that the participation by a Non-Executive Director in a companys Jean-Paul Luksic has a contract for services with both the Antofagasta Railway pension scheme could potentially impact on the independence of that NonCompany plc and Antofagasta Minerals S. A.
Both contracts for services can be Executive Director.
terminated by either party on one months notice.
There is also a contract between Antofagasta Minerals S. A. and Asesoras Ramn F Jara Ltda for the provision ofadvisory services by Ramon Jara which can also be terminated on one months Director and Committee fees notice.
The amounts payable under these contracts for services are denominated The following changes to the Antofagasta plc Board fees were introduced in2011: inChilean pesos and as is typical for employment contracts or contracts for an increase of the base Non-Executive Directors fee in respect of the services in Chile, are adjusted in line with Chilean inflation, and are also reviewed Antofagasta plc Board from US$100,000 to US$130,000 with effect from periodically in line with the Companys policy on Directors pay.
The amounts 1July 2011 in order to ensure fee levels are in line with comparable payable to Ramon Jara in respect of his service contract had not been updated international mining companies: since 2006, and accordingly were reviewed during the course of the year, resulting given the core role which Antofagasta Minerals plays in the management of the in a 15% increase in these fees with effect from 1 September 2011.
Amounts paid mining operations and projects, and that the mining division represents the large during 2011 and 2010 under these service contracts have been included in the majority of the Groups business, all Antofagasta plc Directors also serve as table of Directors remuneration.
directors of the Antofagasta Minerals board.
The fees payable to directors of All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company, for a theAntofagasta Minerals board were increased with effect from 1 July 2011 period of one year, subject to re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting AGM toUS$130,000 for members of the board previously US$24,000 and following their appointment.
As recommended by the UK Corporate Governance US$260,000 for the Chairman previously US$48,000.
Code, all Directors are submitted for annual re-election at each AGM.
These letters fees were introduced for the Chairman and members of the Sustainability and require the Non-Executive Directors to undertake that they will have sufficient time Stakeholder Management Committee, with effect from 22 August 2011. to discharge their responsibilities.
The appointments may be terminated by either There was no change in the fees payable to the Executive Chairman in his role party on one months notice.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection asaDirector of Antofagasta plc between 2010 and 2011. at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
The service contracts and letters Antofagasta plc Directors may also be appointed as directors of subsidiary of appointment do not provide for any compensation for loss of office beyond companies and joint ventures within the Group, and they receive fees for these payments in lieu of notice, and therefore the maximum amount payable upon specific roles, in addition to their Antofagasta plc Board fees.
These additional termination of these contracts is limited to one months payment.
feesare included within the amounts attributable to the Directors within the table ofDirectors remuneration below.
No Director has a service contract with the Company which cannot be terminated within 12 months.
84 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Governance: Remuneration report Directors interests Performance graph The Directors who held office at 31 December 2011 had the following interests The following graph shows the Companys performance compared to the inthe ordinary shares of the Company: performance of the FTSE All-Share Index and the HSBC Global Mining Index overafive-year period, measured by total shareholder return as defined below.
Ordinary shares of 5p each The FTSE All-Share Index has been selected as an appropriate benchmark as it 31 December 1 January isthe most broadly based index to which the Company belongs and which relates 2011 2011 to the London Stock Exchange, the market where the Companys ordinary shares 1 Jean-Paul Luksic 41,963,110 41,963,110 are traded.
TSR performance in comparison with the HSBC Global Mining Index 2 Ramon Jara 1,260 1,260 isone of the performance criteria for the senior management LTIP scheme 1 described above.
Jean-Paul Luksics interest relates to shares held by Aureberg Establishment, an entity which hecontrols.
Total shareholder return is calculated to show a theoretical growth in the value of 2 Ramon Jaras interest relates to shares held by a close family member.
ashareholding over a specified period, assuming that dividends are reinvested to There have been no changes to the Directors interests in the shares of the purchase additional shares at the closing price applicable on the ex-dividend date.
Company between 31 December 2011 and the date of this report.
Total shareholder return for the FTSE All-Share Index and the HSBC Global Mining Index is calculated by aggregating the returns of all individual constituents of those The Directors had no interests in the shares of the Company during the year other indices at the end of the five-year period.
than the interests in the table set out above.
No Director had any material interest inany other contract with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings during the Total Shareholder Return year other than in the ordinary course of business.
Antofagasta plc vs FTSE All-Share Index and HSBC Global Mining Index % 500 Talent management The Remuneration and Talent Committee also reviews wider aspects of the 400 Groupstalent management programme, particularly in relation to senior management.
TheCommittee reviews the structure of senior management 300 remuneration.
The structure is designed to align management compensation withthe Groups strategic aims and shareholders interests.
Senior management 200 remuneration comprises a combination of base salary and other benefits, an annualcash bonus and LTIP awards.
The LTIP scheme was introduced at the end 100 of2011 following a review by the Committee of the level and structure of overall senior management compensation.
Directors are not included within the scheme.
0 Further details of the scheme are set out in Note 26 to the financial statements.
DEC 2007 DEC 2008 DEC 2009 DEC 2010 DEC 2011 Antofagasta FTSE All Share Index HSBC Global Mining Index Thebonus and performance-related LTIP awards are based on a mixture of Total Shareholder Return represents share price growth plus dividends reinvested over the period performance criteria, including Total Shareholder Return and a range of financial, Total Return Basis Index 1 January 2007 100 operational and growth measures.
The Committee also conducted a review Source: Datastream oftheGroups succession planning in respect of the senior management team during2011.
During 2011 the Committee reviewed the Groups revised Talent Management Strategy, which is designed to attract and retain the key management and skilled workers required by the Groups existing operations and its growth projects.
Furtherdetail in respect of the Groups talent management programme is set outinthe Sustainability report on page 52.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 85 Audited information Directors remuneration The remuneration of the Directors in the year is set out below in US dollars.
Amounts paid in Chilean pesos have been translated at average rates for the relevant year, whichare set out in Note 37 to the financial statements.
As explained above, there were amendments to the amounts payable to all Directors as members of the board of Antofagasta Minerals with effect from 1 July 2011, and theamounts payable to Ramon Jara under his service contact with effect from 1 September 2011, and accordingly the amounts disclosed below reflect these changes.
This amount is included in the amounts attributable to Jean-Paul Luksic of US$3,438,000 2010 US$3,232,000.
The benefits expense represents the provision of car usage andlife, accident and health insurance for Jean-Paul Luksic.
2 Charles Bailey resigned from the Board on 8 June 2011, and the amounts shown above for 2011 represent fees payable up to this date.
3 During 2011, remuneration of US$571,000 2010 US$509,000 for the provision of services by Ramon Jara was paid to Asesoras Ramn F Jara Ltda.
This amount is included in the amounts attributable to Ramon Jara of US$895,000 2010 US$821,000.
The benefits expense represents the provision of accident insurance to Ramon Jara.
During 2010 an exceptional bonus was paidtoRiverwood Services Inc. in respect of Ramon Jara reflecting his contribution to the Group over a long period of time.
4 Daniel Yarur resigned from the Board on 1 March 2011, and the amounts shown above for 2011 represent fees payable up to this date.
5 Hugo Dryland was appointed to the Board on 20 January 2011, and the amounts shown above for 2011 represent fees payable from this date.
6 Tim Baker was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2011, and the amounts shown above for 2011 represent fees payable from this date.
7 Fees payable in respect of Ollie Oliveiras service as a Director are paid to Greengrove Capital LLP, a partnership in which Ollie Oliveria is a partner.
Ollie Oliveira was appointed to the Board on28October2011, and the amounts shown above for 2011 represent fees payable from this date.
8 Philip Adeane retired from the Board in 2006.
Following retirement, Philip Adeane has continued to serve the Board as a Senior Advisor under a contract for services at the rate of 10,000 perannumuntil 30 June 2010.
Philip Adeane was paid 5,000 approximately US$7,720 under this contract for services during 2010.
Approved on behalf of the Board Tim Baker Chairman of the Remuneration and Talent Committee 12 March 2012
