Remuneration report Remuneration committee chairmans statement The PSP and EIP schemes, approved by shareholders in Remuneration plays a critical role in fostering the long-term 2006, work on three-year cycles.
In this years remuneration growth and success of any business in a way that promotes report we report on performance of the second PSP and good corporate governance and acceptable risk management.
EIP cycles for the period to 27 March 2010 for which the This report explains the principles and details of the groups following results were achieved: remuneration arrangements to demonstrate that they continue Mothercares market cap increased by 107 per cent from to be aligned with these objectives.
274.1 million to 566.4 million: Last year, the committee undertook a comprehensive review of TSR over the three-year period outperformed the FTSE Mothercares compensation to its executive directors and senior All-Share General Retailers by 120 per cent Mothercare management to ensure that the shortand long-term incentives 88 per cent: General Retailers -32 per cent : and reward performance in line with the groups strategy.
This review was carried out by independent remuneration consultants with Underlying profit before tax over three years increased by input from the board and the executive directors.
The conclusion 64.6 per cent to 37.2 million.
of the review was that the incentive arrangements were The report on the performance of the third cycle of EIP and PSP appropriate, remain closely aligned with shareholders interests which matured in March 2011 will be detailed in next years and are motivational for the management team.
of this review and based on the recommendations received, the committee decided that the structure of the remuneration The management team continues to work hard to deliver value packages did not require any major alteration.
For the third year to shareholders through continued improvement in the product in succession, the committee decided not to increase executive offering and brand experience at both Mothercare and Early committee salaries in order to maintain the emphasis on Learning Centre, for the benefit of all of our customers around variable pay in such a way that remuneration remains directly the world.
The performance of the groups worldwide business, linked to business performance.
in addition to its performance in the UK, is reflected in its remuneration strategy and the retention of this experienced The short-term incentive scheme already includes specific management team will be an important factor in driving the business-related performance measures, in addition to continued success of the overall business.
PBT and cash flow targets, with payment under the scheme weighted to reward achievement of most or all of the targets.
We believe that we have a fair balance between the The groups PSP and EIP schemes remain the cornerstone of its remuneration incentives and the performance of the groups longer term incentive plans for executive directors and senior business, in each case both for the short and long term.
management and encourage profit growth of 15 per cent per annum and the delivery of total shareholder return to shareholders.
The committee believes that these schemes continue to work well and that no changes are required at this time.
Details of all these schemes are set out more specifically later in this report.
David Williams Chairman, remuneration committee 36 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Introduction and remuneration policy statement The remuneration committee The cornerstone of the groups long-term incentive plans for Composition of the remuneration committee directors and senior management are the EIP and the PSP.
The remuneration committee is comprised of the independent These two key long-term incentive schemes, together with the non-executive directors and the chairman of the Mothercare plc annual bonus scheme, are designed to incentivise outstanding board who, in the view of the directors, was deemed to be long-term performance aligned with shareholders interests.
David Williams is chairman of the committee with Bernard Cragg, Ian Peacock and Richard Our remuneration policy is to provide competitive remuneration Rivers serving throughout the year, and with Karren Brady packages that will help recruit, retain and motivate executives serving until her resignation in August 2010 and Amanda of the required calibre to meet the groups strategic objectives.
We aim to ensure the policy is appropriate to the groups needs and rewards executives directly for the creation of The committees principal duty is the determination of the superior shareholder value.
The committee monitors the remuneration for the executive directors, approval of the groups compliance with the Combined Code provisions and pay and benefits of the members of the executive committee institutional investor guidelines for directors remuneration.
and oversight of remuneration policy for management below executive director and executive committee members to ensure The policy seeks to form an appropriate balance between that such remuneration is consistent with delivery of the business the fixed and performance-related elements of remuneration.
strategy and value creation for shareholders.
The committee The bonus plan rewards primarily the achievement of group met four times during the year and each members attendance profit before tax, a measure which the board believes is a at these meetings is set out on page 35 of the corporate highly relevant measure of annual performance for Mothercare, governance report.
The committees detailed terms of personal strategic performance objectives, as well as the reference are available on the Mothercare website at achievement of cash generation and business KPIs.
performance remuneration is delivered through equity-based incentives including the EIP and PSP, which reward three-year Advisers to the remuneration committee relative total shareholder return TSR and three-year growth The committee retained the organisations listed below to in profit before tax PBT.
assist them in their work during the year.
The committee has also consulted the chief executive, human resources director The committee normally reviews the executive directors and group general counsel and company secretary as remuneration annually against a policy that positions base appropriate.
No executive was present for discussions of salaries at competitive levels.
Comparisons are made to their own remuneration.
companies that are similar to the group in sector focus, size and complexity.
The variable elements of the package are Person or organisation Services provided designed to attract and retain high-calibre individuals, motivate Kepler Executive remuneration, outstanding performance and provide executive directors and Associates Ltd remuneration benchmarking the senior management team with the opportunity to earn top and evaluation of share scheme quartile remuneration for top quartile performance.
Details of performance criteria the individual executive directors remuneration are described Lane Clark & Pensions advice later in this report.
Peacock LLP The remuneration report DLA Piper LLP Legal services principally in This report to shareholders has been prepared in accordance respect of employment contracts with the Companies Act 2006 the Act, and the relevant regulations relating to directors remuneration, the requirements With the exception of DLA Piper LLP, the external advisers listed above have not provided any other services to the Company of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the Combined Code the Code.
At the Annual General Meeting on 14 July 2011 and do not have any other connections with the Company.
DLA Piper LLP provides general legal advice to the group.
shareholders will be asked to approve this report.
The relevant section of the Act and regulations require the auditors to report on certain elements of this report and to state whether in their opinion these elements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Act.
The audited sections include directors share options, the PSP and EIP awards including that set out in Appendix A on page 82, emoluments and compensation payments as set out in Table 1A and pension arrangements set out in Table 2 of Appendix A. Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 37 Remuneration report continued Performance graph Salary The performance graph below shows the groups TSR against Each executive directors salary is considered individually the return achieved by the FTSE250 index.
Mothercare plc by the remuneration committee, taking account of individual entered the FTSE250 on 30 June 2008.
Prior to that date performance and potential: pay positioning relative to it was a constituent member of the FTSE SmallCap Index.
comparable roles at other retailers and companies of The performance graph also shows performance against similar size: and advice from the independent remuneration the FTSE General Retailers Index.
The graph shows the five consultants.
Base salary is the only element of remuneration financial years to 26 March 2011. used in determining pensionable earnings under the Mothercare executive pension scheme.
With the exception The indices were chosen on the basis that Mothercare is a of increases in salary to reflect increased responsibilities, constituent of both the FTSE250 and FTSE General Retailers the group maintained 2010 11 salary levels at 2008 09 levels.
The groups performance against the FTSE General Consequently, the salaries for Ben Gordon and Neil Harrington Retailers Index determines the level of vesting of awards under remained at 600,000 and 265,400 respectively.
No changes the Executive Incentive Plan.
in executive director salaries are proposed for the year 2011 12.
Total shareholder return Annual bonus The annual cash bonus scheme for executive directors is based on the achievement of group financial targets and the delivery 250 of stretching personal targets tied to key business objectives.
Financial and personal targets are set annually by the 200 remuneration committee.
For the year 2010 11 the committee decided that the annual bonus PBT measure should be complemented with measures of operating cash flow, working 150 capital and other key performance indicators the indicators that are not commercially sensitive are set out in the table 100 below.
Consequently, they decided that 75 per cent of the bonus opportunity would be linked to group PBT and the 50 remaining 25 per cent to these other performance measures.
The individual performance multipliers would apply to both elements.
The cash bonus opportunity remained unchanged 0 March 2006 March 2007 March 2008 March 2009 March 2010 March 2011 from prior years at 115 per cent for Neil Harrington and 135 per cent for Ben Gordon.
Mothercare plc FTSE250 Index FTSE ASX General Retailers Key measures Target Achievement UK stores Like-for-like sales inc VAT 3.8% -2.7% Directors remuneration Direct in Home Sales growth exc VAT 15.5% 10.5% The executive directors fixed annual remuneration comprises International New stores 94 166 a base salary, which is normally reviewed in April each year, and benefits.
The variable elements of remuneration are Ben Gordon and Neil Harrington received no performancedelivered through an annual bonus scheme, the EIP and PSP.
related bonuses for the year ended 26 March 2011 2010: With the exception of the Save As You Earn share option 224,100 and 71,600 respectively.
scheme, which is open to all employees including executive directors but excluding non-executive directors, the group made no awards to the executive directors under any other long-term incentive scheme during the year.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors comprises fixed annual fees.
Expenses incurred on group business are reimbursed when claimed.
Non-executive director fees are reviewed periodically and set at levels to reflect the time commitment and responsibilities of the non-executive directors.
The fees of the non-executive directors are determined by the chairman and executive directors on behalf of the board.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the group pension, annual bonus plan or any long-term incentive scheme.
The chairmans remuneration is determined by the remuneration committee without the chairman present.
38 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Profit share scheme In addition to the annual bonus scheme, The Executive Incentive Plan EIP the group operates a profit share scheme.
All group employees The groups executive incentive plan was approved by other than participants in the annual bonus scheme with at shareholders in 2006.
Under the EIP, selected senior executives least six months service are eligible to participate in this scheme.
are eligible to receive a percentage of surplus value created over a three-year performance period.
Surplus value created The Performance Share Plan PSP is defined as group TSR outperformance of the FTSE All-Share The groups performance share plan scheme was approved General Retailers Index Index multiplied by the average by shareholders in 2006.
Under the PSP, conditional awards market capitalisation of the group over the three-month period of shares of up to 100 per cent of salary in exceptional immediately prior to the start of the financial year in which circumstances, 200 per cent of salary are made to selected the grant date falls.
The committee believes this relative executives, as determined by the remuneration committee each TSR performance condition has, and continues to provide, year.
Conditional awards were made to the wider executive very strong alignment with shareholders long-term interests, team through awards made in May and November as nil-cost as well as supporting the motivation and retention of a options.
Details of executive directors historical awards are set high-performing management team.
At the vesting date, the committee retains discretion to defer Vesting of shares to an individual is conditional upon the up to 50 per cent of an award into shares for a further year.
achievement of the cumulative three-year growth in group Following a minor refinement approved by the committee to PBT.
20 per cent of an award vests if Mothercares three-year the EIP in 2009, in order to provide additional alignment with PBT growth is 5 per cent per annum and 100 per cent of an shareholders interests, awards from 2009 onwards will be award will vest if Mothercares three-year PBT per share growth settled wholly in shares rather than up to 50 per cent as is at least 15 per cent each year, with straight-line vesting in provided in the original scheme.
The EIP was also amended between.
Dividends accrue and are paid on shares that vest.
to allow an executive to extend the period of deferral by If the performance threshold of 5 per cent per annum PBT per awarding the deferred element as nil-cost options.
share growth is not met the award lapses.
PBT per share was chosen as the remuneration committee believes that PBT is EIP awards have been made in each year since inception in 2006.
The award criteria made to executive directors is a good measure of Mothercares financial performance: it is highly visible internally, and is regularly monitored and reported.
set out in EIP Table 1 in Appendix A page 84.
As previously explained for EIP awards made in June 2007 only, if during the During the three-year performance period to 31 March 2010, performance period ending June 2010, the annualised pre-tax Mothercares profit before tax increased from 22.6 million to profit synergies from the combination of the Mothercare and 37.2 million, representing a cumulative annualised percentage Chelsea Stores Holdings Limited businesses acquired in June growth of 14.2 per cent.
Accordingly, the awards granted in 2007 2007 were to be at least 12 million 50 per cent more than vested at 93.6 per cent of the total awards available under the the pre-tax synergies of 8 million identified in the circular scheme, resulting in the issue of 503,999 shares.
Details of the and prospectus, as issued by the group dated 25 May 2007, three-year performance to March 2011 will be set out in next the percentage of surplus value in EIP Table 2 will apply.
additional pre-tax profit synergies achieved were ahead of this target.
In September 2008, the remuneration committee and the board approved an extension of the PSP to key executives During the three-year performance period to 27 March 2010, in the overseas markets in which it operates, principally China, Mothercares total shareholder return outperformed the FTSE Hong Kong and India.
The nature of the securities laws in certain General Retailers Index by 120 per cent Mothercare 88 per countries makes it impractical for individuals to receive shares in cent, General Retailers -32 per cent and its underlying profit the Company upon vesting of conditional awards as envisaged before interest and tax increased by 64.6 per cent.
Consequently the scheme approved for overseas participants grants conditional awards over notional With regard to the EIP award that vested in March 2010, the shares in the Company.
These notional shares are hedged remuneration committee decided to exercise its discretion within the employee trust such that individual participants to defer the maximum 50 per cent of the vested amount into may receive a cash award equivalent to the growth in value shares.
These share awards will not be released until July 2011 of the notional shares under the award.
In all other respects and therefore the value of the deferred shares to which the including maximum award limits, performance conditions etc executive directors will be entitled will not be known until that the overseas scheme is equivalent to that operated for date.
Details are set out in Appendix A on page 84.
the three-year performance to 26 March 2011 will be set out in next years annual report.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 39 Remuneration report continued The Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS External appointments and other commitments of the directors The Mothercare plc 2000 Share Option Plan The other business commitments of the directors are set out Following approval of the PSP, no options were granted under within their biographical details on page 26.
An executive the Mothercare 2000 Share Option Plan during the year.
director may take one external appointment as a non-executive director, subject to the approval of the board.
The director may Shareholding guidelines retain any fees from such a role.
Ben Gordon is a non-executive Executive directors are expected to build up a shareholding director of Britvic plc, from which he currently receives an annual equal to 100 per cent of their basic salaries by retaining at least fee of 48,000. half of the post-tax gains made under any long-term incentive in Mothercare shares.
Pension arrangements Ben Gordon and Neil Harrington are members of the Service contracts Mothercare Executive Pension Scheme.
Ben Gordons pension Executive directors accrues at the rate of one forty-fifth of salary subject to a Executive directors service contracts are rolling contracts that notional earnings cap of 185,400 in 2010 11 for each year require 12 months notice by either the Company or executive of pensionable service.
The normal retirement age is 60 years, to terminate the contract.
increasing to 65 years for service accruing post 1 April 2007.
Contributions by Ben Gordon are set at 8 per cent of Ben Gordon commenced employment with the group on pensionable salary.
Neil Harrington participates in the pension 2 December 2002.
His service agreement provides for liquidated builder career average section of the Mothercare Executive damages on termination by the group for basic salary Pension Scheme.
Pension accrues at one forty-fifth of equivalent to the unexpired portion of the notice period and pensionable salary subject to a notional earnings cap of the fair value of the benefits to which he may be entitled, 185,400 in 2010 11.
The normal retirement age is 65 years.
including pension credits but not bonus or long-term incentives.
Contributions by Neil Harrington are set at 8 per cent of Neil Harrington commenced employment with the group on pensionable salary.
His service contract may be terminated on 12 months notice.
The committee regularly reviews the financial impact to the Company of pension provision.
Given the regulatory changes Non-executive directors expected in October 2012 a further review of the effect of these Ian Peacock is entitled to three months salary on termination of changes on the Company pension schemes is under way.
In the his employment contract dated 31 October 2002 by the group.
meantime, in order to control the cost of pensions, the group Bernard Cragg, Richard Rivers, David Williams and Amanda has agreed with the Trustees of the Executive Pension Scheme Mackenzie have service agreements with the group that may the introduction of a capped accrual section which limits be terminated upon one months notice.
Their service annual accrual in excess of inflation to 3,125 per annum agreements were entered into on 24 July 2002, 26 March 2003, and has agreed with the individuals affected to pay a salary 27 May 2008, 2 July 2004 and 1 January 2011 respectively.
supplement of up to 16,000 per annum to compensate A review of the compensation arrangements of the chairman for their reduced accrual.
and non-executive directors was carried out by the committee Those directors and senior executives subject to the earnings in 2009 10 using independent remuneration consultants.
cap and who participated in the FURBS arrangements now Accordingly with effect from 1 April 2010, the annual salary fees receive a cash salary supplement equivalent to the former payable to the chairman were increased to 180,000, the FURBS payment, for investment in an investment vehicle of senior non-executive director to 60,000, the chairman of their own choice.
Further pension detail is given in Table 2 the remuneration committee to 55,000 and the other of Appendix A on page 83. non-executive directors to 50,000.
For further details of the pension provision within the group during the year, see the directors report on page 28.
For further details on the cost of pensions to the group, including the statements required by IAS 19, see note 28.
40 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Emoluments and compensation payments The emoluments including pension contributions for executive directors for the year ended 26 March 2011 and the salaries paid to the management level below the board are set out in Tables 1A and 1B of Appendix A on page 82.
Beneficial interests of the directors The beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital of the group are set out in the table below.
This table does not show outstanding option or incentive awards.
These are dealt with in the relevant section of this report.
Interest held at Interest held at 27 March 2010 26 March 2011 or appointment number if later number Ian Peacock 210,709 210,709 Ben Gordon 425,329 421,949 Bernard Cragg 20,000 20,000 Neil Harrington 66,022 59,642 Richard Rivers 8,000 5,000 David Williams 38,300 30,375 Amanda Mackenzie Ian Peacock and David Williams are shareholders and directors of Mothercare Employees Share Trustee Limited, which held 3,151 Mothercare shares in trust on 26 March 2011 3,151 on 27 March 2010.
A separate trust, the Mothercare Employee Trust, held 2,458,079 shares on 26 March 2011 2,709,453 shares on 27 March 2010.
The executive directors are also deemed to have an interest in shares held by Mothercare Employees Share Trustee Limited and the Mothercare Employee Trust as potential beneficiaries.
There have been no movements in directors interests, beneficial or non-beneficial, between 26 March 2011 and 17 May 2011.
Approved by the board on 17 May 2011 and signed on its behalf by: David Williams Chairman, remuneration committee Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 41
