94 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Remuneration Report This Remuneration Report has been drawn up in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and the UK Financial Services Authority Listing Rules.
The Remuneration Report, prepared by the Remuneration Committee, explains the main principles and rules regarding the remuneration of the Directors of the Company and also provides details of Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2011.
This report will be subject to a shareholder vote at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Information not subject to audit Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Zdenk Bakala and the other members are Hans-Jrg Rudloff and Bessel Kok, all of whom are Non-Executive Directors.
Provision D. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that the Remuneration Committee should be comprised entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The Company does not comply with this provision as the Remuneration Committee is chaired by Zdenk Bakala, who the Board does not consider to be independent.
However, the Board regards Mr. Bakalas membership of the Remuneration Committee as critical to the further alignment of directors remuneration with shareholder interests.
Following the UK redomiciliation, the Remuneration Committee sets the remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Chairman of the Board and the Groups senior managers and advises the Board in relation to its responsibilities with respect to the remuneration of the Non-Executives Directors.
For more information please see the Remuneration Committee Report on page 7576.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee was not advised by any independent counsel.
Remuneration Policy The Board of Directors adopted the compensation manual on 8 April 2011 with effect from 6 May 2011.
The compensation manual records the remuneration policy of the Company, outlines principles regarding remuneration at senior and key positions within the NWR Group and provides the framework for the Board and the Remuneration Committee in this area.
Due to the UK redomiciliation, the compensation manual has been amended so that it reflects the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, in particular the new responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee.
The objective of the remuneration policy is to attract, retain and motivate talented executives by providing a well-balanced and appropriate remuneration package.
The remuneration policy aims to ensure that a competitive remuneration package for the Executive Directors is maintained and benchmarked against other multinational companies based in Europe and operating in global markets.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the remuneration policy remains appropriate for 2012.
In order to align executive performance with shareholder value, a significant part of the remuneration of Executive Directors is linked not only to individual performance but also to the Groups performance.
The Remuneration Committee sets their contractual terms, salary, bonuses and other benefits of the Executive Directors.
The remuneration policy also sets out the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors, as described further below.
The Board has delegated its powers and responsibilities to certain authorised officers with respect to the remuneration of senior managers and key employees of the Group, who shall decide on salary, bonuses and other benefits of such managers and key employees.
Remuneration of Executive Directors In 2011 as in previous years, the remuneration package for Executive Directors included a significant variable element in the form of a cash bonus incentive and a long-term incentive in the form of share grants and stock option grants.
The Remuneration Committee ensured that an appropriate balance between the fixed and performance-related elements of executive remuneration was maintained.
The Remuneration Committee is also sensitive to pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group when determining the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
As a part of its remuneration policy for Executive Directors, the Company is using the Deferred Bonus Plan implemented throughout the Group and fully effective since January 2011, as described in more detail below.
Base salary To ensure remuneration remains effective in supporting the Groups business objectives, the Remuneration Committee annually reviews
