71 Remuneration Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Directors remuneration report In this report, which will be submitted for approval at the AGM on 28 July 2011, we describe how the Chairman, executive and non-executive directors are remunerated.
Those parts of the remuneration report which are subject to audit by Ernst & Young LLP are marked audited.
The Remuneration Committee The role of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee determines the remuneration and terms of employment of the Chairman of the Company, executive directors of NWG and NWL and a further six senior managers, in accordance with a remuneration policy approved by the Board.
The terms of reference of the Committee are published on our website at www.
co. uk in the about us: corporate governance section or a copy can be requested from the Company Secretary.
The Committee is always available to engage with major shareholders and their representatives to discuss remuneration matters.
Remuneration Committee members The Committee members are Alex Scott-Barrett Committee Chairman, Sir Patrick Brown, Martin Ngre and Margaret Fay, who are all considered by the Company to be independent, and Sir Derek Wanless.
The membership of the Committee was, therefore, compliant with the Code throughout the year.
Martin Parker, the Company Secretary, is secretary to the Committee.
External advice The Committee continued to receive advice during the year from its appointed advisers, Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS, and also from the CEO although never about her own remuneration.
The Human Resources Director, Sarah Salter, who joined the Group on 4 January 2011, also attends Committee meetings to provide expert advice.
HNBS was paid 33,399 for these services in 2010 11 and continues to assist the Committee in maintaining best practice in relation to remuneration.
HNBS did not provide any other services to the Company during the year.
The Committees work over the past year The Committee met three times during the year with 100% attendance by all members, except for Sir Patrick Brown who was not present at the March 2011 meeting and Margaret Fay who did not join the Committee until June 2010, to: agree bonus payments for 2009 10: set performance targets for executive directors and senior managers: agree salaries for 2011 12: determine the vesting percentage to be applied to the LTIP awards made on 13 December 2007 which vested on 13 December 2010: grant LTIP awards on 8 December 2010 to vest, subject to performance and continued service, on 8 December 2013 : consider the impact of changes to the tax treatment of pensions: and review the pension contributions payable in respect of executive members of the Companys defined contribution pension scheme.
Following the year end, the Committee wrote to its largest shareholders and the major representative bodies to consult on a number of changes to executive remuneration arrangements for 2011 12.
In summary, these changes were to introduce an executive tier to the defined contribution pension scheme, expand the range of annual bonus metrics to include a balanced scorecard, increase maximum bonus potential for executive directors from 70% to 100% of base salary and introduce bonus deferral and clawback.
Further details of the changes are set out below.
No changes were made to long term incentive provisions.
As the Committee works closely with NWLs remuneration committee, Committee papers and minutes are circulated to all NWG and NWL non-executive directors, who can give their views direct to the Committee Chairman and can attend meetings if they wish.
72 Remuneration Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Directors remuneration report continued Remuneration policy The Committee considers the principles and provisions of the Code when setting its policy and believes it is fully compliant.
The policy of the Company is to provide remuneration that is sufficient to attract, retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run the Company successfully, while paying fairly.
Although HNBS provides the Committee with detailed comparative data on other companies in the utilities sector and more widely, the Committee uses this data with caution given the lack of direct comparators and to avoid remuneration being ratcheted up as a result of benchmarking exercises.
Consistent with its fair pay policy, when considering the remuneration packages of senior executives and directors, the Committee takes into account the pay and employment conditions of other employees in the Group.
However, it does not consider that a formulaic approach to the pay differentials between directors and other employees would, of itself, be helpful.
It recognises, however, that excessive pay differentials would be divisive and would undermine the Groups core value of working as one team.
The Committee is determined to ensure that executives remuneration continues to be set at a level which is reasonable and appropriate.
The directors have been awarded the same 3.71% increase in their basic pay as nearly all other employees for 2011 12.
The Committee also considers environmental, social, risk management and governance issues when setting remuneration terms.
The remuneration policy of the Committee is that: the setting of base salaries is largely influenced by individual contributions and internal relativities rather than external comparators although for 2010 11 and 2011 12 the Committee was influenced by general economic conditions : the annual bonus plan recognises the interests of all of the Companys stakeholders including shareholders, customers and employees rather than being focused solely on profit: and management shares in the longer term value created for the Companys investors and the serviceability of the Companys regulated assets.
Elements of remuneration The remuneration of the executive directors comprises: basic salary: benefits including pension and participation in the Companys SIP : a performance related annual bonus: and annual LTIP awards.
In addition to reviewing each constituent element, the Committee reviews the remuneration packages as a whole to ensure that they remain appropriate in terms of structure and quantum.
The chart below shows the composition of the CEOs remuneration as a percentage of basic salary both at target and maximum levels of performance.
Maximum performance assumes the achievement of maximum bonus and full vesting of LTIP awards.
Fixed pay Variable pay Total Maximum 0% 50% 100% 150% 200% 250% 300% 350% Basic salary Pension & benets Annual bonus LTIP 73 Remuneration Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Basic salary and benefits Basic salary is reviewed annually based on individual contributions and internal relativities.
The Committee also has regard to market practice in other quoted water companies and similar sized companies more generally.
Current basic salaries, together with the previous years salaries, are set out below: As at As at As at 1.4.
This is the same as for nearly all other employees.
Benefits provided to the executive directors comprise membership of pension schemes as detailed below, car allowance and healthcare.
Pensions The main features of the Northumbrian Water Pension Scheme are set out in note 24 to the financial statements.
Basic salary is the only pensionable element of the executive directors remuneration packages.
The executive directors pensions were modified with effect from 1 January 2008, in line with the changes proposed for the pension scheme as a whole, and the executive pension arrangements were closed to new entrants on that date.
In 2010 11, Heidi Mottram received an employers contribution of 8% of salary to the defined contribution section of the Northumbrian Water Pension Scheme and made an employee contribution of 5%.
The employers contribution of 8% was the same as was available to any other employee making a 5% contribution during 2010 11.
Following consultation with the Companys largest shareholders and major representative bodies, the employer contributions on behalf of executive members of the defined contribution scheme have been increased from 8% to 15% of salary, with employee contributions increased from 5% to 8%, from 1 April 2011.
This was thought necessary in order to make the remuneration packages available for senior recruits market competitive.
Heidi Mottram is the only executive director of the Company in the defined contribution scheme.
Annual bonus The annual bonus plan has been designed to reflect the interests of all of the Companys stakeholders.
The maximum annual bonus potential for the executive directors for 2010 11 was 70% of salary: 20% Shareholders profit before tax 40% 5% Customers Ofwats overall performance assessment rating 5% Employees percentage lost time through Bespoke personal 74 Remuneration Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Directors remuneration report continued Actual performance against the 2010 11 targets was as follows: Heidi Maximum Chris Green Mottram bonus actual bonus actual bonus Bonus metric % of salary % of salary % of salary 1 Profit before tax PBT 40 39 39 2 Overall performance assessment OPA rating 5 2 2 3 Percentage time lost through sickness 5 4 Bespoke personal targets 20 20 20 Total 70 61 61 Notes: 1.
The PBT bonus is based on actual PBT performance compared to the budget PBT set by the Board at the beginning of the year.
PBT has been chosen because it is a primary financial measure for the Company, for which the executive directors are accountable.
The calculation of PBT performance is adjusted to exclude the impact of any variance between the actual and budget interest charge on index linked bonds issued by Northumbrian Water Finance plc, which depends entirely on RPI in July of each year and is, therefore, outside of management control.
The directors remuneration report for 2009 10 stated that the bonus metrics to be used in 2010 11 would be the same as in the previous year.
Therefore, although Ofwat no longer publishes an OPA rating, the Committee has estimated NWLs OPA score for 2010 11, on the same basis as before, as 362.
This has been placed in a range for bonus purposes of 351 to 426, being the published range of performance across the 10 water and sewerage companies in 2009 10.
The year end percentage of time lost through sickness was 3.1%, against a range for bonus purposes of 2.7% to 2.99%.
In 2010 11, Heidi Mottrams personal targets related principally to maintaining key financial ratios and measures, ensuring that good relationships were maintained with major investors and analysts, increasing operating and capital maintenance efficiencies, identifying business development opportunities, ensuring that investment needs were properly quantified, refreshing the risk model and preparing a high level strategic risk matrix.
Chris Greens personal targets were focused mainly on maintaining key financial ratios and measures, maintaining good relationships with major investors and analysts, ensuring treasury management achieved an appropriate balance between risk and reward, reviewing and developing strategy in relation to market reform and competition, identifying business development opportunities, ensuring that investment needs were properly quantified, refreshing the risk model, preparing a high level strategic risk matrix and identifying further opportunities to impact the cost base and investment programme of NWL.
Following consultation with the Companys largest shareholders, the range of annual bonus metrics has been expanded to include a balanced scorecard to align annual incentive pay more closely with stakeholders wider interests for 2011 12.
In addition to the introduction of the balanced scorecard, the maximum annual bonus potential for the executive directors in 2011 12 will be increased from 70% to 100% of salary and will be apportioned as follows: Bonus metric % of salary PBT 36 Balanced scorecard measures 44 Bespoke personal targets 20 Total 100 The new metrics are firmly linked to the Companys strategic goals customer, competitiveness, people, environment and communities.
The PBT performance metric reflects competitiveness, along with an assessment of capital efficiency, while the other elements of the balanced scorecard are linked to the other strategic goals.
The customer goal underpins targets based on customer satisfaction, unplanned interruptions and water quality.
The people goal is reflected in targets for employee engagement and lost time reportable accidents.
The environment goal targets comprise leakage, sewage treatment performance and pollution incidents, while communities targets are based on external recognition of the Groups corporate social responsibility achievement.
Definitions of these measures are outlined on pages 12 and 13.
75 Remuneration Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk The PBT element of the bonus will be scored on a sliding scale around the target figure.
A simple pass fail measure will apply to the other targets and most of the targets have been set at levels which would require significant improvements over the 2010 11 actual results.
The Remuneration Committee considers the overall bonus metrics to be appreciably more stretching than before, and that they reflect operational performance and delivery to customers in a more structured way.
A similar approach has been adopted in relation to executives below board level and senior managers, albeit at varying levels of bonus opportunity.
Bespoke personal targets have been set for Heidi Mottram and Chris Green for 2011 12.
For Heidi Mottram these include maintaining key financial ratios in line with the NWG and NWL approved budgets, maintaining good relationships with investors and analysts, delivering the operating efficiency plans for 2011 12 and keeping the remainder of the plans for 2014 15 on track and progressing the Groups strategy on advanced anaerobic digestion, co-digestion and renewable energy.
Chris Greens targets include maintaining key financial ratios, maintaining good relationships with investors and analysts, refreshing the risk model and preparing a high level strategic risk matrix and work on current cost depreciation and its impact on return on capital employed.
Bonus deferral Following the increase in bonus potential, the Company has introduced bonus deferral for executive directors.
Of the total bonus awarded, 70% will be payable in cash and 30% will be payable in shares, deferred for three years.
Bonus and LTIP clawback As part of the changes introduced for 2011 12, the Committee has introduced a clawback provision which will apply in the event that results on which bonuses are paid, or LTIPs are awarded, are subsequently found to be inaccurate or there has been relevant misconduct on the part of the employee.
LTIP Under the LTIP, executive directors and senior managers may receive, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, annual conditional awards of shares in the Company worth up to 100% of annual salary at grant, although only the executive directors of NWG participate at the 100% level.
All awards have three year pre-vesting performance conditions.
Conditional awards made on 8 December 2010 to Heidi Mottram and Chris Green were: Number of Value of conditional awards awards granted as a 1 granted % of salary Heidi Mottram 96,212 99% Chris Green 68,551 99% Note: 1.
Based on a closing share price on 7 December 2010 of 328.5 pence.
76 Remuneration Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Directors remuneration report continued Details of the pre-vesting performance conditions for awards made during 2010 are: Performance metric Weighting Description Calibration Total 50% Relative TSR against the FTSE 250 30% of this part of an award i. e. 15% of the shareholder excluding investment trusts and companies total award will vest for median performance return TSR in the following sectors: banks, financial increasing on a straight line so that 100% services, life insurance, non-life insurance, i. e. 50% of the total award vests for upper real estate investment and services and quartile performance.
real estate investment trusts, oil and gas producers and oil equipment and services.
In addition, awards will only vest if the Committee is satisfied that the Companys TSR performance is consistent with the underlying business performance of the Company.
Return 20% Average absolute ROCE for NWL over the 30% of this part of an award i. e. 6% of the on capital three financial years starting from 1 April total award will vest for average three-year employed immediately preceding grant date.
ROCE of 6.3%, increasing on a straight line ROCE so that 50% i. e. 10% of the total award will vest for average three year ROCE of 6.45% and on a straight line so that 100% i. e. 20% of the total award will vest for an average ROCE of 6.75%.
Serviceability 20% Ofwat serviceability targets for the four 50% of this part of an award i. e. 10% of the asset classes i. e. water non-infrastructure, total award will vest for stable assessments water infrastructure, sewerage nonin three out of the four asset classes.
100% infrastructure and sewerage infrastructure of this part of an award i. e. 20% of the total in the final year of the relevant three year award will vest for stable assessments in performance period.
Serviceability is all four asset classes.
No awards would vest measured by Ofwat based on a number under this part of an award for less than three of indicators which include asset stable assessments.
performance indicators, water quality compliance, environmental compliance and consumer service.
Customer 10% Results of NWLs independently run 30% of this part of an award i. e. 3% of customer satisfaction index, measured the total award will vest for a customer as the average score for the surveys satisfaction index of 83%, increasing on a carried out during the relevant three straight line so that 100% of this part of an year performance period.
award i. e. 10% of the total award vests for a customer satisfaction index of 93% or above.
The Committee is satisfied that the above metrics and targets remain appropriate for the following reasons: a significant part of the award based on TSR ensures alignment with investors: the use of an absolute ROCE target for part of the awards ensures that reward is directly linked to the managements delivery of the business plan: the serviceability targets recognise that the maintenance of NWLs regulated assets is critical to the longer term returns for shareholders: and customer satisfaction is a key objective for NWL and customers are important stakeholders.
77 Remuneration Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk In the event of a change of control, the Committee would determine the extent to which the performance conditions had been met and the proportion of the performance period that had elapsed in deciding whether or not any vesting of awards would take place.
The LTIP award granted on 13 December 2007 became available to vest on 13 December 2010.
The Committee instructed HNBS to assess the level of vesting of this award.
HNBS reported that 48.84% of the award was available to vest being 97.68% of the award relating to the Companys TSR performance against the FTSE 250 Index and 0% of the award relating to the Companys ROCE performance against the other water companies.
Prior to vesting, the Committee satisfied itself that the recorded TSR performance was a genuine reflection of the Companys underlying performance.
Details of the number of awards which lapsed and those which were exercised by the directors of the Company are shown in table 3.
Full details of past award levels and performance conditions are shown in table 2.
Share ownership guidelines The NWG Board has introduced a guideline requesting NWG directors to build up over a maximum of five years shares in the Company with a value equal to one years basic salary in the case of the executive directors or one years fees in the case of non-executive directors.
Responsible investment The Committee is aware of Guideline 3.2 of the ABI Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure and is satisfied that neither the executive directors annual bonus targets nor the LTIP performance conditions are likely, inadvertently, to motivate irresponsible behaviour.
Non-executive directors fees The Companys remuneration policy is that the Chairman and the non-executive directors should receive a fixed fee for their normal duties.
Reflecting the added responsibilities and time commitment, chairing the Remuneration and Audit Committees attracts an additional fee over the non-executive directors standard base fee.
Fees payable during 2010 11 and the Companys policy from 1 April 2011 in line with the approach taken in respect of the salaries of NWG executives are: 2011 12 2010 11 Chairman 165,434 159,516 Non-executive director base fee 38,601 37,220 Audit Committee chairing fee 11,029 10,634 Remuneration Committee chairing fee 5,514 5,317 The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not receive benefits in kind and do not participate in bonus, pension or share schemes operated by the Company.
Further details of non-executive directors remuneration are set out in table 1.
Directors interests in LTIP awards The directors conditional interests in the ordinary 10 pence shares of the Company, awarded in accordance with the terms of the LTIP as at 31 March 2011, are set out in table 3.
78 Remuneration Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Directors remuneration report continued Ordinary 10 pence shares required to fulfil LTIP awards which have vested may be provided by the Northumbrian Water Group plc Employee Trust, through Northumbrian Water Share Scheme Trustees Limited.
The Trustees are Sir Patrick Brown, Martin Ngre and Kate Alsop.
Anita Frew and Alastair Balls stood down as Trustees when they retired as non-executive directors of NWL on 31 March 2011.
At that date, the Trust held a total of 765,962 ordinary 10 pence shares.
This represents 0.1% of the Companys total issued share capital, so is substantially less than the 5% limit on shares that can be held in trust.
In line with the ABI Guidelines, dividends are waived on these shares and the voting rights attached to these shares will not be exercised at the AGM.
Share dilution The Companys share plans contain dilution limits that comply with the ABI Guidelines.
Shares for both the LTIP and SIP schemes are provided by purchase on the market.
There has, therefore, been no dilution to date and there is no commitment to issue new shares in relation to either scheme.
Performance graph The graph below shows a comparison between the TSR for the Companys shares for the five year period to 31 March 2011, and the TSR for the companies comprising the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts over the same period.
This index has been selected as the Company is a constituent of the FTSE 250.
200 172 180 158 160 141 135 140 120 126 103 100 108 93 80 92 60 40 53 20 0 1-Apr-06 31-Mar-07 31-Mar-08 31-Mar-09 31-Mar-10 31-Mar-11 NWG FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Note: This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2011, of 100 invested in NWG on 1 April 2006 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts over the same period.
Source: Thomson DataStream Service contracts All non-executive directors are appointed for a term of 12 months with a six month notice period for the Company and the director.
The executive directors have service contracts with 12 months notice periods and which expire when the directors reach normal retirement age.
No special arrangements apply if there is a change of control.
The contracts do not contain any liquidated damages clauses or provide explicitly for termination payments.
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine the compensation to be paid.
There is no automatic entitlement to bonus payments and LTIP vesting is at the discretion of the Committee.
The Committee will apply such mitigation to any contractual obligations as it considers fair and reasonable, taking into account the best practice provisions of the Code.
Details of the contracts of the executive and non-executive directors who served during the year are shown in table 4.
79 Remuneration Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM.
The terms of appointment set out the expected time commitment for each non-executive director.
External appointments of executive directors The Boards position on external appointments is described in full in the corporate governance statement but, in summary, the Board has agreed that executive directors of the Company who are appointed to non-executive directorships which pay a fee may retain the fees, subject to obtaining the Chairmans consent before an appointment is accepted.
Only one such external appointment per director will generally be permitted.
Heidi Mottram is a Board member of Yorkshire Forward for which she is paid and retains an annual fee of 8,666.
Directors interests in shares The directors beneficial interests in the ordinary 10 pence shares of the Company, as at 31 March 2011, are set out in table 6.
Directors interests in shares under the SIP The Company SIP is open to UK employees with more than three months service.
Further details of the SIP are set out in the directors report business review.
During the year, the executive directors had the opportunity to participate in the SIP and their interests in the ordinary 10 pence shares of the Company, purchased and held in accordance with the terms of the SIP, are set out in table 7.
This directors remuneration report has been produced in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
It was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
It will be put to the shareholders for approval at the Companys AGM.
Alex Scott-Barrett Chairman of Remuneration Committee 31 May 2011 80 Remuneration Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Directors remuneration report continued These tables form the part of the directors remuneration report which are audited except for tables 2 and 4 which do not require auditing.
Table 1 Directors emoluments audited The emoluments of the directors of the Company for their services as directors of the Company and where relevant its subsidiaries, are set out below, rounded to the nearest thousand pounds: Total for the Total for the year ended year ended 1 2 Fees Basic salary Benefits Bonus 31.3.
The remuneration of each executive director includes non-cash benefits comprising the provision of car allowances and healthcare.
The annual bonus is payable in June 2011, for performance during the year ended 31 March 2011.
Includes additional fee paid as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Includes additional fee paid as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
81 Remuneration Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Table 2 Summary of LTIP performance conditions unaudited LTIP award made 13 December 2007 and 15 December 2008 Maximum award 100% of salary permitted and actual grants to executive directors related to shares worth 100% of salary.
Performance conditions 1 50% of award depends on NWLs return on capital employed relative to that of the other water and sewerage companies of England and Wales.
2 50% of award depends on the Companys TSR performance against the FTSE 250 Index, excluding investment trusts.
Vesting schedules 1 3 0% vests at median performance.
At upper quartile or above, all of this element of the award will vest.
Between median and upper quartile, straight line pro-rating will apply.
Where the return on capital employed performance is below the median, none of this element of the award will vest.
2 30% vests at median performance with straight line pro-rating of TSR performance against the members of the FTSE 250 Index, excluding investment trusts, to 100% for upper quartile performance.
Where the Companys TSR performance is below the median, none of this element of the award will vest.
LTIP award made 4 January 2010 and 8 December 2010 Maximum award 100% of salary permitted and actual grants to executive directors related to shares worth 100% of salary.
Performance conditions and Please refer back to the remuneration report for performance conditions.
vesting schedules 82 Remuneration Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Directors remuneration report continued Table 3 Directors interests in LTIP awards audited As at 31 March 2011, the directors had the following conditional interests in the ordinary 10 pence shares of the Company, awarded in accordance with the terms of the LTIP: Awards Awards Awards held at the Awarded lapsed vested Awards start of during during during held as at Award date the year the year the year the year 31.3.
The market value of the shares on the date of the award was 334.0 pence per share.
The three year performance period ran from 1 October 2007 to 30 September 2010.
Shares vested on 13 December 2010 and the closing price on that date was 332.0 pence per share.
The market value of the shares on the date of the award was 251.5 pence per share.
The three year performance period runs from 1 October 2008 to 30 September 2011.
The market value of the shares on the date of the award was 272.5 pence per share.
The three year performance period runs from 1 October 2009 to 30 September 2012.
The market value of the shares on the date of the award was 328.7 pence per share.
The three year performance period runs from 1 October 2010 to 30 September 2013.
The cost of conditional awards is charged to the income statement over the three year performance period to which they relate after taking account of the probability of performance criteria being met.
In the year, 0.1 million was charged to the income statement 2010: 0.4 million.
Details of the performance conditions are shown at table 2.
The market price of the shares on 31 March 2011 was 332.2 pence per share.
During the year, the highest market price was 364.0 pence per share and the lowest market price was 245.1 pence per share.
Aggregate gross gains made by directors on exercise of awards at date of vesting was 99,915 2010: 103,955.
Table 4 Directors service contracts unaudited Details, as at 31 May 2011, of the contracts of the directors who served during the year are shown below: Initial Contract Unexpired Notice period 1 appointment start date term by either party Current contract end date 2 Executive directors Heidi Mottram 1.3.
2010 Not fixed term 12 months Normal retirement age 65 Chris Green 23.5.
2003 Not fixed term 12 months Normal retirement age 65 3 Non-executive directors Sir Derek Wanless 1.12.2003 1.12.2010 6 months 6 months 30.11.2011 Sir Patrick Brown 12.5.
Calculated as at 31 May 2011 and rounded to nearest whole month.
The service contracts of the executive directors do not contain provisions relating to compensation for termination.
In the event of termination by the Company, the Remuneration Committee would make recommendations to the Board on what payments, if any, should be made to the director, depending on the circumstances of the termination, taking into account the Code which discourages payment for failure.
The Company would also expect directors to seek to mitigate their loss.
Contracts do not provide for compensation for loss of office in excess of fees accrued.
83 Remuneration Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Table 5 Directors pensions and pension benefits audited The accrued defined benefit pensions and corresponding transfer values for the executive directors are set out below: Defined contribution scheme Employee Employer contributions contributions during the during the year year 000 000 1 Heidi Mottram 43.6 Defined benefit scheme Transfer value of net increase Transfer Transfer Total change Increase in accrued value of value of in transfer Accrued Accrued Increase in accrued pension less accrued accrued value less pension at pension at in accrued pension net directors pension at pension at directors 31.3.
The directors participate in a salary sacrifice arrangement and, therefore, paid no contributions to the schemes during the year.
Accrued pensions shown are the amounts that would be paid annually at the normal retirement age based on service to the end of the year.
Voluntary contributions paid by the directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
The change in transfer value reflects fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and directors, such as changes in stock market conditions.
The transfer values have been calculated in line with the relevant legislation and using actuarial assumptions agreed by the Trustee.
Table 6 Directors interests in shares audited The directors had the following beneficial or family interests in the ordinary 10 pence shares of the Company as at 31 March 2011: Number of shares Number Number held at the of shares of shares start of held as at held as at the year 31.3.
At 1 April 2010, 139,339 of these shares were beneficially owned by Mrs G Green, and 10,000 were beneficially owned by each of Miss P J Green, Mr M F Green and Mr J M Green.
At 31 March 2011, 139,434 of these shares were beneficially owned by Mrs G Green, and 20,000 were beneficially owned by each of Miss P J Green, Mr M F Green and Mr J M Green.
At 31 March 2011, the 43,000 shares were beneficially owned by Lady Brown.
Jenny Williams retired from the Board on 29 July 2010.
84 Remuneration Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Directors remuneration report continued Table 7 Directors interests in shares under the SIP audited The directors who held office as at 31 March 2011 had the following interests in the ordinary 10 pence shares of the Company, purchased and held in accordance with the terms of the SIP: Number of SIP shares Number of Number of held at the SIP shares SIP shares start of held as at held as at 1 1 1 the year 31.3.
These figures include the shares paid for by the participant and the free shares granted by the Company.
A summary of the SIP can be found in the directors report business review.
