Directors information Petrofac Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2011 91 Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report Board Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Directors statements 01 22 41 50 10 1 1 7 153 Directors remuneration report What did the Committee do in 2011?
Remuneration Committee report Regular items Items relating to Board changes Consideration of feedback received from shareholders on 2011 remuneration proposals Consideration of 2012 remuneration proposals, including the Value Creation Plan Regular items Other items Thomas Thune Andersen Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Update on performance for Consideration of feedback subsisting Performance Share from shareholders on 2011 Plan PSP awards remuneration proposals Role of the Committee Approval of 2011 PSP structure Consideration of a new and performance conditions one-offincentive plan Value CreationPlan Determine and agree with the Board the framework Consideration of 2011 salary Consideration of remuneration orbroadpolicy for the remuneration of Executive Directors, increases and prior year bonus arrangements in respect of theChairman and certain senior managers.
and provisional PSP award changes to Executive Directors levels for the year Review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance Approval of 2011 PSP awards of the remuneration policy.
Approval of 2011 Deferred Ensure that incentives are appropriate to encourage Bonus Share Plan DBSP enhancedperformance.
awards under the annual bonus award cycle Approve the design of, and determine the targets for, anyperformance related pay scheme.
Conrmation of vesting status of 2008 PSP awards Review the design of all share incentive plans before approval Review of provisional 2011 by the Board and shareholders and monitor the application annual bonus pools ofthe rules of such schemes and the overall aggregate Review of Restricted SharePlan amount of the awards.
RSP awards madeduring 2011 Determine the remuneration of all Executive Directors, Review of Committee terms theChairman and certain senior managers and within ofreference theagreed policy, taking into account remuneration trends Approval of Directors across the Company and remuneration practices in other remunerationreport peercompanies.
Membership and attendance at meetings held in 2011 Meetings attended eligible to attend Current members Thomas Thune Andersen Chairman 5 5 Stefano Cao 5 5 Roxanne Decyk from 13 May 2011 3 3 Previous members Kjell Almskog until 13 May 2011 2 2 Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements Petrofac 92 Annual report and accounts 2011 Directors remuneration report continued To support this ambition, after careful consideration and Dear shareholder consultation with major shareholders, the Committee is proposing As Chairman of Petrofacs Remuneration the implementation of a new one-off incentive plan, in order to: Committee, I am pleased to present the Directors ensure continued delivery of exceptional growth and shareholder remuneration report after another year of value creation exceptional performance.
build sustained performance over the long term develop a new generation of leaders with an ownership mindset 2011 bonus and PSP outcomes Ayman Asfari and Maroun Semaan who together own over As outlined on pages 42 and 43, Petrofac has delivered strong 26% ofPetrofacs issued share capital will not participate in growth in 2011 across the majority of its KPIs, including revenue this new plan.
The proposed incentive plan will provide strong and earnings.
In reaching our decision on bonuses, we took this alignment with shareholders.
Participants will only share in value into account, whilst acknowledging that some backlog targets were created through share price growth above a hurdle, subject to only partially achieved.
When coupled with strong individual the achievement of stretching long-term performance targets performance, 2011 bonus outcomes were 75%100% of linked to our ambitious goal of more than doubling 2010 Group maximum.
Our three-year TSR and EPS performance over 20092011 Full details of the proposed new plan are set out in the Notice was such that the 2009 PSP awards have been earned in full.
ofAnnual General Meeting, where it will be presented for shareholder approval.
2012 proposals Risk Management Base salaries continue to be generally conservative, and increases for Executive Directors for 2012 are aligned with the wider UK and As a matter of course, the Committee considers executive UAE employee population.
In addition, cash allowances to all remuneration matters with due reference to risk management.
Executive Directors are being frozen for 2012.
We believe that the remuneration arrangements in place do not raise health and safety, environmental, social or ethical issues, The Committee intends to introduce a new one-off incentive plan nor inadvertently motivate irresponsible behaviours.
There are the Value Creation Plan.
Further details are provided below with a unambiguous risk management measures in the annual bonus, summary of key terms on pages 98 and 99.
There are no other PSP and the proposed Value Creation Plan.
changes proposed to executive remuneration at Petrofac in 2012.
The Committee values all feedback from shareholders and hopes Value Creation Plan to receive your support at the forthcoming AGM.
We are a unique company, having been built up by a generation of entrepreneurs who continue to have a major stake in the business.
Since IPO in 2005, the Company has delivered a total shareholder return of over 700% the FTSE 100 returned 27% over the same period and is the second best performing FTSE 100 company Thomas Thune Andersen over this time.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2 March 2012 We are now moving into a new phase of development, supported by recent appointments of key new talent.
The core founding shareholders consider that it is critical to foster within the new team the entrepreneurial spirit that has driven Petrofacs exceptional performance to date.
