52 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT The Committee is comprised solely of non-executive directors.
Its members are David Lindsell Chairman, Joe Darby and Michel Romieu.
John Orange retired from the Board in May 2011 and was a member of the Committee until his retirement.
The Board has determined that David Lindsell, a chartered accountant with expertise in accounting and auditing, has recent and relevant financial experience as required by the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
All members of the Committee are deemed to be independent and the Committee has concluded that its membership meets the requirements of the Code.
The meetings of the Committee are normally attended by the Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Audit and Risk Manager and representatives of the David Lindsell Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee external auditors.
Stephen Huddle, the Company Secretary, acts as secretary to the Committee.
Other executive directors or senior managers are required to attend when significant risk management or control issues relating to their area of responsibility are considered by the Committee.
Role of the Committee Committees main responsibilities monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the company and formal announcements relating to the companys financial performance and reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements contained therein reviewing the companys internal financial and operational control and risk management systems, including the results of management system reviews overseeing the companys relationship with its external auditor, including making recommendations as to the appointment or reappointment of the external auditor, reviewing the terms of their engagement, monitoring their independence and developing and implementing policy governing any engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services reviewing the effectiveness of the companys code of conduct, with particular reference to systems and controls for the prevention of bribery and the prevention and detection of fraud, and receiving reports on any non-compliance The Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
The Committee may engage the services of external advisers as it deems necessary in the furtherance of its duties, at the companys expense.
No external advisers materially assisted the Committee during the year.
The Committees terms of reference, which can be found on the companys website www.
com, include all matters indicated by the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
Meetings The Committee is required to meet at least three times per year and has an agenda linked to events in the companys financial calendar.
Activities during the year The Committee met four times in 2011 and has met twice in 2012 to date.
Its January and March 2011 meetings focused primarily on the status of the 2010 risk management and internal control reviews, the 2011 plan for such reviews, and the 2010 full-year results and Annual Report and Financial Statements, together with the Committees annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls.
At its July meeting the Committee considered the results of the group internal control reviews carried out in the first half of the year, together with accounting and reporting issues relating to the half-year results and in August, it reviewed the half-year results.
In January 2012, it considered accounting and reporting issues relating to the full-year results, reviewed the status of the 2011 risk management and internal control reviews, focusing on the significant findings and actions, and reviewed and approved the 2012 audit plan for such reviews.
In March it reviewed the 2011 full-year results, the Annual Report and Financial Statements and its annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls to enable the Board to make its statement on internal control in the Corporate Governance Report.
Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 53 Activities during the year continued More specifically, the responsibilities of the Committee were discharged as follows: the Committee reviewed the risk management process designed to identify the key risks facing the group and how these risks were being managed.
In this regard, following the creation of the role of Group Audit and Risk Manager in 2010, the risk management process has been further developed in accordance with the principles and guidelines on risk management set out in ISO 31000.
The risk management process was reviewed during the year by Det Norske Veritas with satisfactory overall results and some suggestions for improvements, which are in hand: the risk register is the principal record of information about identified risks and the controls in place to mitigate them, at both business unit and corporate function level.
The further development of the risk register in 2010 and 2011 has enabled the programme of financial and operating controls reviews to be prioritised based on the areas of greater risk as reflected in the risk register.
The Committee reviewed the process for maintaining and updating the risk register, approved the programme of financial and operating controls reviews for the year, and reviewed the findings from the reviews together with progress in implementing any required improvements: in reviewing the findings from financial and operating reviews during 2011, the Committee noted that the company continued to use both Premier staff with the necessary expertise and third-party specialists to carry out the programme of reviews and that in addition, the company obtains independent confirmation of the effectiveness of internal controls from a variety of external sources, including joint venture and governmental financial and operational audits.
For example, in relation to the effectiveness of internal financial control, the Vietnam business became a producing operation in 2011 and was therefore an area of focus, with Deloittes London audit team visiting Vietnam to oversee the extended external audit scope there and PetroVietnam carrying out reviews of the companys relevant systems and controls.
In addition, external assurance regarding a number of operational controls was received and these included independent certification of our occupational health and safety management systems for our Indonesia and North Sea operations and our global drilling function and an independently inspected UK well examination scheme.
the Committee reviewed the 2011 half-year and full-year financial results announcements and draft 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements with the Finance Director and Group Financial Controller and considered the findings from the external auditors review of the interim results and their audit of the 2011 financial statements.
The Committee considered in particular the significant assumptions, estimates and forecasts used in measuring items in the financial statements, including future oil and gas price assumptions, estimates of oil and gas reserves and decommissioning cost estimates, together with the financial statement items directly or indirectly affected by them such as the recoverability of development and production and exploration and evaluation assets, amortisation and depreciation charges, and the recognition of deferred tax assets arising from tax losses.
The Committee noted that no significant deficiencies in the financial reporting system were identified by the external auditor in the course of the audit: the fee proposals for the external audit and half-yearly review were considered and agreed, and the Committee reviewed the scope and fees for non-audit assignments awarded to the external auditor to satisfy itself that the assignments concerned did not give rise to threats to the auditors independence and objectivity: the performance and effectiveness of the Committee was reviewed as part of the Board performance evaluation process.
The Committee was considered to be operating effectively and in accordance with the Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees.
Recommendations to streamline attendance at Committee meetings and thus improve its effectiveness were adopted during the year: and the Committee met once in the absence of management with the external auditor in March and no matters of significance were drawn to the Committees attention at this meeting.
Internal audit It has been the companys policy for several years to carry out a programme of financial and operating controls reviews, using both internal and external resources.
However, as there was no dedicated internal audit or risk management function, the Committee has in previous years reviewed the need for such a function, and concluded that in view of the scope and scale of the controls review activity and the extent of the independent confirmation obtained through this activity regarding the effectiveness of the companys system of internal control, there was no need for a dedicated internal audit resource.
The growth in the size and complexity of the company in recent years has led to a re-consideration and in 2010 it was decided to create the role of Group Audit and Risk Manager and to appoint a senior manager to fill that role.
As a result of this and related developments such as the prioritisation of financial and operating controls reviews based on the risk register, the Committee believes that the company now has a function that is substantially equivalent to internal audit and that is expected to become fully equivalent as the function develops further.
54 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT continued External auditor Deloitte LLP Deloitte was initially appointed external auditor of the company in 2004.
The Committee regularly reviews the issue of the independence of the external auditor.
This review considers the overall relationship between the auditor and the company, based on feedback from the companys finance team and from the auditor, and the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the auditor, and takes account of the safeguards established by the auditor against loss of audit independence, including rotation of the audit partner and other key members of the audit team.
The Committee believes that in certain limited circumstances non-audit work may be carried out by the external auditor.
The allocation of non-audit work is considered by reference to the companys policy on the provision of non-audit services by the auditor.
This policy is aimed at ensuring continued independence.
The use of the external auditor for services relating to accounting systems or financial statements is not permitted, nor are various other services that could give rise to conflicts of interest or other threats to the auditors objectivity that cannot be reduced to an acceptable level by applying safeguards.
The Committee believes that there is non-audit work such as certain assurance and advisory services that may be best performed by the audit team as a result of their unique knowledge of the company.
Any material non-audit work of this nature requires approval by the Committee.
The policy and overall fees paid to our auditor are also reviewed on an annual basis by the Committee.
Deloitte are required to confirm to the Committee that they have both the appropriate independence and objectivity to allow them to continue to serve the members of the company.
The Committee also requires the external auditors to confirm that in providing non-audit services, they comply with the Ethical Standards for auditors issued by the UK Auditing Practices Board.
This confirmation was received for 2011.
In accordance with the Ethical Standards for Auditors, the audit engagement partner rotates at least every five years.
The current audit engagement partner is Matthew Donaldson who has been in the role since 2009.
The Committee reviews the expertise, performance and effectiveness of the auditor.
On the basis of the reviews carried out, the Committee recommended to the Board that it should propose the reappointment of Deloitte as the external auditor of the company.
By order of the Board D C Lindsell Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 21 March 2012 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 55 COMPANY RISK FACTORS Premiers business may be impacted by various risks leading to failure to achieve strategic targets for growth, loss of financial standing, cash flow and earnings, and reputation.
Not all of these risks are wholly within the companys control and the company may be affected by risks which are not yet manifest or reasonably foreseeable.
Effective risk management is critical to achieving our strategic objectives and protecting our assets, personnel and reputation and therefore Premier has a comprehensive approach to risk management as set out in more detail in the Corporate Governance Report.
A critical part of the risk management process is to assess the impact and likelihood of risks occurring so that appropriate mitigation plans can be developed and implemented.
Risk severity matrices are developed across Premiers business to facilitate assessment of risk.
The specific risks identified by departments, project teams, corporate functions and business units are consolidated and amalgamated to provide an oversight of key risk factors at each level from operations through business unit management to Executive Committee and Board level.
For all the known risks facing the business, Premier attempts to minimise the likelihood and mitigate the impact.
According to the nature of the risk, Premier may elect to tolerate risk, treat risk with controls and mitigating actions, transfer risk to third parties or terminate risk by ceasing particular activities or operations.
Premier has a zero tolerance to financial fraud or ethics noncompliance, and ensures that HSES risks are managed to levels that are as low as reasonably practicable, whilst managing exploration and development risks on a portfolio basis.
The key risk factors identified from this approach are represented in the matrix below and the accompanying table summarises their potential impacts and our approach to managing them.
The assessment of the impact and likelihood takes into account the risk mitigation measures currently applied.
Likelihood Rare Low Medium High Not significant Commodity price volatility Low Production and development delivery Political and fiscal Medium Financial discipline Joint venture Organisation and governance capability partner alignment Exploration High HSES Extreme Impact 56 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements COMPANY RISK FACTORS continued Key risk factor Risk detail How is it managed?
Health, safety, Major process safety incident or operational Comprehensive HSES and operations environment and accident, natural disasters, pandemics, management systems including emergency security HSES social unrest, civil war.
response and oil spill response capability and asset integrity.
Consequences may include accidents resulting in loss of life, injury and or Active security monitoring and management and significant pollution of the local regular testing of business continuity plans.
environment, destruction of facilities and Learning from company and third-party incidents.
Production and Uncertain geology and reservoir Geoscience and reservoir engineering development delivery performance leading to lower production management systems, including rigorous and reserves recovery.
Availability of production forecasting and independent reserves services including FPSOs and rigs, auditing processes.
availability of technology and engineering Operations, development and project execution capacity, availability of skilled resources, management systems and cost controls together maintaining project schedules and costs as with capable project teams.
well as fiscal, regulatory, political and other conditions leading to operational problems Long-term development planning to ensure and production loss or development delay.
timely access to FPSOs, rigs and other essential services.
Consequences may include lower production and or recovery of reserves, production delays, cost overruns and or failure to fulfil contractual commitments.
Exploration success Failure to identify and capture acreage and Strong portfolio management and alignment with and reserves addition resource opportunities to provide a strategic growth targets.
Appropriate balance portfolio of drillable exploration prospects between growth by exploration and acquisition.
and sufficient development projects to Exploration management systems including achieve reserves addition targets.
comprehensive peer review with focus on Consequences may be that specific geologies in core areas we know well and in exploration programmes may fail to add which we can build a competitive advantage.
Failure to Focused M&A effort focusing on geographical negotiate access rights or close transactions and technical areas aligned with our strategy.
could slow growth of reserves and Diligence in acquisition process and postproduction and lead to loss of competitive acquisition integration to ensure targeted returns.
Host government Premier operates in some countries where Premiers portfolio includes operations in both political and fiscal political, economic and social transition is low and higher risk environments.
Developments in politics, laws actively monitors the local situation and has and regulations can affect our operations business continuity plans in each area which can and earnings.
be activated depending on predefined levels of alert.
Consequences may include forced divestment of assets: limits on production Premier strives to be a good corporate citizen or cost recovery: import and export globally, and fosters reputation by strong and restrictions: international conflicts, including positive relationships with government and war, civil unrest and local security concerns communities where we do business.
Premier that threaten the safe operation of engages in respectful industry-wide lobby and company facilities: price controls, tax sustainable CSR programmes.
Rigorous increases and other retroactive tax claims: adherence to Premiers business ethics policy and expropriation of property: cancellation of code of conduct.
contract rights: and increase in regulatory Continuous monitoring of the external burden.
It is difficult to predict the timing or environment for emerging risks to the business.
severity of these occurrences or their potential impact.
Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 57 Key risk factor Risk detail How is it managed?
Commodity price Oil and gas prices are affected by global Oil and gas hedging programmes to underpin volatility supply and demand and price can be subject our financial strength and capacity to fund our to significant fluctuations.
Factors that future developments and operations.
influence these include operational issues, Premier investment guidelines ensure that our natural disasters, weather, political instability, development programmes are robust to or conflicts and economic conditions or downside sensitivity price scenarios.
actions by major oil-exporting countries.
Price fluctuations can affect our business assumptions and can effect investment decisions and financial capability.
Organisational Risk that the capability of the organisation is Premier has created a competitive remuneration capability not adequate to deliver plans for growth.
and retention package including bonus and longThe capability of the organisation is a term incentive plans to incentivise loyalty and function of both the strength of its human good performance from the existing, highly resources and its business management skilled workforce.
Inadequate systems or lack of Premier is continuing to strengthen its compliance may lead to loss of value and organisational capability to achieve strategic failure to achieve growth targets.
This includes resource planning, personnel to competitors or inability to competency development, training and attract and retain quality human resources development programmes, succession planning could affect our operational performance including leadership development.
and delivery of growth strategy.
Continuous strengthening of business management systems and controls as appropriate to the size and market position of the company.
Joint venture partner Global operations in the oil and gas Continuous and regular engagement with alignment industry are conducted in a joint venture partners in joint ventures in both operated and environment.
There is a risk that joint non-operated projects.
Premier takes strategic venture partners are not aligned in their acquisition opportunities where appropriate to objectives and drivers and this may lead to gain a greater degree of influence and control.
Many of our major projects are operated by our joint venture partners and our ability to influence our partners is sometimes limited due to our small shares in such ventures.
Financial discipline Risk that sufficient funds are not available to Strong financial discipline and balance sheet.
and governance finance the business.
Premier has an established financial management system to ensure that it is able to maintain an appropriate level of liquidity and financial capacity and to manage the level of assessed risk associated with the financial instruments.
Premier maintains access to capital markets through the cycle.
The management system includes policies and a delegation of authority manual to reasonably protect against risk of financial fraud in the group.
An insurance programme is put in place to reduce the potential impact of the physical risks associated with exploration and production activities.
In addition, business interruption cover is purchased for a proportion of the cash flow from producing fields.
Cash balances are invested in short-term deposits with minimum A credit rating banks, AAA managed liquidity funds and A1 P1 commercial paper, subject to Board approved limits.
58 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Nomination Committee presents its report in relation to the financial year ended 31 December 2011.
Composition and role of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee meets as and when required and comprises Mike Welton Chairman, Joe Darby, Jane Hinkley, David Lindsell, Simon Lockett, Michel Romieu and Professor David Roberts.
The Board considers the membership of the Nomination Committee to be in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee met twice in 2011.
Formal meetings are held to consider standing items of business: there is also a significant level of ad hoc discussion between members of the Committee, particularly when a recruitment exercise is taking place.
Mike Welton Chairman The role of the Committee includes: reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
This requires an ongoing assessment of the appropriate skills-mix required at Board level in light of the strategy of the company in the medium-term: responsibility for identifying and nominating candidates, subject to Board approval, to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise and to prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment: and reviewing the development and leadership potential of senior executives below Board level and ensuring that appropriate succession plans are in place for both Board and senior positions.
During 2011, the main focus of the Committee has been on management succession and development.
The objectives of this process are to: ensure that the succession pipeline for senior executive and business critical roles in the organisation is adequate: ensure the succession is managed smoothly and effectively: ensure that talented individuals can maximise their potential: identify potential successors and manage succession activity: provide a structured approach to developing and preparing possible successors: identify at risk posts: and support the delivery of our diversity agenda.
The meeting in May focused on the senior leadership roles and the meeting in December reported on the work that had been done to look at the whole population of middle-management positions in the group.
The Committee discussed the results of the succession work carried out and noted that senior and middle-management throughout the organisation is now being encouraged to discuss the issue of succession, and individual managers now have performance targets which include a requirement to develop their successors.
The focus of the Committee in this area will now be on ensuring that the group is introducing appropriate training and development for the next generation of senior management.
By order of the Board M W Welton Chairman 21 March 2012 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 59 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the group, together with the audited group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Corporate Governance Report forms part of this report.
Results and dividends The groups net profit for the year amounted to US$171.2 million 2010: profit of US$129.8 million.
A dividend is not proposed 2010: US$nil.
Principal activities The principal activities of the group are oil and gas exploration, development and production.
The group operates through subsidiary undertakings and joint ventures, details of which are shown in note 10 in the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Business review The company is required by the Companies Act 2006 to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the group during the financial year ended 31 December 2011 and of the position of the group at the end of the year the business review.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business review can be found in the following sections of the Annual Report and Financial Statements: Chief Executives Review Operations Review Exploration Review Financial Review Key Performance Indicators Environmental, employee, social and community matters, within the Social Performance Review Company Risk Factors The Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, Operations Review, Exploration Review and the Financial Review also include details of expected future developments in the business of the group.
Annual General Meeting AGM The companys 10th AGM will be held on Friday 18 May 2012 at 11.00am.
The Notice of the AGM, together with details of all resolutions which will be placed before the meeting accompanies this report.
Directors The directors who served throughout the year except as noted were as follows: 3 Mr Mike Welton Chairman Mr Robin Allan 4, 5, 6 Mr Joe Darby senior independent non-executive director Mr Tony Durrant Mr Neil Hawkings 1, 6 Ms Jane Hinkley 2, 4, 6 Mr David Lindsell 6 Mr Simon Lockett Chief Executive Mr Andrew Lodge Mr John Orange resigned 20 May 2011 4, 6 Professor David Roberts 5, 6 Mr Michel Romieu Notes: 1 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2 Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 3 Chairman of the Nomination Committee 4 Member of the Remuneration Committee 5 Member of the Audit and Risk Committee 6 Member of the Nomination Committee Biographical details of all directors can be found in the Board of Directors section on page 45.
60 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Directors election In accordance with best practice for FTSE 350 companies as published in the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, all directors will stand for annual re-election by shareholders.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of directors, the company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
The powers of directors are described in the Corporate Governance Report and in the Matters Reserved for Board Decision, a copy of which can be found on the companys website www.
The companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a General Meeting of the shareholders.
Directors interests The directors who held office at 31 December 2011 had the following interests in the Ordinary Shares of the company: At At At 1 January 31 December 21 March Name 2011 2011 2012 1 R A Allan 427,416 185,310 375,621 2 J Darby 23,108 23,108 23,108 1 A R C Durrant 384,368 631,185 816,888 1, 3 N Hawkings 122,676 340,485 524,303 2 I J Hinkley 4,000 4,000 2 D C Lindsell 17,332 17,332 17,332 1 S C Lockett 748,440 937,573 1,195,058 1 A G Lodge 55,316 139,078 213,130 2 Professor D G Roberts 2 M Romieu 2 M W Welton 7,320 22,531 22,531 Notes: 1 The beneficial interests of the executive directors include personal shareholdings together with Share Incentive Plan Partnership Shares and any Matching Shares held for more than three years.
2 The beneficial interests of the non-executive directors comprise personal shareholdings.
3 This includes Ordinary Shares held by Mr N Hawkings wife 59,964 Ordinary Shares held as at 1 January 2011, 138,416 Ordinary Shares held as at 31 December 2011 and 138,416 Ordinary Shares held as at 21 March 2012.
Shareholdings noted in the above table have been adjusted to reflect the 4:1 share split in May 2011.
Directors interests in share options, deferred bonus shares, Deferred and Matching Share Awards under the Asset and Equity Plan, Performance Share Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan and Share Incentive Plan entitlements are shown in the Remuneration Report, together with details of the remuneration of all directors who served during the year.
Directors indemnities The company has granted an indemnity to all of its directors under which the company will, to the fullest extent permitted by law and to the extent provided by the Articles of Association, indemnify them against all costs, charges, losses and liabilities incurred by them in the execution of their duties.
Share capital Details of the issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the companys issued share capital during the year are shown in note 19 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
The company has one class of Ordinary Share which carries no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at General Meetings of the company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 19.
The voting rights in relation to the shares held within the Employee Benefit Trust are exercisable by the trustees.
Details of the number of shares held by the Employee Benefit Trust are set out in the Remuneration Report.
No person has any special rights of control over the companys share capital and all issued shares are fully-paid.
Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 61 Substantial shareholders At 21 March 2012, the company had received notification from the following institutions, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of interests in excess of 3 per cent of the companys issued Ordinary Shares with voting rights: Notified Notified number of percentage of Nature of 1 Name of shareholder voting rights voting rights holding BlackRock Inc 11,224,700 9.790% Indirect AXA SA & group companies 40,173,814 8.580% Indirect Schroders plc 27,072,247 5.118% Indirect Aviva plc 3,859,897 4.870% Direct Ameriprise Financial Inc 24,666,346 4.663% Indirect Legal & General Group plc 18,861,914 3.560% Direct Bear, Stearns International Trading Ltd 2,552,847 3.109% Direct Notes: 1 Where the nature of the holding is both direct and indirect, the larger holding has been quoted.
Where notifications were made prior to the 4:1 share split in May 2011, numbers have not been adjusted.
Supplier payment policy The groups policy in respect of its suppliers is to establish terms of payment when agreeing the terms of business transactions and to abide by the terms of payment.
The groups normal payment terms are four weeks.
Hedging and risk management Details of the groups policy on hedging and risk management are provided in the Financial Review.
A further disclosure has been made in note 17 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements related to various financial instruments and exposure of the group to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk.
Subsequent events Post balance sheet events are disclosed in note 25 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
Charitable and political donations During the year the group made charitable contributions amounting to US$302,221 2010: US$708,614.
No political contributions were made during the year 2010: US$nil.
Significant agreements change of control There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employee share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the group as a whole.
Furthermore, the directors are not aware of any agreements between the company and its directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Auditor Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this Annual Report and Financial Statements confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
By order of the Board S C Huddle Company Secretary 21 March 2012 62 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT Dear fellow shareholder On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the 2011 Directors Remuneration Report, for which we are seeking approval from shareholders at our Annual General Meeting.
2011 has been a strong year for Premier, as detailed in the reports of Mike Welton and Simon Lockett.
The results are a consequence of high calibre executive leadership and the commitment of our employees despite an economic environment that continues to provide many challenges.
John Orange, the former Chairman of the Committee, stepped down during the year following his retirement from the Board and I would like to extend my thanks to him for his considerable contribution to the Committee.
The Committee currently comprises Joe Darby, David Lindsell, Professor David Roberts and me.
Whilst the background of our Committee Jane Hinkley members is varied, all have many years of Board experience and many also have strong Chairman of the Remuneration Committee knowledge of the oil and gas sector.
None of the members of the Committee currently hold a position as an executive director.
Following my appointment as Chairman of the Committee in May 2011, I took the opportunity to meet with our largest shareholders in December to understand their views in relation to our current remuneration framework, particularly in light of the fact that the shareholder vote at the last AGM was lower than we had hoped for.
Most of the shareholders that we spoke to welcomed our meeting to help build their trust in the governance of pay at Premier and we certainly found it useful to understand the reasons for any concerns more fully.
In particular, many shareholders appreciated increased clarity in relation to the annual bonus determination and, in respect of the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, the criteria used for assessing the underlying company performance that the Committee must be satisfied are fairly reflected in the outcome of the LTIP before awards are paid out under the scheme.
We have addressed some of these concerns in this report and we are currently undertaking a complete review of our remuneration framework, which will continue into 2012, to ensure it remains effective and appropriate.
The Committees key challenge in relation to future policy is to balance the incentivisation of the management team to create further shareholder value against the need to ensure that this does not put at risk the value created to date and the overall stability and sustainability of the business.
The Remuneration Committee at Premier continues to strive to ensure that our remuneration policy serves shareholder interests and closely reflects the groups business strategy, whilst also being mindful of the external focus on executive remuneration.
While our principal role is to recommend to the Board the framework and policy for the remuneration of the companys Chairman and the executive directors, the Committee is sensitive to the levels of the remuneration packages of all our employees across the group.
We have a diverse workforce operating in six countries so our employee remuneration packages must meet local needs, while respecting our culture and values and reflecting our overall remuneration philosophy.
Premier thus operates a similar philosophy to pay throughout the organisation and all employees will receive awards under the same schemes as those used to make awards to executive directors.
This ensures alignment throughout the organisation and a focus on common business goals.
Reward in the oil and gas sector remains intensely competitive and our pay must reflect the increase in the size and complexity of our business, particularly in light of recent acquisitions such as the successful purchase of EnCore Oil plc.
Our remuneration policy is designed to provide remuneration packages that will retain and motivate our high performing team and attract new talent as required.
The Committees expectation is that the greater part of executive directors remuneration will be variable.
Given the long-term nature of our business, executive director remuneration packages are weighted towards long-term incentives with time horizons of three to six years, and which pay out only if share price performance is strong and the Committee is satisfied with the companys underlying performance.
The Committee ensures alignment between senior management and shareholders by encouraging share ownership through formal shareholding guidelines.
The Committee believes that the focus on long-term incentives, long-term performance measures such as TSR and executive share ownership reinforces effective risk management, encourages focus on shareholder returns, thus aligning executive interests with the interests of long-term shareholders.
This approach is underlined by the requirement that all members of the senior management team are required to defer half of their LTIP awards into a matching scheme for a further three years.
2011 marks the end of the first full cycle of the LTIP approved by shareholders at the AGM in 2009.
100 invested in Premier at the start of 2009 was worth 181 by the end of 2011, compared with only 135 if invested in the FTSE All Share Oil & Gas Producers Index over the same period.
In addition, the companys performance has been in the top quarter of its comparator group in this period.
Premiers 22 per cent annualised return since 2009 includes the performance for 2011 where the companys market value fell by 25 per cent against a background of economic uncertainty.
All Premiers employees, led by the executive directors, contributed to this long-term performance and will receive share awards under the LTIP scheme.
As is detailed later in the report, the Committee considered other factors in assessing whether the underlying performance of the company was reflective of these achievements and concluded that it was.
The following sections explain our remuneration policy for executive directors and senior management and sets out individual payments made to executive directors in relation to the year under review as well as the reasons for this Committees decisions.
Yours sincerely Jane Hinkley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 21 March 2012 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 63 Compliance This report has been prepared in accordance with schedule 8 of the Companies Act 2006 and the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The company complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code regarding best practice on the design of performance-related remuneration.
The report has been divided into separate sections for unaudited and audited information.
Part A of the report is not subject to audit.
Part B contains information which has been audited.
In line with the Association of British Insurers Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee ensures that the companys remuneration policy will not raise environmental, operational, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour e. g. one of the important factors in determining annual bonus performance is the achievement of specific HSES targets.
Remuneration Committee The former Committee Chairman, Mr J R W Orange, stepped down from the Committee during the year and Ms I J Hinkley was appointed Committee Chairman from May 2011.
The Committee currently comprises four non-executive directors and met five times during the year.
The members of the Committee and their attendance are summarised below: Member throughout Number of Committee member 2011 meetings attended Mr J R W Orange Chair to 19 May 2011 To 20 May 2011 4 Ms I J Hinkley Chair from 19 May 2011 3 6 Mr J Darby 3 5 Mr D C Lindsell 3 5 Professor D G Roberts 3 5 Note: There were five scheduled meetings of the Remuneration Committee during the year.
The remaining meeting only attended by Mr J R W Orange and Ms I J Hinkley was called to approve the details of arrangements approved in principle by a prior scheduled meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
The Board considers that the membership of the Committee is compliant with the Code recommendations.
Stephen Huddle, General Counsel and Company Secretary, acts as secretary to the Committee and Lee Johnson, Group HR Manager, attends all Committee meetings.
No director of the company is involved in determining his own remuneration.
The determination of the remuneration of the non-executive directors is a matter reserved for the Board, excluding the non-executive directors.
The Committee acts within its agreed written terms of reference, which are published on the companys website www.
Committees main responsibilities considering and determining the remuneration policy for executive directors and senior management considering and determining the total compensation package of each executive director, within this agreed policy considering and advising on the general principles under which remuneration is applied to employees considering the design of, and determining targets for, the annual bonus plan for senior management determining the quantum and performance conditions for the long-term incentive awards determining the policy for pension arrangements, service agreements and termination payments to executive directors and senior management determining the Chairmans fee Kepler Associates was appointed by the Committee in September 2011 as its independent adviser.
Kepler Associates does not provide any other services to the company.
During the year, the Committee also took advice from Hewitt New Bridge Street, who were the independent advisers to the Committee until September 2011, and Capita Hartshead, in relation to pension policy.
64 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT continued Part A: The information in this section of the report is not audited Remuneration policy Executive directors are eligible to receive base salary, annual bonus, benefits, awards under the companys long-term incentive schemes in which all employees participate and pension provision.
The package is structured such that the greater part of total remuneration is delivered through performance-related incentives and, in particular, long-term share-based incentives.
These incentive schemes are designed to align the interests of senior management with those of shareholders and establish a clear link between pay and performance.
The key elements of the remuneration packages for executive directors are set out below.
Summary of executive director remuneration policy and structure Component Objective s Details Salary Support recruitment and retention Adjustments are effective 1 January Aim to position around the median of the relevant market Pension and benefits Provide competitive benefit and Executive directors receive a final salary pension or pension provision equivalent contributions Other benefits include medical cover and life assurance Annual bonus Reinforces the delivery of key Opportunity of up to 100 per cent of salary for short-term financial and executive directors operational objectives Based on KPI scorecard and Committee discretion Deferred bonus Extends the time horizon of the bonus Any annual bonus earned in excess of 50 per cent of salary is paid in shares and deferred for three years Long Term Incentive Plan Reinforces the delivery of absolute Three LTIP elements: Equity Pool allocation, and relative returns to shareholders Performance Shares and Matching Awards Provides alignment with shareholders Vesting is based on i the change in equity value per share, ii Premiers TSR performance relative to oil and gas sector peers, and iii the Committees assessment of underlying performance Performance is measured over a total of up to six years Share ownership guidelines Provides alignment with shareholders Executive directors are required to acquire a shareholding worth at least 100 per cent of base salary 200 per cent for the CEO through the retention of deferred bonus and LTIP shares The companys remuneration policy for executive directors is to provide remuneration packages which reward employees fairly and responsibly for their contributions and which deliver superior remuneration for superior performance.
Remuneration packages are intended to be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate individuals of the quality required to achieve the groups objectives and thereby enhance shareholder value.
The Committee takes account of the level of remuneration paid in respect of comparable positions in similar companies and also pay and conditions throughout the remainder of the group.
Remuneration for senior management is significantly geared towards performance-oriented pay.
For example, at median performance see chart for assumptions approximately 61 per cent of the CEOs remuneration package is delivered through variable components, rising to approximately 93 per cent at stretch performance.
Proportion of CEO pay package value delivered through each pay component Median performance assumes bonus payout of 60 per cent Variable components of salary, LTIP Performance Shares vesting at 25 per cent, Stretch Salary 62.5 per cent LTIP Matching Award, Equity Pool based on performance Benefits 1 per cent of the change in market value and share price Variable components Cash bonus appreciation of 10 per cent per annum compound.
Median Long-term incentives performance Stretch performance assumes all bonus, Equity Pool, Performance Share and Matching Awards vest in full with 0% 25% 50% 75% 100% share price growth of 20 per cent per annum compound.
Proportion of overall package The value of all long-term incentives is their net present value.
Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 65 Base salary Base salaries are reviewed annually from 1 January.
Whilst aiming to position base salaries around the median of comparable companies, the Committee also considers whether the overall remuneration package including incentives is competitive for positions in similar companies within the oil and gas industry as well as other broadly similar sized companies across other industries, taking into account performance.
Whilst the Committee does not slavishly follow the market mid-point for salaries, it does review market data as a point of reference and it has been aware for several years that base salaries for both the CEO and for other executive directors are well below industry average levels for comparable roles between 13 per cent and 24 per cent, partly because of the companys policy to focus remuneration towards long-term incentives and partly because of the companys recent rapid growth.
Hence, last year, the Committee Chairman wrote to shareholders detailing the salary increases for 2011, which went some of the way towards correcting this positioning.
Having taken into account salary increases both in the external market and within the group as well as the performance of the executive team at Premier, the Committee has decided to increase executive director salaries by approximately 6 per cent from January 2012.
In making this decision, the Committee was particularly mindful of the climate and pressures surrounding executive remuneration but was keen to ensure that the salaries we offer do not put us at a greater competitive disadvantage in the future.
The salary increases for 2012, which are in line with those made to our UK employees, will continue to bring salaries towards market median, but despite this, executive director salaries remain below this target when compared to both companies in the same sector and companies of a similar size across all sectors.
The Committee will continue to review salaries annually to ensure they remain appropriate, particularly given the current highly competitive talent market in this sector and the fact that it is critical to our future success that we retain our key talent.
The salaries of the executive directors are as follows: Salary from Salary from 1 January 2011 1 January 2012 Percentage increase Director Position % S C Lockett Chief Executive 500,000 530,000 6.0 R A Allan Director Asia 310,000 330,000 6.5 A R C Durrant Finance Director 340,000 360,000 5.9 N Hawkings Operations Director 310,000 330,000 6.5 A G Lodge Exploration Director 310,000 330,000 6.5 The companys policy for all other employees is to target salaries at the upper quartile of comparable positions within the industry.
The Committee believes that this positioning is appropriate given the competitive market that exists within the industry in which Premier operates.
Annual bonus scheme Executive directors are eligible to participate in non-pensionable discretionary bonus arrangements subject to the achievement of challenging corporate one-year targets and Committee discretion relating to overall company performance.
The achievement of these targets and overall company performance is carefully assessed each year by the Committee.
Bonuses for executive directors are subject to a maximum of 100 per cent of base salary.
No major revisions to the annual bonus plan structure are proposed for 2012.
The Committee sets targets on the basis of a balanced scorecard comprising KPIs and other corporate objectives.
The main elements of the scorecard for 2012 are HSES, production and development, exploration and exploration new ventures, finance and business development.
Payout is determined with reference to the balanced scorecard, subject to the Committees discretion based on a broader assessment of overall company performance.
In assessing 2011 performance, the Committee has reviewed performance in multiple aspects of the five categories below against specific targets.
Targets were set at the beginning of 2011 and designed to be stretching but achievable.
We do not disclose the exact targets themselves for reasons of commercial sensitivity, however performance in relation to threshold, base and stretch levels is detailed below: 66 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT continued Determination of 2011 annual bonus outcome Performance achievement Between Between At or Below threshold base above Performance category threshold and base and stretch stretch HSES Total recordable injury frequency 3 High potential incidents 3 Production and Meet December 2011 run-rate 3 development Average working interest production 3 Deliver products on time and on budget 3 Exploration and Reserve replacement 3 exploration Deliver the risked resource target 3 new ventures Make a material exploration success and deliver new ventures to replenish the portfolio of reserves as measured by resource additions 3 Finance and Net operating cash flow 3 business Profit loss after tax 3 development Peak net debt gearing 3 Acquire new assets and improve the quality of Premiers core business while maintaining a healthy balance sheet as measured by value creation of any acquisition 3 Organisation Gross G&A costs before LTIP and bonus 3 Continue to develop Premiers people and the process system within which they work 3 In addition to the achievement of specific targets, the Committee considered the wider overall company performance and awarded annual bonuses of 55 per cent of salary to the executive directors.
Awards are therefore as follows: 2011 annual bonus outcome by executive director Executive director Cash Deferred shares Total S C Lockett 250,000 25,000 275,000 R A Allan 155,000 15,500 170,500 A R C Durrant 170,000 17,000 187,000 N Hawkings 155,000 15,500 170,500 A G Lodge 155,000 15,500 170,500 Significant bonuses are subject to partial deferral in shares.
The Committees policy for executive directors and other senior management is that any annual bonus earned above 50 per cent of salary is deferred in shares for three years.
Deferred bonus shares remain subject to a bad leaver provision such that shares would lapse in the event that an executive director was to leave to join a competitor.
Annual bonus awards are subject to a clawback provision in the event of a material misstatement of the companys financial results, gross misconduct or error in the calculation of performance conditions.
Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 67 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Executive directors are eligible to participate in the LTIP, the companys primary long-term incentive plan in which all employees are eligible to participate, thereby encouraging throughout the company a focus on longer-term performance and alignment with shareholders.
The executive directors are also eligible to participate in a Share Incentive Plan and a Save As You Earn Scheme.
The LTIP, approved by shareholders at the 2009 AGM, is structured to reinforce the delivery of strong share price growth and relative stock market out-performance over the long-term.
Under this share-based plan, performance is assessed over a minimum of three years, and over six years once the matching scheme is included.
Vesting is based on a combination of the absolute change in the companys equity value per share and the companys relative Total Shareholder Return TSR share price plus dividends performance against peers and only starts for performance above median.
The Committee considers that these two criteria are an appropriate performance measure for the LTIP because the first captures the absolute return delivered to shareholders and the second measures performance on a relative basis, thereby negating the impact of short-term volatility such as oil price movements.
To optimise the link between reward and performance, the plan has certain safeguards: LTIP awards vest only if the Committee is satisfied that the recorded TSR is reflective of the underlying performance of the company, the amount that participants may receive is subject to a cap at the discretion of the Committee, and LTIP awards are subject to clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the companys financial results, gross misconduct or error in the calculation of the performance conditions.
In assessing the underlying performance of the company the Committee takes into account, amongst other factors, the companys: return on invested capital: reserve replacement: cash flow: earnings per share growth: and health and safety record.
Awards under the LTIP comprise three elements: Equity Pool Awards and Performance Share Awards that each vest after a threeyear performance period, and Matching Awards that vest after a further three-year performance period: Equity Pool Awards vest after three years and are based on a share of a pool which is subject to annualised growth in the companys equity value per share 50 per cent of the vested award is deferred for a further three years: Performance Share Awards vest after three years based on the companys TSR relative to a comparator group of international oil and gas companies 50 per cent of the vested award is deferred for a further three years: and Deferred Equity Pool Awards and Performance Share Awards are eligible for a Matching Award of up to 2.5x the number of shares deferred, vesting after a further three years based on the companys TSR relative to a comparator group of international oil and gas companies.
The illustration below helps to explain the operation of a single cycle under the LTIP: 1 Equity Pool 50% Initial Shares vest Premiers performance based on Half of Initial Shares released to participant growth in the companys equity value per share 3 Share Matching Scheme 2 Performance Shares Reinvest half and receive up to 2.5 additional shares per deferred Premiers TSR performance compared share after three years based on to other oil and gas companies comparative TSR Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Year 5 Year 6 Initial Initial Shares Matching Shares Award calculated based calculated based granted on performance on performance Each component is described in more detail below.
No revisions are planned to the LTIP structure in 2012.
We will undertake a review of our long-term incentives in 2012 to ensure they remain appropriate.
Any changes will relate to awards made in 2013 onwards.
68 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT continued Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP continued Equity Pool Awards At the start of each three-year performance period executive directors are allocated an entitlement to an Equity Pool.
In 2011 the Chief Executive was granted an entitlement to 6 per cent of the LTIP Equity Pool, with other executive directors each granted an entitlement to 4.25 per cent.
The value of the entitlement is then calculated at the end of the performance period based on the final value of the LTIP Equity Pool and is delivered in shares.
50 per cent of the shares are released at the end of the performance period, with the balance deferred for a further three years and eligible for a match under the LTIP Matching Award.
For participants below senior management, the deferral period is restricted to six months, unless the employee elects to extend the deferral period to three years in return for a grant of an LTIP Matching Award.
The value of the LTIP Equity Pool is based on the growth in the companys equity value per share over the performance period.
If the companys compound annualised growth is equal to 10 per cent per annum, 1 per cent of the growth will be credited to the LTIP Equity Pool.
For growth of 20 per cent per annum or more, 2.5 per cent of the gain will be credited.
All employees are eligible to participate in the LTIP Equity Pool.
As of 31 December 2011, only 48 per cent of the 2011 LTIP Equity Pool had been allocated.
Equity Pool funding schedule 2.5% 2.0% 1.5% 1.0% 0.5% 0.0% 10% pa 20% pa Growth in equity value per share At the end of the performance period, the Committee has the discretion to scale back the size of the LTIP Equity Pool if it is not satisfied that the growth in equity value per share is reflective of underlying financial and operational performance.
Furthermore, an individuals entitlement is capped at 100 per cent of salary, subject to the Committees discretion to exceed the cap, potentially up to the full value warranted by the formulaic funding schedule, provided the Committee is satisfied that there has been a long-term underlying improvement in the performance of the company, taking into account the five criteria detailed on page 67.
In particular, the Committee may: increase the cap to 200 per cent of salary for growth in equity value per share of up to 15 per cent per annum, if the formulaic allocation warrants payment above the 100 per cent salary cap: and for growth in equity value per share of more than 15 per cent per annum, permit the full value of the individual entitlement i. e. as if no cap applied if the formulaic allocation warrants payment.
Performance Share Award Each year, executive directors are granted conditional awards of LTIP Performance Shares of up to 125 per cent of salary 150 per cent for the CEO.
Awards vest subject to the companys three-year TSR performance relative to a comparator group of oil and gas companies.
No awards vest if the companys TSR is below median, 25 per cent vest at median and full vesting is at upper quartile.
The oil sector comparators have been selected on the basis of their similarity to Premier with regard to several factors including business mix and geographic location.
At the end of the performance period, the Committee has the discretion to scale back the vesting of LTIP Performance Shares if it is not satisfied that the companys TSR performance is reflective of underlying financial and operational performance, taking into account the five criteria detailed on page 67.
Funding rate % of growth Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 69 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP continued Performance Share Award vesting schedule 100% 75% 50% 25% 0% Median Upper quartile TSR rank 50 per cent of the vested shares are released at the end of the performance period, with the balance deferred for a further three years and eligible for a match under the LTIP Matching Award.
TSR comparator group constituents, by Performance Share Award cycle Company 2009 2010 2011 Company 2009 2010 2011 Afren 333 Medco Energi International 333 AWE 333 Melrose Resources 333 Beach Energy 333 Nexen 333 Cairn Energy 333 Niko Resources 333 Cairn India 333 Noble Energy 333 Calvalley Petroleum 33 Norwegian Energy Co. 333 Carrizo Oil & Gas 333 Oil Search 333 Dana Gas 333 PA Resources 333 Det Norske Oljeselskap 333 Roc Oil 333 DNO International 333 Salamander Energy 333 Endeavour International 333 Santos 333 Maurel et Prom 333 Serica Energy 333 Hardy Oil & Gas 333 SOCO International 333 Heritage Oil 33 Talisman Energy 333 JKX Oil & Gas 333 Tullow Oil 333 Lundin Petroleum 333 Vaalco Energy 333 Percentage of shares which vest 70 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT continued Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP continued Matching Award For executive directors and senior management, 50 per cent of the shares vesting from the LTIP Equity Pool Award and LTIP Performance Share Award are subject to compulsory deferral over three years and are eligible for a potential match of up to 2.5:1 dependent on the TSR performance of the company against the same comparator group used for coterminous LTIP Performance Share Awards.
However, full vesting will occur only if the companys TSR is at or above the upper decile with 25 per cent vesting 0.625:1 at median.
LTIP Matching Award vesting schedule 250% 200% 150% 100% 50% 0% Median Upper decile TSR rank Remuneration in 2011 The table below summarises the component parts of the remuneration package in 2011 including bonuses earned for performance in 2011 and long-term incentive awards.
Remuneration 1 element Details S C Lockett R A Allan A R C Durrant N Hawkings A G Lodge Base salary 500,000 310,000 340,000 310,000 310,000 Annual Maximum opportunity 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 2 bonus Actual paid for 2011 55% 55% 55% 55% 55% % of salary LTIP awards Percentage of Equity Pool Awards, 6.00% 4.25% 4.25% 4.25% 4.25% granted in vesting subject to change in market 2011 capitalisation Performance Performance Share Award, vesting period 1 subject to three-year relative TSR January 2011- Percentage of salary 150% 125% 125% 125% 125% 31 December Number of shares 174,337 90,074 98,791 90,074 90,074 2013 Matching Award opportunity, vesting subject to three-year relative TSR.
Up to 2.5 x 50% of actual vested awards from 2008 Asset and Equity Plan Number of shares 265,860 183,350 195,570 183,350 116,290 Pension Company pension contribution 142,000 101,900 117,700 75,300 96,900 Benefits Including medical insurance, car 22,400 300,200 31,900 21,300 24,100 allowance and subsidised gym membership Notes: 1 Mr R A Allan receives additional benefits relating to his expatriate position in Singapore.
Full details of such benefits are disclosed in the Directors emoluments table on page 73.
2 Executive directors received a total annual bonus award for the year ended 31 December 2011 of 55 per cent of salary, 50 per cent of salary paid as cash with the remaining 5 per cent awarded in deferred shares.
Match Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 71 Remuneration in 2011 continued The 2011 executive director remuneration package comprises several elements, some of which are paid during the year salary and benefits, some of which are earned for the year but paid in the next year annual bonus, some of which are granted during the year but not released until three years later LTIP Performance Shares, LTIP Equity Pool awards and LTIP Matching Shares and some of which are earned for the year but will not benefit the director until retirement pension.
Whilst there is no perfect approach to summarising the value of such a multi-faceted pay package, the summary above is considered by the Committee to be the simplest and most consistent approach for assessing the value of the Premier package.
Shareholding guidelines Formal shareholding guidelines exist which encourage the executive directors and other members of the Executive Committee to retain no less than 50 per cent of the net value of shares vesting under the companys deferred bonus and long-term incentive arrangements, until such time as they have achieved a holding worth 100 per cent of salary 200 per cent for the CEO.
As the graph below shows, all the executive directors hold shares with a value substantially higher than these threshold shareholding requirements.
Shareholdings at 31 December 2011 against share ownership guidelines 1,000% 929% 919% 900% 800% 700% 547% 600% 477% 500% 400% 270% 300% 200% 200% 100% 100% 100% 100% Shareholding guideline 100% Actual holding as % of base salary at 31 December 2011 0% Note: Includes value of Deferred Awards under the annual bonus and Asset and Equity Plan where performance conditions have been achieved and such awards are subject to a holding period.
The value of shareholdings is based on the closing price of a Premier share on 31 December 2011 3.63.
TSR performance The chart below compares the value of 100 invested in Premier shares, including re-invested dividends, on 31 December 2006 compared to the equivalent investment in the FTSE All Share Oil & Gas Producers Index, over the last five financial years.
The FTSE All Share Oil & Gas Producers Index has been chosen as it comprises companies who are exposed to broadly similar risks and opportunities as Premier.
Five-year TSR performance 200 145 150 143 100 50 FTSE All Share Oil & Gas Producers Index Premier 0 This graph looks at the value, by 31 December 2011, of 100 invested in Premier Oil plc five years earlier on 31 December 2006 compared with 100 invested in the FTSE All Share Oil & Gas Producers Index share price growth plus dividends reinvested on ex-div date.
S C Lockett R A Allan A R C Durrant N Hawkings A G Lodge 31 Dec 06 31 Dec 07 31 Dec 08 31 Dec 09 31 Dec 10 31 Dec 11 72 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements REMUNERATION REPORT continued Sourcing of shares and dilution limits Awards under all the companys share schemes may be met using a combination of market purchases, financed by the company through the Premier Oil plc Employee Benefit Trust, and newly-issued shares.
The company complies with the Association of British Insurers recommended guidelines on shareholder dilution through employee share schemes: awards under the groups discretionary schemes which may be satisfied by new issue shares must not exceed 5 per cent of the companys issued share capital in any rolling 10-year period, and the total of all awards satisfied via new issue shares under all plans must not exceed 10 per cent of the companys issued share capital in any rolling 10-year period.
1 As of 31 December 2011, 1,973,998 shares were held by the Employee Benefit Trust 2010: 6,887,880 and the commitments to issue new shares are summarised below: Dilution Percentage Number of shares issued or committed to be issued over 10 years 2011 limit used % New issue shares under AEP, LTIP and ESOS within 5 per cent limit 11,740,108 23,402,991 50.16 As above plus SAYE within 10 per cent limit 12,537,856 46,805,982 26.79 1 Share numbers have been adjusted to reflect the 4:1 share split which took place in May 2011.
Executive directors contracts of service Details of the service contracts of the executive directors of the company are as follows: Unexpired term Potential Director Contract date Notice period of contract termination payment S C Lockett 09.12.03 12 months Rolling contract 12 months salary and benefits R A Allan 09.12.03 12 months Rolling contract 12 months salary and benefits A R C Durrant 01.07.05 12 months Rolling contract 12 months salary and benefits N Hawkings 23.03.06 12 months Rolling contract 12 months salary and benefits A G Lodge 20.04.09 12 months Rolling contract 12 months salary and benefits The service contract of each executive director may be terminated on 12 months notice in writing by either party, in accordance with current market practice.
In such an event, the compensation commitments in respect of their contracts could amount to one years remuneration based on base salary and benefits in kind and pension rights during the notice period.
In line with normal market practice, an individual may receive an annual bonus for the proportion of a financial year worked before cessation of employment but there will be no right to any bonus for any period of notice not worked.
There are provisions for termination with less than 12 months notice by the company in certain circumstances.
If such circumstances were to arise, the executive director concerned would have no claim against the company for damages or any other remedy in respect of the termination.
The Committee would apply general principles of mitigation to any payment made to a departing executive director and would consider each case on an individual basis.
External appointments Executive directors are entitled to accept non-executive appointments outside the company providing that the Boards approval is sought.
As a result of the acquisition of EnCore Oil plc, the company has a 30 per cent interest in Egdon Resources plc Egdon and is entitled to board representation.
Mr Lodge was appointed to the board of Egdon as a non-executive director on 9 March 2012 and will be donating all fees retained to charity.
Non-executive directors Non-executive directors have letters of appointment, which are all effective for a period of three years subject to annual reappointment by the members in General Meeting, all of which have a notice period of three months.
Date of Director appointment letter Notice period Unexpired term M W Welton 23.09.09 3 months 6 months Professor D G Roberts 23.09.09 3 months 6 months J Darby 01.09.10 3 months 17 months I J Hinkley 01.09.10 3 months 17 months D C Lindsell 17.01.11 3 months 21 months M Romieu 17.01.11 3 months 21 months
