PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Report on Directors remuneration Foreword The Remuneration Committee is responsible for overseeing the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Chairman and the operation of senior management incentive schemes throughout the Group.
In designing an appropriate incentive structure, the Committee seeks to set challenging targets aimed at the generation of sustained shareholder value.
For the year ended 31 May 2011 we again focused the annual bonus on performance against three key indicators: profit before tax, net working capital and operating contribution margin.
Despite meeting the net working capital and operating contribution margin targets, the profit before tax target was only partially attained with the result that Executive Directors only qualified for partial bonuses of 18% of basic salary against the 60% available for on-target performance.
This year also saw the testing of the first set of awards made under our long-term incentive scheme.
Over the three year performance period, adjusted earnings per share grew by over 50% representing compound average annual growth of some 11.5% in excess of RPI.
This compares with our original target range of 410% in excess of RPI.
As a result, scheme participants qualified in full for the first set of share awards and these will vest, subject to continued employment, later this year.
During the period, the Committee undertook a comprehensive review of Executive Director remuneration arrangements.
We concluded that, although the overall structure remained effective, remuneration packages had fallen below market competitive levels.
We have therefore made certain changes to improve their market positioning: Salary increase of 6% for 2011 12.
The Committee decided that an overall salary increase of 12% was required but that, in view of the continuing sensitivity over executive pay and the need to show restraint, this should be phased in over two years.
The first 6% is effective from 1 September 2011 with the balance expected to become effective from 1 September 2012 if still considered appropriate at that time.
Increase in maximum bonus opportunity from 80% to 100% of salary.
This will take effect for the financial year commencing 1 June 2011.
The increased bonus opportunity will only be available for superior performance, with the bonus opportunity for on-target performance remaining at 60% of salary.
The Committee believes that these changes are in the best interests of the Company and that the overall packages still represent an appropriate and responsible approach to executive remuneration.
We remain committed to ongoing dialogue with our shareholders and take an active interest in your views and voting on the remuneration report.
James Steel Chairman of Remuneration Committee Introduction This report on Directors remuneration has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and satisfies the requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
A resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
The information on pages 40 to 42 relating to Directors interests in shares under incentive arrangements, remuneration during the year ended 31 May 2011 and Directors pension benefits constitutes audited information.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for Executive Directors.
The Committee is also responsible for determining within such policy the remuneration packages of individual Executive Directors, the Chairman and the Company Secretary and for approving the design and operation of all incentive schemes for the Executive Directors and senior management.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and met on five occasions during the year ended 31 May 2011.
The Committees current Terms of Reference, which are reviewed annually and were last revised in January 2011, are available on the Companys website www.
The members of the Committee during the year were Mr Steel Committee Chairman, Professor Arnold, Mr Heale and Mr Lewis.
Each is a Non-executive Director of the Company and all are independent of management and have no conflicts of interest or any day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors with the exception of Mr Harvey as Non-executive Chairman is determined by the Board of Directors.
No Director is involved in any decisions on the level and composition of his own remuneration.
36 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The Committee was advised generally in relation to Directors remuneration during the year by Deloitte LLP.
Deloitte LLP has also provided tax advisory services to the Group in relation to the establishment of the Groups Beauty Division.
During the year, the Committee consulted Mr Harvey in his capacity as Chairman on issues where his experience and knowledge have been of benefit to its deliberations and Mr Harvey attended meetings by invitation.
The Chief Executive has also been consulted on proposals relating to the remuneration of members of the Groups senior management team and he too attended meetings by invitation.
Neither Mr Harvey nor the Chief Executive attend when the matters under consideration concern their own personal remuneration.
The Global HR Director also attended meetings by invitation.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee and attends Committee meetings save where his own remuneration is under consideration.
Policy on Executive Directors remuneration The Groups policy is that the remuneration arrangements for Executive Directors should: be sufficient to recruit, motivate and retain executives of the calibre required: be aligned with the enhancement of sustainable shareholder value: provide a competitive level of remuneration against companies of similar size and complexity: be structured such that an appropriate proportion of the remuneration package links reward to corporate and individual performance over the short, medium and long-term: and recognise the long-term ambitions of and risks inherent to the Company.
The principal elements of each Executive Directors remuneration package comprise: basic salary and benefits: pension benefits: participation in an annual bonus scheme: and participation in the PZ Cussons Plc Performance Share Plan the Performance Share Plan.
In designing an appropriate incentive structure for the Executive Directors and other senior management, the Committee seeks to set challenging performance criteria which are aligned with the Groups business strategy and the enhancement of sustained shareholder value.
The Committee is also mindful of the need to avoid inadvertently encouraging risky or irresponsible behaviour including behaviour which could raise environmental, social or governance issues.
The Committee receives updates from the Global HR Director on pay and employment conditions applying to other Group employees: these are taken into consideration when setting Executive Directors remuneration, consistent with the Groups general aim of seeking to reward all employees fairly according to the nature of their role, their performance and market forces.
Balance of fixed versus variable remuneration The Committee believes that an appropriate proportion of the executive remuneration package should be variable and performance-related in order to encourage and reward superior corporate and individual performance.
The following chart illustrates the balance between fixed and variable remuneration for Executive Directors, based on the policy for 2011 12: Target 49% 10% 29% 12% Maximum 31.3% 6% 31.3% 31.3% Salary Pension Bonus Performance Share Plan Basic salary and benefits Executive Directors salaries are normally reviewed annually to ensure the ongoing effectiveness of remuneration arrangements.
Reviews take account of various factors including individual performance, remuneration levels in companies of similar size and complexity and pay conditions elsewhere in the Group.
37 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Report on Directors remuneration continued During 2011, the Committee undertook a comprehensive benchmarking review with advice and assistance from Deloitte LLP.
The review indicated that Executive Directors remuneration packages had fallen below market competitive levels.
As a result, and following consultation with major shareholders, the Committee decided that certain changes were required, including an overall salary increase of 12%, to restore the packages to broadly market competitive levels.
Recognising the continuing sensitivity over executive pay and the need for restraint however, the Committee determined that the salary increase should be phased in over two years.
The first 6% will be effective from 1 September 2011 with the balance expected to become effective from 1 September 2012 if still considered appropriate at that time.
Details of the Executive Directors revised salaries which will be effective from 1 September 2011 are set out in the notes to the table on Directors remuneration on page 41.
Taxable benefits, which are subject to periodic review, include life assurance, health insurance and car benefits.
Pension benefits Since 1 June 2008 Executive Directors have participated in a defined contribution pension scheme under which the Group pays a contribution of 20% of salary into the scheme on their behalf subject to a minimum employee contribution of 5% of salary.
Executive Directors whose pension benefits have exceeded or are forecast to exceed the annual or life time allowances are eligible, at the discretion of the Committee, to receive a cash payment of 20% of salary in lieu of employer pension contributions.
Up to 31 May 2008 Executive Directors participated in a defined benefit pension scheme which provided benefits of up to two thirds of final salary subject to a scheme-specific earnings cap.
With effect from 1 June 2008 no further benefits accrue under the defined benefit scheme although the benefits payable will remain linked to salary until 31 May 2013 in line with arrangements pertaining to all members of the scheme when it was closed to future accrual.
Further detail on Executive Directors benefits under the defined benefit pension scheme are set out in the table on page 42.
Annual bonus scheme Executive Directors and key senior executives are generally eligible to participate in an annual bonus scheme.
In respect of the year ended 31 May 2011, each of the Executive Directors participated in the Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme, pursuant to which they were eligible to earn a cash bonus linked to performance targets established by the Committee.
For the year ended 31 May 2011, Executive Directors could receive a bonus of up to 80% of basic salary with 60% of salary payable at target dependent upon the achievement of profit before taxation, net working capital and operating contribution margin targets.
These targets and bonus levels were established at the beginning of the year: no changes were made during the year.
Bonuses awarded in respect of the achievement of targets for the year ended 31 May 2011 are included in the table on Directors remuneration on page 41.
Each of the Executive Directors will continue to participate in the Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme in respect of the year ending 31 May 2012.
The eligibility of the Executive Directors to earn a cash bonus in respect of that period will remain dependent upon the achievement of certain profit before taxation, net working capital and operating contribution margin targets for the Group.
The review of Executive Director remuneration arrangements conducted during the year by Deloitte LLP indicated that the overall incentive opportunity for the Executive Directors as a percentage of basic salary was significantly below the market median.
As a result, and following consultation with leading shareholders, the Committee increased the maximum bonus opportunity for each of the Executive Directors from 80% to 100% of basic salary in respect of the year ending 31 May 2012.
No change has been made to the bonus opportunity for on-target performance which remains at 60% of salary.
The Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme was introduced with effect from 1 June 2010 and replaced an earlier Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme.
Under that earlier scheme, awards of deferred shares were made to Executive Directors following the attainment of pre-determined annual financial targets.
Vesting of such deferred shares was then subject to three years continuing employment.
During the year ended 31 May 2011 each Executive Director received certain shares which had been the subject of earlier deferred share awards in respect of performance for the year ended 31 May 2007 each having satisfied the condition that he complete three years of continuing employment from the date of grant of the award.
Sufficient shares to satisfy deferred share awards are generally purchased in the market and retained in an employee benefit trust pending their transfer to participants.
Further details regarding the employee benefit trust are given in note 25 of the consolidated financial statements.
The original and revised maximum bonus opportunity available under the Senior Executive Annual Bonus Scheme may be exceeded in exceptional cases at the discretion of the Committee.
The maximum bonus opportunity was not exceeded during the year ended 31 May 2011.
38 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Performance share plan Executive Directors and certain key executives are also generally eligible to participate in the performance share plan which provides for the grant of conditional rights to receive shares subject to continued employment over a three year vesting period and the satisfaction of certain performance criteria established by the Committee.
Annual awards to any participant are limited to rights over shares with a market value at the time of grant equal to 100% of basic salary.
During the year ended 31 May 2011 awards were made to the Executive Directors over shares with a value equal to 100% of basic salary.
These awards are subject to adjusted earnings per share growth targets measured over the single three year performance period commencing on 1 June 2010.
The Committee considers adjusted earnings per share to be an important indicator of the Companys underlying financial performance providing a clear line of sight for executives between their performance and potential reward.
Further details of these performance conditions are set out in the notes to the table setting out Directors interests in shares under incentive arrangements on page 40.
The Committee intends to make further awards to Executive Directors on the same basis during the year ending 31 May 2012.
Such awards are expected to be subject to similar performance targets measured over a three year performance period commencing on 1 June 2011.
Executive share option scheme Prior to the adoption by the Company of the performance share plan in 2008, Executive Directors and certain other senior executives were generally eligible for the grant of options under the PZ Cussons Plc Executive Share Option Scheme.
There have been no grants of options under the executive share option scheme during the year ended 31 May 2011 and it is not expected that any further awards will be made under this scheme: any future share based incentive awards are expected to be made instead under the performance share plan.
All other options granted under the executive share option scheme have now either vested and are capable of exercise or have lapsed.
Limits on shares issued to satisfy share incentive plans The Companys share incentive plans may operate over new issued Ordinary Shares, treasury shares or Ordinary Shares purchased in the market.
In relation to all the Companys share incentive plans, the Company may not, in any 10 year period, issue or grant rights requiring the issue of more than 10% of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company to satisfy awards to participants nor more than 5% of the issued Ordinary Share capital for executive share plans.
Shareholding guidelines for Directors The Committee has established shareholding ownership guidelines which require Executive Directors: to build up and retain holdings of shares and deferred shares net of tax worth 150% of salary from time to time: and until this share ownership threshold is met, to invest 50% of their after-tax bonus into the Companys shares.
They are also required to retain shares with a value equal to 50% of the net gain after tax arising from the acquisition of shares pursuant to any of the Companys share incentive plans, again until the share ownership threshold is met.
All Executive Directors have complied with the above guidelines in respect of the year ended 31 May 2011.
Mr Harvey is also required under his letter of appointment to invest 20% of his fees each year in the purchase of shares in the Company and to retain such shares during the term of his appointment.
Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors fees are generally reviewed every two years on 1 July and, as reported in the Report on Directors Remuneration for the year ended 31 May 2010, the annual fees in respect of Mr Lewis, Professor Arnold, Mr Steel and Mr Heale were revised with effect from 1 July 2010.
There have been no further changes in the fees payable during the year.
Details of the fees paid during the period are set out in the table on Directors remuneration on page 41.
This percentage may be increased to 150% in exceptional cases at the discretion of the Committee.
All awards have now vested and are capable of exercise.
2 Awarded under the PZ Cussons Performance Share Plan.
The vesting of each award is dependent upon the extent to which an adjusted earnings per share growth target is achieved over a single three year performance period.
No proportion of an award may vest unless the Companys adjusted earnings per share grows on average by at least RPI 4% per annum compounded over the relevant performance period.
25% of the award will vest where adjusted earnings per share grows on average by RPI 4% per annum rising on a straight-line pro rata basis to 100% vesting where adjusted earnings per share grows on average by RPI 10% per annum or better compounded over the performance period.
Where awards vest, participants will also receive a payment in cash and or shares as determined by the Remuneration Committee on or shortly following vesting of an amount equivalent to the dividends which would have been paid on those shares between the time when the awards were granted and the time when they vest.
The performance conditions relating to the awards made in 2008 in respect of the three years ended 31 May 2011 have been wholly attained and the shares over which the awards were made will accordingly be transferred to participants on the third anniversary of the award on 1 October 2011 subject only to their continuing employment at that time.
3 Awarded under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme following the attainment of pre-determined financial targets.
Deferred shares will normally be received by participants following, and conditional only upon, three years of continuing employment from the date of the grant of the award.
The aggregate gross gains made by the Directors on the exercise of share options during the year were 734,132.
The gains are calculated based on the market price at the date of exercise for share options although the shares may have been retained and no gain realised.
The market value of the Companys shares at 31 May 2011 was 3.64 per share.
The range during the year was 2.88 to 4.09.
40 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Performance graph The graph below illustrates the performance of PZ Cussons Plc measured by Total Shareholder Return TSR over the five year period to 31 May 2011 against the TSR of a holding of shares in the FTSE 250 index over the same period, based on an initial investment of 100.
The FTSE 250 index has been chosen as PZ Cussons Plc is a constituent of that index.
At the start of the period, the Committee established the following bonus levels and performance targets: i a bonus of 36% of salary accrued on achieving target adjusted profit before tax Target PBT of which 3.6% of salary accrued on achieving 90% of Target PBT rising pro rata to 36% of salary for achieving 100% of Target PBT rising to a maximum bonus of 56% of salary accrued on achieving 110% of Target PBT, ii subject to achieving Target PBT, a bonus of 15% of salary for achieving a monthly average net working capital to sales ratio target and iii subject again to achieving Target PBT, a bonus of 9% of salary for achieving an operating contribution to sales ratio target.
Each Executive Director participant qualified for a total bonus equivalent to 18% of salary reflecting the partial achievement of the Target PBT element of the bonus only.
2 With effect from 1 June 2008, the Executive Directors became eligible for membership of the Companys new defined contribution pension arrangement.
Contributions to the defined contribution pension arrangement paid by the Company but not those paid by the Directors themselves are included in the amounts shown above.
Each of the Executive Directors has subsequently elected, with the permission of the Committee, to receive instead a salary supplement equivalent to 20% of base salary and these amounts are also included in the column headed Pension Contributions.
3 In addition to the above, Executive Directors received the following cash payments during the year in lieu of dividends on past awards of deferred shares made under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme which have not yet vested: Mr Kanellis: 11,254: Mr Davis: 6,867: Mr Leigh: 6,969: and Mr Pantelireis: 6,326.
4 As reported on page 38 above, the annual salaries of the Executive Directors will be revised with effect from 1 September 2011.
The following annual salaries will apply: Mr Kanellis: 480,000: Mr Davis: 305,000: Mr Leigh: 300,000: and Mr Pantelireis: 261,500.
5 Mr Green retired from the Board and as an employee on 1 July 2010.
The taxable benefits in respect of Mr Green include amounts in lieu of notice and untaken holiday.
6 Mr Harvey receives annual fees of 250,000 subject to a requirement to reinvest 20% of such fees each year in the purchase of shares in the Company and to retain such shares during the term of his appointment.
41 PZ Cussons Plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Report on Directors remuneration continued Directors pension benefits The following Executive Directors were members of the defined benefit pension arrangements provided by the Company.
All of these defined benefit plans were closed to future accrual on 31 May 2008 and replaced by defined contribution arrangements.
Benefits built up in the defined benefit plans will continue to receive a salary link until 31 May 2013, or the date that each Director leaves employment with the Company if sooner.
The pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values below relate solely to the defined benefit arrangements.
Gross Increase Value of net Value of Value of Total increase in accrued Total accrued increase in accrued accrued change in in accrued pension net pension at pension over pension at pension at value during pension of inflation a 31 May 2011 period b 31 May 2010 31 May 2011 period c pa pa pa A J Green Nil Nil 208,250 Nil 4,797,000 5,406,000 609,000 G A Kanellis 12,416 116 288,333 1,700 3,529,000 4,344,000 815,000 C G Davis 1,000 9 23,153 200 327,000 399,000 72,000 B H Leigh 4,354 41 101,104 500 999,000 1,252,000 253,000 J Pantelireis 5,653 73 130,822 1,700 2,501,000 2,979,000 478,000 Notes: 1 Accrued pensions shown are the amounts which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the plan closure date 31 May 2008 and pensionable salaries at 31 May 2011 or retirement in the case of Mr Green.
2 Transfer values relating to benefits accrued in the Directors and expatriate pension plans have been calculated in accordance with the method and basis determined by the Trustee of each plan, on the advice of its Actuary, to be consistent with current legislation and the rules of the plans.
Transfer values relating to unfunded pension benefits see note 6 have been calculated using a method and basis consistent with those used for the funded plans.
3 The value of net increase b represents the incremental value to the Director of his increase in pension over the year, calculated on the assumption that he left employment with the Company at the year-end.
It is based on the accrued pension increase a.
Where a nil value is shown, this indicates that the increase in pension entitlement was less than inflation over the relevant period.
4 The change in the transfer value c includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and Directors, such as gilt yield movements.
The above figures are based on the change to Mr Greens accrued benefits between 31 May 2010 and 1 July 2010, but are valued using his age at 31 May 2011.
On retirement Mr Green received an annual pension of 171,131 p. a. and a cash lump sum of 450,000 from the defined benefit pension arrangements.
In addition, Mr Green received a lump sum from the defined contribution arrangement of 134,243 before the Lifetime Allowance Charge.
6 The Company provides unfunded, unapproved pension benefits for Messrs Leigh and Davis as their benefits would have been subject to the Inland Revenue earnings cap, introduced by the Finance Act 1989 had the earnings cap not been abolished by the Finance Act 2004.
The funded benefits payable to these Directors remain subject to a scheme specific earnings cap, which increases each year and is calculated in a similar manner to the abolished statutory earnings cap.
The above figures include both the funded and unfunded pension benefits.
7 Messrs Pantelireis and Kanellis are former members of the expatriate pension scheme operated by the Company and additional benefits are provided through that scheme, as their benefits would have been subject to the Inland Revenue earnings cap, introduced by the Finance Act 1989 had the earnings cap not been abolished by the Finance Act 2004.
The above figures are inclusive of the expatriate pension scheme benefits.
8 The Company operates a defined contribution pension arrangement for current service.
Details of contributions paid to this arrangement during the year by the Company are set out in the table on Directors remuneration on page 41.
9 Voluntary contributions paid by Directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
Service contracts Executive Directors have one year rolling service contracts.
No Executive Director, including those proposed for re-election, has a service contract with a notice period in excess of one year or containing any provision for pre-determined compensation on termination exceeding one years salary and benefits in kind.
Non-executive Directors do not have service contracts but are appointed for initial periods of three years, normally renewable on a similar basis.
The present letters of appointment for Mr Lewis, Mr Steel, Professor Arnold, Mr Heale and Mr Harvey will expire on 31 May 2013, 30 September 2011, 31 December 2012, 31 December 2013 and 31 December 2012 respectively.
By order of the Board of Directors James Steel Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 26 July 2011 42
