Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December 2011 Dear Shareholder It has been another good year for Randgold.
Despite some challenges, we have increased production, group profit for the year has grown by 259% and the cash on the balance sheet has increased by a third despite significant capital investment.
The final dividend we are proposing is double last years.
We have also delivered an absolute return over the year of 25% to our shareholders and outperformed the HSBC Global Gold Index by 41% over the same period.
If we look at our longer term performance, the company has outperformed the FTSE 100, the FTSE 350 and the HSBC Global Gold Index over the last five years.
An investment of 100 in Randgold shares on 1 January 2007 would have resulted in a shareholding worth 559 on 31 December 2011, compared with 108 in the FTSE 100 and 107 in the FTSE 350.
An investment of US$100 in Randgold shares on 1 January 2007 would have been worth US$441 on 31 December 2011 compared with US$136 in the HSBC Global Gold Index.
Our remuneration policy has always been based on the objective of linking pay and long term value creation something we believe is reflected in our long term outperformance over the past decade.
We have engaged extensively during the year with our largest institutional shareholders and the voting guidance services on pay and have made various changes to reflect their views.
We recognise the compliance requirements of norborne p cole Jr our shareholders and have taken account of these in our Remuneration Report.
Chairman, Remuneration committee This report sets out our remuneration policy for directors.
It also comments on the approach to remuneration for other senior executives.
Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 125 Remuneration Report continued The principal points to note are as follows: A phased reduction in the proportion of Co-Investment Plan The remuneration committee recognises the outstanding shares that vest for threshold performance from 0.5 for 1 for awards made in 2011 to 0.4 for 1 for awards made in 2012 contribution made by the chief executive officer CEO and and to 0.3 for 1 for awards made in 2013. the companys significant outperformance over the long term.
The annual share awards made to the chairman and the nonThe medium and long term remuneration plans, approved executive directors shall, from 2012 onwards, vest in full on by the shareholders last year, are designed to reward such grant.
The minimum share ownership requirement for the outperformance and delivery of shareholder value.
The CEO chairman and the non-executive directors has also been has agreed with the remuneration committee that his base doubled to US$100 000. pay will again remain unchanged this year.
In addition, the CEOs overall remuneration is weighted towards long term The remuneration committee of the board of directors takes the rather than short term pay and towards variable rather than view that the executive directors have delivered value for money fixed pay which provides strong alignment with the interests in respect of their pay.
When we look at the cumulative value they of shareholders.
have realised in total pay terms in each for the last five years it The chief financial officers CFO base salary has been amounts in total to 0.64% of the value that has been created for increased from 390 000 to 429 000 with effect from shareholders.
In the last three years it amounts to 0.54% and in 1 January 2012 an increase of 10% of base salary.
annual target bonus has also been increased from 75% to 100% of base salary and the maximum opportunity from Note that the Remuneration Report has been prepared by the 150% to 200% of base salary.
These changes have been remuneration committee and has been approved by the board made in the light of his experience and contribution to the for the year ended 31 December 2011 in accordance with the company as well as in the context of pay for equivalent roles relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services in his peer group and the industry.
Although it is not a requirement of Jersey company Having already extended the Restricted Share Scheme to law, the report complies with Schedule 8 of the UK Large and executives in the company below board level, the committee Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports is examining extending the Co-Investment Plan to executives Regulations 2008. below board level, to further enhance the link between pay and long term value creation, again recognising the significant We look forward to a continuing dialogue with our largest value that the executive team as a whole has created over the institutional shareholders on both the business and what we need years.
to do in respect of remuneration for our executive directors.
Yours sincerely norborne p cole Jr Chairman, Remuneration committee 126 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011
