Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 63 Directors remuneration report Introduction from Remuneration Remuneration Committee 64 Constitution and terms of reference Committee Chairman Executive directors During 2011, awards granted under the 2008-10 cycle of the 64 Remuneration philosophy and policy Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS and the Long-Term 66 The total remuneration package Incentive Plan LTIP lapsed for executive directors as a result 73 Service contracts of performance conditions not being met.
ESOS and LTIP awards granted under the 2009-11 cycle of these plans also lapsed Non-executive directors for executive directors prior to the date of this Report for the 74 Policy on non-executive directors fees same reasons.
During the year, the executive directors were eligible to participate Total Shareholder Return graphs in the Bonus Investment Plan BIP and took full advantage of the 75 Total Shareholder Return graphs investment opportunity available to them.
In addition, grants of market value options with a face value of 150% of base salary Remuneration and share tables half of the permitted maximum were made during 2011 under 75 Directors emoluments and fees ESOS to the executive directors.
76 Directors shareholdings in Reed Elsevier 77 Share-based awards in Reed Elsevier No new multi-year incentives were introduced for executive directors in 2011.
The executive directors were not eligible for The Directors Remuneration Report the Report describes further awards under the Reed Elsevier Growth Plan REGP how Reed Elsevier applies the principles of good governance and did not receive any other multi-year incentive awards.
This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee of Reed Elsevier The Committee decided to award the executive directors a salary Group plc the Committee in accordance with regulations increase of 2.5% each effective 1 January 2012.
This level of made under the Companies Act 2006 and the Dutch Corporate increase is in line with 2012 increases applicable to the wider Governance Code the Dutch Code.
employee population and other senior executives.
The Report was approved by the Boards of Reed Elsevier Group Annual bonuses payable for 2011 to the executive directors were plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and will be close to target reflecting good progress in the business during submitted to shareholders for an advisory vote at the Annual the year.
General Meeting of Reed Elsevier PLC.
We previously indicated to shareholders that we intend to come back in due course with proposals for the implementation of a The audited parts of the Report more regular, annual, LTIP for executive directors from 2013 In compliance with the Large and Medium-sized Companies onwards in relation to which initial discussions and work and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, and commenced in the second part of 2011.
This work will continue in under Title 9, Book 2 of the Civil Code in the Netherlands, the 2012 with a view to drawing up proposals for discussion with following elements of this Report have been audited: the table shareholders ahead of the 2013 AGMs.
entitled Transfer values of accrued pension benefits on page 73: the tables showing Aggregate emoluments and Individual During the year, Reed Elsevier announced that Mark Armour will fees of non-executive directors on pages 75 and 76: the tables retire on 31 December 2012.
The terms and conditions which will on Individual emoluments of executive directors and apply in relation to the retirement are summarised on page 74 of Directors shareholdings in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed this Report.
Elsevier NV on page 76: and the section Share-based awards Our approach to preparing this Report has been to meet the in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV on pages 77 and 78. highest standards of disclosure, balancing in a thoughtful and responsible manner the UK legislative requirements with best practice guidelines on disclosure in the Netherlands.
In preparing this Report, the Committee had regard to the approach adopted by other large global businesses subject to disclosure requirements in more than one jurisdiction.
As in prior years, our aim has been to produce a clear, informative and understandable report.
Mark Elliott Chairman, Remuneration Committee 57096 SAS p063-079.
indd 63 08 03 2012 10:54 govERNaNCE 64 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT General Remuneration Committee to review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the Constitution remuneration policy, in particular the performance-related Throughout 2011, the Committee consisted of independent elements and their compatibility with risk policies and non-executive directors, as defined by the UK Corporate systems: Governance Code and the Dutch Code, and the Chairman of Reed to review and recommend amendments to the rules of all Elsevier Group plc.
Details of Committee members and meeting share-based incentive plans including the formulation of attendance are contained in the section on Structure and suitable performance conditions for share based awards and corporate governance on page 58 of the Annual Reports.
The options, and where necessary, to submit them for approval Company Secretary also attends the meetings in his capacity as by shareholders: secretary to the Committee.
At the invitation of the Committee Chairman, the CEO of Reed Elsevier Group plc attends appropriate to maintain an open and ongoing dialogue with institutional parts of the meetings.
The CEO of Reed Elsevier Group plc is not in investors on major remuneration policy issues: and attendance during discussions pertaining to his remuneration.
to discharge its duties with due regard to any published The Global Human Resources Director provided material advice corporate governance guidelines, codes or recommendations to the Committee during the year.
regarding the remuneration of directors of listed companies and formation and operation of share schemes which the advisers Committee considers relevant or appropriate including, but Towers Watson acted as external advisers to the Committee not limited to, the UK and Dutch Corporate Governance Codes.
throughout 2011 and also provided market data and data analysis.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Committee can be found on Towers Watson also provided actuarial and other human the Reed Elsevier website, www.
resources consultancy services directly to some Reed Elsevier companies.
The individual consultants involved in advising the Committee do Executive directors not provide advice to the executive directors or act on their behalf.
Remuneration philosophy and policy The context for Reed Elseviers remuneration policy and practices Terms of reference is set by the needs of a global business with business areas that The Committee reviewed its terms of reference prior to the date of operate internationally by line of business.
Furthermore, Reed this Report in the context of the UK Corporate Governance Code, Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NVs respective stock market applicable legislation and current practice and guidance which listings in London and Amsterdam combined with the majority of resulted in a number of minor amendments.
The revised terms of its employees being based in the US provides a particular set of reference describe the Committees responsibilities as follows: challenges in the design and operation of remuneration policy.
Executive directors to establish the remuneration policy for the executive directors our remuneration philosophy and determine the remuneration in all its forms including Reed Elseviers guiding remuneration philosophy for senior pensions and share plan participation, the terms of the service executives is based on the following precepts: contracts and all other terms and conditions of employment Performance-related compensation with demanding of the executive directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc and performance standards.
Reed Elsevier PLC and on the advice of the Chairman the remuneration terms of the CEO with respect to Reed Elsevier Creation of shareholder value.
NV, the Committee recommends to the Supervisory Board the Competitive remuneration opportunity to attract and retain the remuneration policy and the remuneration in all its forms for best executive talent from anywhere in the world.
the CEO and other executive directors : and A balanced mix of remuneration between fixed and variable approve any compensation or termination payments made elements, and annual and longer term performance.
to executive directors of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Reed Elsevier PLC.
Aligning the interests of executive directors with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Senior management on the advice of the Chief Executive Officer, to approve the our remuneration policy remuneration policy of other senior leaders and of the In line with this guiding philosophy our remuneration policy is Company Secretary: and described below.
to monitor the level and structure of remuneration for this Reed Elsevier aims to provide a total remuneration package group of executives.
that is able to attract and retain the best executive talent from Reed Elsevier Chairman anywhere in the world, at an appropriate level of cost.
on the advice of the Senior Independent Director, to determine the remuneration of the Reed Elsevier Chairman with respect to Reed Elsevier NV, to recommend, on advice of the Senior Independent Director, to the Combined Board the Chairmans remuneration in respect of his Chairmanship of Reed Elsevier NV.
indd 64 08 03 2012 09:09 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 65 In reaching decisions on executive remuneration, the Committee takes into account the remuneration arrangements and levels of increase applicable to senior management and 20% Fixed pay elements 30% Reed Elsevier employees generally.
Salary The Committee considers the social, governance, and Pensions and environmental implications of its decisions, particularly when other benets setting and assessing performance objectives and targets, and seeks to ensure that incentives are consistent with the 50% Variable pay elements 70% 10% appropriate management of risk.
Annual incentive Multi-year incentives Total targeted remuneration of senior executives will be competitive with that of executives in similar positions in comparable companies, which includes global sector peers 20% and companies of similar scale and international complexity.
Competitiveness is assessed in terms of total remuneration i. e. salary, annual and multi-year incentives and benefits.
To illustrate how our levels of compensation are driven by The intention is to provide total remuneration that reflects business performance we have produced the chart below scale sustained individual and business performance: i. e. median in percent of base salary.
This shows the way in which annual performance will be rewarded by total remuneration that is remuneration payable to an executive director would vary under positioned around the median of relevant market data and different performance scenarios.
For the purposes of this upper quartile performance by upper quartile total illustration assumptions have been made in relation to vesting remuneration.
payout levels at the different levels of performance.
The Committee will consider all available discretion to claw back any payouts made on the basis of materially misstated 700% data.
With effect from 2009, the rules of all incentive plans were amended to provide for specific provisions in this regard.
600% The Committee considers it important to encourage personal 500% investment and ongoing holding of Reed Elsevier PLC and or 400% Reed Elsevier NV securities among the senior executive population.
Executive directors and other senior executives 300% are subject to minimum shareholding requirements.
200% How the performance measures in the incentives link to our 100% business strategy 0% Our annual incentive plan is focused on operational excellence as Minimum Threshold Target Maximum measured by the financial measures of revenue, profit and cash Salary Annual incentive Multi-year incentives generation.
In addition, a significant portion of the annual bonus is dependent upon the achievement of annual key performance our approach to market positioning and benchmarking objectives KPOs that create a platform for sustainable future The market competitiveness of total remuneration i. e. salary, performance.
These KPOs align with Reed Elseviers strategic annual and multi-year incentives and benefits is assessed against plans and range from the delivery of specific projects and the a range of relevant comparator groups as follows: achievement of customer metrics or efficiency targets to corporate and social responsibility objectives.
Global peers operating in businesses similar to those of Reed Elsevier including Thomson Reuters, WPP, Pearson, The Committee believes that one of the main drivers of long John Wiley, Wolters Kluwer, Dun & Bradstreet, Experian, term shareholder value is sustained growth in profitability, McGraw-Hill, UBM, DMGT, Informa, Lagardre and FICO.
underpinned by appropriate capital discipline.
Therefore growth in earnings per share and targeted return on invested capital are Companies listed on the London Stock Exchange crossboth utilised in our multi-year incentives.
industry but excluding those in the financial services sector of a similar size measured by aggregate market capitalisation The balance between fixed and performance-related pay and international scope.
We aim to provide each executive director with an annual total Companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange remuneration package comprising fixed and variable pay with the cross-industry but excluding those in the financial services majority of an executive directors total remuneration package sector of a similar size measured by aggregate market linked to performance.
At target performance, incentive pay capitalisation and international scope.
makes up approximately 70% of the total remuneration package as shown in the pie chart.
The core components of the total Companies listed on the Amsterdam Stock Exchange, remuneration package are described in detail in the remainder cross-industry and of a similar size measured by aggregate of this Report.
market capitalisation and international scope.
indd 65 08 03 2012 09:09 govERNaNCE 66 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The composition of the respective comparator groups is subject The Committee then considers market data and benchmarks to minor changes year on year reflecting changes in the size, for the different elements of the package including salary, international scope and listing status of specific companies during total annual cash and total remuneration.
benchmark information is a meaningful input to the process, they inform rather than drive the outcome of the review.
The competitiveness of our remuneration packages is assessed by the Committee as part of the annual review cycle for pay and If it is determined that a total remuneration competitive gap performance, in line with the process set out below.
exists, the Committee believes that this should be addressed via a review of performance-linked compensation elements First, the overall competitiveness of the total remuneration in the first instance.
packages is assessed both against the market and taking account of remuneration levels within Reed Elsevier more Benefits, including medical and retirement benefits, are widely.
The appropriate positioning of an individuals total positioned to reflect local country practice.
remuneration against the market is determined based on the Committees judgement of individual performance and potential.
The total remuneration package Each element of the remuneration package for executive directors is designed to achieve specific objectives, as described in this section.
In aggregate, they create a unified and balanced reward mix and competitive employment proposition.
The value of the reward package is only maximised through the integrated delivery of annual and longer term performance.
Reward for the delivery of business results is connected with reward for value flowing to shareholders.
Through the use of a range of performance metrics such as earnings per share, return on invested capital, profit after tax, revenue, cash flow conversion rate and total shareholder return and the assessment of performance over multiple time-horizons, the incentive arrangements are structured in such a way that reward cannot be maximised through inappropriate short term risk-taking.
The table below summarises the component parts of the remuneration package provided to the executive directors during 2011.
This includes the bonuses earned for performance during 2011, payouts received from and awards granted under the multi-year incentives during the year.
Component Erik Engstrom Mark armour Base salary page 67 1,025,000 628,776 Retirement benefits UK defined benefit plan UK defined benefit plan page 72 other benefits Includes company car or Includes company car or cash allowance and private cash allowance and private medical benefit medical benefit annual incentive page 67 1,021,925 611,799 earned for 2011 and payable in March 2012 Multi-year ESOS Market value options over Market value options over incentives granted 139,146 PLC and 92,953 NV 85,358 PLC and 57,021 NV page 68 ordinary shares ordinary shares BIP 61,176 NV ADRs 56,876 PLC and 37,687 NV ordinary shares Mul ti-year LTIP Lapsed Lapsed incentives vested ESOS Lapsed Lapsed 200810 cycle Shareholding requirement 300% of salary 200% of salary page 72 Policy in relation to the individual remuneration elements is described in greater detail in the remainder of this section.
indd 66 08 03 2012 09:09 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 67 The KPOs are individual to each executive director.
Each executive Base salary director is set up to six KPOs to reflect critical business priorities Salary reflects the role and the sustained value of the executive for which he is accountable.
The KPO component for the executive in terms of skills, experience and contribution in the context of directors and other senior executives will contain at least one KPO the relevant market.
relating to the achievement of specific sustainability objectives and targets contained within Reed Elseviers corporate Salaries for executive directors are reviewed annually in the responsibility agenda.
context of the competitiveness of total remuneration and Reed Against each objective, measurable milestone targets are set Elseviers guidelines for wages and salaries agreed for the whole for the year.
All financial targets and KPOs are approved by the of Reed Elsevier for the forthcoming financial year.
Any increases Committee and are subject to formal assessment at the end of typically take effect on 1 January.
The Chairman of Reed Elsevier Group plc presents his The Committee decided to award a salary increase of 2.5% to each assessment of performance against KPOs for the CEO of Reed executive director which increased base salaries with effect from Elsevier Group plc to the Committee while the CEO of Reed Elsevier 1January 2012 to 1,050,625 for Erik Engstrom and 644,495 for Group plc presents his assessment of KPO performance for the Mark Armour.
In determining the salary recommendation for CFO of Reed Elsevier Group plc.
The Committee then discusses executive directors, the Committee considered, among other and agrees the final KPO score for each executive director.
inputs, 2012 salary guidance for Reed Elseviers most significant employee locations globally.
The salary recommendations for the aIP payments for 2011 executive directors are within the guidelines agreed for those In assessing the level of bonus payments for 2011, the Committee employees in respect of 2012 increases.
noted the following performances: In respect of salaries for the broader employee population, Reed % change over 2010 at constant exchange rates Elsevier uses the same factors to determine the levels of increase Underlying Total adjusted across all employee populations globally: i. e. relevant pay market, revenue growth PAT skills, experience and contribution.
Reed Elsevier operates across Reed Elsevier 2% 6% many diverse countries in terms of their remuneration structures and practices.
Any increases awarded to different employee Reed Elsevier continued its positive momentum in 2011.
All five groups in different geographies reflect this diversity and range of business areas contributed to underlying revenue growth, practices.
An increase of approximately 2.5% on average will be excluding biennial cycling, with underlying operating profits awarded across the senior management population globally for showing good growth.
Underlying revenues, which exclude the 2012.
This level of increase is in line with increases provided to the effects of currency translations and acquisitions and disposals, wider employee population.
were up 2%, or 3% excluding the cycling effect of biennial exhibitions, reflecting a consistent performance from our annual incentive subscription and online data businesses.
Adjusted operating The Annual Incentive Plan AIP provides focus on the delivery of profits were up 4% at constant currencies.
Total costs, including stretching annual financial targets and the achievement of annual acquisitions and disposals, fell by 2% at constant exchange rates objectives and milestones that create a platform for sustainable and adjusted operating margins at 27.1% were 1.4 percentage future performance.
points higher than last year.
Adjusted operating cash flow was flat compared with the prior year or down 1% at constant currencies.
For 2012, executive directors have a target bonus opportunity of The lower level of cash flow conversion reflects among other 100% of salary that is weighted as follows across four elements things higher capital expenditure through increased investment unchanged from 2011 : in new products and related infrastructure in 2011.
Returns on invested capital increased to 11.2%, 0.6 percentage points higher Measure Weighting than in 2010, reflecting improvements in trading performance, Revenue 30% strong cash flow and capital efficiency.
Adjusted Profit After Tax 30% Cash Flow Conversion Rate 10% Overall, the sum of the individual scores achieved against the four Key Performance Objectives KPOs 30% AIP components was close to target for both executive directors, resulting in the following bonuses for 2011: The target bonus opportunity for the financial measures is payable for the achievement of highly stretching financial targets.
The four 2011 annual bonus % of 2011 base to be paid in March 2012 salary earnings elements are measured separately, such that there could be a payout on one element and not on others.
Erik Engstrom 1,021,925 99.7% Mark Armour 611,799 97.3% For 2012, the minimum threshold on the financial elements of the AIP at which a bonus starts to accrue is 94% of target achievement and the maximum bonus is 150% of target unchanged from 2011, although the Committee decided to slightly adjust the payout slope for financials between threshold and maximum to align executive directors with other executives and employees.
This means that part of the bonus will accrue for achieving threshold whilst a higher level of out-performance will be required to achieve the maximum bonus.
indd 67 08 03 2012 09:09 govERNaNCE 68 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Awards under the multi-year incentives take the form of restricted Multi-year incentives shares and market value options which typically vest over a period The multi-year incentives comprise the REGP, BIP, ESOS and LTIP.
of three years except for the REGP under which awards vest over three and five years.
The vesting of all awards made to executive The purpose of the multi-year incentives is to provide focus on directors under these plans is subject to meeting a number of the delivery of the medium to longer term strategy and holding stretching performance targets based on internal financial executives accountable for the delivery of that strategy while metrics and total shareholder return.
Additionally, in the case driving value creation through sustained financial performance, of ESOS, a financial pre-grant performance condition applies capital discipline and the delivery of returns for shareholders.
which determines the annual size of the available grant pool In addition, the multi-year incentives are structured so as to for all participants in the plan.
encourage personal investment and ongoing shareholding in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV securities among the senior executive population in order to promote alignment with shareholders and to provide focus on the share price.
Reed Elsevier growth Plan REgP The key features of the REGP are summarised below.
REED ELSEvIER gRoWTH PLaN REgP Feature Detail Frequency of award One-off arrangement Awards were made on 26 May 2010 Eligibility CEO and CFO of Reed Elsevier Group plc As a condition of participation, the executive directors were required to hold Reed Elsevier securities on the date of grant to the value of 300% of salary in the case of the CEO and 200% of salary in the case of the CFO.
Any personal shares invested under the BIP did not count towards this holding requirement The executive directors are required to maintain shareholdings at the respective levels throughout the life of the plan i. e. for five years or until such time as they cease to be eligible for further payouts under the plan, if earlier Performance period Five years split into an initial period of three financial years followed by a further two financial years Opportunity to receive partial payout after three years Performance conditions Relative TSR measured against three comparator groups, adjusted EPS and ROIC see section entitled Performance measures and targets The performance metrics have equal weighting, with one third of the award vesting based on performance against the respective metric additive measurement Vesting scale Performance hurdle and scaled vesting Cap The number of shares capable of vesting is capped at 150% of the number comprised in the initial performance share award Dividend equivalents Dividend equivalents accrue during the performance period and are paid out in cash when the shares are released, to the extent that the underlying securities vest Other provisions On a change of control, awards vest on a pro-rated basis and subject to performance based on an assessment of progress against targets at the time the change of control occurs Claw-back applies Awards under the plan are satisfied with shares purchased in the market 57096 SAS p063-079.
indd 68 08 03 2012 09:09 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 69 MECHaNICS The chart below illustrates how the REGP operates 3 YEARS: 2010-12 H1 2013 2 YEARS: 2013-14 H1 2015 Release of deferred performance shares 50% of Release of remaining 50% of the performance performance shares is deferred until shares are H1 of 2015 subject to continued employment released Subject to performance against three metrics, up to a 1 for 1 match can be earned over years 4 and 5 on the deferred performance shares Performance EPS TSR EPS TSR tested 1 3RD 1 3RD 1 3RD 1 3RD Performance share Performance Release of matching award of 600% share award shares earned of salary ROIC ROIC 1 3RD 1 3RD On the date of grant the CEO committed 300% of salary and the Release of committed CFO 200% of salary in shares to the plan which must be retained holding the throughout the life of the plan or until the executive directors cease Subject to performance against three metrics, regular shareholding to be eligible for further payouts, if earlier up to a 1 for 1 match can be earned over years guidelines continue 4 and 5 on the personal shareholding committed to apply to the under the plan executive directors Overall payout from the plan to each executive director is capped at 150% of the shares comprised in the performance share award Performance measures and targets Vesting is on a straight-line basis for ranking between the median and the upper quartile.
Total Shareholder Return TSR The vesting of one third of the REGP award is subject to Reed TSR comparators groups Elseviers TSR performance compared against three comparator The constituents of each comparator group were selected on the groups the TSR tranche.
following basis: Companies included in the relevant market index as at As Reed Elsevier accesses equity capital markets through three 31December 2009 and nearest in size to Reed Elsevier in terms exchanges London, Amsterdam and New York in three of market capitalisation.
separate currency zones, three distinct comparator groups are used a Sterling Comparator Group, a Euro Comparator Group The relevant market indices are: 1 FTSE 100 for the Sterling and a US Dollar Comparator Group.
The TSR performance of Comparator Group: 2 Euronext100 and the DAX 30 for the Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares based on the London listing Euro Comparator Group: and 3 the S&P 500 for the US Dollar is measured against the Sterling Comparator Group, the TSR Comparator Group.
performance of Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares based on the The following companies were excluded for this purpose: Amsterdam listing is measured against the Euro Comparator Group: and the TSR performance of Reed Elsevier PLC ADRs companies with mainly domestic revenues as they do not and Reed Elsevier NV ADRs based on the New York listing is reflect the global nature of Reed Elseviers customer base : measured against the US Dollar Comparator Group.
The those engaged in extractive industries as they are exposed to averaging period applied for TSR measurement purposes is six commodity cycles : and months prior to the start of the financial year in which the award was made and the final six months of the last financial year of the financial services companies as they have a different risk performance period.
TSR performance is measured separately against each Relevant listed global peers operating in businesses similar to comparator group and the proportion of the TSR tranche that those of Reed Elsevier not otherwise included were added to vests is the sum of the payouts achieved against the three the relevant comparator group.
Set out overleaf are the comparators included in each currency 3 year period: 5 year period: group applicable to awards made in 2010 under the REGP.
2010-12 2010-14 TSR ranking within the Vesting percentage Vesting percentage relevant TSR of each third of the of each third of the comparator group TSR tranche TSR tranche Below median 0% 0% Median 30% 30% Upper quartile 100% 100% 57096 SAS p063-079.
indd 69 08 03 2012 09:09 govERNaNCE 70 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT For the purposes of the plan, the following definitions apply: Sterling Euro US Dollar Comparator Comparator Comparator Invested capital arithmetic average of the opening and closing group group group capital employed for the Reed Elsevier combined businesses Aggreko Accor 3M AstraZeneca Adidas Adobe Systems for the financial year with all cumulative amortisation and Autonomy Corp. Ahold Agilent Techs.
impairment charges for acquired intangible assets and BAE Systems Air Liquide Air Prds.
In addition, any exceptional restructuring British Airways Akzo Nobel Amazon.
com British American Tobacco Alstom Analog Devices and acquisition integration charges net of tax are capitalised Bunzl ASML Holding Applied Mats.
for these purposes and changes in exchange rates and Burberry Group BASF Avon Products movements in pension deficits are excluded.
Compass Group Carrefour Becton Dickinson Return adjusted operating profit for the Reed Elsevier DMGT Christian Dior Caterpillar Diageo Daimler Colgate-Palmolive combined businesses before amortisation and impairment Experian Deutsche Post Corning of acquired intangible assets and goodwill, exceptional GlaxoSmithKline EADS Cummins restructuring and acquisition integration charges.
In addition, Intercontinental Hotels Essilor Intl.
Deere Imperial Tobacco Group Heineken Dow Chemical it is grossed up to exclude the equity share of taxes in joint Informa Hermes Intl.
Dun & Bradstreet ventures and further adjusted to exclude net pension financing Inmarsat K S E. I. du Pont fide Nemours credit movement, after applying the effective rate of tax used International Power Lafarge eBay Intertek Group Lagardre Groupe Emerson Electric for adjusted earnings calculations and using exchange rates Invensys Linde Fico to match those used in the calculation of invested capital.
Johnson Matthey LVMH Ford Motor Kingfisher MAN Genzyme In order to ensure that the performance score achieved is a fair National Grid Metro H. J. Heinz reflection of underlying business performance, the Committee Pearson Michelin Illinois Tool Works Reckitt Benckiser Group Pernod-Ricard John Wiley retains discretion to determine the treatment of major disposals Rexam Philips Eltn.
Koninklijke Johnson Controls and acquisitions that require board approval.
Any significant Rolls-Royce Group Portugal Telecom SGPS Juniper Networks adjustments made to the final performance score will be SABMiller PPR Life Technologies Sage Group Renault McDonalds disclosed to shareholders.
Shire Saint-Gobain McGraw-Hill Smith & Nephew SAP Micron Technology adjusted earnings per share EPS Smiths Group Schneider Electric Motorola Thomas Cook Group Suez Environnement News Corp The vesting of one third of the REGP award is subject to TUI Travel Thales Nike performance against growth in adjusted earnings per share Unilever LSE ThyssenKrupp Nvidia measured at constant currencies Adjusted EPS the EPS United Business Media TNT Paccar Vodafone Unilever AEX PPG Industries tranche as follows: Wolseley Vallourec Spectra Energy WPP Veolia Environnement Texas Insts.
3 years: 2 years: Vesting percentage Volkswagen Thomson Reuters NYSE 2010-12 2013-14 of EPS tranche Wolters Kluwer United Technologies Yum!
Brands Average Adjusted Average EPS growth in years Adjusted Reflects the composition of the comparator group as at the date of grant.
2011 and 2012 EPS growth over subject to average the two year Return on invested capital RoIC Adjusted EPS growth over period The vesting of one third of the REGP award is subject to the the whole three year percentage return on invested capital of Reed Elsevier PLC and period being positive Reed Elsevier NV the ROIC tranche as follows: Below 5% p. a.
0% 3 years: 2 years: Vesting percentage 5% p. a.
60% 2010-12 2013-14 of ROIC tranche 9% p. a. or above 13% p. a. or above 100% ROIC in 2012, subject to ROIC in 2014 actual exceeding 2009 Vesting is on a straight-line basis for performance between the ROIC calculated on the minimum and maximum levels.
same basis For the purposes of the plan, the following definitions apply: Below 10.2% Below 10.7% 0% Earnings adjusted reported earnings measured at constant 10.2% 10.7% 60% currencies.
Adjustments include amortisation and impairment 11.2% or above 12.7% or above 100% of acquired intangible assets and goodwill, exceptional restructuring and acquisition integration charges, gains Vesting is on a straight-line basis for performance between the losses on business disposals and tax rate anomalies deferred minimum and maximum levels.
The Committee retains discretion to adjust for changes in the net pension financing credit.
Number of shares weighted average number of shares in issue excluding shares held in treasury.
indd 70 08 03 2012 09:09 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 71 A multi-year incentive award was granted to senior leaders below applicable to the REGP and the targets set for each metric are the Board in 2011.
Grants are made on a rolling three year basis aligned to the five-year performance scale applicable to the and awards are in the form of performance shares that vest executive directors under the REGP.
subject to the same performance metrics and vesting scales Executive Share option Scheme ESoS The key features of the ESOS are summarised below.
Feature Detail Frequency of award Annual grant of market value options Eligibility Broadest multi-year incentive operated by Reed Elsevier Annual awards are made to approximately 1,000 employees across some 20 countries including the executive directors Vesting period Three years from the date of grant Options are exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant or on cessation of employment for defined categories of approved leavers, if earlier Performance conditions Pre-grant performance condition of adjusted EPS growth which determines the size of the annual grant pool available for grants to all participants see below Post-grant performance hurdle of adjusted EPS growth applicable to the vesting of awards to executive directors Cap Maximum annual award in terms of the aggregate market value of the shares under option at the date of grant of three times salary per executive director Other provisions On a change of control, awards vest subject to performance based on an assessment of progress against targets at the time the change of control occurs: participants may exchange their awards for awards in the acquiring company, if available Claw-back applies Awards under the plan are satisfied with newly issued shares The size of the total grant pool available for all participants in a Bonus Investment Plan BIP given year is determined based on growth in average compound The bonus investment plan is a voluntary plan aimed at adjusted EPS measured in constant currencies Adjusted EPS encouraging personal investment in, and ongoing holding of, Reed over the three years prior to grant as follows: Elsevier shares to promote greater alignment with shareholders and support the retention of key talent.
The current bonus Average Adjusted EPS growth p. a.
% of the 2003 grant pool investment plan was approved by shareholders at the 2010 Annual over the three years prior to grant available for distribution General Meetings of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV and Less than 6% 50% replaced the bonus investment plan implemented in 2003.
6% or more but less than 8% 75% Under the BIP, participants may invest their own funds to purchase 8% or more but less than 10% 100% Reed Elsevier securities or allocate securities already owned 10% or more but less than 12% 125% outright for investment under the plan up to a specified maximum.
12% or more 150% In return, the participant is granted a matching award which vests Adjusted EPS growth for the three years ended 31 December 2011 over three years subject to performance i. e. a maximum match of was less than 6% p. a. which means that the available grant pool for 1 for 1 can be earned on the personal investment.
It is a condition ESOS awards in 2012 is 50% of the 2003 pool.
of vesting that the underlying personal investment is retained throughout the vesting period.
Dividend equivalents accrue on the During 2011, the executive directors received each a grant of matching shares during the vesting period and are paid out in cash 150% of base salary of market value options 50% of the permitted at the end to the extent that the matching award vests.
The vesting of the award is subject to an Adjusted EPS overleaf summarises the key features of the BIP.
During the year the 2008-10 cycle of ESOS lapsed for executive directors as a result of EPS performance being below the threshold required for vesting.
Prior to the date of this Report, the Committee determined that the 2009-11 cycle of ESOS also lapsed for executive directors as the Adjusted EPS growth hurdle of 8% p. a. on vesting was not achieved.
indd 71 08 03 2012 09:09 govERNaNCE 72 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Feature Detail Frequency of award Annual grants of matching awards Ten-year life of the plan Implemented in 2010 with first matching awards granted in May 2010 Eligibility Approximately 150 senior executives including executive directors Participation is voluntary Performance period Three financial years Performance conditions Average adjusted EPS growth measured in constant currencies and ROIC see below 50% of the award is subject to adjusted EPS growth and 50% subject to ROIC Vesting scale Performance hurdle and scaled vesting Personal investment Up to 100% of the target bonus opportunity net of tax Other provisions On a change of control, awards vest on a pro-rated basis and subject to performance based on an assessment of progress against targets at the time the change of control occurs, unless the Committee determines that awards should not vest and instead be exchanged for equivalent awards over shares in the acquiring company i. e. rollover applies Claw-back applies Awards under the plan are satisfied with shares purchased in the market The following targets and vesting scale apply to awards granted cycle of LTIP had also lapsed as the minimum performance hurdle under the BIP in 2011: of 10% adjusted EPS growth was not met.
No further award cycles remain outstanding under this plan at the ROIC % in the Average growth in Adjusted EPS third year of the date of this Report.
Match earned on personal % over performance investment the 3 year performance period period Shareholding requirement 0% below 4% p. a. below 10.4% The Committee believes that one of the aspects that creates closer 50% 4% p. a.
10.4% alignment between senior management and shareholders is to 75% 6.5% p. a.
10.9% require executives to build up and maintain a significant personal 100% 9% p. a. or above 11.4% or above stake in Reed Elsevier.
The shareholding requirements applicable to the executive directors are set out in the table below and, as The same EPS targets as set out in the table above will apply to described on page 68, were pre-requisites to participate in the awards of matching shares to be granted in 2012 under the 2012-14 REGP.
Shareholding requirements also apply to selected senior cycle of the plan.
The targets applicable to the ROIC proportion will executives below the Board.
be increased to 11.0% at threshold and 12.0% at maximum with straight-line vesting for performance between the points.
The Meeting the relevant shareholding requirement is both a condition executive directors will be eligible to participate in BIP in 2012. of the vesting of awards as well as a pre-requisite to maintain eligibility to receive future awards under the multi-year The vesting scale and performance metrics applicable to awards incentives.
granted in 2010 under the BIP are the same as above, except that the EPS proportion is measured over years two and three of the On 31 December 2011, the executive directors shareholdings were performance period i. e. 2011 and 2012 with vesting of the EPS as follows valued at the mid-market closing prices of Reed component being subject to average EPS growth over the whole Elsevier securities : three year vesting period being positive.
The targets applicable to Actual shareholding as at the ROIC proportion under the 2010-12 cycle were 0.2% lower than Shareholding requirement 31 December 2011 the targets applicable to the 2011-13 cycle, with a threshold of in % of 31 December 2011 in % of 31 December 2011 10.2% and maximum vesting for achieving ROIC of 11.2% or above annualised base salary annualised base salary in the third year of the performance period.
Straight-line vesting Erik Engstrom 300% 396% applies for performance between the points.
Mark Armour 200% 376% Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP other employee share plans No awards under the LTIP were given to executive directors in 2011 and no awards will be made in 2012.
UK-based executive directors are eligible to participate in the HMRC approved all-employee UK Savings-Related Share Option Awards under this plan were in the form of restricted shares, with Scheme SAYE.
half of the award being over shares in Reed Elsevier PLC and the other half over shares in Reed Elsevier NV.
A three year Retirement benefits performance period applies and awards vest based on the growth in average compound adjusted EPS growth measured at constant Retirement benefit provisions are set in the context of the total currencies and Reed Elseviers TSR performance compared to a remuneration for each executive director, taking account of age group of industry peers.
The 2008-10 cycle of LTIP lapsed during and service and against the background of evolving legislation 2011 as a result of performance conditions not being met.
At the and practice in Reed Elseviers major countries of operation.
date of this Report, it had also been determined that the 2009-11 Base salary is the only pensionable element of remuneration.
indd 72 08 03 2012 09:09 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 73 Erik Engstrom and Mark Armour are provided with UK defined The pension arrangements for the directors include life benefit pension arrangements under which they accrue a pension assurance cover while in employment, an entitlement to a pension of 1 30th of salary for every year of service up to a maximum of in the event of ill health or disability and a spouses and or two thirds of salary.
The pension is provided through a dependants pension on death.
combination of: The increase in the transfer value of the directors pensions, after the main UK Reed Elsevier Pension Scheme for salary deduction of contributions, is shown in the table below.
Transfer restricted to a cap, determined annually on the same basis as values have been calculated in accordance with the guidance note the pre-April 2006 Inland Revenue earnings cap, and GN11 published by the UK Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
The transfer values at 31 December 2011 have been Reed Elseviers unapproved pension arrangement for salary calculated using the transfer value basis adopted by the trustees above the cap.
of the pension scheme from 1 October 2008.
Prior to 1 November 2007, Erik Engstrom was not a member of The transfer value in respect of individual directors represents a anycompany pension scheme and Reed Elsevier made annual liability in respect of directors pension entitlement, and is not an contributions of 19.5% of his salary to his personal pension plan.
amount paid or payable to the director.
From 1 November 2007 contributions to his designated retirement account ceased and he became a member of the UK defined benefit pension arrangement.
Transfer values of accrued pension benefits Transfer value at 31 December Increase in 2011 of Increase in accrued increase Transfer Transfer transfer Increase in annual in accrued value value value during Accrued accrued pension pension of accrued of accrued the year annual annual during during the year Age at pension at pension at net of pension at pension the year net of inflation 31 December Directors 31 December 31 December directors 31 December during net of and directors 2011 contributions 2010 2011 contributions 2011 the year inflation contributions Erik Engstrom 48 7,377 1,366,389 2,099,132 725,366 142,375 36,799 31,732 460,465 Mark Armour 57 7,377 5,643,891 6,758,053 1,106,785 354,522 29,097 13,495 249,862 Service contracts Elsevier business which he she was involved with during the Executive directors are employed under service contracts that preceding 12 months: from recruiting Reed Elsevier employees provide for a maximum of one years notice.
The contracts neither and from soliciting Reed Elsevier customers and suppliers for specify a predetermined level of severance payment nor contain a period of 12 months after leaving employment: specific provisions in respect of a change in control.
The in the event of the executive resigning, he she will immediately Committee believes that, as a general rule, notice periods should lose all rights to any outstanding awards under the multi-year be 12 months and that the executive directors should, subject to incentives including any vested but unexercised options: and any legal constraints within their base country, be required to mitigate their losses in the event of termination.
The Committee in the event of a breach of the covenants, any gains made or will, however, note local market conditions so as to ensure that the payouts received, in the period starting six months prior and terms offered are appropriate to attract and retain top executives ending 12 months after leaving employment, on the vesting or operating in global businesses.
exercise of awards from the multi-year incentives may be repayable.
The contractual terms of the executive directors and for approximately 100 other senior executives include certain Each executive director has a service contract with Reed Elsevier covenants as follows: Group plc, as summarised in the table below.
non-competition restrictions apply which prevent the executive from working in a capacity which competes with any Reed Current contract date Date employment commenced Expiry date subject to notice period Notice period Subject to Erik Engstrom 14 March 2011 23 August 2004 14 June 2028 12 months English law Mark Armour 7 October 1996 1 February 1995 Retires 31 December 2012 12 months English law 57096 SAS p063-079.
indd 73 08 03 2012 09:09 govERNaNCE 74 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Mark armours retirement terms Non-executive directors The following terms will apply to Mark Armour in connection with his retirement on 31 December 2012: Policy on non-executive directors fees The policy on non-executive directors fees is a matter for the his participation in the REGP will cease once the performance Boards, subject to applicable law, and does not fall within the share award has been performance-tested in 2013.
All of the Committees remit.
performance shares earned will be released at that time and dividend equivalents relating to the earned shares will be paid Reed Elsevier seeks to recruit non-executive directors with the in cash at the same time.
The vesting of the performance experience to contribute to the boards of a dual-listed global shares will be subject to the cap applicable to the REGP, with business and with a balance of personal skills that will make a the cap being pro-rated by 3 5th to reflect his years of actual major contribution to the Boards and their committee structures.
service during the performance period of 1 January 2010 With the exception of Marike van Lier Lels who serves only on the through to 31 December 2014.
He will not be eligible for a grant Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV, non-executive directors, of matching shares in 2013 and there will be no further including the Chairman, are appointed to the Boards of Reed entitlement for payments under this plan: Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and the Supervisory Board of Reed Elsevier NV.
Non-executive directors fees reflect the his shareholding requirement under the REGP of two times directors membership of the three Boards.
salary will cease in 2013, once the extent of any vesting of the performance share award under the REGP has been The primary source for comparative market data is the practice of determined: FTSE 50 companies, although reference is also made to AEX and US listed companies.
no ESOS award will be made to him in 2012: Non-executive directors, including the Chairman, serve under existing covenants relating to non-competition, nonletters of appointment and are not entitled to notice of, or solicitation and confidentiality will remain in place for payments following, retirement from the Boards.
12 months post-retirement: all unvested share-based awards will be treated in accordance Fee levels with the rules of the plans, and outstanding ESOS options Non-executive directors receive an annual fee in respect of their remain exercisable for up to three and a half years from memberships of the Boards of Reed Elsevier PLC, Reed Elsevier retirement: NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc.
The fee paid to Marike van Lier Lels, who serves only on the Supervisory Board of Reed he will be eligible to draw his pension under the UK Reed Elsevier NV, reflects her time commitment to that company and to Elsevier Pension Scheme and the unapproved pension other companies within the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
arrangement in accordance with the terms of those schemes Non-executive directors are reimbursed for expenses incurred in from 1 January 2013: and attending meetings.
They do not receive any performance-related no further payments will be due.
bonuses, pension provision, share options or other forms of benefit, except for the following: the Chairman is in receipt of Policy on external appointments private medical benefit and non-executive directors and the The Committee believes that the experience gained by allowing Chairman are provided with tax filing support to meet any tax filing executive directors to serve as non-executive directors on the obligations arising from their directorships with Reed Elsevier in boards of other organisations is of benefit to Reed Elsevier.
countries other than their home country.
Accordingly, executive directors may, subject to the approval of the Fees may be reviewed annually, although in practice they have Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, serve as non-executive changed on a less frequent basis.
During 2011, fees were reviewed directors on the boards of up to two non-associated companies of for non-executive directors, Supervisory Board members and which only one may be to the board of a major company and they the Chairman, taking account of market practice and general may retain remuneration arising from such appointments.
Prior to that, fees for non-executive directors Mark Armour is a non-executive director of SABMiller plc and and Supervisory Board members had last been reviewed in 2007 received remuneration of 100,694 during 2011 59,610 during and increased with effect from 1 January 2008 although a 2010 reflecting pro-rata payments since appointment.
separate fee for the senior independent director was introduced with effect from 1 January 2011.
indd 74 08 03 2012 09:09 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 75 The changes in fees resulting from the 2011 review, which took REED ELSEVIER NV v AEX 5 YEARS effect on 1 January 2012, are set out in the table below.
The Chairman of Reed Elsevier does not receive 40% committee chairman fees.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Reed Elsevier NV AEX Index Total Shareholder Return graphs For the purposes of the charts, the total shareholder return is calculated on the basis of the average share price in the 30 trading As required by the Large and Medium-sized Companies and days prior to the respective year end and on the assumption that Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, the graphs in dividends were reinvested.
this section show the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV total shareholder return performance, assuming dividends were reinvested.
They compare the Reed Elsevier PLC performance Remuneration and share tables with that achieved by the FTSE 100, and the Reed Elsevier NV performance with the performance achieved by the Euronext The information set out in this section forms part of the audited Amsterdam AEX Index, over the five-year period from disclosures in this Report.
For the purposes of the disclosures in 31 December 2006 to 31 December 2011. this section, the average exchange rates for the relevant year have been used.
For the five-year period from 31 December 2006, the TSR for Reed Elsevier PLC was 7.1%, against a FTSE 100 return of 5.9%.
For Directors emoluments and fees Reed Elsevier NV during the same period, TSR was minus 18.3% against an AEX Index return of minus 27%.
Reed Elsevier PLC is a Aggregate emoluments member of the FTSE 100 index and Reed Elsevier NV is a member The emoluments of the directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed of the AEX Index.
Therefore, these indices are relevant.
Elsevier NV including any entitlement to fees or emoluments from either Reed Elsevier Group plc or Elsevier Reed Finance BV were as follows: REED ELSEVIER PLC v FTSE 100 5 YEARS 120% 2011 2010 000 000 Salaries and fees 2,590 3,324 100% Benefits 56 97 Annual performance-related bonuses 1,634 2,351 Payments for loss of office 499 80% Pension contributions 42 43 Total 4,322 6,314 60% 40% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Reed Elsevier PLC FTSE 100 57096 SAS p063-079.
indd 75 08 03 2012 10:55 govERNaNCE 76 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Individual fees of non-executive directors 2011 2010 Mark Elliott 70,000 70,000 Anthony Habgood 500,000 500,000 Adrian Hennah from 20 April 2011 38,475 Lisa Hook 55,000 55,000 Marike van Lier Lels from 13 January 2010 41,739 39,744 Robert Polet 55,000 55,000 Sir David Reid 75,000 55,000 Lord Sharman until 20 April 2011 18,333 63,750 Ben van der Veer 82,609 71,225 Total 936,156 909,719 Excludes private medical insurance benefit of 1,329 in respect of 2011 1,244 in 2010.
The above figures exclude an imputed notional benefit in respect of tax filing support provided to non-executive directors for tax filings in countries other than their home country resulting from their directorship with Reed Elsevier.
The incremental assessable benefit charge per relevant tax return has been agreed by PwC to amount to 300.
The fees for Marike van Lier Lels and Ben van der Veer are paid in euro and were 48,000 and 95,000 respectively for 2011.
For reporting purposes these were converted into pounds sterling at the average exchange rate for the year of reporting.
other required disclosures No loans, advances or guarantees have been provided on behalf of any director.
The 2008-10 cycle of awards made under ESOS and LTIP lapsed for the executive directors as a result of performance conditions not being met.
The executive directors made no notional pre-tax gains during 2011 on any multi-year incentives also none in 2010.
Individual emoluments of executive directors Salary Benefits Bonus Total 2011 Total 2010 Erik Engstrom 1,025,000 28,492 1,021,925 2,075,417 2,028,108 Mark Armour 628,776 22,988 611,799 1,263,563 1,248,742 Total 1,653,776 51,480 1,633,724 3,338,980 3,276,850 Market value options awarded under ESOS and restricted shares awarded in the year of reporting under the BIP are set out by executive director on pages 77-78.
Vesting is subject to performance conditions relating to growth in adjusted EPS and ROIC as described in the front section of this Report.
The maximum number of options that can vest under the ESOS and the maximum number of restricted shares that can vest under the BIP is equivalent to the awards granted.
Erik Engstrom was the highest paid director in 2011.
Directors shareholdings in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier Nv The interests of those individuals who were directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV as at 31 December 2011 in the issued share capital of the respective companies at the beginning and end of the year are shown below.
Reed Elsevier PLC Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares ordinary shares 1 January 31 December 1 January 31 December 2011 2011 2011 2011 Mark Armour 248,742 248,742 136,889 136,889 Mark Elliott 7,600 Erik Engstrom 107,040 107,040 383,450 447,356 Anthony Habgood 50,000 50,000 25,000 25,000 Adrian Hennah 5,163 Lisa Hook Marike van Lier Lels Robert Polet 1,000 Sir David Reid Ben van der Veer 1,298 5,000 On date of appointment if subsequent to 1 January 2011.
There have been no changes in the interests of the directors in Reed Elsevier PLC or Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares at the date of this Report.
indd 76 08 03 2012 09:09 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 77 Share-based awards in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier Nv Details of vested options shown in orange and unvested options and restricted shares held by executive directors in Reed Elsevier PLC PLC and Reed Elsevier NV NV as at 31 December 2011 are shown in the tables below.
The shading in the tables denotes awards granted during the year of reporting.
The vesting of outstanding unvested awards is subject to performance conditions in accordance with the provisions of the respective plan rules.
For disclosure purposes, any PLC and NV ADRs awarded under the BIP have been converted into ordinary share equivalents.
At the date of this Report there have been no changes in the options or restricted shares held by executive directors in office at 31 December 2011 other than those relating to the 2009-11 cycles of ESOS and LTIP as disclosed on pages 71 and 72.
The market price at the date of award of grants made under the multi-year incentives are based on the middle market price of the respective security.
indd 77 08 03 2012 09:09 govERNaNCE 78 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Mark Armour oPTIoNS No.
Lapsed prior to the date of this Report.
of Notional unvested unvested No.
indd 78 08 03 2012 09:09 Overview Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Reed Elsevier Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2011 79 other required disclosures in respect of share-based awards Approved by the Board of Reed Elsevier Group plc on The number of shares and options that vest in respect of all 15February 2012. outstanding unvested awards under the multi-year incentives depend on the extent to which performance conditions are met.
Mark Elliott Chairman of the Remuneration Committee In respect of the REGP, the maximum number of shares that can vest is 150% of the number of shares shown in the tables above.
Approved by the Board of Reed Elsevier PLC on In respect of ESOS and BIP, the number of awards shown in the 15February 2012. table is the maximum capable of vesting.
ESOS awards vest on Mark Elliott the third anniversary and expire on the tenth anniversary of the Non-Executive Director date of grant.
For LTIP, the number of shares shown in the share tables reflects the target award.
Approved by the Combined Board of Reed Elsevier NV Options under the SAYE scheme, in which all eligible UK on 15February 2012. employees are invited to participate, are granted at a maximum discount of 20% to the market price at time of grant.
They are Mark Elliott normally exercisable after the expiry of three or five years from Member of the Supervisory Board the date of grant.
No performance targets are attached to these option grants as the SAYE is an all-employee scheme.
The middle market price of a Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share at the date of award of grants in 2011 under the BIP was 5.39.
The middle market price of a Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share at the date of award of grants in 2011 under the BIP was 8.969.
The middle market price of a Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary share during the year was in the range of 4.613 to 5.905 and at 31 December 2011 was 5.19.
The middle market price of a Reed Elsevier NV ordinary share during the year was in the range of 7.588 to 10.27 and at 31 December 2011 was 9.007.
Dilution At 31 December 2011, the estimated potential dilution over a ten-year period from awards over Reed Elsevier PLC shares under all share-based plans was 5.1% of the Reed Elsevier PLC share capital.
The estimated potential dilution over the same period in respect of awards over Reed Elsevier NV shares was 5.3% of the Reed Elsevier NV share capital at 31 December 2011.
The estimated potential dilution in relation to executive share-based plans was 4.6% of the Reed Elsevier PLC and 5% of the Reed Elsevier NV share capital at 31 December 2011.
Employee Benefit Trust Any securities required to satisfy entitlements under the REGP, LTIP and BIP are provided by the Employee Benefit Trust EBT from market purchases.
As a potential beneficiary under the EBT in the same way as other employees of Reed Elsevier, each executive director is deemed to be interested in all the shares held by the EBT which, at 31 December 2011, amounted to 14,051,025 Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares 1.12% of issued share capital and 7,380,906 Reed Elsevier NV ordinary shares 0.96% of issued share capital.
These numbers include ordinary share equivalents held in the form of Reed Elsevier PLC ADRs and Reed Elsevier NV ADRs.
