Directors remuneration report 39 RemuneRation policy Summary The Remuneration committee is responsible for deciding the Companys Details of directors remuneration including pensions which form the audited framework of executive remuneration and setting remuneration packages for each section of this report are shown in note 7. of the executive directors.
SeRvice contRactS and compenSation The committees policy is to motivate and retain executive directors by rewarding The executive directors have each entered into a service contract with the them with competitive salary and benefit packages and incentives.
The contracts do not contain any specific provisions governing the linked to the overall performance of the Group and, in turn, to the interests of payment of compensation for loss of office or employment, whether as a result the shareholders.
of a takeover bid or otherwise.
The notice period for termination of the contract is twelve months to be given by either the Company or the director.
The committee reviews annually all aspects of the executive directors remuneration, performance and employment.
The non-executive directors have been appointed under contracts for services which are intended to continue for an initial period of three years.
However, these RemuneRation committee contracts may be terminated by either the Company or the director on one All the members of this committee are non-executive directors and a list of months notice.
membership and the chair of the committee is set out on page 21.
The terms of reference of this committee are published on the Companys website.
peRfoRmance gRaph The graph below shows the Companys total shareholder return TSR The remuneration of the non-executive directors, which does not contain any performance, compared with the FTSE mid 250 index, which the directors performance-related element, is determined by the executive directors.
There are believe is the most appropriate broad index for comparison.
no share options available to non-executive directors No new appointments of directors were made during the year.
Return RemuneRation Salary 250 The Remuneration committee reviews basic salaries to take effect from 1st July each year.
In deciding appropriate levels, the committee takes account of financial 200 data taken from a cross-section of UK companies within the electronics and engineering sectors.
150 Bonus 100 This year the committee reviewed the annual bonus scheme for executive directors which is based on Group performance as measured against a preset earnings per 50 share eps target established for the next four years.
0 The performance conditions firstly require the achievement each year of a base line eps excluding directors bonus which for 2011 was set at 43.67p with 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 the target designed to deliver 75% of salary at 62.86p, 99% above 2010.
The Re-based to 100 at 30th June 2006 percentage bonus award increases on a straight-line basis between the base line and the eps target.
Renishaw FTSE mid 250 In addition there is a further 25% bonus award available for exceeding the eps target based on 5% of salary for every 1p per share in excess of target up to a The report was approved by the Board of directors on 27th July 2011 and has cap of 100% of salary.
been signed on its behalf by:- For 2011 the Group is reporting eps of 90.1p before directors bonus which T D Snowden FCA therefore gives rise to a bonus entitlement of 100% of salary for each of the executive directors.
Chairman, Remuneration committee The scheme is reviewed annually.
There are no share options or long-term incentive schemes in operation for the directors but the position is kept under review.
The non-executive directors do not participate in a bonus scheme.
other benefits Company cars and other benefits provided to directors are subject to income tax.
The benefits are included in the directors remuneration table in note 7.
Geoff McFarland is a non-executive director of Delcam plc, in respect of which no remuneration is payable by Delcam plc.
pensions The Company makes annual contributions of 15% of underlying basic salary to individual pension policies for Ben Taylor and Allen Roberts.
Neither bonus scheme payments nor other benefits are eligible for pension scheme contributions.
Geoff McFarland is a deferred member of the Companys defined benefit scheme which closed for future accruals on 5th April 2007 and he now participates in the Companys defined contribution scheme.
More details are given in note 7.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the Companys pension schemes.
