Management & Governance Remuneration Report The Committee currently comprises Tracey Graham Chair, John Bennett, and Louise Charlton all of whom are Independent NonExecutive Directors.
Karen McPherson and Roger Devlin both served as members of the Committee for part of the year until they retired as Directors.
Louise Charlton was appointed to the Committee during the year and Tracey Graham was appointed as Chair of the Committee on her appointment as a Director.
The principal responsibility of the Committee is to determine the remuneration of the Executive directors including pension rights and any compensation payments.
The Committee also monitors the level and structure of remuneration for the Groups senior management.
The Committees detailed terms of reference are available on the Companys website and on request from the Company Secretary.
The Chairman of the Company and the Chief Executive have both assisted the Remuneration Committee in its deliberations on other Directors remuneration.
The Company Secretary is in attendance at the meeting to provide the Committee with any additional advice that is required.
The Committee has continued to receive wholly independent advice on executive compensation from  PwC.
PwC provide no other services to the Group.
Details of frequency and attendance at meetings of the Committee are detailed on page 22.
Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committees policy for 2011 was to set the main elements of the remuneration package in order to reflect: n the performance of the individual concerned: n the performance of the business unit s for which he she is responsible: n in the case of the Group directors, the performance of the Group as a whole: and n the relevant market s for the executives and the terms and conditions prevailing in those markets.
The Committee recognises that the main competitors of the Group and, therefore, comparators for their remuneration are found outside the group of companies that are listed.
In consequence, the Committee needs to reflect that in its deliberations including RPS market leading position in a number of those markets.
The Committee is, in addition, mindful of trends and best practice amongst listed companies of a similar size in the Support Services sector.
The policy is designed to attract, retain and motivate individuals by providing the opportunity to earn competitive levels of compensation provided performance is delivered, whilst remaining within the range of compensation offered by similar companies.
Directors remuneration is the subject of annual review in accordance with this policy.
Additionally, it focuses on the contribution to the continued long-term growth and success of the Company and seeks to align Directors interests with those of the Company, employees and shareholders.
The table below shows the proportion of the maximum potential compensation that is performance related for each Executive Director.
Analysis of fixed versus performance related pay for Executive Directors 2011 Fixed Variable % % Alan Hearne 35.1 64.9 Gary Young 44.9 55.1 Phil Williams 44.4 55.6 Notes: Fixed compensation comprises: Basic salary, Pension Contribution, Benefits Variable compensation comprises: Maximum contribution under the Bonus Plan Base salary When determining the salary of the Executive Directors the Remuneration Committee takes into consideration: n the performance of the Group as a whole: n the performance of the individual Executive Director both for the Group and the businesses under his control: n pay and conditions throughout the Company: and n the market conditions in the sectors in which the Group operates rpsgroup.
com 27 In addition, the salaries and overall remuneration packages of Executive Directors are benchmarked against independently established groups of listed companies operating within the same sector as the Company.
Remuneration Review During the year an independent review of base salaries and total compensation the Review was undertaken on behalf of the Remuneration Committee by PwC.
The review of total compensation utilised PwCs standard methodology to compare the total of base salary, on target bonus, the expected value of long term incentives and pension benefits in respect of companies within the comparator group with the equivalent compensation for the Companys Executive Directors.
The first grouping reviewed the Main Comparator Group consisted of the following companies which are broadly the same as those the Remuneration Committee has used in previous years.
This consisted of the constituents of the main group that generate in excess of 60% of their turnover from overseas.
The Group is becoming increasingly international with over two-thirds of operating profit now generated from outside of Europe.
The demands placed upon the Executive Directors in managing a substantially more complex multi-national Group have therefore grown significantly.
Correspondingly the market in which the Group competes for executive talent is increasingly international.
The Remuneration Committee therefore considers the International Subset an important comparator group for the purpose of considering Executive Directors remuneration.
The International Sub-Set consists of the following companies.
Aggreko Plc Filtrona PLC Regus PLC Amec Plc Hays PLC Shanks Group Plc Ashtead Group Plc Intertek Group PLC WSP Group PLC Bunzl Plc Michael Page International Plc Electrocomponents Plc Premier Farnell PLC The Committee also undertook a separate review of the UK Energy sector at Divisional Board level for Phil Williams the Executive Director responsible for the Groups operations in this sector.
The review was undertaken using data taken from PwCs proprietary database and conducted at Divisional level to take account of the large size of companies operating within this sector.
The Divisional data would not, however, take account of additional responsibilities commensurate with being a director of a listed company.
The Committee felt that this separate review was required to reflect the importance of the Groups Energy business and the very competitive market for executive talent within the Energy sector.
The positioning of the Executive Directors relative to the relevant comparator groups is summarised below.
In respect of the Chief Executive Alan Hearne, the review showed 2011 base salary to be between lower and median quartile in respect of the Main Comparator Group but below lower quartile in respect of the International Subset.
Total compensation in 2011 was below lower quartile in respect of both of these comparator groups.
In respect of the Finance Director Gary Young, base salary and total compensation were below lower quartile in respect of both the Main Comparator Group and the International Subset.
For Phil Williams, the Executive Director responsible for the Groups Energy business, the review showed that base salary was above median in respect of the Main Comparator Group and between lower quartile and median against the International Subset.
Against the Energy Sector data base salary was above median.
In respect of total compensation, however, he was placed at or below lower quartile in respect of all three comparator groups.
In addition to the consideration of appropriate benchmarking information the Committee has considered other factors in reviewing levels of remuneration.
As noted above the Group has become increasingly international, the proportion of the Groups operating profits generated from outside the United Kingdom increased having more than doubled between 2006 and 2011 so that more than two thirds of operating profit is generated from outside Europe.
The complexity of the issues with which the Executive team are now 28 Report and Accounts 2011 Management & Governance required to deal has increased correspondingly as well as the demands imposed by working across international time zones and far greater international travel.
These pressures have been magnified by a reduction in the size of the Executive team that numbered five at the start of 2009 but has now reduced to three and which has required all to assume additional responsibilities.
The Committee is also mindful of the relationship between the value of remuneration paid to the Board and Group performance.
The table below shows the total value of remuneration payable to Directors over a five year period and its relationship to reported Group profits.
Remuneration Basic Annual Share Pension Benefits Received as % of 000s salaries bonus plans conts.
Represents gains made under the Long Term Incentive Plan and the Executive Share Option Plan by reference to the market price of shares at the time of maturity of award or exercise of share option.
Total remuneration received by Directors over this period relative to Group performance has, therefore, followed a downward trend.
The Committee has access to pay and conditions of other employees within the Group when determining remuneration for the Executive Directors also considered the relationship between general changes to pay and conditions within the Group as a whole.
In setting remuneration for 2011 and 2012 the Committee therefore took account of the competitive nature of the markets within which the Group operates, appropriate benchmarking data, changes in the nature of the Group and executive responsibilities, pay and conditions within the Group and overall costs to the Group.
Placed in this context the Committee concluded that the changes detailed below were reasonable and struck an appropriate balance between providing remuneration packages that remain competitive but which are not excessive relative to these various factors.
Changes to Remuneration in respect of 2011 In respect of the salary review undertaken as at 1 January 2011, the Committee increased the base salary of Alan Hearne by 5% to 425,000, the base salary of Phil Williams by 11.5% to 320,000 and that of Gary Young by 9.75% to 225,000.
Changes to Remuneration in respect of 2012 In the interests of transparency the Remuneration Committee is also disclosing the changes to Executive Remuneration that took effect from 1 January 2012.
In respect of the salary review undertaken at this time the Committee increased the base salary of Alan Hearne by 5% to 446,000, the base salary of Phil Williams by 6.25% to 340,000 and that of Gary Young by 3% to 231,750.
With effect from 1 January 2012 the Committee agreed that, in lieu of pension contributions, a salary supplement of 25% of basic salary would be payable to Alan Hearne.
This payment does not rank for the purposes of calculating payments under the Bonus Banking Plan or other employee benefits linked to salary.
It was also agreed that the employer pension contribution payable for Phil Williams should, with effect from 1 January 2012, be increased from 15% to 17.5%.
In addition the maximum annual contribution payable to Phil Williams under the Bonus Banking Plan was increased from 150% to 175% of base salary.
RPS Group Plc Bonus Plan the Bonus Plan Background The Bonus Plan was introduced with effect from 1 January 2010 and 2011 was therefore its second year of operation.
This single plan replaced the Companys Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the annual bonus plan that operated up to 31 December 2009.
The Bonus Plan, the rationale for which was set out in last years report, was introduced following consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
The principal details of the Bonus Plan and its operation in 2011 are set out below.
com 29 Summary of the Main Features of the Bonus Plan The Bonus Plan is based on a percentage of the PBTA earned during a three year period which is used to create a bonus pool.
50% of the bonus pool is paid out in year 1, 50% of the cumulative balance of the bonus pool may be paid out in year 2 and the cumulative balance after payments in years 1 and 2 and contribution to the pool in respect of year 3 may be paid out as a larger final payment at the end of year 3.
The key features of the Bonus Plan are: n at the beginning of the plan period participants have a plan account to which bonus units are allocated.
These bonus units will only have value if the Company makes a contribution to the Plan.
On the basis that the threshold profit is exceeded and a contribution is made into the Plan a number of the bonus units will be eligible for release each year.
The Remuneration Committee has discretion when determining how many eligible bonus units to release and therefore the level of annual payment received by the participant to take into account individual and wider Company and divisional financial and non financial performance: including the Companys sustainability, environmental and corporate governance record: n the contribution to the Plan is calculated on the following basis: n the Remuneration Committee sets the threshold profit at the beginning of each financial year.
Only in exceptional circumstances will the Committee amend the threshold profit once it has been set: n up to 3% of the total PBTA for the financial year will be contributed to the Bonus Plan for the Executive Directors provided that the threshold profit is met or exceeded.
This is subject to an individual cap as a percentage of salary.
The Remuneration Committee considers a 3% maximum contribution to be appropriate based on the historic incentives costs of the Executive Directors of the Company and their counterparts in the other constituents of the Support Services Sector: n if the actual PBTA for the financial year is less than the threshold profit, 15% of the difference will be deducted from the value of funds held in the Plan provided that the value cannot be less than zero: n there is a maximum contribution that can be made to a participants plan account in respect of any financial year see below : n the value of deferred contributions in a participants plan account is held in shares: n participants will be entitled to the release of bonus units with an aggregate bonus unit price equal to 50% of the balance of their Plan accounts at the end of each financial year, with the final balance of the Plan account paid at the end of the third year.
The following section of the report sets out the principal terms on which the plan operated in 2011.
Maximum Contribution 2011 Maximum Contribution under the Plan Maximum Contribution Name %age Salary for 2011 Alan Hearne 200% 200% Gary Young 150% 150% Phil Williams 150% 150% Profit & Contribution Thresholds for 2011 Level Level 0 Level 1 Level 2 PBTA Threshold 48m 48m 53.5m this figure is net of all bonus costs including the bonus costs under the Plan for this Financial year Bonus Plan Contribution Percentage 1% 3% Bonus Plan Deduction Percentage 15% Straight line between points.
The Bonus Plan PBTA for 2011 was 50.8m which generated a Total Plan Contribution of 1,028,000.
30 Report and Accounts 2011 Management & Governance Participant Plan Accounts The following table sets out the details of the Plan Accounts for the Executive Directors: Plan Account Details Alan Hearne Phil Williams Gary Young Opening Balance 200,961 107,534 76,826 2011 Plan Contribution 462,600 328,960 236,440 2011 Plan Deduction Total 663,561 436,494 313,266 2011 Payment 331,780 218,247 78,316 Closing Balance 331,781 218,247 234,950 The balance of the Bonus Plan contribution for 2010 that was not paid in cash was deferred in the form of shares in the Company that were purchased by and are held by the Companys employee benefit trust.
The opening balance represents these shares valued using the closing price of ordinary shares in the Company on 7 March 2012 together with the value of dividends on the shares paid during the year.
The closing balance represents the value deferred or to be deferred in the form of shares after the 2011 payment.
The Bonus Plan will be operated for 2012 with the same main parameters.
The Remuneration Committee will, however, set the appropriate thresholds and contribution levels for 2012 taking into account the circumstances of the Company and market generally.
Long Term Incentive Plan As noted above the LTIP has ceased to operate the final award under this plan having been made in 2009.
The table below shows the position in relation to the two awards under the LTIP that were outstanding at the beginning of the year.
2008 Grant 2009 Grant % of Salary % of Salary Executive Condition Condition Maximum Annual Grant 100 100 Chief Executive 100 100 Finance Director 80 80 Executive Directors 60-80 60-80 Performance Condition EPS Growth EPS Growth see table below see table below Status This award This award lapsed on will lapse on 8 April 2011 31 March 2012 The performance conditions that attached to the release of LTIP awards related to EPS growth and were as follows: % Average Basic EPS Growth p. a. above RPI % of 3 Award Released 3 12.5 4 25 5 37.5 6 50 7 62.5 8 75 9 87.5 10 100 Straight line release applies between these points.
The Remuneration Committee determined the satisfaction of the performance conditions in respect of the LTIP.
The EPS figure used by the Committee was the audited basic EPS figure disclosed in the Companys Financial Statements.
The performance condition comparing increases in earnings per share against inflation was chosen in order to ensure that LTIP awards would only be received against a background of sustained real increase in the financial performance of the Company.
As previously reported the performance conditions attached to the LTIP award made in 2008 were not satisfied and accordingly this award lapsed during 2011.
As also previously anticipated the Remuneration Committee has also determined that the performance conditions attaching to the award made in 2009 have not been satisfied and this award will lapse on 31 March 2012.
Full details of the Directors individual LTIP awards are set out on page 18. rpsgroup.
com 31 Executive Share Option Plan In years prior to 2004 when the LTIP was introduced, the Company operated an Executive Share Option Plan.
All performance conditions under this Plan were met, details of which have been set out in previous reports of the Committee.
No options were issued at a discount under this plan.
During the year Peter Dowen exercised options over 32,500 shares granted at an option price of 111p and 15,051 shares at a price of 146.5p.
At the date of exercise of these options the market price was 236.5p giving a total gain of 54,333.
All outstanding options under this plan are set out on page 17.
Benefits The Executive Directors participate in defined contribution pension schemes to which the employer contribution rate in 2011 was 15%.
In 2006 the Remuneration Committee agreed to a one off payment to be made to the pension plan of Alan Hearne representing six years annual contributions.
Accordingly no pension contributions were made into his plan for the period expiring in October 2011.
In respect of the period from October to December 2011 the Company paid 16,000 to Alan Hearne in lieu of pension contributions.
Executive Directors can also participate in the all-employee Inland Revenue Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The SIP gives employees the opportunity to purchase up to 1,500 of shares a year with the Company providing one additional matching share for every employee purchased share.
In addition they receive the following benefits: n healthcare: n life assurance and dependents pensions: n disability schemes: and n company car or car allowance.
Shareholding Guideline The Committee operates a system of shareholding guidelines to encourage long-term share ownership by the Executive Directors.
The Committee believes this forms a stable platform on which to build a responsible relationship between shareholders, the Executives and the Company.
It is intended that the Executives will be able to build up their shareholding by their participation in the Companys incentive plans.
The current guidelines are as detailed below..
Recommended shareholding Name requirement as percentage of salary Alan Hearne 150% Gary Young 100% Phil Williams 100% Service contracts It remains the Companys policy that Executive Directors should have rolling service contracts terminable on no more than one years notice served by the Company or the Director.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are shown below.
Notice Period Name Date of Contract months Alan Hearne February 1997 12 Phil Williams November 2005 12 Gary Young September 2000 12 The only event on the occurrence of which the Company is liable to make a payment to any of the Executive Directors is cessation of employment.
The Companys policy on termination payments is not make payments beyond its contractual obligations, including any payment in respect of notice to which a Director is entitled after mitigation is considered.
None of the Directors contracts provide for extended notice periods or compensation in the event of a change of control.
None of the Directors contracts provide for liquidated damages.
32 Report and Accounts 2011 Management & Governance Non-Executive Directors The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board and aim to be competitive with other fully listed companies of equivalent size and complexity.
The Chairman of the Company receives a higher fee than the other Non-Executive Directors whilst Committee Chairmen and the Senior Independent Director receive an additional payment.
The fees paid to the Chairman and the NonExecutive Directors are detailed on the following page.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for three years term which may be renewed by mutual agreement.
In common with the Executive Directors all Non-Executives are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Details of the terms of appointment of the serving Non-Executive Directors are set out in the table below: Unexpired term of contract as Name Initial Contract date at 31 Dec 2010 months Brook Land September 1997 Annual Review John Bennett June 2006 5 Louise Charlton May 2008 29 Robert Miller-Bakewell May 2010 17 Tracey Graham August 2011 32 Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in the pension plan or the performance based pay schemes including annual bonus and share schemes.
Terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection by any person at the Companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
Performance Graph The graph shows a comparison of the total shareholder return from the Companys shares for each of the last five financial years against the total shareholder return for the companies comprising the FTSE All Share, the FTSE All Share Support Services sector and the comparator group.
The Remuneration Committee has selected these benchmarks as they provide a good indication of the Companys general performance.
Total shareholder return from 1st January 2007 140 130 120 110 100 90 80 70 60 50 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 RPS Group - Tot Return Ind FTSE All Share - Tot Return Ind FTSE All Share Support SVS - Tot Return Ind rpsgroup.
com 33 Directors emoluments and compensation The following disclosures on Directors remuneration and share incentives have been audited as required by Part 3 of Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The table above sets out details of the emoluments and compensation received during the year by each Director.
In addition Employers National Insurance Contribution paid in respect of these emoluments were 250,000 2010: 196,000.
Emoluments in 2011 represent those paid for part of the year up to date of retirement.
A payment of 80,000 was made to Peter Dowen after retirement from the Company in consideration of a successful transition of responsibilities.
Emoluments represent those paid for part year since date of appointment.
Share awards The tables on pages 17 and 18 set out details of the share options and LTIPs held by each Director during the year.
The Company operates its share schemes within the dilution limits specified by the ABI.
Pensions The Executive Directors of the Company all participate in Group Money Purchase defined contribution pension plans.
An Ordinary Resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the Companys Annual General Meeting on 4 May 2012.
Signed on behalf of the Board Tracey Graham Chair of the Remuneration Committee 7 March 2012 34 Report and Accounts 2011
