Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 65 Remuneration report Remuneration policies Our policy continues to be to ensure that executive directors and members of the executive committee are rewarded for their contribution to the groups operating and financial performance at levels which take account of industry, market and country benchmarks, and that their remuneration is appropriate to their scale of responsibility and performance, in order to attract, motivate and retain individuals of the necessary calibre.
We are a global company, with almost all of our revenue being earned outside the UK.
We expect our executives to be internationally mobile and to have experience in working in a number of different countries.
As a result, we compete for management skills and talent in a global marketplace, and our approach to remuneration takes account of the Miles Morland need to be competitive in the different parts of the world in which the Chairman of the remuneration committee group operates.
Dear fellow shareholder A significant element of our executives remuneration is performance It gives me great pleasure to write to you after another year of related.
60% of executive directors short-term incentives are directly outstanding business performance to outline for you the principles on linked to challenging annual group financial performance targets, which we base our approach to executive remuneration and to explain and the balance to specific and measurable individual performance the thinking behind the remuneration committees decision-making objectives, which are aligned to the groups strategic priorities.
Thetargets for long-term incentives are set by reference to industry benchmark performance, with significant vesting being achieved As you know, SABMiller is now one of the two largest brewers in the onlyif the group outperforms the industry benchmarks.
world, with brewing interests and distribution agreements in more than 75 countries across six continents.
Since moving our headquarters to We are confident that the spread of remuneration over the short, London in 1999 we have grown into a global operation, having built medium and long term, the calibration by reference to sustainable a balanced and advantaged portfolio of businesses, with markets company financial performance measured by growth in earnings ranging from developed economies such as the USA to fast-growing per share and in shareholder value, and the use of three to five year developing markets in China and throughout Africa.
performance periods, ensure that management is appropriately motivated to focus on sustainable long-term value creation.
As shown in the following charts, SABMiller has significantly outperformed both the FTSE 100 and the median of our sector peer Review of the groups remuneration policies group since our listing in London in 1999.
100 invested in SABMiller We explained in some detail in our remuneration report last year the on listing in London would have grown to 642 as at 31 March 2011, process which we adopted in our review of the overall structure of the compared with 229 invested in our peer group median, or 153 groups remuneration policies in 2009 2010.
It is worth summarising invested in the FTSE 100 index.
that here, as we believe that the alignment that it brings in both the short and long term between the interests of management and Value of 100 invested in SABMiller on listing in London shareholders is of fundamental importance.
Our aim was to ensure that our remuneration structures remained 700 SABMiller appropriate and aligned with the groups long-term strategic 600 priorities, namely, to create a balanced and attractive global spread of businesses: to develop strong, relevant brand portfolios that win in the 500 local market: constantly to raise the profitability of local businesses, 400 sustainably: and to leverage our global skills and scale, while at the same time having due regard to core environmental, social and 300 Median governance issues.
We concluded that our policy of agreeing a total 200 remuneration package for each executive director comprising an annual base salary, a short-term incentive in the form of an annual 100 FTSE 100 cash bonus, long-term incentives through participation in share 0 incentive plans, and pension contributions and other usual benefits, 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 continued to be appropriate, and that variable pay elements provided by short-term and long-term incentives should continue to form a very significant proportion of executive directors pay.
5-year rolling TSR since listing in London % However, although we were satisfied that SABMillers remuneration 35 policy had generally worked well, we decided that we wanted to 30 see more focus on longer term outperformance.
To achieve this, SABMiller and to incentivise management not only to continue to deliver upper 25 quartile performance, but to strive for even greater outperformance FTSE 100 20 for shareholders, we changed the calibration of the TSR-based 15 performance condition so that management would receive nothing for Median 10 performance which was only at the median of SABMillers comparator group, but would have the opportunity to benefit significantly for 5 performance which exceeded the upper quartile threshold.
0 -5 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 Analysis based on 6-month share price averaging, with all dividends reinvested.
