Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information dIReCtORS RemuneRAtIOn RepORt HOW We ReWARd OuR SenIOR mAnAgement And bOARd OF dIReCtORS The Directors Remuneration Report has been Dear Shareholders During 2011, the Committee concluded that the prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present current arrangements continued to be effective Accounting Regulations under the Companies Act the remuneration report for the financial year in achieving these aims.
Key decisions regarding 2006 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services ended 31 December 2011. remuneration policy were as follows: Authority.
The disclosures contained in this report that are specified for audit by the regulations and are Performance of the Company Salary increases of 5%.
Executive Directors covered in the scope of the Independent Auditors 2011 has been an exceptional year for SOCO, salaries were frozen for 2011 and will be Report on page 71, are separately identified below having achieved the long term goal of increased by 5% for 2012.
This increase takes and where relevant are presented in US dollars commercialising the TGT field through first oil in into account both inflation and increases consistent with the Groups audited financial August 2011.
The Committee considers this to across the wider employee population.
A resolution to approve the report will be the most important event in the Companys No increase in annual or long term be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General history.
It has transformed the financial position incentive opportunity.
as shown in our results and offers the prospect believes it continues to have an appropriate of significant cash generation, from the mix between fixed and variable remuneration, The Company has complied throughout the period Companys own exploration success, to fund and that the annual and long term incentive with the provisions relating to Directors future exploration in accordance with SOCOs maxima also remain appropriate.
remuneration set out in the UK Corporate business strategy.
Other key highlights are set Introduction of shareholding guideline.
Governance Code the Code, and has applied the out within this report.
Executive Directors are now required to build principles set out in the Code as described below.
up a minimum shareholding equivalent to their Incentive out-turns annual salary, to ensure further commitment Remuneration Committee A Annual bonus.
The maximum amount 100% to shareholder alignment and long term The Remuneration Committee currently of salary for Executive Directors was awarded stewardship.
Both Executive Directors hold, comprises the following Non-Executive Directors: for performance during 2011. and continue to build, significant shareholdings Chairman: Michael Johns appointed 23 June Long term incentive plan.
2011, who is also the Senior Independent potential maximum has vested in respect of Non-Executive Director.
LTIP awards made in January 2009.
This The Committee continues to monitor corporate Members: Ambassador Antnio Monteiro served reflects TSR performance against the governance and best practice developments in throughout 2011 and Dr Mike Watts appointed comparator group of between median and the executive remuneration environment and will December 2011. upper quartile in the three year period to incorporate further best practice features as January 2012. appropriate.
The Committee also takes an active Peter Kingston served as Remuneration Committee interest in shareholder views and the voting on Chairman during the year until he retired from the Executive remuneration policy the remuneration report, and looks forward to Board on 23 June 2011.
In addition, Messrs Olivier The Committee regularly reviews executive receiving your support at the AGM.
Barbaroux and Robert Cathery stood down as remuneration arrangements to ensure that they members of the Committee during December 2011 remain aligned with the interests of shareholders but will still be invited to attend meetings and provide and the overall business strategy.
It also continues Michael Johns guidance to the Committee where appropriate.
to be mindful of the prevailing economic and Remuneration Committee Chairman Mr Rui fide Sousa SOCO Chairman also attends executive remuneration environment when meetings and provides guidance where appropriate.
The current composition of the Committee was determined following a review in December 2011 of each of the Companys committees, which is more fully described in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 51 to 58 and was intended to ensure optimum utilisation of competencies on the Board while maintaining a balance between the benefits of refreshment and continuity.
Additional information regarding the Committee is also contained in that report.
SOCO International plc 59 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
