Governance Report on Directors remuneration Dear Shareholder The Companys largest investors and representative bodies Following the demerger of the Spirit business from Punch were consulted in advance with respect to the post Taverns plc on 1 August 2011, I am pleased to present the demerger remuneration arrangements and their feedback first remuneration report for the period from the Companys was incorporated prior to arrangements being finalised.
incorporation on 8 June 2011 to 20 August 2011.
We will be The Companys largest investors and representative bodies seeking approval for this report from shareholders at the were generally very supportive of our arrangements.
We have announced that Mike Tye will be stepping up The policy of the Remuneration Committee the Committee to the role of Chief Executive Officer on 16 December 2011 has been designed to help drive business performance and to succeed Ian Dyson.
Reflecting his new role, Mike will be maximise shareholder value from the demerger.
The main granted the maximum award of 200% of salary this year features of the remuneration structure for Executive Directors, thereafter reverting to a range between 80% and 150% which came into effect on 1 August 2011 following the of salary under the Long Term Incentive Plan 2011 and completion of the demerger, are as follows: will receive an increase of 16% in his salary taking it to base salaries and pension provision were unchanged 475,000 p. a. on demerger: annual bonus potential is capped at 150% of base salary Ian Dysons departure terms are in line with his contract for the Chief Executive Officer and Deputy Chief Executive of employment.
Officer and 100% of base salary for the Finance Director: Targets will be 75% based on financial metrics and 25% The Committee unanimously recommends that shareholders vote to approve the Report on Directors remuneration.
based on the achievement of individual targets although no bonus, under either section, will be payable unless Approved by the Board a threshold profit before tax target is exceeded: long term incentive awards will be granted under the Spirit Pub Company plc Long Term Incentive Plan 2011 Tony Rice which effectively replicates the arrangement operated Remuneration Committee Chairman by Punch.
A normal grant policy of 80% to 150% of base 31 October 2011 salary in any financial year will be operated as per previous discussions with shareholders.
Performance targets will be based on a combination of sliding scale relative total shareholder return and earnings per share performance targets: and Executive Director service contracts contain 12 month notice periods with an exception of three months for the Interim Finance Director with payments in lieu of notice periods limited to base salary and benefits and mitigation will be sought as appropriate.
Annual Report 2011 Spirit Pub Company plc 39 Governance
