52 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Report of the Remuneration Committee The structure and levels of the remuneration of the Groups John Hughes Michael Tobin Chairman Chairman Simon Batey executiveDirectors and other members ofitssenior Michael Tobin SID CEO managementare key elements in the Groupsuccessfully Brian McArthurMaurizio Muscroft Carli Rob Coupland achievingand sustaining its strategic aims.
GFD John Hughes Chief Operating officer John Sahar OReilly Elhabashi The Remuneration Committee sets the strategy, Aswith the Committees previous advisors, Membership of the structure and levels of remuneration for the FITexclusively advise the Committee and do executive Directors and reviews the remuneration notprovide advice to management, norto  of other members of senior management in the theGroup on any other matter.
It does so in the context of the thattheir independence as advisors to the Groups overall strategy to align the financial Committee is maintained.
FIT aremembers of John OReilly Simon Batey interests of the executive Directors and other theRemuneration Consultants Group and comply John Hughes Chairman Chairman Chairman management andemployees with achievement with its voluntary code of conduct in relation of the Groupsobjectives.
toexecutive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Simon Batey John Hughes This report outlines the Committees activities FIT advised the Committee on its review of SID John OReilly Maurizio Carli and provides an explanation of the components executive remuneration for 2012.
John Simon Batey ofthe Groups remuneration policy.
It also details OReilly SID the Directors remuneration during the year Remuneration policy Sahar Maurizio Elhabashi Carli Sahar Elhabashi ended 31 December 2011 and explains how The Committees policy is to ensure that the thepolicy isbeingupdated and applied in the Group offers a competitive, and not excessive, year ending 31December 2012.
These are in listed company remuneration package aligned compliance withthe principles of the UK Code with achievement of the Groups strategic aims, Independent nonexecutive Director insofar asthese relate to Directors remuneration.
including the responsibilities of risk management and internal control, so as to maximise shareholder Board Chairman Remuneration advisors value on a sustainable basis.
Its key policy objective independent on appointment The Committee has its own specialist is to secure and retain high calibre executive remuneration advisors.
Following a change in Directors with the skills, experience and motivation The Chief Executive Officer normally personnel during the year at the Committees necessary to direct and manage the affairs of attends Committee meetings except then remuneration advisors, a competitive theGroup to achieve these strategic aims.
The whenhis remuneration is being discussed.
tender was held involving three firms including Committee considers this key to TelecityGroups The Groups Human Resources Director is the then advisors.
Each potential advisor ongoing success.
regularly invited to attend and present at presented to the Chairman of the Remuneration The aim of the policy is to set the structure and Committee meetings on wider human Committee and these presentations were level of executive remuneration appropriately resources matters in the Group.
distributed and reported to theCommittee.
Executive remuneration was Following consideration of the three presentations, reviewed during the year in conjunction with the Appointed May 2011. the Committee selected and appointed FIT review, agreement and planning of the Groups Remuneration Consultants LLP FIT led by ongoing growth strategy by the Board.
This was JohnLee whowas, prior to founding FIT last undertaken to ensure that the remuneration year, managing partner at New Bridge Street adopted for 2012 was aligned with the overall asitsadvisors.
strategic objectives that the Board determined should be pursued.
John OReilly Remuneration Committee UK Code Principle: Chairman There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration and for fixing theremuneration packages of individual directors.
Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review 53 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance review Introduction Biographies of Directors Report of the Board Report of the Corporate Social  Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Remuneration Committee UK Code Principle: Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, retain andmotivate directors of the quality required to run the company successfully, but a company should avoid paying more thanis necessary for this purpose.
Remuneration Committee calendar for 2011 At specific meetings Report on results of consultation with Group-wide human resources Main discussions on shareholders on annual remuneration review review, including key statistics annual executive on personnel across the Group remuneration review, Finalisation of annual executive including: remunerationreview Selection and appointment of new remuneration advisors Salary Approval of annual bonuses for executive tothe Committee Annual bonus Directors for the past year, including the deferred share awards Initial discussion on annual Proposals for future executive remuneration long-term incentive Review of proposals for, and grant of, annual reviewin context of strategic arrangements award of long-term performance shares objectives for the Group Agreement to consult with determined by the Board shareholders regarding these proposals Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec At each meeting Review of: Levels of achievement under the Groups LTIPs performance conditions Minutes of and status of actions agreed at previous meetings The approach ultimately decided upon for 2012 Remuneration policy continued Key elements of remuneration was, as in prior years, recommended by the The Committee also has regard to practice The key elements of the remuneration of the Committees remuneration advisors.
During 2011, executive Directors for both 2011 and 2012, and determined the proposed remuneration of the this included consideration of practices in other areview of the way in which the remuneration executive Directors for 2012, the Committee successful high growth companies, particularly policy has been applied in determining these, consulted shareholders with combined interests with regard to long-term incentive arrangements.
areset out on the next page.
in approximately 60% of the Companys issued In addition, the remuneration of the executive share capital.
The finally determined remuneration Directors is reviewed in the context of the for 2012 asset out in the table on page 54 remuneration of other senior management reflects the results ofthat consultation.
andin the Group generally, which is reviewed bythe Committee annually.
54 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Key elements of remuneration Element 2011 2012 The Committee sought to ensure that the The Committee has decided to restrict salary increases 1 base salaries of the executive Directors were for both executive Directors to 3.5%this year even though competitive in light of remuneration in the Group has againperformed exceedingly well and grown Base salary package, comparable companies, the substantial level substantially in the past year.
This is intended to strike which recognises the of growth of the Group as it continues anappropriate balance in the context of the enhanced responsibilities of toeffectively implement its strategy of long-term incentive arrangements proposed for 2012. theindividual Director controlled expansion in its core data centre Accordingly, their salaries in 2012 are533,000 for markets, and the stewardship responsibilities Michael Tobin and 316,000 for .
They also reflected the respective contributions and importance of theexecutive Directors in the delivery of the Groups strategy.
The salaries in 2011 were 515,000 for Michael Tobin and 305,000 forBrian McArthur-Muscroft.
The potential annual bonus for each of the The same annual bonus arrangements have been maintained 2 executive Directors in 2011 was 110% of annual for 2012.
Executive Directors will again be able to earn up base salary and was only payable to the extent to110% of salary based on the extent to which stretching Annual bonus scheme, which that stretching corporate performance targets corporate performance targets set by the Remuneration provides rewards that reflect set by the Remuneration Committee were Committee are achieved or exceeded.
Themeasures the performance of the achieved or exceeded.
These measures, and adopted, which are the same for 2011, are shown in the Group and the contribution the achievement against them, are shown in table on page 56.
The total bonus that becomes payable the table on page 56. will be paid in cash and shares using the same formula of individual Directors asin2011.
inaparticular year Of the total bonus that is payable, the first 30% ispaid in cash and the bonus payable above The Committee believes this helps to motivate andretain thislevel is satisfied 40% in cash and 60% in the executive Directors, augments shareholder alignment restricted shares which generally only vest and provides the Directors with ameaningful incentive to aftertwoyears.
meet challenging short-term targets for the business.
Performance share awards equivalent on the It is intended that both executive Directors will again 3 basis ofthe share price at the time of grant to begranted awards under the PSP equivalent to 100% of 100% of base salary were granted to each of the base salary on the same terms and subject to the same Longterm incentives, executive Directors.
These will generally vest performance condition as in 2011.
In addition, subject whichincentivise after three years subject to the performance of toshareholder approval of the new long-term incentive executives to deliver the Company in terms of total shareholder plan explained on the following two pages, it is intended sustained improvement return TSR relative toother companies in that Michael Tobin and Brian McArthur-Muscroft be the FTSE250 excluding investment trusts.
awarded Enhanced Awards under this new plan, subject infinancial performance Under this TSR condition, awards will vest to to the demanding financial performance conditions and shareholder returns the extent of 25% for median performance based on earnings per share growth over three years overaperiodofyears and then on a sliding scale up to full vesting for andsubject to the additional underpin performance upper quartile performance.
conditions as explained on the following two pages.
Executives were entitled to pension scheme Company contributions to executive pension 4 contributions, as well as life assurance, schemeshave been increased to 20% of basesalary medical, and permanent health insurance.
forMichael Tobin and 18% for Brian McArthur-Muscroft.
A pension contribution, Other benefits remain unchanged from 2011.
This is in Company contributions to the executive whichfunds retirement, linewith practice in comparable companies.
Directors pension schemes were 18% of andother benefits basesalary for Michael Tobin and 16% for .
Both executive Directors received a car allowance of 17,800 inthe case of Michael Tobin and 14,000 inthecase of Brian McArthur-Muscroft.
The amounts paid and estimated values ofawards made during 2011 areincluded inthe table on page 57 g Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review 55 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance review Introduction Biographies of Directors Report of the Board Report of the Corporate Social  Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Remuneration Committee the constituents, as at grant, of the FTSE 250 Thisthreshold for full vestingtherefore requires Longterm incentive arrangements excluding investment trusts.
No part of the more than a doubling of 2011s adjusted EPS over TelecityGroup currently operates two long-term award will vest for below median performance, the performance period.
A summary of the with25% vesting at median and increasing to Performance Share Plan PSP under which To ensure that the Enhanced Awards operate as fullvesting for upper quartile performance.
executive Directors and other senior management intended, vesting of these awards will be subject have participated since 2008 is given in the table Enhanced Awards will be granted only to executive to two additional underpins: that TSR calculated below, as is a summary of the sharesave scheme Directors and a number of other identified key as for Base Awards is at least at a median level over in which all employees may participate.
executives around 15 individuals in total.
the performance period, and that the Groups Theseawards are seen by the Committee as ROCE in the final year of the performance period A replacement to the PSP is to be proposed at animportant part of its strategy in retaining and is at least equal to the Groups weighted average the Companys forthcoming AGM as set out in incentivising this team and have been designed cost of capital plus 3%.
more detail in the circular which will accompany to reward the delivery of exceptional levels of this Annual Report to shareholders.
This new The individual limit for Base Awards in any year will growth to shareholders.
LTIP will allow for the grant of two forms of be maintained at the current 100% of salary level awards, Base Awards and Enhanced Awards.
Enhanced Awards will vest only on the achievement that is applied to the PSP.
The individual limit for of challenging earnings per share growth targets Enhanced Awards to be made in any year will be Base Awards will be made on substantially the over a three-year performance period.
A recipient of Enhanced Awards same terms and within the same limits as the targets which will be explained inmore detail in will usually receive Base Awards in the same year awards that have been made under the PSP the circular to shareholders willmean that the in order to ensure that incentives in the wider inrecent years.
As with the PSP, in which Enhanced Award will only startto vest if adjusted management group are appropriately aligned.
approximately 40 managers participate, there EPS growth over the three-year performance will be wide participation amongst the Groups In 2012, it is proposed that Enhanced Awards period is equivalent to 23% per annum compound, senior management.
These awards will be subject willbe granted to Michael Tobin and Brian and with vesting increasing on a straight-line basis to a relative TSR condition measured over three McArthur-Muscroft at a 150% of salary level.
to fullvesting for 28% per annum compound growth.
years with the Companys TSR assessed against Performance Share Plan PSP Since IPO, the PSP has been the Groups Awards have generally been made on an annual basis to executive Directors and employees mainlong-term incentive arrangement.
of the Group at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee decides Ithaspermitted the grant of two different whether to award performance shares or performance options, the level of each to be issued types ofincentive: and the performance conditions to apply to these, having considered the recommendations of the Chief Executive.
performance-related awards of shares atnil cost performance shares : and Since 2009, awards have been performance shares.
These have been awarded to executive Directors and other participants in any one year up to a value equivalent to 100% of the performance-related grants of options participants base salary at the date of grant although the rules of the scheme permit toacquire shares at fair market value awardsof up to 250% of salary.
Proposed to be replaced in 2012 as set out above.
Sharesave scheme The Group also operates a sharesave scheme.
Awards are made periodically and were made during 2011.
Under this, employees may be granted an Subject to certain conditions, all employees are eligible to participate.
option to acquire ordinary shares at a fixed exercise price.
Participating employees are required to save each month into a savings account for a period of either three or four years, the proceeds of which they may use either to exercise the option or have it repaid to them.
Subject to tax provisions in the relevant jurisdiction, a tax-free bonus is payable to the employee on the savings in the savings account on completion of the relevant savings contract.
The maximum amount that an employee may save each month over the three-year or four-year period is 250.
The option exercise price may be set at a discount of up to 20% of the market value of the ordinary shares at the time of grant as was done for the award in 2011.
The Committee considers this scheme important to enable the interests of employees to be aligned with the Groups success.
164.0 209.6 24.1 22.0 106.2 101.0 56 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 capital at the proposed date of grant.
This limit acquire ordinary shares at the offer price at the Longterm incentive arrangements excludes awards made before or at the Companys time ofthe IPO of the Company in October 2007 continued IPO.
At 31 December 2011, following the fourth to eligible key employees.
All have now vested To the extent that new ordinary shares are to full year of operation of these schemes, there and no further grants will be made under the beissued to satisfy performance share awards have been granted, and not subsequently plan.
Further details of the SOP were given in the under the PSP, the sharesave scheme or awards lapsed, awards over 5,852,627 shares under Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended made under the new LTIP, no awards may be these schemes, representing 2.94% of 31 December 2007.
Options granted under the made if it would cause the aggregate number of thethenshare capital ofthe Company.
SOP will be satisfied using ordinary shares issued ordinary shares capable of being issued under for this purpose to the Groups Employee Benefit those schemes together with any new schemes Before the operation of the PSP, the Trust at the Companys IPO.
in the future during the preceding ten years TelecityGroup IPO Share Option Plan SOP toexceed 10% ofthe Companys issued share enabled the Company to grant options to Annual bonus schemes Annual bonus payments are based on the extent to which the corporate or individual performance targets set by the Remuneration Committee areachieved or exceeded in the relevant year.
These performance targets are determined bythe Committee prior to or shortly after the beginning ofthe relevant year, and are aligned with achievement of the Groups aims for that year within its overall strategic objectives.
Summaries for each year areset out below.
2011 For 2011, each executive Director was entitled to an annual bonus of up to 110% of annual base Proportion of total potential bonus salary for maximum performance against targets on sliding scales for adjusted EBITDA, adjusted diluted earnings per share and adjusted net debt as follows: Adjusted net Adjusted 1 2 1 for achievement of below 90% of target 95% for adjusted EBITDA, zeropayment: debt EBITDA 20% 40% for achievement of 90% to 100% of target 95% to 100% for adjusted EBITDA, payment on Adjusted asliding scale from 30% to 80% of the relevant proportion of salary: diluted earnings per for achievement of 100% to 105% of target 100% to 102.5% for adjusted EBITDA, payment on 1 share asliding scale from 80% to the maximum of 110% of the relevant proportion of salary: and 40% for achievement of over 105% of target 102.5% for adjusted EBITDA, payment of the Adjusted Adjusted Adjusted maximum of 110% of the relevant proportion of salary.
2 EBITDA diluted EPS net debt Thetargets for payment of the 2011 annual bonus, which were determined at levels considered m p m tobestretching at the time they were set, and the results achieved against these are shown 105.1% 109.8% 127.8% inthetable at right.
This performance results in total bonuses payable equivalent to 110% of base salary.
These payments will be satisfied by the payment of cash and the issue of shares as detailed under Annual bonus on page 54.
The bonus is not pensionable.
Target Actual 2012 The Committee has selected for 2012 the same three financial measures used in2011.
Proportion of total potential bonus Eachexecutive Director will be entitled to an annual bonus of up to 110% ofbase salary based onthelevel of actual performance achieved as compared with the targets, which have again Adjusted net Adjusted beendetermined at stretching levels.
They willbe paid relative to the 2012 targets on the 1 2 1 debt EBITDA samesliding scales used in 2011 shown above.
20% 40% These payments will be satisfied by the payment of cash and the issue of shares asdetailed Adjusted diluted under Annual bonus on page 54. earnings per 1 share 40% 1 Subject to adjustments approved or that may be approved bythe Remuneration Committee.
2 Calculated as year end net debt adjusted for approved changes to capital expenditure in the year.
Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review Jan 12 Oct 11 Jul 11 Apr 11 Jan 11 Oct 10 Jul 10 Apr 10 Jan 10 Oct 09 Jul 09 Apr 09 Jan 09 Oct 08 Jul 08 Apr 08 Jan 08 Oct 07 57 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance review Introduction Biographies of Directors Report of the Board Report of the Corporate Social  Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Remuneration Committee UK Code Principle: A significant proportion of executive directors remuneration should be structured so as to link rewards to corporate and individual performance.
300 Total shareholder return TSR Telecity Group plc The graph to the right shows the TSR for FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts 250 theGroup compared with the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
200 The TSR of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts is the performance measure under the long-term incentive arrangements 150 see long-term incentive arrangements on theprevious two pages.
This is considered tobethemost appropriate comparative group 100 againstwhich to measure the Companys relativeperformance.
50 Source: Thomson Reuters 0 Table 1 Remuneration audited Directors remuneration in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011 was as follows: 1 2 Base salary fees 000 Annual bonus 000 Share awards 000 5 2011 2010 Benefits in kind 000 Pension 000 3 Total Total 5 000 000 4 4 515.0 566.5 354.8 17.8 92.7 Michael Tobin 1,546.8 1,460.5 4 4 305.0 335.5 210.1 14.0 48.8 Brian McArthur-Muscroft 913.4 811.9 165.0 John Hughes 165.0 145.0 57.5 Simon Batey 57.5 52.5 5 27.6 Maurizio Carli 27.6 5 27.6 Sahar Elhabashi 27.6 50.0 John OReilly 50.0 45.0 6 0.0 Robert Morse 1 In accordance with the Groups policy detailed on page 54, the first 30% of the bonus is payable in cash with the balance being paid in cash and restricted shares.
2 Calculated as the number of share awards granted in the year multiplied by their value as disclosed in note 26.
3 The comparative information has been restated to include share awards granted in 2010.
4 The above totals include all elements of the Directors remuneration including the value of share awards granted in the year.
Whilst the Company considers that the inclusion of the value of share awards increases transparency, the regulations in relation to Directors remuneration reports require the disclosure of the totals excluding such share awards.
The totals excluding the value of share awards were 1,192,000 2010: 1,100,200 for Michael Tobin and 703,300 2010: 610,900 for Brian McArthur-Muscroft.
These options have vested in full.
2 Options granted under the TelecityGroup PSP.
The performance conditions attaching to these options are set out in the description of that plan and following achievement of this, these options have vested in full.
3 Options granted under the approved appendix to the TelecityGroup PSP.
The performance condition attaching to these options is that set out under long-term incentive arrangements on page 54 andfollowing achievement of this, these options have vested in full.
4 Performance Share Awards awarded under the TelecityGroup PSP.
The performance condition attaching to these awards is that set out under long-term incentive arrangements onpage 54.
The awards granted in2009 have vested in full following achievement of that performance condition.
The share awards granted in 2011, when the share price was 498p pershare, were valued at 343p per share as set out in note 26 to the accounts.
The highest, lowest and year end prices for the Companys shares for 2011 were 647p, 430p and 538p respectively.
During the year Brian McArthur-Muscroft exercised 14,150 options at an exercise price of 212 pence per share and a share price of 506 pence, making again before relevant taxes of 41,601.
This is the only share option exercise made by the Directors during the year.
The interests of the executive Directors in restricted share awards in respect of prior year annual bonus amounts is shown in Table 4 on page 60.
Table 3 Directors interests in shares Number of 31 December 31 December Number vested 2011 2010 1 of shares options Total Total John Hughes Chairman 62,000 62,000 62,000 Michael Tobin Chief Executive Officer 606,445 708,470 1,314,915 910,720 Brian McArthur-Muscroft Group Finance Director 102,426 424,930 527,356 355,008 Simon Batey 22,727 22,727 22,727 John OReilly 9,091 9,091 9,091 Sahar Elhabashi appointed 9 May 2011 Maurizio Carli appointed 9 May 2011 10,000 10,000 Robert Morse resigned 13 September 2011 1 The comparative information has been restated to include the effect of vested options.
There were no interests of Directors connected persons in the share capital of the Company at either of these dates known to the Company.
Since 31 December 2011 performance share awards under the PSP totalling 216,216 held by Michael Tobin and 131,274 held by Brian McArthur-Muscroft have vested.
There have been no other changes in the interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company or any derivatives or any other financial instruments relating to those shares nor, so far as the Company is aware, in the relevant interests of any of their connected persons between 31December 2011 and thedate of this report.
Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review 59 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance review Introduction Biographies of Directors Report of the Board Report of the Corporate Social  Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Remuneration Committee The executive Directors service agreements areintermscustomary for a UK public company.
Chairman and nonexecutive Directors Executive Director service agreements Fees payable to the Chairman are determined The executive Directors service contracts, both dated 5 October 2007, and as subsequently bythe Remuneration Committee in the amended to take account of annual remuneration reviews, are in terms customary for a UK public absence of the Chairman.
They include the following provisions: non-executive Directors are determined by Executive Directors are required to act with integrity and in accordance with rules, regulations and theBoard in the absence of the non-executive requirements of any relevant professional body, authority or organisation applicable to the Directors.
These fees are reviewed periodically.
activities of the Director or the Group.
They were last reviewed during 2010, were not reviewed in 2011, and are intended next to be Executive Directors are required to hold shares in the Company with an aggregate value of at reviewed as at 1 January 2013. least their annual salary at that time based on the Companys share price onthe London Stock Exchange.
This may include vested and subsisting share awards and options on an after tax The fees of the Chairman and independent basis.
Details of the numbers of shares, share awards and options held by the executive non-executive Directors are to reflect the time Directors are shown on page 58.
It is considered that these shareholdings significantly align the commitment and responsibilities of their interests of the executive Directors with those of shareholders.
They were set with effect from 1January 2011 withreference to remuneration Executive Directors are permitted to accept external appointments with the prior approval levels in comparable companies to ensure that ofthe Board and where there is no impact on their role within the Group.
Any fees arising individuals of the necessary calibre and fromsuch appointments may be retained by the executive Director where the appointment experience are recruited and retained.
The isunrelated to the Groups business.
Neither executive Director currently has any external Chairman and non-executive Directors do not appointments other than their charitable and voluntary activities nor received fees from accrue any other benefits in addition to their suchappointments during 2011. annual fee and do not participate in the Groups In the unlikely event that the published accounts of the Group are restated for any reason pension or share schemes.
Nofees were payable afterthey have first been published, and if such restated accounts would have resulted in to the non-independent non-executive Director, anexecutive Director receiving alesser amount in terms of annual bonus, awards of shares Robert Morse, who stepped down from the oroptions over shares or other remuneration, then the executive Director is required to Board in September 2011. immediately repay thebalance to the Company.
The Groups policy is to provide payment on termination by the Company of the employment agreement of any executive Director of no more than one years salary and benefits andno amount in respect of unearned bonus.
In accordance with this policy, each executive Directors employment is terminable on sixmonths notice by the executive Director and 12 months notice by the Company.
TheCompany may elect to terminate the employment of an executiveDirector by making a payment equal to 12 months base salary, Company pensioncontributions and contractual benefits.
No payment is due to bemade in these circumstances for any element of bonus not then earned by the executive Director.
Copies of the Executive Director Service Agreements are available for inspection during Fee structure for normal business hours at the Companys registered office and at the Companys Annual nonexecutive Directors General Meeting.
2010 and 2011 000 Base fee 42.5 Fee for chairing the Audit Committee 9.0 Fee for chairing the Remuneration Committee 7.5 Fee for acting as the Senior Independent Director 6.0 60 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance review Introduction Biographies of Directors Report of the Board Report of the Corporate Social  Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Remuneration Committee Chairman and nonexecutive Directors Basis of preparation and continued approvalofreport The letters of appointment of the non-executive This report, which constitutes the Directors Directors set out their dutiesand expected Remuneration Report, has been prepared in timecommitment.
The letter of appointment accordance with Regulation 11 and Schedule 8 ofJohn Hughes as Chairman is terminable by of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and eitherMr Hughes or the Group on six months Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations notice.
The letters of appointment of the other 2008 and the Listing Rules of the Financial non-executive Directors are for an initial period Services Authority.
of three years but may be terminated at any time The auditors are required to report to shareholders byeither party on one months written notice.
regarding Directors remuneration, descriptions These letters of appointment are dated as follows: of the Groups long-term incentive arrangements John Hughes and the information contained in tables 1, 2, 3 and John OReilly 5 October 2007 and 4 in this report the auditable parts and tostate whether, in their opinion, these parts Simon Batey 16 October 2007 ofthe report have been properly prepared in Maurizio Carli accordance with the Companys Act 2006. and Sahar Elhabashi 9 May 2011 As required by the Companies Act 2006, The letters of appointment of John Hughes, anadvisory resolution to approve this report JohnOReilly and Simon Batey have been amended willbeproposed at the forthcoming Annual to reflect subsequent remuneration reviews.
Copies of all of the letters of appointment are On behalf of the Remuneration Committee available for inspection during normal business andBoard hours at the Companys registered office and willbe available at its Annual General Meeting.
Fees from external appointments Neither of the executive Directors received John OReilly anyfees in the year ended 31 December 2011 Chairman of the Remuneration inrespect of non-executive directorships Committee unconnected with the Groups business 10 February 2012 2010:nil.
Table 4 Restricted share awards in respect of prior year deferred annualbonusamounts audited The numbers of restricted shares awarded in respect of the annual bonuses of the executive Directors for the year ended 31December 2010, reported in last years Directors Remuneration Report, andfor the year ended 31 December 2009 are shown below: At At 1 January 31 December Normal 2010 Awarded 2011 vesting 000 000 000 date Michael Tobin 50 50 Feb 2012 44 44 Feb 2013 Brian McArthur-Muscroft 30 30 Feb 2012 25 25 Feb 2013 Total 80 69 149 Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review 61 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Financial statements We aim to communicate our resultsina clear and concise manner.
In this section: Financial statements 62 Independent auditors report 63 Consolidated income statement 64 Consolidated statement  65 C onsolidated statement of changes in equity 66 Company statement of changes inequity 67 Consolidated balance sheet 68 Company balance sheet 69 Consolidated cash flow statement 70 Notes to the financial statements 102 Directors report 62 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Financial statements Independent auditors report Consolidated income statement Consolidated statement  Consolidated statement of changes in equity Company statement of changes in equity Consolidated balance sheet Company balance sheet Consolidated cash flow statement Notes to the financial statements Directors report Independent auditors report to the members ofTelecity Group plc We have audited the financial statements of Telecity This includes an assessment of: whether the the information given in the Corporate Group plc for the year ended 31 December 2011 accounting policies are appropriate to the Governance Statement set out on pages 45 which comprise the Consolidated Income Groups and the Parent Companys circumstances to47 with respect to internal control and risk Statement, the Consolidated Statement of and have been consistently applied and adequately management systems and about share Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated disclosed: the reasonableness ofsignificant capitalstructures is consistent with the Statement of Changes in Equity, the Company accounting estimates made by the Directors: financial statements.
Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated andthe overall presentation of the financial Balance Sheet, the Company Balance Sheet, statements.
In addition, we read all the financial Matters on which we are required theConsolidated Cash Flow Statement, the and non-financial information in the Annual toreport by exception Accounting Policies and the related notes.
Report to identify material inconsistencies with We have nothing to report in respect of Thefinancial reporting framework that has been the audited financial statements.
If we become thefollowing: applied in their preparation is applicable law aware of any apparent material misstatements Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required andInternational Financial Reporting Standards orinconsistencies we consider the implications to report to you if, in our opinion: IFRSs as adopted by the European Union for our report.
andas regards the Parent Company financial adequate accounting records have not been statements as applied in accordance with Opinion on financial statements kept by the Parent Company, or returns theprovisions of the Companies Act 2006.
In our opinion the financial statements: adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or give a true and fair view of the state of the Respective responsibilities Groups and of the Parent Companys affairs the Parent Company financial statements and ofDirectors and auditors as at 31 December 2011 and of the Groups the part of the Directors Remuneration Report As explained more fully in the Directors andthe ParentCompanys result for the year to be audited are not in agreement with the Responsibilities Statement set out on page 104, then ended: accounting records and returns: or theDirectors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied have been properly prepared in accordance certain disclosures of Directors remuneration that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: specified by law are not made: or is to audit and express an opinion on the financial the Parent Company financial statements we have not received all the information and statements in accordance with applicable law have been properly prepared in accordance explanations we require for our audit.
and International Standards on Auditing UK and with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply and as applied in accordance with the provisions Under the Listing Rules we are with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical ofthe Companies Act 2006: and required to review: Standards for Auditors.
the Directors statement, set out on page 104, have been prepared in accordance with the This report, including the opinions, has been inrelation to going concern: requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, prepared for and only for the Companys members as regards the Group financial statements, the parts of the Corporate Governance as a body in accordance with Chapter 3 of Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
Statement relating to the Companys Part16of the Companies Act 2006 and for compliance with the nine provisions noother purpose.
We do not, in giving these Opinion on other matters prescribed oftheUKCorporate Governance Code opinions, accept or assume responsibility for by the Companies Act 2006 specified for our review: and anyother purpose or to any other person to In our opinion: whom this report is shown or into whose hands cer tain elements of the report to shareholders itmay come save where expressly agreed by the part of the Directors Remuneration Report by the Board on Directors remuneration.
to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: Scope of the audit of the information given in the Directors Report  for the financial year for which the financial An audit involves obtaining evidence about the statements are prepared is consistent with Fiona Kelsey Senior Statutory Auditor amounts and disclosures in the financial statements thefinancial statements: and for and on behalf of sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the  LLP financial statements are free from material Chartered Accountants and misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
StatutoryAuditors 1 Embankment Place London WC2N 6RH 10 February 2012
