GOVERNANCE Directors remuneration report Following my appointment as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I took the opportunity to meet with our largest shareholders in November 2010 to understand their views and concerns in relation to remuneration arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee has since reviewed all our executive remuneration arrangements in the light of our strategy, our operational goals and the feedback from shareholders.
Whilst we believe that our remuneration arrangements are broadly competitive and operate well, the Committee has found opportunities to simplify, and rebalance where appropriate.
In carrying out this review, we have followed four guiding principles.
These principles as well as the key outcomes of the review are as follows: 1 Simplification We will remove share options and operate only one long-term incentive plan currently four plans with two performance measures currently five measures.
We will also reduce the annual bonus metrics to seven key measures currently more than 20 individual measures are considered.
2 A collegiate approach The focus for our long-term incentives will be on Group results only for both the CEO and Executive Directors and there will be no separate long-term incentives for Executive Directors in relation to the US or other businesses.
Going forward, the US CEO will participate in the same incentive arrangements as other executives and will no longer participate in the US LTIP.
Stuart Chambers 3 Strategic alignment We will emphasise earnings growth in the Remuneration Committee Chairman long-term plan as well as delivering sustainable return on capital.
We are also increasing our executive shareholding guidelines to four times base salary for the CEO and three times base salary for the Executive Directors to enhance the alignment of interests between As the new Remuneration executives and our shareholders.
4 Appropriate pay levels The simplified remuneration Committee Chairman I am arrangements are of broadly the same expected value as the current executive remuneration arrangements.
pleased to present Tesco PLCs We are asking shareholders at this years AGM to approve the renewal of 2010 11 Directors Remuneration the Performance Share Plan for a further ten years on broadly its existing terms.
In order to allow for the replacement of share options with a Report to you.
performance share award and to allow for the Committee to structure the reward of the CEO so that it is more focused on performance related elements, our current intention is for the maximum award under the long-term incentive plan PSP to be 225% of base salary for Executive Directors and 275% of base salary for the CEO.
To ensure that we have sufficient headroom to grant awards in exceptional circumstances, This report sets out the remuneration policy for the Executive and Non-executive Directors of Tesco PLC and describes the individual in line with usual practice, we are seeking shareholder approval to remuneration of the Directors for the year ended 26 February 2011. increase the maximum award opportunity under the PSP to 350% of base salary.
In the event that this award policy changes we would expect to consult our largest shareholders in advance.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION FOR 2010 11 Further details of the proposed remuneration arrangements are set out 75 Governance and risk 80 Fixed remuneration for 2010 11 on pages 76 to 79. management, including the 80 Performance related I believe that the remuneration arrangements we are proposing are role, membership and advisors remuneration for 2010 11 to the Committee 83 2010 11 long term performance appropriate and will help incentivise executives to create future growth awards in shareholder value.
I very much hope that shareholders will support REMUNERATION STRATEGY our remuneration arrangements at our forthcoming AGM.
AND POLICY OTHER INFORMATION Last years remuneration 76 Remuneration strategy and 84 Outside appointments 2010 11 was another strong performance year for Tesco in challenging policy from 2011 12 84 Other remuneration matters markets.
Remuneration payouts for the year were based on the existing 77 Fixed remuneration from 84 Non-executive Directors 2011 12 84 Compliance reward framework and average payouts for the year were lower than 78 Performance related for 2009 10.
Further details of this are provided on pages 80 to 83. remuneration from 2011 12 79 Share ownership guidelines 79 Service agreements Stuart Chambers Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 74 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
