42 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Corporate Governance Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 5 and 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance together the Regulations.
The report also describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to Directors remuneration.
As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements of the Company will be approved.
The Regulations require the auditors to report on the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
UnAUDITED InFORMATIOn Role of the Remuneration Committee The Board sets the remuneration policy for the Group.
The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board within its agreed terms of reference, details of which are available at www.
The Remuneration Committees principal responsibility is to determine the remuneration package of both the Companys Executive Directors and its senior management within broad policies agreed with the Board.
When reviewing and setting remuneration policy the Committee considered a range of factors including the prevailing economic environment and the evolving landscape in best practice guidelines to ensure that it remains appropriate.
In addition, it reviews the remuneration policy for the Company as a whole and administers the Companys share incentive plans for all participants.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by the Executive Directors and the Chairman, rather than the Committee.
The conclusions and recommendations of the Remuneration Committee were finalised in three formal meetings during the year, but these were preceded by several informal discussions, including some with advisers none of whom had any other connection with the Company.
The members of the Committee were Philip Dayer Chairman, Nick Prest and Jonathan Brooks.
David Mann was the Chairman of the Committee for the one meeting that was held prior to his retirement from the Board in July 2010.
The Chief Executive Richard Longdon is invited to submit recommendations to the Remuneration Committee and both he and the members of the Committee take into consideration relevant external market data, which was collated by independent remuneration consultants as well as the reviews of remuneration for employees of the Group generally.
The Chief Executive was not present at the meetings.
Remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee aims to ensure that members of the Executive management are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
It also aims for a combination of fixed and variable payments, benefits and share-based awards that will achieve a balance in incentives to deliver short and long term goals.
The Companys policy is that a substantial proportion of remuneration of Executive Directors should be performance-related and should be delivered in shares to create alignment with shareholders interests.
For maximum levels of performance 69% of the CEOs and 67% of the CFOs total remuneration would be performance related.
The payment of bonuses and the vesting of share incentives are subject to meeting performance conditions established by the Committee at the beginning of each performance period reflecting what, at that time, the Committee considers demanding targets.
These targets are set taking account of the market in which the Group operates and the expectations of the investment community on the Groups future potential performance.
In 2008 the Board introduced the AVEVA Group Management Bonus Deferred Share Scheme 2008 the Deferred Share Scheme for Executive Directors and selected employees.
The Committee considers that it is appropriate to have a deferred component to the bonus scheme in order to retain key individuals and to create enhanced alignment with shareholders.
Subject to the achievement of performance conditions relating to a single financial year, these incentive arrangements are intended to reward the recipient partly in cash, payable on announcement of interim and or final results, and partly in ordinary shares in the Company to be delivered on a deferred basis under the Deferred Share Scheme.
The Remuneration Committee has access to detailed external research from independent consultants.
During the year, the Committee, supported by Deloitte LLP, undertook a comprehensive review of executive remuneration arrangements.
This review considered whether the Groups current remuneration arrangements are aligned with the future business strategy and the long-term creation of shareholder value, as well as considering whether pay levels were fair and appropriate for a company of the size and complexity of AVEVA.
The Committee concluded that the overall structure of remuneration arrangements remains appropriate and effectively incentivises executives to deliver on-going earnings growth as well as incentivising them to build a strong foundation for the AVEVA NET business.
The successful delivery of the AVEVA NET strategy is considered to be crucial to the building of long-term shareholder value and therefore it is intended to continue to incentivise the delivery of this through the executive incentive arrangements.
Outside appointments The Board believes that accepting non-executive appointments with other companies enhances the experience of Executive Directors and therefore they are entitled to accept appointments outside of the Company provided that Board approval is sought prior to accepting the appointment.
Whether or not the Director concerned is permitted to retain their fees is considered on a case by case basis.
Paul Taylor serves as a Non-Executive Director of Anite plc.
As Mr Taylor performed these services independently of his duties to the Company, he was thus entitled to receive such compensation.
Paul Taylor resigned from the Board on 1 January 2011.
The individual components of the remuneration packages offered are: Basic salaries It is the policy of the Committee to pay base salaries to the Executive Directors taking account of the nature and scale of the business of the Group, the performance of the individual in achieving financial and non-financial goals within his areas of responsibility and comparable market data.
