Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 69 Remuneration Report Dear Shareholder, Introduction I am pleased to present this years report by the Remuneration This Remuneration Report provides details of the operation Committee the Committee on Directors remuneration.
of the Remuneration Committee and gives information about remuneration policies and practices adopted by the Company The background to the deliberations of the Committee this in respect of members of the Board.
The report also reviews year has been the continued challenging global economic general remuneration policy in relation to senior management environment and resulting concern surrounding executive within the Group.
It has been prepared in accordance with the remuneration.
As a result of the financial crises a number of Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, Schedule 8 of the Large reviews were initiated including the Walker review and review of and Medium Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports the Combined Code.
A new UK Corporate Governance Code Regulations 2008 and the Combined Code on Corporate was published in June 2010.
Despite the challenging economic times, Vedanta has continued The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditors to report to to produce strong financial results, record levels of production the Companys members on certain parts of the Directors and progress with major acquisition opportunities.
The Board Remuneration Report and to state whether in their opinion also remains committed to continuous improvements in health, those parts of the report have been properly prepared in safety and the environment.
The objectives of the Remuneration accordance with the Accounting Regulations.
The report has Committee are therefore to put in place remuneration policies therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and which will support the continued successful growth of the unaudited information.
business whilst managing risks inherent in running a global mining business including those relating to health, safety and the Part I Unaudited environment.
The achievements of the business during the year Remuneration Committee the Committee are set out in the Business Review on pages 28 to 45 and The Board has established a Remuneration Committee in principal risks facing the Company are set out on pages 50 to 57. accordance with the provisions of the Code to determine on behalf of the Board the Companys policy on the remuneration One key area of activity for the Committee during the and terms of engagement of the Executive Directors and forthcoming year will be consideration of the requirements of certain senior executives.
the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the principles concerning remuneration Members, Meetings and Attendance are already adhered to.
However, it will review the operation of The members of the Remuneration Committee who served the performance related elements of Directors pay ie the Long during the year, all of whom were independent Non-Executive Term Incentive Plan and Annual Performance Bonus and the Directors, are shown below together with their attendance at associated performance conditions.
The aim will be to confirm Remuneration Committee meetings: that performance related elements of remuneration are aligned Number of to the business performance and long-term strategy of the meetings Company and that they are further in line with the Companys attended risk policies.
Naresh Chandra Chairman 4 4 Euan Macdonald 4 4 The Board welcomes shareholder feedback and comments Aman Mehta 4 4 on executive remuneration.
A resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the Companys Annual General Meeting Terms of Reference to be held on 27 July 2011 and I hope that you will support The Committees duties are set out in its terms of reference this resolution.
which are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Should you have any comments queries in relation to the matters The Committees remit is primarily to determine and agree with set out in this report, or the Companys executive remuneration the Board the framework and policy for the remuneration of policy more generally, please contact me at the Companys the Chairman and Executive Directors.
In so doing, the registered office.
Committee makes recommendations to the Board on: the Companys overall policy on executive and senior Naresh Chandra management remuneration: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee remuneration packages for individual Executive Directors, including basic salary, performance-based shortand long-term incentives, pensions and other benefits: the design and operation of the Companys share incentive schemes: and the provisions of the service agreements of the Executive Directors.
In performing its duties the Committee gives full consideration to the Code and published guidelines regarding the remuneration of directors of listed companies including those published by the Association of British Insurers and National Association of Pensions Funds.
Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 70 Remuneration Report continued Advisers to the Committee Offer remuneration packages that reflect the Groups position Mr A Thirunavukkarasu President Group HR advises the as a pre-eminent player in the Indian metals and mining sector Committee on the policies and practices being applied.
He also in particular and the manufacturing sector as a whole in order provides input into discussions concerning the remuneration to remain competitive in the recruitment market.
and benefits offered to the Executive Directors during the year Maintain the balance between incentivising executives and and ensures that the Committee is kept abreast of pay and the need to control risks.
conditions throughout the Group which the Committee can then take into account when framing the remuneration policy A geography wise approach is followed across the Group in of senior management.
determining the remuneration of key operational and financial heads within the Group the Senior Management Group.
Both The Chairman and Chief Executive are consulted by the variable and fixed components of the remuneration packages Committee in respect of remuneration packages for senior for Executive Directors and the Senior Management Group are executives where appropriate but not in respect of their own therefore set by reference to local market practice in India and other geographics in which the Group operates and are in remuneration.
Other Directors of the Company may attend alignment within the Group strategy.
meetings of the Committee at the invitation of the Chairman.
However no Director is present during discussions relating to The following factors are taken into consideration while setting their own remuneration.
remuneration levels of the Executive Directors and the Senior Management Group: Ernst & Young LLP review and confirm the Companys TSR Levels of remuneration and employment conditions for performance in respect of the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
This is achieved by Ernst & Young LLP also provide some tax and internal audit regular liaison between the Groups HR function and the services to the Group.
It is the aim to provide broad consistency in the approach in rewarding all employees The Committee engages independent consultants to advise on and those of senior management.
particular aspects of Directors remuneration as appropriate.
Market practices prevailing in the countries in which During the year Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS, a brand of executives work.
Aon Hewitt Limited, provided ad hoc advice on the Companys Market practices in the country in which Vedanta operates remuneration practices as they apply to Executive Directors and in the mining and manufacturing sectors in respect of Non-Executive Directors.
HNBS subscribe to the Remuneration operational management and in all sectors in respect Consultants Groups Code of Conduct.
Neither Hewitt New of corporate and supporting functions, excluding certain Bridge Street nor any other part of Aon Hewitt provided other sectors for example, financial services where specific services to the Company during the year.
remuneration practices exist that are not relevant to Vedanta.
Given the India-focused approach for executives in India and Remuneration Policy for the Senior Management Group other local markets for units in different geographical areas In setting remuneration policy for those in the Senior taken to remuneration policy, it has not been felt appropriate to Management Group, it is the aim to align the interests of the appoint independent compensation and benefit consultants to Senior Management Group with those of the shareholders by advise the Committee on remuneration matters save for need linking share and cash incentives to corporate performance and based advice.
Activities of the Committee The remuneration packages of the Senior Management Group The Committee held four meetings during the year, at which comprise: all members were present.
The following items of business were considered: A salary for day-to-day performance of duties.
This year the average salary increase for members of the Senior A report of the President, Human Resources on developments in the human resource area.
Salary and bonus arrangements of the Executive Directors.
A performance bonus as an incentive to meet yearly target Approval of the annual bonus for the Executive Directors for these are set by reference to individual key result areas the year ended 31 March 2010.
KRAs, personal qualities and the financial performance of Approval of the Remuneration Report for the year ended the Company.
Awards under the long-term incentive plan LTIP, referred to Vesting of Long Term Incentive Plan awards.
below to incentivise long-term and strategic performance.
Grant of Long Term Incentive Plan awards to employees.
Relevant provision of benefits in kind in accordance with local market practices.
Remuneration Policy The key objectives of the Groups broad remuneration policy Relative Importance of Fixed and Variable Pay are to: A significant proportion of the remuneration of the Executive Attract and retain high-calibre executives.
The chart below demonstrates Motivate senior executives to develop and implement the balance of fixed and variable pay in these circumstances for the Groups strategy so as to enhance long-term the Executive Directors assuming: i maximum bonuses were shareholder value.
paid and full vesting of LTIP awards Stretch Performance : and Facilitate the development of managers from within ii actual bonus payouts as earned in 2011 and median vesting existing operations.
of LTIP awards Target Performance.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 71 Stretch performance Target performance 0 20 40 60 80 100 Salary Bonus LTIP Vesting Share price growth is ignored Elements of Executive Directors Remuneration Element of remuneration Purpose Policy Base salary To reflect individuals role and experience Annual review To reward performance and provide Benchmarked against Indian compensation against inflation and aid manufacturing and engineering businesses retention and global mining companies Annual performance bonus Focus of delivery on financial targets Maximum bonus of 100% of annual salary and achievement of operational, Vedanta base salary plus CTC at Sterlite strategic goals that drive generation of shareholder value Long Term Incentive Plan To reward creation of shareholder value Maximum award is 100% of aggregate annual salary and CTC fees Align interests of Executive Directors with shareholders Pension Retention and reward long service To provide benefits in line with market practice Benefits in kind Recruitment and retention To provide benefits in line with market practice Base Salary The Executive Directors are based in India with the exception of Mr Anil Agarwal, who is UK-based, along with the majority of the Groups professional management.
Consequently their remuneration is set by reference to the prevailing rates within that market.
In addition, salaries for Executive Directors and members of the Senior Management Group are set by reference to those positions of comparable status, skill and responsibility in the metals and mining industries, and in the manufacturing and engineering industries more generally.
The basic remuneration of executives in India is referred to as cost to company CTC which represents an aggregate figure encompassing basic salary and allowances such as housing etc.
The Chairman, Mr Anil Agarwal, has a service agreement with Vedanta Resources plc.
His salary is approved by the Board without the Chairman present on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Navin Agarwal and Mr MS Mehta have service agreements with Sterlite Industries India Ltd Sterlite which have been augmented by letters of appointment to the Board of the Company.
Mr Navin Agarwal and Mr MS Mehta receive a salary under their Sterlite contract and an annual fee paid to them from the company to reflect the amount of time they spend on Board business.
Details of their salary and fees are shown below.
com 72 Remuneration Report continued Details of salary levels for the Executive Directors are as follows: Vedanta Sterlite Vedanta Sterlite salary from salary from salary from salary from Total Total 1 April 2010 1 April 2010 1 April 2011 1 April 2011 2011 2010 INR INR AK Agarwal Executive Chairman 1,170,125 1,404,150 1,404,150 1,170,125 N Agarwal Deputy Executive Chairman 80,000 56,478,000 80,000 67,773,600 1,036,174 824,273 M S Mehta Chief Executive 80,000 19,200,000 80,000 23,040,000 405,056 333,019 Note: Exchange rate of INR 70.88 to 1 as at 31st March 2011 Salaries are reviewed on an annual basis and changes will generally be implemented with effect from 1 April each year taking into account the period of service during the year.
The review in relation to the salaries to be paid to the Executive Directors for 2011 considered a broad range of comparative information including a benchmarking exercise against comparable roles in similar sized Indian manufacturing businesses and global mining companies.
Following the review the Remuneration Committee approved salary increases of 20% for Mr Navin Agarwal and Mr MS Mehta.
Annual Performance Bonus The Company operates a performance bonus scheme providing the Executive Directors and the Senior Management Group with an opportunity to earn a cash amount based on the achievement of stretching performance targets.
The maximum bonus payable to the Executive Directors is 100% of annual salary, whilst for other members of the Senior Management Group, the maximum bonus payable is 50% of CTC.
In respect of Mr Navin Agarwal and Mr MS Mehta salary means the aggregate of Vedanta salary together with CTC payable by Sterlite.
For the year ended 31 March 2011, the payment of the annual bonus was dependent on the following business operational performance and projects, including green field and expansion projects.
In addition it was linked to strategic initiatives in mergers and acquisitions and effective stakeholder management which resulted in recognition and achievement of awards in CSR, safety, quality, business excellence and best employer status.
Operational Performance Zinc production was a record 840,000 tonnes, 9% higher than corresponding period.
Refined zinc production was 23% higher at 712,000 tonnes.
Full year silver production was marginally higher at 5.76moz.
In Zambia, total cathode production in FY 2011 was 217,000 tonnes, a substantial increase of 30% over the previous year.
Aluminium production was a record 641,000 tonnes, 20% higher than the previous year.
In energy sector 4,782 million units of power were sold, compared to 3,729 million units in FY 2010.
Acquisitions: The acquisition of Skorpion Zinc, Namibia was completed in December 2010.
The acquisitions of Black Mountain Mines, South Africa and Lisheen Mines, Ireland were completed in February 2011.
Achievement of objectives All of the designated projects across sectors are in line with time schedules and project milestones.
Project costs have been lowered taking the economic situation as an opportunity for growth.
2012 Annual Performance Bonus For the financial year ended 31 March 2012 similar financial and operational targets have been set, with the maximum bonus opportunity remaining 100% of salary.
The Committee believes that the bonus arrangements neither encourage nor reward inappropriate risk-taking.
At present, the Committee does not consider it necessary to operate clawback provision in the annual bonus, but will keep this matter under review.
Pensions The Company does not provide post-retirement benefits to Mr Anil Agarwal and this is reflected in the determination of his overall remuneration package.
The Indian-based Executive Directors are entitled to contribute to the Provident Fund, Gratuity and Superannuation Fund which provide pension benefits consistent with local market practices.
The Provident Fund, Superannuation Fund and Gratuity fund are defined contribution pension arrangements.
The Company makes a contribution as per prevalent statutory rules to these funds on behalf of Mr Navin Agrawal and Mr MS Mehta.
Benefits in Kind Mr Anil Agarwal is provided with a car and fuel in the UK for business use.
For his frequent business trips to India, Mr Agarwal is also provided with a car and fuel for business use and is entitled to the use of Company-owned furnished accommodation.
Benefits in kind provided to Indian-based executive directors are set in line with local market practices and include coverage under the Group medi claim policy and personal accident insurance, the use of a car and driver, and for certain individuals, the provision Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 73 of accommodation, either in Company-owned or leased with that of the Comparator Group.
The information to enable this premises.
Mr Navin Agarwal is provided with an HRA allowance calculation to be carried out on behalf of the Committee is of INR 60,000,000 effective from 1 April 2010 in lieu of provided by Ernst & Young LLP.
He was also reimbursed club membership fees.
As the majority of the Groups employees are domiciled in India and Africa, the Remuneration Committee has to be cognisant Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP of relevant market practice in order to be sure of retaining high The Company operates a Long-Term Incentive Plan for calibre employees in those markets.
The most common form Executive Directors, senior management and select wider of long-term incentive in India is an executive share option management team.
Under the LTIP, awards of nominal-cost scheme in which a certain percentage of options vest every options may be granted in line with the Boards objective of year, and the total options vest fully 100% over three to four incentivising and developing the potential within the wider years often not subject to any performance conditions.
Each year the aim has been to broaden However, no awards vest under the Vedanta LTIP before three the constituency of employees eligible to participate in the years.
In addition, LTIP awards only vest subject to the relative LTIP so as to increase the alignment of interests between TSR performance condition described above.
Considering the shareholders and the management population and to multiplicity of factors including vesting term duration, the use of encourage equity ownership amongst employees.
a pre-vest condition that measures performance relative to peer group companies and the relatively modest maximum award It is the Committees intention that the LTIP will continue to be level under the LTIP of 100% of the aggregate of annual salary operated for these purposes and in the way described below and CTC fees compared to other companies of a similar size during the forthcoming year.
that determine benefits under the LTIP, the Remuneration Committee believes that 40% vesting for median performance LTIP Performance Measures is warranted, and the minimum required to maintain the LTIPs The vesting of LTIP awards is subject to measurement of the role as a strong motivational and retention tool for the high Companys performance in terms of Total Shareholder Return calibre management team.
However, the Committee will TSR, being the movement in the Companys share price plus continue to monitor the appropriateness of this approach.
reinvested dividends, compared over a three-year period from the date of grant with the performance of a specific list of Operation of the LTIP companies, selected as being the Groups main peers and The maximum value of awards that can be conditionally competitors.
This performance condition was selected as it awarded to an Executive Director in a year is 100% of the provides a strong alignment between the interests of aggregate of annual salary and CTC fees.
Details of the awards shareholders and the senior executives in the Group.
The full list held by the Executive Directors as at 31 March 2011 are shown in of companies against whose performance Vedantas TSR is the table of Directors Long Term Incentive Awards on page 77. measured is as follows the Comparator Group : LTIP awards are also made to the Senior Management Group.
Anglo American The maximum value of awards that can be awarded to 2.
BHP Billiton members of the Senior Management Group is calculated by 3.
Rio Tinto reference to the fixed salary CTC and share-based 4.
Xstrata remuneration consistent with local market practice.
Antofagasta Nominations for awards under the LTIP are made by the chief 7.
Grupo Mexico executive officers of each operating company and heads of 8.
Hindalco large independent projects based on guidelines issued by the 9.
Individuals are assessed and categorised by reference to 10.
Teck formerly known as Teck Cominco the importance of their roles to the relevant business unit, past performance and future potential.
The size of awards is linked to There have been no changes to the Comparator Group during fixed salary, being a factor of CTC, based on how the individual the year.
has been assessed in accordance with the Groups guidelines.
LTIP awards continue to be made to selected contracted The extent to which an award vests will depend on the employees and to employees hired through the Companys Companys TSR ranking against the Comparator Group at the global recruitment programme.
end of the three-year performance period.
Vesting of LTIP Awards The vesting schedule is shown in the table below, with straightDuring the year Ernst & Young LLP reviewed the Companys line vesting in between the points shown rounded down to the TSR performance relative to the Comparator Group for the nearest whole share.
36-month performance period for LTIP awards made in November 2007.
Ernst & Young reported that TSR performance % of award of Vedanta over the three year period was at the median Vedantas TSR Performance against the Comparator Group vesting ranking triggering a 40% vesting of awards.
The Remuneration Below median nil Committee was requested to consider that the Company had At median 40 delivered record production, a rise in revenues and profitability At or above upper quartile 100 and therefore to consider increasing the vesting to 64% for employees, other than Executive Directors.
It was also noted that in 12 quarterly TSR performance periods, the Company The performance condition is measured by taking the Companys had been ranked in the top three positions on six occasions, TSR over the four weeks immediately preceding the date of grant fourth position on three occasions and fifth position on one and over the four weeks immediately preceding the end of the occasion fifth position ordinarily results in a vesting percentage three-year performance period and comparing its performance Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 74 Remuneration Report continued of 64%.
Accordingly, the Remuneration Committee approved the vesting to be set at 64% for employees, excluding the Executive Directors whose awards would vest at the 40% level.
This meant that a total of 762,551 ordinary shares would be issued under the LTIP awards to eligible employees and the Executive Directors.
The vesting of awards to the Executive Directors was follows: Number of shares Anil Agarwal 14,800 Navin Agarwal 9,800 MS Mehta 3,200 Equity Dilution Resulting from Employee Share Schemes The dilution limits set out in the rules of the Employee Share Schemes established in December 2003 including the LTIP allow up to an aggregate of 10% of the Companys issued share capital to be issued or issuable pursuant to awards under any of the Companys employee share schemes over a period of 10 years.
Up to 5% of the Companys issued share capital may be used for the Companys discretionary schemes such as the LTIP over a 10-year period.
Shares issued or issuable pursuant to awards made under the Vedanta Resources Share Reward Plan the Reward Plan are not counted for these purposes.
The Reward Plan was used solely to reward employees who contributed to the Companys development up to the listing in 2003.
No further awards have been made under this Plan.
Currently 0.75% 2010: 1.26% of the Companys issued share capital is issuable in respect of outstanding awards under the LTIP.
Total Shareholder Return Performance Graph The graph below shows the TSR performance of the Company in comparison with that of the FTSE All Share Mining Index for the period from 31 March 2006 to 31 March 2011.
The FTSE All Share Mining Index was chosen as it is the most relevant to compare the Companys performance against its peers.
250 200 150 100 50 0 31 March 2006 31 March 2007 31 March 2008 31 March 2009 31 March 2010 31 March 2011 Vedanta Resources plc FTSE All Share Mining Index This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2011, of 100 invested in Vedanta Resources plc on 31 March 2006 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE All Share Mining Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Executive Directors Service Contracts Mr Anil Agarwal is employed under a contract of employment with the Company for a rolling term but which may be terminated by not less than six months notice.
Provision is made in Mr Agarwals contract for payment to be made in lieu of notice on termination which is equal to basic salary and costs to the Company for providing certain benefits during the notice period or part thereof.
Mr Navin Agarwal has a letter of appointment with Vedanta which is a rolling contract and may be terminated by giving six months notice.
Mr Navin Agarwal has a service agreement with Sterlite which expires on 31 July 2013, with a notice period of three months.
Mr Mahendra Mehta has a service contract with Sterlite and a letter of appointment with Vedanta which may be terminated by giving three months notice.
There is a payment in lieu of notice clause in his contract allowing for the payment of compensation in the case of early termination.
It is the Groups policy that no Directors service contract should be terminable on more than 12 months notice.
Copies of all Executive Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection during normal business hours at the registered office of the Company.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 75 Executive Directors Service Contract Details Notice period Date of contract from the Company Outstanding term AK Agarwal 27 November 2003 6 months Rolling notice period N Agarwal Vedanta 4 May 2005 6 months Rolling notice period N Agarwal Sterlite 1 August 2003 3 months Until 31 July 2013 MS Mehta 1 October 2008 3 months Until 30 September 2011 External Appointments The Boards policy on external appointments is that an Executive Director may, only with the prior approval of the Board, accept an appointment external to the Group other than any appointment to related parties or Volcan Investments Limited Volcan in the case of Messrs Anil Agarwal and Navin Agarwal as a Non-Executive Director of a publicly listed company anywhere and that the fees for any such appointment may be retained by the individual.
Currently, none of the Executive Directors holds any such outside appointments, other than Messrs Anil Agarwal and Navin Agarwal who hold directorships in other Group subsidiaries.
Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Fees The Board is responsible for setting policy in relation to the Non-Executive Directors fees and reviews them periodically.
General policy is to provide fees in line with market practice for similar Non-Executive Director roles in international mining groups.
Fees paid to the Non-executive Directors also take account of the Groups complexity, the significant travel and time commitments required for attending Board and other meetings in India and the UK and the risk profile of the Company.
As the Non-Executive Directors fees had not been reviewed since 2007, in 2009, a benchmarking exercise was carried out by Hewitt New Bridge Street.
Following the review, the Board approved the fee structure set out below.
It was also agreed that these fees would be frozen for a period of three years.
Non-Executive Directors fees payable for chairing or being a member of a Board committee are as follows: 1.
Senior Independent Director fee, 10,000 Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment which may be terminated by either party by giving three months notice.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment set out the time requirements expected of them in the performance of their duties.
Non-Executive Directors are normally expected to spend at least 20 days per year on Company business.
There is no provision in the letters of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors for compensation to be paid in the event of early termination.
Details of the Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment are shown below.
Notice period Date of letter of appointment from the Company Outstanding term 1 N Chandra 1 June 2010 3 months Until 31 May 2011 A Mehta 24 November 2009 3 months Until 23 November 2013 ER Macdonald 23 March 2010 3 months Until 22 March 2012 1 Mr Chandra is engaged on a contract renewable every 12 months.
Shareholding Guidelines There are at present no formal shareholding guidelines for the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee believes formal guidelines are not necessary at this time due to the existing holdings held by the Executive Directors and participation in the LTIP which encourages share ownership.
Shareholding guidelines may be introduced at a future date if this is felt to be appropriate.
com 76 Remuneration Report continued Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares The interests of the Directors which are beneficial unless otherwise stated in ordinary shares at 31 March 2011 were: As at As at 1 April 2010 31 March 2011 1 2 AK Agarwal 162,250,000 163,500,000 3 AK Agarwal 72,400 87,240 1 N Agarwal 213,360 223,160 MS Mehta 31,521 41,857 N Chandra A Mehta ER Macdonald 1 Mr Anil Agarwal and Mr Navin Agarwal each held nominee shares in direct and indirect subsidiaries.
2 Mr Agarwals holding of 163,500,000 shares are registered in the name of Volcan Investments Limited which is a company owned by a family trust.
3 Shares held directly by Mr AK Agarwal There have been no changes in the beneficial and non-beneficial shareholdings of the Directors between the end of the financial year and the 1 June 2011 other than that of Mr Anil Agarwals holding in the name of Volcan Investments Limited which stood at 165,310,000 as at 1 June 2011.
Part II Audited Directors Remuneration for the Year Ended 31 March 2011 The following table sets out an analysis of the pre-tax remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2011 for individual Directors who held office in the Company during this period.
All amounts are in UK pounds sterling although payments in India under service contracts with Sterlite are paid in Indian rupees.
Directors Remuneration Annual performance Benefits 2011 2010 UK salary CTC fees Pensions bonus in kind Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors 1 AK Agarwal 1,170 500 61 1,731 1,378 2 N Agarwal 80 773 126 353 37 1,369 984 3 MS Mehta 80 248 26 127 1 482 317 Non-Executive Directors N Chandra 140 140 115 A Mehta 111 111 85 ER Macdonald 100 100 75 Total 1,681 1,021 152 980 99 3,933 2,954 Notes: 1 Mr Anil Agarwals benefits in kind include provision of a car and fuel in the UK and India for business purposes.
2 Mr Navin Agarwals benefits in kind include, club membership and use of car and driver.
3 Mr MS Mehtas benefits in kind include use of car.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Naresh Chandra Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 4 May 2011
