REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Companys overall financial performance relative to the report for the financial year ended 30 June 2011 the house build sector does not justify the indicated level Remuneration report on behalf of the Remuneration ofbonus or vesting.
For the 2011 12 financial year, Executive Directors will is prepared in accordance with schedule 8 of the Large begranted awards under the LTPP.
Consistent with the and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and approach taken last year, the Committee has decided not Reports Regulations 2008 S. I.
2008 410 the Regulations to revert to making awards of 200% of salary: instead the and will be subject toan advisory vote at the 2011 AGM.
level of the award will be maintained at 150% of base salary and will be subject to two performance conditions, The Board recognises that the Groups remuneration policy half will be based on relative Total Shareholder Return should seek to attract, retain and motivate directors and TSR and the other half on Earnings per Share EPS senior managers of the quality required to enable successful targets to be measured over a three year performance future growth of the Company in a challenging market, whilst period commencing 1July 2011. ensuring that executive remuneration remains aligned to 5.
In December 2009, Executive Directors were granted the long-term performance of the Company and the interests share options under the ESOS the 2009 10 ESOS.
In determining the levels of remuneration Halfof these awards are subject to TSR performance for Executive Directors, consideration is given to the overall conditions and the other half are subject to annual EPS performance of the Group, packages offered by comparative performance conditions measured over a three-year companies in the sector and the pay and employment performance period.
9.6% of the award subject to EPS conditions being offered to employees throughout vested in 2010.
The second third of the award subject to theGroup.
the EPS performance condition was based on the EPS performance for the financial year ended 30 June 2011.
Details of the Groups remuneration policy and remuneration Actual performance against the target was 39.0% packages ofExecutive Directors can be found on the resulting in 6.5% of the award vesting.
In total, 16.1% following pages of this Remuneration report.
However, ofthe EPS element of the award has so far been achieved key points to be aware of this year are: seepage 52 for further details.
Executive Directors will not receive a salary increase During the year the Committee complied with those for the 2011 12 financial year.
To provide some context, aspects of the Code relevant to its business and seeks to there has been only one year where an increase was demonstrate its accountability on executive remuneration to made to Executive Director salaries in the last four years.
shareholders through this report and through dialogue with 2.
Under the annual bonus scheme, the payment for institutional investors.
The Committee will consider both the on-target performance and maximum potential remains shareholders vote on the report and views expressed by unchanged at 75% and 150% respectively.
Up to shareholders on the detail of the report at the 2011 AGM one-third of this maximum bonus is payable in Company indetermining future remuneration policy for all employees.
shares and will be deferred for three years.
It should be noted that prior to 2009 the payment for on-target performance was 130% with a maximum bonus potential Robert Davies of 180%.
CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE 3.
A clawback provision applies to any annual bonuses paid and to any share awards granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS and the Long-Term Performance Plan the LTPP, subject, inthe case of HMRC approved options, to such approval.
TheCommittee has retained its general discretion to reduce levels of bonus and share vesting where the 48 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
