Remuneration report I am pleased to present the remuneration report for the The report year to 30 September 2011.
This is the first report since my This report describes the role of the remuneration committee, appointment as chairman of this committee in January 2011. its responsibilities and membership and matters considered Aberdeen performed very well during the year, despite turmoil during the year.
The report discusses the remuneration arrangements for directors and other senior employees and has economies.
The Group has seen record profits as discussed been prepared in compliance with the Companies Act 2006 and related regulations, the UK Corporate Governance Code, Aberdeen's total shareholder return over the last five years and the FSA Remuneration Code which became applicable to Aberdeen in 2011.
The auditors are required to report to shareholders on the auditable part of the report and to state whether, in their As a consequence of Aberdeen's strong performance, the opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared committee recommended an increase in the aggregate bonus in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and related pool, and specic increases in the individual bonuses for regulations.
The tables detailing directors' emoluments, interests in deferred shares, share options and shares awarded awarded to executive directors is in company shares, with vesting deferred over a three year period.
The remainder of the report, which is unaudited, sets out the remuneration policies that applied for executive directors at 1 January 2011, which was reported during 2011 and describes arrangements which are intended to in last year's remuneration report, the committee decided apply for 2012. executive directors' base salaries should remain unchanged at A resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the the 1 January 2012 review.
The objective of our remuneration policies is to retain and incentivise talented individuals to deliver sustained superior Membership The current members of the committee, all returns for our clients and shareholders.
During the year, to ensure that they continue to encourage the prudent Anita Frew Remuneration Code introduced by the Financial Services Giles Weaver Following my appointment as committee chairman, I met with a number of large shareholders and shareholder representatives, Simon Troughton became chairman of the committee following the 2011 Annual General Meeting, succeeding Sir Malcolm The committee would be pleased to have your support for the policies and practices detailed in our report.
Attendance The committee met formally four times during the year, and also held ad hoc meetings and several telephone conferences on matters arising.
Simon Troughton Chairman of the remuneration committee and Finance Director, attend meetings of the committee by invitation, as does the Head of HR.
None of these executives was present when matters relating to their own remuneration were discussed.
33 Advisers & support by the committee in June 2011 to provide remuneration committee.
Their membership helps to ensure independent advice to the committee.
could materially increase the Groups exposure, are fully the Group.
considered by the remuneration committee when remuneration  LLP provided the committee and management with Activities during the year and the Groups positioning, together with Key activities of the committee during the year included: commentary on regulatory developments as they affect remuneration.
McLagan provided the committee and conditions in the various countries and regions in which the Group operates.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the committee.
Key responsibilities of the committee The committee operates on the basis of detailed written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and are published on the Groups website.
The committee was established by the for vesting of LTIP awards were met and determining the policy on remuneration of executive directors and appointments.
chairman, the executive directors and other employment conditions of employees throughout the Group when considering remuneration for executive directors, and includes, for example, considering the general levels of base salary increase and the principles applying to incentive pay.
that any payments made to executive directors and senior Remuneration policy The Group's remuneration policy is designed with the intention all executive directors and other senior employees with of achieving the following aims: the necessary calibre to maintain and develop the Group's exceeds the terms of the Groups standard policies, subject thereby aligning the interests of directors and employees and, requirements and associated codes of practice.
directors and senior employees and are expected to remain unchanged for 2012 and subsequent years.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Elements of remuneration The principal elements of the remuneration provided to executive directors and senior management are: Element Fixed or variable Policy How it operates Base salary Fixed with the individuals role, increases effective from 1 January.
responsibilities and experience, and applied in a manner consistent with being offered for similar roles in the asset management sector and other increases to be justied by reference comparable companies.
to promotion or changes in responsibilities.
Pension and Fixed other benets benefit of employees to appropriate of basic salary, depending on dened contribution pension arrangements, subject to normal practice in the relevant country.
contribution within each country are consistent between executives and other employees.
corporate acquisitions are closed to all future accrual at the earliest reasonable opportunity.
benets for executive directors is generally the same as for other Aberdeen employees.
Annual bonus Variable asset management companies, that will be applied in considering individual bonuses are not subject to an absolute cap.
However, the dependent on the Group's overall account of their personal performance and profitability.
contribution to the performance of the Group, and the levels of for the executive directors into incentive pay for similar roles in the shares of Aberdeen Asset employees have the opportunity to vests in three equal tranches after 1, 2 and 3 years.
holdings in funds managed by Aberdeen, with the balance compulsorily deferred into shares of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
Balance between elements of remuneration Further details The bar chart below shows the weighting of the main i Base salary remuneration components for executive directors.
As the the 1 January 2012 review date.
This follows a significant at 1 January 2011, which was reported in last year's Aberdeen shares.
remuneration report, ii Annual bonus for 2011 performance Relative sizes of remuneration components The policy is to recognise corporate and individual 000 achievements each year through an appropriate annual 5000 bonus scheme.
The aggregate value of awards in any year is dependent on the Group's overall performance and 4000 profitability.
Consideration is also given to the levels of 3000 are determined by a rigorous assessment of achievement 2000 against dened objectives, and are reviewed and approved by the committee.
1000 0 executive directors is held in the form of Aberdeen shares.
Martin Andrew Bill Anne Hugh Gilbert Laing Rattray Richards Young For the first time, the committee has decided that, apart Fixed remuneration Cash bonus Deferred bonus from the executive directors, all other eligible members Salaries for Anne Richards and Hugh Young have been apportioned to reect the of staff will be able to elect for half their deferred award element which relates to the period from their date of appointment.
to be invested in the shares of funds managed by Compliance with the FSA Remuneration Code the deferred bonus vest in equal tranches over the three The committee has reviewed its remuneration policies to ensure year period following the award.
principles that apply to Aberdeen.
The remuneration policy is The deferral policy is intended to assist in retention of designed to be consistent with the prudent management of talent, and to create additional alignment of executives' interests with Aberdeen's sustained performance and, in The review of the remuneration policy in light of the Code was respect of the deferral into funds, managed by Aberdeen, to align the interest of asset managers with our clients.
The table below summarises performance outcomes for account by the committee in considering annual bonus remuneration.
awards: 2011 2010 2009 Change in underlying profit before taxation Underlying operating margin Conversion of underlying operating profit to core operating cash ow Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 In addition to these KPIs, there are specic personal Vesting of awards is dependent on the extent to which growth in the Groups adjusted earnings per share exceeds strategic objectives of the Group.
For 2011, the principal growth in the composite index, which measures the objectives selected by the committee for the executive directors focused on the delivery of organic growth, the which the Groups assets under management are invested, meeting of budgets and operating efficiencies, and as set out in the following table.
Proportion The table below shows the bonuses awarded to each of Excess of EPS Growth over average of award the executive directors for 2011 performance, and the split Movement in stock markets vesting between cash and deferred shares.
Cash Deferred Total A Individual 000 000 000 Martin Gilbert 1,000 3,000 4,000 Pro rata Andrew Laing 581 775 The composite index is derived from movements in the 187 563 750 following indices, which are considered as being Anne Richards 425 1,275 1,700 representative of the assets managed by the Group and includes the following: Hugh Young 1,000 3,000 4,000 A The deferred component will vest in three equal tranches in December 2012, 2013 and 2014.
MSCI World the deferred element will only vest in future periods.
iii Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Japan No awards have been made under the LTIP since December 2009.
The 2007 award reached its vesting date in December 2010.
Awards made in 2008 and 2009 remained unvested as at 30 September 2011, and are due to vest in December 2011 and December 2012, Index respectively.
The participant will not obtain absolute ownership of any Diversied LTIP awards until the end of the measurement period and HFRI Composite then only to the extent that the performance targets have been satisfied.
Participants are entitled to receive any Russell 1000 dividends paid on the shares during the measurement period, even though the shares held will not have vested Further, the LTIP rules state that no award will vest unless, unconditionally.
Such dividends paid to directors are in the opinion of the committee, the underlying financial disclosed in the audited section of the report.
performance of the Company over the relevant measurement period has been satisfactory.
37 The table below summarises the vesting outcomes of awards made in previous years.
Growth in stock Growth in adjusted market composite Proportion of A Award date Vesting date Aberdeen EPS index Excess growth awards vesting Dec 2005 Dec 2008 Dec 2006 Dec 2007 Dec 2010 Dec 2008 Dec 2011 A iv Share option scheme v Other benets The Group has an executive share option scheme which is Private health care and life assurance is provided to all approved by HM Revenue and Customs and was approved executive directors.
vi Pension the scheme reached the end of the ten year period during The Group provides dened contribution pension which the grant of options was permitted.
All options arrangements for its employees, with contribution rates of outstanding are now capable of being exercised, having met their performance criteria.
Incentive options were also the various countries in which the Group operates.
issued under the Group's LTIP in 2008.
In light of changes to pensions legislation introduced in the Details of share options held by the executive directors are shown in the audited section of the report.
including the UK based executive directors, have elected Shareholder dilution for employer contributions to the scheme to cease.
In these cases, the committee has approved cash allowances to be paid, such that the overall cost to the Group is no are outstanding over the following numbers of shares: greater than the pension contribution which would otherwise have been made.
Any similar requests which Percentage of may be made by employees in future will be treated in the Number of issued share same manner.
No such request will arise in respect of the Shares capital % Group's legacy dened benefit schemes, all of which are LTIP Conditional closed to future accrual.
563,817 0.05 1.2 2,176,100 0.2 Details of the awards which have been made to directors of the Company under the LTIP are shown on page 43.
38 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Total shareholder return Shareholding requirement The Regulations require the inclusion of a graph which acquire and retain a beneficial shareholding in the Company more than five years.
The holdings of the executive directors, except Hugh Young who was appointed during the year, comfortably exceed this requirement, as shown in the directors' General Financial Index.
The committee considers this to be report on pages 30 to 32. an appropriate index against which to measure performance Service contracts these indices are calculated on a total return basis assuming The policy is to provide executive directors with service reinvestment of dividends.
contracts requiring the Company to give the executive directors twelve months' notice and requiring the executive directors signicantly above the two comparator indices.
to give the Company six months' notice of termination.
If the Company decides to terminate the director's appointment Total shareholder return dividends reinvested without giving the required period of notice then the director Cumulative : 5 years ending 30 September 2011 is entitled to be paid one year's remuneration, which will % include the value of all benets including any bonus to which 80 the director would otherwise have been entitled.
The directors' contracts also provide for termination on three months' notice 60 40 adequate opportunity to improve, the director has failed to perform at a satisfactory standard.
In such a case, the directors' 20 contracts do not provide for any liquidated damages to be paid.
0 -20 -40 -60 30 Sep 06 30 Sep 07 30 Sep 08 30 Sep 09 30 Sep 10 30 Sep 11 Aberdeen Asset Management FTSE All Share General Financial FTSE All Share Source: Thomson Reuters.
External directorships of directorships outside the Group, recognising that this can assist in their personal development.
All such appointments is accepted in furtherance of the Group's business, any fees received are remitted to the Company.
If the appointment is not connected to the Group's business, the director is entitled to retain any fees received.
The Group earned fees of 44,000 several companies.
Martin Gilbert earned and retained fees of 270,000 for acting as chairman of both FirstGroup plc and Chaucer Holdings PLC.
39 Notice period Notice period Provision of compensation Name Date of contract from Company from directors for loss of ofce Martin Gilbert Twelve months Six months Andrew Laing Twelve months Six months Twelve months Six months Anne Richards Twelve months Six months Hugh Young Twelve months Six months Non-executive directors appointment and they do not have contracts of service.
committee, currently receives a fee of 200,000 per annum.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Company's registered ofce during normal business hours and are available on the Company's website.
following current annual rates: The appointment will normally terminate on: Fee component 48,000 Supplement for senior independent director 10,000 Supplement for chairmanship of each of audit, 16,000 Supplement for membership of each of audit, 8,000 following retirement by rotation at an Annual General Meeting.
Potential LTIP awards to executive directors and current year dividend entitlements are set out on page 43.
Vested but not yet exercised.
These interests represent ordinary shares which will vest on the dates stated.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors' interests in share options audited information Date of Latest Status of grant 2010 2011 price exercise exercise performance Martin Gilbert 23.01.04 413,000 413,000 Jan 2007 Jan 2014 Achieved Andrew Laing 11.6.
