Remuneration report Scope of Report The members of the Committee do not have any This Remuneration report has been prepared personal financial interests other than according to the requirements of the Companies shareholdings, or any conflicts that relate to the Act 2006 the Act, the Listing Rules of the UK Listing business of the Committee.
The Committee is aware Authority and under Regulation 11 of and Schedule of the cross-directorships held by Colin Holmes and 8 to the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Alastair Lyons, who are both Directors of Bovis Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 Homes plc.
The Committee has satisfied itself as to the Regulations.
In addition, the Board has applied the independence of Colin Holmes, however he has the principles of good corporate governance set chosen to take no part in decisions on the out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Chairmans remuneration.
The members do not Governance Code, and has considered the have any day-to-day involvement in the running of guidelines issued by its leading shareholders and the Group.
bodies such as the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
Activities The purpose of this report is to set out the Groups During the year ended 31 December 2011, the remuneration policy and particularly its application Committee met on six separate occasions.
The key with respect to the Directors.
matters considered included: Remuneration Committee Reviewing salary proposals for the Executive The Board sets the Groups remuneration policy Directors and Senior Management and, through the authority delegated to it by the Reviewing the appropriateness of the Board, the Committee is responsible for making performance conditions for both the recommendations to the Board on the structure and Discretionary Free Share Scheme DFSS and implementation of the remuneration policy across Free Share Incentive Plan SIP awards the Group with consideration to the prevailing Reviewing the companys performance against economic climate within the economies in which the the performance conditions applicable to the Group operates.
Its remit includes recommending DFSS and SIP awards and where appropriate the remuneration of the Chairman, the Executive authorizing the vesting of awards Directors and the Company Secretary: reviewing the Reviewing and authorizing the grant of awards remuneration of senior management: and reviewing under both DFSS and SIP plans the composition of and awards made under the Reviewing the Committees terms of reference performance-related incentive schemes.
and recommending amendments to the Board for approval The Committee presents a summary of its principal activities to shareholders through this Remuneration Advice provided to the Committee report, and the Committee Chairman attends the During the year, in order to enable the Committee AGM to answer questions from shareholders on the to reach informed decisions on executive activities of the Committee and its remuneration remuneration, advice on market data and trends was policies.
obtained from independent consultants, Kepler Associates.
In addition, the Committee received Its terms of reference are available on the Groups advice on the structure of the Groups share corporate website and are summarised in the schemes from  LLP PwC.
The Company Secretary also circulates market survey results as appropriate.
Composition The Committee is appointed by the Board and Remuneration Policy comprises only Non-Executive Directors.
The The Group is committed to the primary objective Committee is chaired by John Sussens, the Senior of maximizing shareholder value over time whilst Independent Non-Executive Director, with the other at the same time ensuring that there is a strong link members being Martin Jackson, Margaret Johnson between performance and reward.
This is reflected and Colin Holmes.
The Chairman and Chief in the Groups stated remuneration policy of paying Executive are invited to meetings where the competitive, performance linked and shareholder Committee considers it appropriate to obtain their aligned remuneration packages comprising basic advice on Group strategy and performance and salaries coupled with participation in performanceSenior Executive pay strategy.
based share schemes to generate competitive total reward packages for superior performance.
The Board is satisfied that the adoption of this policy continues to meet the objectives of attracting and retaining Executives of the highest quality across the Group.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 46 The Committee reviews the framework and each half-year.
Overseas staff receive an remuneration packages of the Executive Directors award under the Discretionary Free Share and the most senior managers and recognises the Scheme equivalent to the SIP award made need to ensure that the remuneration policy is firmly to UK employees linked to the Groups strategy including its risk Discretionary Free Share Scheme DFSS.
Awards management philosophy and given this approach, under the DFSS are distributed on a wider basis the main principles underlying the remuneration than is the case for most plans of this type.
The policy are: Committee believes that as the DFSS develops, and awards continue to vest, it will have the Competitive The Group aims to combine effect of reducing staff attrition and further salaries with attractive performance-related strengthening the alignment of the interests incentives, which provide individuals with the of staff and shareholders.
potential for competitive total reward packages for superior performance.
Accordingly, base Of the Groups current Executive Directors, salaries reflect the role, job size and responsibility only Kevin Chidwick Chief Financial Officer together with individual performance and participates in this scheme, as Henry Engelhardt effectiveness.
Prevailing market and economic and David Stevens have declined to be included.
conditions and developments in governance are also considered, as are general salary levels The performance criterion to determine how many throughout the organisation shares vest under the DFSS is the growth in earnings Performance linked A significant part of the per share EPS in excess of a risk free return, Executive Directors excluding Henry Engelhardt defined as average 3-month LIBOR, over a threeand David Stevens and senior managers year period.
The Committee feels that this is a good reward, remains shareholder aligned given that indicator of long-term shareholder return with which it is determined by the Groups earnings growth to align staff incentivisation.
Failure to achieve threshold levels recommends for approval by the Board awards to of growth in the Groups earnings results in the Chief Financial Officer and other employees reduced or no payout under the Groups under the DFSS.
Executive Directors have agreed to retain a minimum shareholding The EPS targets are such that for full vesting of equal to at least 100% of base salary, which can shares to occur, the average EPS growth over the be built up over a period of five years from the three-year performance period would have to be date of appointment approximately 12% per annum assuming LIBOR Transparent All aspects of the remuneration averages 2% over the period.
Only 10% of shares structure are clear to employees and openly vest for matching LIBOR over the three-year period.
communicated There is then a linear relationship up to full vesting of the award whereby 2.5% of the award vests for The Group operates the following benefits: each point over LIBOR.
Death in Service scheme, which provides cover of The Committee reviewed the performance targets three times salary to all UK employees following contained within the DFSS scheme and agreed that completion of their probationary period the criteria based on earnings per share measured Group Personal Pension Plan, matching against LIBOR continued to represent a challenging employee contributions up to a maximum 6% of and appropriate target.
base salary with maximum employer contribution of 9,000.
This is available to all employees Following shareholder approval at the Groups following completion of their probationary 2010 AGM, the plan allows for a maximum award period.
Kevin Chidwick is included in the plan of 1,000,000 or 600% of basic salary if lower.
and is subject to the maximum employer contribution limit of 9,000.
Henry Engelhardt For the Chief Financial Officer, all share awards are and David Stevens have declined to be included subject to the above performance criteria.
in the plan Private Medical Cover and Permanent Health For staff below Group Board level awards will be Insurance, available to approximately 220 split.
50% of the award will be subject to the above management level staff performance criteria.
The other 50% will have no Approved Free Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The performance criteria attaching other than the SIP is available to all UK staff Henry Engelhardt requirement that the recipient is an employee of the and David Stevens have declined to be included Group at the date of vesting.
The change was made in the plan.
The maximum annual award under in order to assist the group to attract and retain high the SIP is 3,000 per employee.
Shares awarded calibre staff by providing more certainty over the under the SIP are forfeited if the employee outcome of vesting awards.
leaves within three years of the award.
Awards are made twice a year, based on the results of Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 47 Remuneration report continued In addition, the Group pays a bonus to all holders of The Committee aims to ensure that the overall DFSS shares.
The bonus equates to the dividend remuneration of the Chief Financial Officer, Kevin payable on an equivalent number of the ordinary Chidwick, is a fair reflection of his role and shares of the Group.
The Committee continues to responsibilities, and is designed to reward achieving feel that having a group-wide bonus equivalent to increases in shareholder value.
the dividend flow received by investors further aligns the incentive structure with shareholders.
There are three main elements to the Chief Financial Officers remuneration package: The Company has controls in place to ensure that shares awarded under both schemes operated by 1 Basic annual salary the Company within any rolling ten year period do With effect from 1 October 2011 Kevin Chidwicks not exceed 10 per cent of the number of ordinary base salary was increased broadly in line with UK shares in the capital of the Company in issue at the inflation by 5% to 420,000.
The Committee time of each award.
considered that the increase in Kevin Chidwicks base salary was justified given his performance during the Executive Directors are allowed, although none year as CEO of Confused.
com, the Groups price currently do, to accept appointments as Noncomparison business, the effective manner in which Executive Directors of companies with prior he has maintained his responsibilities as Chief approval of the Chairman.
Approval will only be Financial Officer and his contribution to the Group given where the appointment does not present a in a wider context across a number of areas.
conflict of interest with the Groups activities and the wider exposure gained will be beneficial to the 2 Awards under the DFSS development of the individual.
Where fees are Kevin Chidwick received an award of 50,000 DFSS payable in respect of such appointments these shares on 15 April 2011 with a value at the date would be passed to the Company.
The awards represent the maximum number of shares that could vest Executive Directors remuneration after a three-year period and are subject to the Two of the three Executive Directors Henry performance criteria described above.
Engelhardt and David Stevens are founding Directors.
They and the Committee continue to hold 3 DFSS bonus the view that the significant shareholdings held by Consistent with other holders of unvested DFSS them, as set out below, provide a sufficient awards, Kevin Chidwick received a bonus calculated alignment of their interest in the performance of the to be equivalent to dividends that would have been Group with the interests of other shareholders.
payable during the year on DFSS shares awarded but not vested.
In 2011 these bonuses totalled In light of this, their remuneration packages consist 106,000 2010: 80,000. only of a modest base salary compared to market rates as assessed by the Committee and benefits Additional benefits include private medical cover, such as private medical cover, permanent health permanent health insurance, death in service cover insurance and death in service cover.
The Group and eligibility for the Groups Personal Pension Plan.
does not contribute to any pension arrangements on behalf of these Executive Directors, and they Directors service contracts have not participated, nor is it intended that they The following table summarises the notice periods participate, in any Group share schemes.
Their relating to the service contracts of the Executive remuneration was reviewed during the year.
Henry Directors serving at 31 December 2010.
Engelhardt was awarded a rise of 4.3% taking his salary to 365,000 with effect from 1 July 2011.
David Notice Notice Stevens was awarded a rise of 4.5% to 345,000 with Director Company month months effect from 1 September 2011.
Kevin Chidwick 12 12 Henry Engelhardt 12 12 David Stevens 12 12 There is no provision in the Executive Directors contracts for compensation to be payable on early termination of their contract over and above the notice period element.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 48 The Company has entered into letters of appointment with its Non-Executive Directors.
Summary details of terms and notice periods are included below.
Term and notice Alastair Lyons 3 years commencing 1 July 2010, terminable by either party giving three months written notice.
Manfred Aldag Indefinite terminable on one months notice from either party automatically terminates should he cease employment with Munich Re.
Martin Jackson 3 years commencing 1 December 2009, terminable by either party giving one months written notice.
Keith James 3 years commencing 1 December 2009, terminable by either party giving one months written notice.
Margaret Johnson 3 years commencing 4 September 2009, terminable by either party giving one months written notice.
Lucy Kellaway 3 years commencing 4 September 2009, terminable by either party giving one months written notice.
John Sussens 3 years commencing 1 December 2009, terminable by either party giving one months written notice.
Colin Holmes 3 years commencing 3 December 2010, terminable by either party giving one months written notice.
Given the short notice periods applicable, mitigation issues are unlikely to arise.
Non-Executive Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee decides the remuneration of the Chairman after consultation with the Executive Directors.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors, including the remuneration of the Committee Chairmen, is decided by the full Board.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in meetings when Non-Executive Director fees are discussed The fee structure for Non-Executive Directors was reviewed in 2011.
It was agreed that given the increased time commitment and preparation involved of having an additional Board meeting in 2012 the base fee should be increased by 5,000 to the figure as set out below: Base fee 50,000 Plus: Member of Audit Committee 12,000 Member of Risk Committee 12,000 Senior Independent Director 5,000 Chair of Audit Committee 20,000 Chair of Risk Committee 20,000 Chair of Nomination Committee 5,000 Chair of Remuneration Committee 5,000 Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to bonus payments or pension arrangements, nor do they participate in the Groups long-term incentive plans.
The fee payable to Alastair Lyons in respect of his appointment as Chairman of the Board is reviewed annually.
Following review in January 2011 the Chairmans fee was increased from 180,000 to 210,000 p. a.
The Committee approved the increase in fees payable to the Chairman on the basis that they remained modest and appropriate for a Chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
The appointment may be terminated by either the Chairman or the Company on three months notice.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts but each has a letter of appointment.
The letters of appointment all require a period of one months notice should the Non-Executive Director wish to resign.
These letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Annual General Meeting.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 49 Remuneration report continued Total Shareholder Return TSR The following graph sets out a comparison of Total Shareholder Return for Admiral Group plc shares with that of the FTSE 100 Index, of which the Company is a constituent.
The graph measures the period from 1January 2007 up to 31 December 2011.
TSR is defined as the percentage change over the period, assuming reinvestment of income.
The Directors consider this to be the most appropriate index against which the Company should be compared.
180 Admiral Group plc 160 FTSE 100 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 Source: Datastream 0 Jan 07 Jan 08 Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 Jan 12 Directors shareholdings Audited Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out below: Ordinary shares of 0.1p 31 December 31 December 2011 2010 Executive Directors Kevin Chidwick 72,870 50,067 Henry Engelhardt 39,313,565 40,490,720 David Stevens 10,534,450 10,234,000 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Alastair Lyons 492,152 562,152 Manfred Aldag 1,919 Colin Holmes 40,000 Martin Jackson Keith James 46,150 44,500 Margaret Johnson Lucy Kellaway John Sussens 60,000 8,000 All figures include amounts held by family members.
Includes 1,755 shares within the Groups SIP details of which are shown below.
Of these, 898 have reached their three-year maturity date.
The decrease in the shareholding of Henry Engelhardt since 31 December 2010 reflects the transfer of 2,200,000 shares to the Moondance Foundation - a charitable foundation of which both Henry Engelhardt and his wife Diane Briere fide lIsle are trustees.
Diane Briere fide lIsle also acquired 1,022,845 shares during 2011.
Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 50 Directors remuneration Audited Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2011 was as follows: Base salary 2011 2010 and fees Bonuses Benefits Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors 1 Kevin Chidwick 405 106 6 517 455 Henry Engelhardt 357 1 358 344 David Stevens 335 1 336 324 Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Alastair Lyons 210 210 180 Manfred Aldag 6 6 6 Colin Holmes 64 64 Martin Jackson 70 70 65 2 Keith James 104 104 100 Margaret Johnson 62 62 57 Lucy Kellaway 50 50 45 John Sussens 64 64 55 Totals 1,727 106 8 1,841 1,636 1 Kevin Chidwick received bonuses of 106,000 in lieu of dividends on shares awarded but not yet vested under the Groups DFSS bonus plan consistent with all DFSS scheme participants.
2 Keith James fees include 7,500 for chairing the Board of Admiral Insurance Company Limited, 15,000 for chairing the Board of Inspop.
com Limited and 15,000 for chairing the Groups International Price Comparison Board.
Awards made under the Discretionary Free Share Scheme DFSS and Free Share Incentive Plan SIP The table below sets out the awards made to Directors under the DFSS and SIP, including the dates of the awards, the value at the time of the award and vesting date.
The earnings per share index for the performance period 2008 to 2010 years, inclusive was 149 points, compared to the LIBOR index for the same period of 108 outperformance of 41 points.
10% of the award is achieved for meeting LIBOR, with a further 2.5% for each point of outperformance up to a maximum of 100%.
For details of Directors responsibilities, please refer to the biographies section.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 6 March 2012 and is signed on its behalf by the Committee Chairman: John Sussens Remuneration Committee Chairman Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 51
