Governance Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared by the remuneration committee the committee of Beazley plc and approved by the board of Beazley plc.
The report complies with the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The symbol by a heading indicates that the information in that section has been audited.
Dear shareholder In the following pages the committees report on directors remuneration for 2011 is presented.
2011 has been a challenging year for the insurance market.
However, the strength of Beazleys business model has been clearly demonstrated.
The breadth of our product portfolio allowed the industry-wide catastrophe losses affecting certain lines to be offset by profits from insurance products where profitability was driven by different factors.
Market conditions emphasised the skill of our underwriters in identifying profitable underwriting opportunities and in optimising the portfolio mix.
Annual results reflected Beazleys resilient performance with a profit before tax of $62.7m and we have maintained our track record of over 25 years of unbroken profitability.
Our resilience in a challenging year has been achieved by virtue of our greatest asset: our people.
Talent management is one of the cornerstones of Beazleys business success, as we seek to recruit and retain people who rank among the best insurance professionals in the world.
Against that background, ensuring Beazley has a competitive remuneration mix that rewards sustainable performance remains important to our future success.
Our executive remuneration policy is governed by two guiding principles alignment to shareholder interests and performance of the group.
The committee considers the overall package to be appropriate, responsible and balanced.
The remuneration committee regularly reviews whether our approach to remuneration is consistent with and takes account of the risk profile of the company.
The committee receives an annual report from the chief risk officer on remuneration policy designed in respect of risk to ensure it is consistent with and promotes effective risk management.
We have made no significant changes to our executive remuneration policies during this year.
The average salary increase for executive directors was 4%, which is in line with the average increase throughout the organisation.
Our bonus framework is aligned to group performance.
Notwithstanding that we consider we have performed well in a challenging year for the insurance market, the bonus awards are significantly lower than previous years reflecting our return on equity ROE and the profit before tax result for the year.
The long-term incentive plan LTIP is due to be renewed at this years annual general meeting.
The new plan retains the key features of the old LTIP.
We have marginally adjusted the performance targets and new features include the introduction of a clawback provision, dividend equivalents and a 5% dilution limit in a ten-year period for executive schemes.
We remain committed to employees throughout the organisation having an opportunity to share in Beazleys success.
A new save as you earn SAYE plan, which maintains the same features as the current scheme, is due to be approved at this years AGM.
We are keen to encourage an on going dialogue on our policies and continue to welcome our shareholders views.
Padraic OConnor Remuneration committee chairman 6 February 2012 www.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 57 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Summary of remuneration elements The main elements of the remuneration package payable to each executive director is comprised of basic salary, short-term incentive payments, pension contributions, long-term share-based incentives and other benefits.
A summary of the key elements of remuneration for executive directors across the group is as follows: Executive directors Element Objective Summary Base salary To recognise responsibilities Reviewed annually.
For 2011, average executive director salary increases are 4%.
Enterprise bonus To link reward to group profit and Incentive pool calculated as a percentage of profit subject to a minimum return on equity return on equity target.
Portion deferred into shares for three years between 0% and 35% of bonus dependent on level of bonus.
LTIP To align the senior management Awards of 200% of salary for CEO and 150% of salary for other following adoption team to the out-performance of executive directors.
of the new plan in the group by setting stretching 2012 performance targets over the 50% of an award is subject to performance over three years and 50% longer term over five years.
Vesting dependent on net asset value per share NAVps performance against the risk-free rate: No vesting if NAVps growth is less than the risk-free rate plus 7.5% p. a.
10% vest if NAVps growth exceeds the risk-free rate by 7.5% p. a.
25% vest if NAVps growth exceeds the risk-free rate by 10% p. a.
100% vest if NAVps growth exceeds the risk-free rate by 15% p. a. Pro-rating between points.
Shareholding To align with shareholders Shareholding requirements as part of the LTIP of 200% of salary for CEO requirements interests and 150% of salary for other executive directors.
To be built up over three years.
Investment in To align personal capital with Executive directors and selected staff may voluntarily defer part of their underwriting underwriting performance bonuses into an underwriting syndicate.
Capital commitments can be lost if underwriting performance is poor.
Benefits To provide market levels Benefits include a company car or car allowance, private medical of benefits insurance and permanent health insurance.
Pension To provide market levels Defined contribution of 15% of salary for executive directors.
of pension provision Service contracts Company policy is that notice No specific provision for compensation amounts.
Policy includes periods do not exceed 12 months consideration of mitigation and phasing.
In addition to the above, the committee also has oversight of remuneration arrangements elsewhere in the group.
The following tables set out the additional incentive arrangements for other staff within the organisation.
com Governance Other incentive arrangements at Beazley not applicable to executive directors Element Objective Summary Profit related To align underwriters reward Profit on the relevant underwriting account as measured at three years pay plan with the profitability of their and later.
account Support To align staff bonus with Participation is limited to staff members not on the executive or in receipt bonus plan individual performance and of profit related pay bonus.
achievement of objectives Retention shares To retain key staff Used in exceptional circumstances.
Full vesting dependent on continued employment over six years.
Policy going forward is that existing executive directors do not participate in these plans.
However, some executive directors have subsisting legacy retention shares.
All-employee arrangements including executive directors Element Objective Summary SAYE To create staff alignment with HMRC-approved monthly savings scheme facilitating the purchase of shares the group and promote a sense at a discount.
of ownership US SAYE As above but for US employees Remuneration committee The committee consists of only non-executive directors and during the year the members included Andy Pomfret, Gordon Hamilton, George Blunden, Padraic OConnor and Ken Sroka.
Andy Pomfret was chairman of the committee until July 2011 when Padraic OConnor replaced him as chairman.
The board views each of these directors as independent.
The committee met five times during the year.
The committee considers the individual remuneration packages of the chief executive, executive directors and executive committee members.
It also has oversight of the salary and bonus awards of individuals outside the executive committee who either directly report to executive committee members or who have basic salaries over 200,000, as well as the overall bonus pool and total incentives paid by the group.
The terms of reference of the committee are available on the companys website.
The committee receives advice from a variety of sources.
During the year the committee was advised by remuneration consultants from Deloitte LLP.
Other organisations providing specialist advice and services to the company and the committee are: Bluefin Advisory Services Limited for benefits and pensions advice, Towers Watson for salary data and Equiniti for employee share incentives matters and registrar services.
Other than the above, the advisors provide no other services to the group.
Input was also received by the committee during the year from the chief executive, head of talent management, the company secretary and the chief risk officer.
However, no individual plays a part in the determination of their own remuneration.
Remuneration policy The committee has oversight of the remuneration policy.
The general philosophy underlying the reward strategy for executive directors is the same as that applied to all other employees.
Pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the company and data on comparable positions in other similar organisations are taken into consideration when determining executive directors remuneration.
The main aim of the policy is to ensure that management and staff are remunerated fairly and in such a manner as to facilitate the recruitment, retention and motivation of suitably qualified personnel.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 59 Governance Directors remuneration report continued We believe that: performance-related remuneration is an essential motivation to management and staff and should be structured to ensure that executives interests are aligned with shareholders: individual rewards should reflect the group objectives but be dependent on the profitability of the group as well as take account of the operational risks: the structures of packages should support meritocracy, an important part of Beazleys culture: reward potentials should be market-competitive: and executives pay should include an element of downside risk.
Remuneration and the non-life insurance market The groups market for talent is primarily specialist underwriters at Lloyds and internationally.
In line with practice within the Lloyds market, there are no upper limits on the amounts payable to executives under short-term incentives.
The bonus pool approach closely aligns bonuses with group performance and a share deferral policy operates.
The committee has previously considered whether it is appropriate to set an upper limit and has agreed that such a limit would adversely affect the groups competitive position and would not be in the interests of shareholders.
However, the committee continues to monitor developing practice in this area.
Fixed and variable remuneration The balance between fixed and variable elements of executive directors remuneration changes with performance.
The anticipated normal mix between fixed and variable remuneration is c. 40% fixed and c. 60% variable.
A significant portion of variable pay is delivered in shares.
This mix is illustrated in the following charts.
Balance of fixed versus variable pay % 100 80 60 60 60 63.5 40 40 40 36.5 20 0 Chief Finance Underwriting Executive Director Directors Fixed Variable Incentives: cash versus shares % 100 80 60 57 57 62.5 40 43 43 37.5 20 0 Chief Finance Underwriting Executive Director Directors Cash Shares 60 Beazley Annual report 2011 www.
com Governance Risk and reward at Beazley Although the group is not subject to the FSAs Remuneration Code, the committee takes the Code into account when considering remuneration, along with developing remuneration governance in the context of Solvency II, other corporate governance developments and institutional shareholders guidance.
The committee continues to review remuneration against various guidelines and to monitor developments.
The chief risk officer reports annually to the remuneration committee on risk and remuneration as part of the regular agenda.
The committee believes the group is adopting an approach which is consistent with and takes account of the risk profile of the group.
We believe reward at Beazley is appropriately balanced in light of risk considerations, particularly in the following areas: Features aligned with risk considerations Share deferral A portion of bonus is normally deferred into shares for three years.
These deferred shares, together with shares awarded under the LTIP, mean that a significant portion of total remuneration is delivered in the form of shares deferred for a period of years.
Extended performance periods A portion of the LTIP has performance measured over an extended five-year period, in line with the Walker recommendations and FSA guidelines.
Shareholding requirements Executive directors are expected to build up and maintain a shareholding of 150% of salary 200% for the CEO.
LTIP awards may be forfeited if shareholding requirements are not met.
Investment in underwriting Management and underwriters defer part of their bonuses into the Beazley staff underwriting plan providing alignment with capital providers.
Underwriters remuneration aligned Under the profit related bonus plan payments are aligned with the timing of profits with profit achieved achieved on the account.
For long-tail accounts this may be in excess of six years.
If the account deteriorates then payouts are clawed back through adjustments to future payments.
Clawback of deferred and LTIP shares For deferred share awards from 2011 onwards, a clawback provision has been introduced, so that shares may be forfeited in certain circumstances, including material misstatement of accounts or significant adverse company performance developments.
This provision is being included in the new LTIP and will apply for awards from 2012.
Salary The committee reviews salaries annually taking into account levels in comparable positions in other similar financial service companies.
It also considers the performance of the group and the individual as well as the average salary increase for employees across the whole group.
Salary reviews take place in December of each year, with new salaries effective from 1 January.
For 2012, the average salary increase is 4%.
This is in line with average salary increases across the group.
Martin Bride and Adrian Cox received a salary increase of 6% reflecting development in the role and increased responsibility, respectively.
All other executive directors received a salary increase of 3%.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 61 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Bonus plans Enterprise bonus plan The enterprise bonus plan is a discretionary plan in which all employees are eligible to participate.
The pool is based on a percentage of profit subject to a minimum group return on equity target.
The proportion of profit allocated to the pool increases as higher returns on equity ROE are achieved.
The proportion of the pool awarded to executive directors takes into account the individuals contribution and the performance of their division if appropriate.
The pool is based on the results for the financial year having being adjusted for the enterprise pool payment.
The approach to the calculation of bonuses is aligned to shareholders interests and ensures that bonuses are affordable, while the ROE targets increase the performance gearing.
The committee reviews the bonus pool framework each year to ensure it remains appropriate, taking into account the prevailing environment, interest rates and expected investment returns, headcount and any other relevant factors.
The following table and graph illustrates the way in which bonuses reflect profit and ROE performance.
Average executive director bonus as a Pre-tax Post-tax percentage profit ROE of salary 2011 $63m 6% c. 64% 2010 $217m 19% c. 230% 2009 $231m 24% c. 230% 2008 $76m 8% c. 75% Profit for years prior to 2010 has been converted from sterling based on the average prevailing exchange rate for that year.
Average executive director bonus payout % of salary 250 200 150 100 50 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 PBT: $76m PBT: $231m PBT: $217m PBT: $63m ROE: 8% ROE: 24% ROE: 19% ROE: 6% A portion of the bonus will generally be deferred into shares for three years.
The deferral will range from 0% to 35% dependent on the level of bonus.
Deferred share awards from 2011 onwards include a clawback provision.
The committee may determine that unvested shares will be forfeited in certain circumstances, such as a material misstatement of accounts or a significant adverse group development.
A portion of bonus may also be deferred under the Beazley Staff Underwriting Plan, and this capital can be lost if underwriting performance is poor.
com Governance Underwriter bonus plan profit related pay plan Underwriters participate in a profit related pay plan based upon the profitability of their underwriting account.
Executive directors do not participate in this plan.
The objective of the plan is to align the interests of the group and the individual through aligning an underwriters reward to the long-term profitability of their portfolio.
Underwriters who have significant influence over a portfolio may be offered awards under the plan.
There is no automatic eligibility.
Profit related pay is awarded irrespective of the results of the group and is capped at a maximum of 150% of salary.
This bonus is awarded as cash and is based upon a fixed proportion of profit achieved on the relevant underwriting account as measured at three years and later.
Any movements in prior years are reflected in future year payments as the accounts develop after three years.
For long-tail accounts the class is still relatively immature at the three-year stage and therefore payments will be modest.
Underwriters may receive further payouts in years four, five and six and even later as the account matures.
Therefore each year they could be receiving payouts in relation to multiple underwriting years.
If the account deteriorates as it develops any payouts are clawed back through reductions in future profit related pay bonuses.
The fixed proportion is calculated based upon profit targets which are set through the business planning process and reviewed by a committee formed of executive committee members and functional specialists including the group actuary.
Underwriting risk is taken into account when setting profit targets.
In addition to profit related pay, underwriters are also eligible to receive a discretionary bonus, based upon performance, from the enterprise bonus pool.
A proportion of this bonus may be paid in deferred shares, which vest after three years subject to continued employment.
Support bonus plan Employees who are not members of the executive and who do not participate in the underwriters profit related pay plan participate in a discretionary bonus pool.
This pool provides the employees with a discretionary award of an annual performance bonus that reflects overall individual performance including meeting annual objectives.
A proportion of this award may also be dependent on the groups return on equity and therefore allocated from the enterprise bonus pool.
Share plans Long-term incentive plan LTIP The LTIP is being renewed in 2012.
The new plan is largely the same as the previous plan and retains its key features.
In particular there have been no changes to the level of awards.
Further details of the new LTIP can be found in the shareholder circular.
Under the LTIP, executive directors, senior management and underwriters receive awards of shares subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions measured over three and five years.
The key features of the plan are as follows: 50% of the award is measured after three years and 50% after five years.
Awards are in the form of nil-cost options with a ten-year term.
Participants are expected to build a shareholding in Beazley equal to their annual award level.
For example the CEO has a shareholding requirement of 200% of salary.
Participants have three years to build this shareholding.
In good leaver circumstances and on change of control, awards take into account time and performance.
The award level policy for 2012 is set out in the table below: Other Chief executive executive directors Maximum annual award as a percentage of base salary 200% 150% Vesting of awards is based on growth in net asset value per share NAVps, one of Beazleys key performance indicators.
The committee considers the LTIP NAVps growth targets to be very stretching, particularly taking into account that growth must be over a sustained three and five year period.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 63 Governance Directors remuneration report continued The performance condition for awards from 2012 is as follows: % of NAVps performance award vesting NAVps growth risk-free rate 7.5% p. a.
0% NAVps growth risk-free rate 7.5% p. a.
10% NAVps growth risk-free rate 10% p. a.
25% NAVps growth risk-free rate 15% p. a.
100% Straight-line vesting between points Growth in NAVps is calculated taking into account any payment of dividends by the company.
In line with our reporting to shareholders, NAVps is denominated in US dollars.
For 2012 awards, the performance targets are equivalent to 2011 save that a modest level of vesting 10% of maximum has been introduced for NAVps growth of RFR 7.5% p. a.
This level of performance is considered to be a challenging threshold, particularly for that part of the award where it must be sustained over five years.
For 2012 awards, participants will be entitled to dividend equivalents on vested shares.
A clawback provision has been introduced to the new LTIP.
The committee may determine that unvested shares will be forfeited in certain circumstances, such as a material misstatement of accounts or a significant adverse company development.
The LTIP awards that were granted on 3 March 2008 were based on NAVps growth and TSR performance.
These awards met the performance criteria in part and 50% of the awards vested in March 2011.
The results were independently calculated by Deloitte LLP.
SAYE The company operates an HMRC-approved SAYE scheme for the benefit of UK-based employees.
The scheme offers a three-year savings contract period with options being offered at a 20% discount to the share price on grant.
Monthly contributions are made through payroll deduction on behalf of participating employees.
A new SAYE which retains these features is due to be approved at this years AGM.
US SAYE The Beazley plc savings-related share option plan for US employees permits all eligible US-based employees to purchase shares of Beazley plc at a discount of up to 15% to the shares fair market value.
Participants may exercise options after a two-year period, although the shares are non-transferable for a further 12 months following exercise.
The plan is compliant with the terms of Section 423 of the US Internal Revenue Code and is similar to the SAYE scheme operated for UK-based Beazley employees.
Retention shares The retention plan is now only used in exceptional circumstances for recruitment or retention purposes.
Any awards vest at 25% per annum over years three to six.
Policy going forward is that existing executive directors do not participate in this plan.
However, some executive directors have subsisting legacy awards.
Option plan The option plan does not form part of Beazleys current remuneration policy.
The plan comprises an HMRC-approved plan and an unapproved plan.
All options granted under this plan have vested or lapsed.
It is the committees intention to only grant options under this plan in exceptional circumstances.
No options have been granted since 2005.
This plan is due to expire on 12 November 2012 and it is not intended that it will be renewed.
Dilution The share plans permit 10% of the companys issued share capital to be issued pursuant to awards under the LTIP, SAYE and option plan in a ten-year period.
Following the adoption of the new LTIP, the company will adhere to a dilution limit of 5% in a ten-year period for executive schemes.
com Governance Investment in underwriting Traditionally, Lloyds underwriters contributed their personal capital to syndicates in which they worked.
With the move to corporate provision of capital, individual membership of Lloyds has declined significantly.
The committee feels that having personal capital at risk in the syndicate is an important part of the remuneration policy and provides a healthy counterbalance to incentivisation through bonuses and long-term incentive awards.
The company has operated the Beazley Staff Underwriting Plan for this purpose since 2004 and executive directors and other selected staff are invited to participate through bonus deferral with an element of their cash incentives at risk as capital commitments.
These capital commitments can be lost in full if underwriting performance is poor.
The group funds the initial capital for the participants in the scheme.
The initial capital outlay is then reimbursed by individual bonus deferral.
The aim is for individuals to fund their capital within three years.
To date over 130 employees of the group have committed to put at risk 6.7m of bonuses to the underwriting results of syndicate 623.
Of the total at risk, 5.8m has already been deferred from the bonuses awarded.
The following directors participated in syndicate 623 through Beazley Staff Underwriting Limited: 2010 2011 2012 Total year of year of year of bonuses account account account deferred underwriting underwriting underwriting and at risk capacity capacity capacity M L Bride 150,000 400,000 350,000 400,000 A P Cox 216,000 400,000 350,000 400,000 J G Gray 216,000 400,000 350,000 400,000 D A Horton 216,000 400,000 350,000 400,000 N P Maidment 216,000 400,000 350,000 400,000 C A Washbourn 216,000 400,000 350,000 400,000 Pensions The pension benefits for directors and staff are provided by way of a defined contribution scheme arranged through Fidelity, which is non-contributory.
The company contributes 15% of salary for directors.
Following changes to pension tax legislation that came into force from April 2011, an equivalent cash alternative may be offered if an individual exceeds the lifetime allowance.
No cash alternative will be offered on pension payments above the new annual limit and individuals are responsible for any tax implications arising.
Prior to 31 March 2006 the company provided pension entitlements to directors that are defined benefit in nature, based on its legacy policy under the Beazley Furlonge Limited Final Salary Pension Scheme.
Future service accruals ceased on 31 March 2006.
Only base salary is pensionable, subject to an earnings cap.
The normal retirement age for pension calculation purposes is 60 years.
A spouses pension is the equivalent of two-thirds of the members pension before any commutation payable on the members death after retirement.
No other pension provisions are made.
Details of the defined benefit entitlements of those who served as directors during the year are as follows: Transfer Increase Increase Transfer value Increase in Accrued in accrued in accrued value of A of accrued transfer benefit at benefits benefits less benefits at value less 31 Dec excluding including directors 31 Dec directors 2011 inflation A inflation contributions 2011 contributions A P Cox 11,084 644 162,605 41,230 J G Gray 31,151 1,811 739,075 86,899 N P Maidment 37,840 2,200 664,052 115,069 C A Washbourn 16,818 978 308,900 50,809 www.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 65 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Benefits Benefits include private medical insurance for the director and his immediate family, permanent health insurance, death in service benefit at four times annual salary, travel insurance, health-club membership, season ticket, car parking and the provision of either a company car or a monthly car allowance.
Service contracts Executive directors have service contracts with Beazley Management Limited.
In June 2009, following the redomiciliation to Ireland, the directors were issued with new service contracts from Beazley Management Limited and appointment letters as directors of Beazley plc.
It is company policy that such service contracts with executive directors contain notice periods, from the company or employee, of not more than 12 months.
The current contracts in place for executive directors are as follows: Date of contract M L Bride 9 June 2009 A P Cox 6 Dec 2010 J G Gray 9 June 2009 D A Horton 9 June 2009 N P Maidment 9 June 2009 C A Washbourn 9 June 2009 The notice period for each of the above contracts is 12 months.
There is no unexpired term as each of the executive directors contracts is on a rolling basis.
Subject to the notice requirements described above, there is no provision in the service agreements for compensation to be payable on early termination of the contract.
Any payments of compensation will be subject to negotiation and the group policy includes consideration of appropriate mitigation, including phasing of payments.
Executive directors other interests Nick Furlonge also held a non-executive appointment with the Lloyds franchise board.
He was appointed to this role on 4 February 2008.
He received and retained a fee of 55,000 per annum in respect of this appointment.
Non-executive directors fees The fees of non-executive directors, other than the chairman, are determined by the board.
The fees for the chairman are determined by the board, following a recommendation from the remuneration committee.
When setting fee levels consideration is given to levels in comparable companies for comparable services in addition to the time commitment and responsibilities of the individual director.
No non-executive director participates in the groups incentive arrangements or pension plan.
Non-executive directors are appointed for fixed terms, normally for three years, and may be reappointed for future terms.
Non-executive directors are typically appointed through a selection process that assesses whether the candidate brings the desired competence and skills to the group.
The board has identified several key competencies for non-executive directors to complement the existing skill-set of the executive directors.
These competencies are as follows: Insurance sector expertise: Asset management skills: Public company and corporate governance experience: Risk management skills: and Finance skills.
Beazley operates across Lloyds and the US markets through a variety of legal entities and structures.
Non-executive directors, in addition to the plc board, typically sit on either one of our key subsidiary boards, ie Beazley Furlonge Limited BFL, our managing agency at Lloyds, or Beazley Re Limited, our reinsurance company.
As a result of developments in regulation, the degree of autonomy in the operation of each board has increased in recent years, with a consequent increase in time commitment and scope of the role.
com Governance The board reviews fees annually.
During the year fees were increased by 3%.
In July Dennis Holt joined the Beazley board as a non-executive director.
Dennis is expected to take up the position of non-executive chairman following the annual general meeting in March 2012, succeeding Jonathan Agnew.
His fees on appointment as a non-executive director were the basic fee for a Beazley plc non-executive director and for non-executive director of Beazley Furlonge Limited and on taking up appointment as chairman the fees would be equivalent to the current chairman fees.
Details of the non-executive directors terms of appointment and their fees for 2012 are set out below: Other fees Commencement Current date of Senior Audit Remuneration Beazley annual appointment independent committee committee Furlonge Beazley fee Expires director chair chair Limited Re Limited J G W Agnew 123,500 20 Mar 2009 27 Mar 2012 31,000 G P Blunden 52,500 1 Jan 2010 31 Dec 2012 6,250 15,500 A G K Hamilton 52,500 20 Mar 2009 30 Sep 2012 15,500 15,500 D Holt 52,500 21 Jul 2011 21 Jul 2014 15,500 P J OConnor 63,000 20 Mar 2009 12 Mar 2015 12,250 8,250 V J Sheridan 63,000 9 Jun 2009 21 May 2015 8,250 K P Sroka 52,500 12 Nov 2010 11 Nov 2013 R A W Tolle 52,500 6 Dec 2010 5 Dec 2013 15,500 Compensation for past directors Nick Furlonge retired on 30 June 2011.
Following his retirement he continues in his role as a non-executive director of Beazleys subsidiary.
His emoluments to 30 June 2011 are set out in the emolument tables.
The treatment of share awards was as follows: Share awards under the long-term incentive plan were pro-rated for time and performance.
Calculations were performed independently by Deloitte LLP.
The committee determined that the share awards under the Deferred Share Plan representing the deferred portion of bonuses earned in previous years should not be released at retirement and will subsist and be released at the normal vesting date subject to his continuing role as a non-executive director of BFL.
Treatment of outstanding amounts for the staff underwriting plan will follow normal rules applicable to leavers of the scheme.
Following his retirement, during the past financial year Nick Furlonges fees in respect of his role as non-executive director of BFL were 20,500.
Dan Jones is a former non-executive director of Beazley plc who stood down from the Board on 2 June 2010.
He was subsequently appointed in an executive capacity to serve on the executive committee.
During the past financial year his compensation in respect of this executive role was $647,310 comprising his annual salary, bonus, benefits and pension US 401K scheme.
He was made an LTIP award over 304,431 shares subject to performance conditions.
Total shareholder return performance Value of 100 invested on 31st December 2006 150 120 90 60 30 0 06 07 08 09 10 11 Beazley FTSE All share FTSE 350 Non-life insurance Figures are taken from 31 December of each year Unaudited www.
Other than for the chairman, fees include fees paid for chairmanship of the audit and remuneration committees and for the role of senior independent director.
The directors defer bonus entitlements to support their underwriting through Beazley Staff Underwriting Limited.
This is return on a voluntary investment which is at risk.
The notional dividend is a cash bonus equal to dividends the directors would have received during the vesting period of the deferred and retention shares.
Mr Blunden was appointed as senior independent director on 21 July 2011 and his fees include his earnings as a senior independent director fee from this date.
Mr Furlonge retired on 30 June 2011 from his executive role and his salary, bonus and benefits relate to his earnings as executive director up to this date.
Mr Holt was appointed to the board on 21 July 2011 and his fees relate to his earnings from this date.
For Mr OConnor and Mr Sheridan, their non-executive director fee was based on 69,200 and has been converted into sterling for this table at the average exchange rate of 1.15.
Mr OConnor was appointed remuneration committee chairman on 21 July and his fees also include his earnings as remuneration committee chairman from this date.
Mr Pomfret stood down as a non-executive director on 21 July 2011 and his fees relate to his earnings to this date.
Awards were made on 3 March 2008 at a mid-market share price of 166p.
50% of the award is based on NAVps performance in excess of the risk-free rate RFR and 50% is based on TSR performance versus a comparator group Amlin, Brit, Catlin, Chaucer, Hardy, Highway, Hiscox, Lancashire and Novae.
Different vesting schedules apply for shares worth up to 50% of salary basic shares and shares worth more than 50% of salary additional shares.
For basic shares, for the NAV portion, NAVps RFR 5% p. a. results in 0% vesting and NAVps RFR 5% p. a. results in 100% vesting.
For the TSR portion, below median TSR results in 0% vesting, median TSR performance results in 50% vesting and upper quartile TSR performance results in 100% vesting.
For additional shares, for the NAV portion, NAVps RFR 5% p. a. results in 0% vesting and NAVps RFR 10% p. a. results in 100% vesting.
For the TSR portion, below upper quartile TSR performance results in 0% vesting and upper decile TSR results in 100% vesting.
Straight-line pro-rating applies between all points.
Final vesting for 2008 LTIP awards was 50%.
Note The above is a correction in only the description of the performance condition from the description provided in the 2009 and 2010 Directors Remuneration Reports.
In relation to the TSR portion of the basic shares only, the reports incorrectly described vesting at median for the basic shares portion as 25% rather than 50%.
Awards were made on 16 February 2009 and 27 April 2009 at a mid-market share price of 102p and 101p respectively.
Performance conditions are as for the 2008 LTIP awards except that the TSR comparator group is as follows: Amlin, Brit, Catlin, Chaucer, Hardy, Hiscox, Lancashire and Novae.
Awards were made on 18 February 2010 at a mid-market share price of 107.2p 110.13p D A Horton only.
Performance conditions: all of the award is subject to NAVps performance, with 50% measured over a three year period and 50% measured over a five year period.
NAVps RFR 10% p. a. equates to 0% vesting, NAVps RFR 10% p. a. equates to 25% vesting, NAVps or RFR 15% p. a. equates to 100% vesting, with straight-line pro-rated vesting between these points.
Awards were made on 14 February 2011 at a mid-market share price of 132.7p.
Retention plan and deferral plan.
Awards were made on 27 April 2009 at the time of M L Brides recruitment.
The 150,000 shares will vest in four equal tranches on each of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth anniversaries of the date of grant and the 200,000 shares will normally vest in full on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The market price of Beazley ordinary shares at 31 December 2011 was 134.3p and the range during the year was 109.6p to 139.2p.
Annual general meeting A resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting to be held on 27 March 2012 to approve this directors remuneration report.
I am keen to encourage an on going dialogue with shareholders.
Accordingly, please feel free to contact me, if you would like to discuss any matter arising from this report or on remuneration issues generally, either by writing to me at the companys head office or by email through Sian Coope at sian.
com By order of the board Padraic OConnor Chairman of the remuneration committee 6 February 2012 72 Beazley Annual report 2011 www.
com Governance Directors report The directors have pleasure in presenting their report and the audited financial statements of the group for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Principal activity Beazley plc is the ultimate holding company for the Beazley group, a global specialist risk insurance and reinsurance business operating through its managed syndicates 2623, 6107, 3623, 3622 and 623 at Lloyds in the UK and Beazley Insurance Company, Inc. a US admitted carrier in the US.
Review of business A more detailed review of the business for the year and a summary of future developments are included in the chairman and chief executives letter on pages 10 to 13 and the financial review on pages 30 to 40.
Results and dividends The consolidated profit before taxation for the year ended 31 December 2011 amounted to $62.7m 2010: $250.8m The directors announce a second interim dividend of 5.4 pence per ordinary share 2010 second interim dividend: 5.1 pence plus a special dividend of 2.5 pence.
This dividend, together with the first interim dividend of 2.5 pence per ordinary share 2010 first interim dividend 2.4 pence, gives a total of 7.9 pence.
The second interim dividend will be paid on 30 March 2012 to shareholders on the register on 2 March 2012 save to the extent that shareholders on the register of members on 2 March 2012 are to be paid a dividend by a subsidiary of the company being Beazley DAS Limited resident for tax purposes in the United Kingdom pursuant to elections made or deemed to have been made and such shareholders shall have no right to this second interim dividend.
Directors The directors of the company at 31 December 2011, who served during the year and to the date of this report, were as follows: Jonathan Geoffrey William Agnew non-executive chairman David Andrew Horton chief executive George Patrick Blunden non-executive director Martin Lindsay Bride finance director Adrian Peter Cox director Nicholas Hill Furlonge director retired 30 June 2011 Jonathan George Gray director Alexander Gordon Kelso Hamilton non-executive director Dennis Holt non-executive director appointed 21 July 2011 Neil Patrick Maidment director Padraic Joseph OConnor non-executive director Andrew David Pomfret non-executive director resigned 21 July 2011 Vincent Joseph Sheridan non-executive director Kenneth Paul Sroka non-executive director Rolf Albert Wilhelm Tolle non-executive director Clive Andrew Washbourn director The board is complying with the provision on annual re-election of all directors introduced by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details of directors service contracts and beneficial interests in the companys share capital are given in the directors remuneration report on pages 57 to 72.
Biographies of directors are set out on pages 50 to 51. www.
com Beazley Annual report 2011 73 Governance Directors report continued Corporate governance The companys compliance with corporate governance is disclosed in the corporate governance statement on pages 53 to 56.
Going concern A review of the financial performance of the group is set out on pages 30 to 40.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows and borrowing facilities are included therein.
After reviewing the groups budgets and medium-term plans, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Supplier payment policy The company and groups policy for the year ending 31 December 2011, for all suppliers, is to fix terms of payment when agreeing the terms of each business transaction, to ensure the supplier is aware of those terms and to abide by the agreed terms of payment.
The group had an average 50 days purchases included in trade creditors at 31 December 2011 2010: 47 days.
Corporate, social and environmental responsibility The companys corporate, social and environmental policy is disclosed on pages 46 to 49.
No political donations were made by the group in either of the current or prior reporting period.
Risk management The groups approach to risk management is set out on pages 43 to 45 and further detail is contained in note 2 to the financial statements on pages 94 to 103.
Substantial shareholdings As at 2 February 2012, the board had been notified of, or was otherwise aware of, the following shareholdings of 3% or more of the companys issued ordinary share capital: Number of ordinary shares % Invesco Perpetual 99,016,671 19.1 Jupiter Asset Management 41,339,387 8.0 MFS Investment Management 31,974,868 6.2 Dimensional Fund Advisors 21,504,578 4.1 Legal & General Investment Management 20,081,959 3.9 Aberforth Partners 18,308,668 3.5 Aviva Investors 18,036,052 3.5 Annual general meeting The notice of the annual general meeting to be held at 12.00 noon on Tuesday, 27 March 2012 at 2 Northwood Park, Santry, Dublin is set out in the circular to shareholders.
At 6 February 2012 there are outstanding options to subscribe for 14.9m ordinary shares pursuant to employee share schemes, representing 2.9% of the issued share capital.
If the authority to purchase shares were exercised in full, these options would represent 3.2% of the enlarged issued share capital.
com Governance Auditors KPMG have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
Accordingly, a resolution to reappoint KPMG as auditors of the company will be proposed in the annual general meeting.
Disclosure of information to auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the board S A Coope Company secretary 2 Northwood Avenue Northwood Park Santry Demense Santry Dublin 9 6 February 2012 www.
