Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 31 Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with Part 15 of the Remuneration policy for executive directors During the year, the Remuneration Committee conducted a review Companies Act 2006 and related regulations.
The tables included in of the companys executive remuneration arrangements with the the statements below on directors remuneration, pensions, share options and deferred share awards have been audited.
assistance of its independent remuneration consultants, Towers Watson.
The purpose of the review was a to ensure that the The Remuneration Committee companys remuneration structures remained aligned to the risk The Remuneration Committee is a standing committee of the board reward characteristics of Caledonias objective of providing a long whose current members are Mr Davies Chairman, Mr Allen-Jones, term store of wealth for its shareholders, b to continue to provide Mr Gregson and Mr Thompson.
All of the members served throughout a suitable framework to incentivise the companys senior executive the year.
team and c to reflect current market practice, but within its existing policy that: The Remuneration Committee, whose written terms of reference are published on the companys website, has been established for the Performance related remuneration should seek to align the following purposes: interests of the executive directors with those of the shareholders.
To determine and agree with the board the framework and broad A significant portion of the executive directors remuneration policy for the remuneration of the executive directors and such packages should be linked to the performance of the company.
other members of the executive management as it is requested by the board to consider and to review the on-going appropriateness Remuneration packages for the executive directors should be competitive, but not excessive, in terms of market practice, in order and relevance of the remuneration policy.
to attract, retain and motivate executive directors of the quality To approve the design of, and determine targets for, any needed to manage and grow the company successfully.
performance related pay schemes operated by the company and to approve the total annual payments made under such schemes.
As a result of this review, the Remuneration Committee is proposing to replace the current executive share option scheme and deferred To review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the bonus plan with a new performance share scheme and an updated board and shareholders and, for any such plans, to determine each deferred bonus plan, shareholder approval for both of which will year whether awards will be made and, if so, the overall amount be sought, under separate resolutions, at the forthcoming annual of such awards, the individual awards to executive directors and general meeting.
other senior executives and the performance targets to be used.
In order to align further the interests of the executive directors with Within the terms of the agreed policy, to determine the total those of shareholders, the Remuneration Committee has adopted individual remuneration packages of each executive director guidelines for minimum shareholdings which executive directors and, if requested by the board, other senior executives, including, will be expected to attain over a reasonable period of time.
For these where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments, share options purposes, shareholdings include the value to executive directors, net and other awards.
of associated income tax and national insurance, of options granted under the companys executive share option schemes for which the To determine the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements, service agreements, termination payments and compensation performance targets have been met and bonus deferred into shares, both compulsorily and voluntarily, under the companys deferred commitments for executive directors and, if requested by the bonus plan.
For the Chief Executive, the minimum guideline board, other senior executives.
shareholding has been set at a value of 200% of basic salary and To review and assess annually the remuneration trends across for all other executive directors 150% of basic salary.
shareholdings of all of the executive directors meet these guidelines, other than of Mr King, who has only recently joined the company.
The Remuneration Committee also determines the fees of the Chairman.
In determining executive directors remuneration, consideration is given to matters specific to the company, such as the performance During the year, the Remuneration Committee received advice from of its net asset value NAV per share, both in absolute terms and as Towers Watson, independent remuneration consultants appointed measured against the FTSE All-Share index, to the experience and by the Remuneration Committee, who undertook a review of the performance of individual directors and to their areas of responsibility.
companys executive remuneration structures in the context of The Remuneration Committee also gives consideration to a report current market practice, which included an assessment of the prepared by the Company Secretary on pay and employment comparability of senior executive remuneration packages with conditions through the Caledonia group, although, given that the market place for the purpose of setting executive directors Caledonias trading subsidiaries operate in a number of diverse salaries for the year commencing 1 April 2011.
In addition, Towers industries and geographical locations using both skilled and Watson undertook a review of the companys long term incentive unskilled workforces, the executive directors pay is principally set arrangements as described further below.
Towers Watson principally by the Remuneration Committee in the context of that of Caledonias advised in relation to the remuneration of executive directors and head office staff.
Comparable external market data is also taken into senior management.
The Remuneration Committee also consulted account as a point of reference to determine appropriate with the Chairman and the Chief Executive in relation to the remuneration packages for specific roles.
remuneration of the executive directors.
Internal support was provided to the Remuneration Committee by the Company Secretary.
It is currently intended that the policy statement set out in this report will apply for the year to 31 March 2012 and for subsequent years.
However, the Remuneration Committee considers that an effective remuneration policy needs to be sufficiently flexible and kept under review in order to take account of future changes in the companys business environment and in remuneration practice.
Accordingly, the policy may be amended in future years.
Any changes in policy for financial years after 31 March 2012 will be described in future directors remuneration reports, which will continue to be subject to an advisory vote of shareholders.
All statements in this report in relation to remuneration policy for years after 31 March 2012 should be read in this light.
32 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Policy on individual components of executive directors Deferred bonus plan remuneration The companys bonus arrangements are also designed to align the Basic salary interests of directors with those of shareholders and to encourage Basic salary is determined by the Remuneration Committee by retention by requiring, in the Remuneration Committees absolute reference to the experience and responsibilities of the director discretion, that a proportion of any bonus paid to a director is concerned and taking into account external market research.
The compulsorily invested in shares under the companys deferred bonus companys policy is to pay salaries and other benefits which are plan.
The Remuneration Committees current policy is that any competitive, but not excessive, in relation to the marketplace.
annual bonus paid, the amount of which is above 50% of a directors basic salary for the financial year to which the bonus relates, must Benefits be so compulsorily invested.
Shares derived from the compulsory The company provides a range of benefits, including cash allowances deferral of bonus are matched on a one for one basis, the vesting of in lieu of company cars, life insurance, permanent health insurance which is subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions over and private medical cover.
Bonus In addition, the deferred bonus plan entitles directors to convert The company operates a discretionary annual bonus scheme for voluntarily a proportion of any remaining cash bonus to an executive directors, which takes into account both the performance entitlement to shares.
The Remuneration Committees current policy of individual directors and the performance of the company.
At the is that up to half of any bonus not subject to compulsory deferral determination of the Remuneration Committee, and subject to the may be voluntarily converted into shares.
The shares awarded for compulsory deferral provisions of the companys deferred bonus voluntary bonus deferral are also eligible for matching, on a one plan, bonuses may either be paid in cash or as employer contributions for one basis, the vesting of which is subject to the satisfaction of to registered pension schemes.
performance conditions over a period of three years.
Bonuses The maximum potential bonus that may currently be awarded is awarded for the 2012 financial year will be subject to a new deferred 100% of basic salary, of which a maximum of 50% of basic salary bonus plan, if approved by shareholders, details of which are set out is determined by reference to the companys performance and 50% below.
Awards under the deferred bonus plan are not pensionable.
by reference to individual performance.
The company performance In connection with the review of the companys executive related element of bonus is determined by reference to the remuneration structures, the Remuneration Committee wishes to performance of the companys diluted NAV per share compared obtain shareholder approval for a new deferred bonus plan 2011 with that of the FTSE All-Share index over the financial year.
Plan to replace the existing deferred bonus plan operated by the Bonus payments commence if the performance of the companys company.
The 2011 Plan will first be used in 2012 in relation to NAV per share matches that of the FTSE All-Share index, increasing bonuses awarded for the 2012 financial year and, if the 2011 Plan is incrementally to the maximum entitlement payable if NAV per share approved by shareholders, no further awards will be granted under outperforms the FTSE All-Share index by 6% or more.
The individual the existing deferred bonus plan.
The terms of the 2011 Plan will be performance element is measured by reference to performance the same as the current deferred bonus plan details of which are set objectives set at the start of the financial year.
out on pages 35 to 36 but the 2011 Plan will introduce revised For the financial year ending 31 March 2012, and for future years, performance targets for the matching share awards which are the Remuneration Committee intends to change the existing bonus considered to be more relevant to Caledonias current strategy arrangements in two respects first by adopting the relative and objectives.
Under these targets, the vesting of matching shares performance of the companys diluted NAV per share on a total will be dependent on the companys performance over a three year return basis against the FTSE All-Share Total Return index as the period by reference to two separate performance conditions.
Both measure of the company performance related element and second, conditions will relate to the performance of Caledonias diluted for executive directors with responsibility for specific pools of NAV per share on a total return basis over the three financial years capital, to link a significant proportion of bonus to the performance starting with the year in which the award is made.
For two-thirds and objectives of their individual pools.
For these directors, the of the matching shares awarded, the performance of diluted NAV maximum potential bonus of 100% of basic salary will be determined per share on a total return basis will be compared against the FTSE as to 25% by reference to the companys performance, 60% to pool All-Share Total Return index and, for the other one-third, the performance and objectives and 15% to individual performance.
comparison will be against the FTSE Actuaries UK Index-linked Gilts all stocks Total Return index.
Vesting of matching shares will be on All bonus payments are subject to the overriding discretion of the a graduated basis, commencing with 10% vesting on the achievement Remuneration Committee and circumstances where such discretion of 0.5% outperformance of the relevant index, rising on a straight line may be used to reduce the amount of bonus payable include where basis to 100% vesting on 3.5% outperformance of the relevant index.
NAV per share growth in the financial year is negative and or There will be no re-testing of either of the performance conditions.
NAV per share outperformance over the relevant financial year merely represents recovery from previous underperformance.
The Remuneration Committee may amend the performance targets In exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may if events occur that would make the amended targets a fairer also award bonuses outside the terms of the companys annual bonus measure of performance and provided that any amended targets are scheme.
No bonus payments are pensionable.
no more difficult to satisfy.
The Remuneration Committee will also have the ability to impose different performance targets in the future, provided that any targets imposed are no less demanding than described above.
Any such amended or different performance targets will be described in the directors remuneration report for the relevant year.
A detailed summary of the 2011 Plan is set out in the circular to shareholders containing the notice of the annual general meeting and which accompanies this annual report.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 33 Pensions order to bring the companys long term incentive arrangements more The companys policy on pensions is to provide a means whereby into line with current market practice and also to address the key executive directors either receive a pension at retirement age from conclusions of the review that: the company, or are funded to operate their own personal pension the structure and level of grants made under the 2005 executive plans or other arrangements.
The Hon C W Cayzer is a member share option scheme under which the exercise price is equal to the of the Caledonia Pension Scheme, which is a defined benefits scheme shares market value at the date of grant is out of line with market and is contributory for employees who joined the company after practice and that the performance targets applicable to those 1 April 1988, but which is now closed to new members.
This scheme options are such that there is a low likelihood of options vesting provides a pension of up to two-thirds of final pensionable salary on retirement dependent on length of service and age and also provides the company should move to a performance share scheme, under for dependants pensions.
The Hon C W Cayzer transferred into the which, to the extent that a performance condition is satisfied, scheme from The Union-Castle Line Superannuation Scheme which shares could be called without payment under a nil-cost option was non-contributory, and this status has been preserved.
the expected value of options granted under the 2005 executive None of Messrs King, May or Wyatt participate in a company pension share option scheme that is, taking account of the intrinsic value scheme, but instead a fixed percentage of basic salary is paid into of the options was too low when set against market comparables.
personal pension arrangements or may, at their choice, be paid as a To address this, the Remuneration Committee intends to increase cash supplement, which is reduced by such amount as is necessary the expected value of the long term incentive element of the to ensure that the cash payment is cost neutral for the company after remuneration package.
taking into account the companys national insurance contributions.
The percentage of basic salary for the year ended 31 March 2011 Under the 2011 Scheme, participants will be awarded nil-cost options was 12.5% for each director, although Mr Wyatts contribution over shares, rather than options based on the current market value was increased to 20% of basic salary on his appointment as Chief of those shares.
The maximum value of nil-cost options that may Executive on 21 July 2010.
Mr Cayzer-Colvin participates in the be granted in any year will be increased to 200% of basic salary, Caledonia Group Personal Pension Plan GPPP, a defined although, because nil-cost options have a higher expected value than contribution scheme into which employer contributions of 12.5% of market-value options, the Remuneration Committees policy will be basic salary were made on his behalf.
For the portion of the financial typically to grant awards of no more than 125% of basic salary.
year until his retirement on 21 July 2010, Mr Ingram was entitled to Nil-cost options awarded under the 2011 Scheme will be subject receive an employer pension contribution or cash alternative based to performance targets related to the companys diluted NAV per on 25% of his basic salary.
For the year ending 31 March 2012 share on a total return basis measured against a benchmark index.
onwards, the Remuneration Committee has agreed that the employer For two-thirds of the shares comprised in a nil-cost option, the pension contributions or cash alternatives should be based on 22.5% benchmark will be the FTSE All-Share Total Return index and, for of basic salary for Mr Wyatt and 17.5% for Messrs Cayzer-Colvin, the remaining one-third, the benchmark will be the FTSE Actuaries King and May.
UK Index-linked Gilts all stocks Total Return index.
In each case It is the companys policy that any future executive directors the performance period will be a period of three financial years recruited from outside the company will be funded to operate their measured at the end of the third financial year following the date of own pension arrangements or offered participation in a company grant of the nil-cost options.
Nil-cost options will vest on a graduated sponsored defined contribution scheme and that the company will basis, with 10% vesting on 0.5% outperformance of the relevant not offer participation in any defined benefits arrangements.
benchmark, rising on a straight line basis to maximum vesting on 3.5% outperformance of the relevant benchmark.
There will be no Share options re-testing of either performance target and, to the extent that a A key objective of the companys remuneration policy is to motivate performance target is not met, the relevant nil-cost options will lapse.
executive directors to deliver long term shareholder value.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this is best achieved The Remuneration Committee may amend the performance targets through the grant of share options, exercisable only if demanding if events occur that would make the amended targets a fairer measure performance conditions are met.
The grant of options is considered of performance and provided that any amended targets are no more to be a key element of the remuneration package, alongside annual difficult to satisfy.
The Remuneration Committee will also have the salary, annual bonus and the deferred bonus plan.
ability to impose different performance targets in the future, provided that any targets imposed are no less demanding than described above.
Under the 2005 executive share option scheme under which the Any such amended or different performance targets will be described exercise price is equal to a shares market value at the date of grant, in the directors remuneration report for the relevant year.
the maximum value of options that may be granted in any year to a director is 150% of basic salary, measured by reference to To the extent that a performance target is met, nil-cost options may the aggregate exercise price of such options.
The Remuneration be exercised between the date of vesting and the tenth anniversary Committee may exceed this limit for individual directors where it of the date of grant, except that only two-thirds of the shares that considers it necessary to do so to secure their appointment, provided have vested may normally be exercisable after three years from that the maximum value that may be granted in such circumstances grant, with the remaining one-third normally becoming exercisable shall not exceed 250% of basic salary.
No options are granted five years after grant.
On exercisable, the participant will also receive at a discount.
an amount equal to the dividends that would have accrued on the shares comprised in the nil-cost options during the relevant three As a consequence of its review of Caledonias executive remuneration or five year period.
structures, the Remuneration Committee is seeking shareholder approval to establish a new executive performance share scheme A detailed summary of the terms of the 2011 Scheme is set out in the 2011 Scheme to replace the existing executive share option scheme circular to shareholders containing the notice of the annual general which was established in 2005.
The 2011 Scheme is proposed in meeting and which accompanies this annual report.
34 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Policy on executive directors service contracts Total return growth over ive years It is the policy of the company that no executive director should be Caledonia TSR offered a service contract that cannot be terminated on more than FTSE All-Share TR one years notice or which contains provision for predetermined compensation in excess of one years total emoluments.
All 125 existing directors service contracts comply with this policy.
The Remuneration Committee has regard to compensation commitments and believes that these are best addressed by restricting the term 100 of the contract.
In the event of a termination, the Remuneration Committee would consider all the relevant factors and circumstances 75 and seek a just solution.
It is the Remuneration Committees intention that all future executive directors service contracts should include provisions enabling the company to reduce compensation payments 50 in the event that the director takes up alternative employment within 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 the notice period to which such payments relate.
Policy on external non-executive directorships held by executive directors Statement on directors remuneration audited It is the companys policy to allow executive directors to hold Total emoluments of the directors were as follows: external non-executive directorships unrelated to the companys business, provided that the time commitment required is not 2011 2010 000 000 material.
Normally the company will retain any fees arising from such non-executive directorships, but may permit the executive Emoluments 3,293 3,553 director to retain fees in certain circumstances.
Details of any such Gains on exercise of share options 1,858 fees retained by executive directors are disclosed in the statement 3,293 5,411 on directors remuneration below.
Statement on directors emoluments audited Policy on the Chairmans and non-executive directors terms The emoluments of individual directors were as follows: of appointment and remuneration It is the companys policy that the Chairman and the non-executive directors should be appointed for fixed periods of no more than Fees and Cash Deferred Total Total 1 three years from the next annual general meeting following salaries Benefits bonus shares 2011 2010 000 000 000 000 000 000 initial appointment in the case of new appointments and that re-appointment at the end of such periods should not be automatic.
J R H Loudon 162 162 150 W P Wyatt 420 18 210 73 721 386 The Chairman receives an annual fee determined by the Remuneration Committee but does not receive any other emoluments.
The Hon C W Cayzer 270 18 135 27 450 360 Non-executive directors are paid an annual fee determined by the J M B Cayzer-Colvin 270 18 135 41 464 379 board within the overall limit contained in the articles of association, S A King 319 1 160 56 536 140 but do not receive any other benefits from the company for their services as non-executive directors.
The basic fee for the C M Allen-Jones 46 46 42 non-executive directors was 35,000 and additionally fees of 4,900 M E T Davies 39 39 36 and 4,300 respectively were paid to the Chairmen of the Audit and R Goblet dAlviella 37 37 34 Remuneration Committees and 2,000 and 1,400 respectively to the other members of those committees.
A further 4,500 was paid C H Gregson 38 38 19 to Mr Allen-Jones for his roles as Senior Independent Non-Executive D G F Thompson 38 38 35 Director and Chairman of the Governance Committee.
For the year 2 T C W Ingram 168 6 174 803 ending 31 March 2012, the basic non-executive directors fee will be Former director 658 36,250, the fee for the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees will be 5,100 and 4,450 respectively and membership 2,163 79 729 322 3,293 3,553 fees for these Committees will be 2,100 and 1,450 respectively.
Deferred shares, forming part of the bonus, comprise the amounts compulsorily and The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Governance voluntarily deferred under the companys deferred bonus plan, which are satisfied in shares Committee Chairmans fee will be 4,650. shortly after the announcement of the companys final results for the particular year, as described below.
Non-executive directors may also be paid additional fees agreed by 2.
Mr Ingram retired as a director on 21 July 2010. the board where they have performed services that, in the opinion of the board, are over and above their normal duties.
The company is entitled to terminate the Chairmans or a nonexecutive directors appointment at any time without compensation.
Performance graph The graph below shows the companys total shareholder return TSR against that of the FTSE All-Share Total Return index for the five financial years ending on 31 March 2011.
TSR has been calculated assuming that all dividends are reinvested on their ex-dividend date.
The FTSE All-Share Total Return index has been chosen as it is the benchmark by which the company measures its delivery of shareholder value over the longer term.
Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 35 In addition to the amounts shown in the table above, Messrs earlier of three years from the first day of the financial year in which Wyatt, King and May respectively were paid amounts of 17,655, the award is made or the date the director ceases to be an employee 35,383 and 39,411 before tax 2010 nil, 10,704 and 37,677 of the Caledonia group for any reason.
respectively in lieu of contributions to their personal pension Matching share awards arrangements as described in the statement on directors pensions The vesting of the matching shares is dependent on the companys below.
Mr King also held an external non-executive directorship of performance over a three year period, by reference to two separate Weir Group during the year, which was unrelated to the companys performance conditions.
Both performance conditions relate to the business and where it had been agreed that he could retain the fees performance of Caledonias NAV per share over the three financial arising therefrom, as he took up the appointment before he joined years starting with the year in which the award is made Prescribed Caledonia.
Mr King received fees from Weir Group of 52,500 Period.
This performance of NAV per share will be compared 2010 16,523 from date of appointment as a director of Caledonia.
against different indices as follows: For the part of the year until his retirement on 21 July 2010, in 50% of the matching shares will only vest if NAV per share over addition to the emoluments shown in the table above, Mr Ingram the Prescribed Period outperforms the Retail Prices Index by at was paid an amount in lieu of pension contributions of 18,419 least 9% 2010 68,521.
Mr Ingram was also a non-executive director of Sage Group during this period, an external directorship from 50% of the matching shares will only vest if NAV per share over which he received and retained fees of 19,945 2010 65,000. the Prescribed Period outperforms the FTSE All-Share index by at least 3%.
Directors deferred share awards The deferred bonus column in the table of directors emoluments There will be no re-testing of either performance condition.
shows the amount if any of bonus to be compulsorily and The Remuneration Committee may amend the performance target voluntarily deferred into shares under the companys deferred bonus if events occur that would make the amended target a fairer measure plan.
The number of shares awarded for both the compulsory and of performance and provided that any amended target is no more voluntary deferral of bonus is determined by reference to the market difficult to satisfy.
The Remuneration Committee will also have value of a share at the time the award is made, which occurs shortly the ability to impose different performance targets in the future, after the announcement of the companys results for the financial provided that any targets that are imposed are no less demanding year to which the bonus relates or following the occurrence of than those described above.
Any such amended or different exceptional circumstances justifying the making of awards.
In both performance targets will be described in the directors cases, the number of shares is set on a pre-tax basis as the shares remuneration report for the relevant year.
will be subject to income tax and national insurance on release.
Matching shares are awarded in respect of compulsory and Deferred share awards held as at 31 March 2011 or date of voluntary deferral of bonus on a one for one basis.
retirement if earlier by directors who served during the year are shown in the following table.
Other than in respect of Mr Ingram, the Compulsorily deferred share awards awards shown as lapsed are all of the matching awards granted on The shares comprised in a compulsory deferral will normally only 3 June 2008 and 29 July 2008 which failed to meet their performance vest together with an amount equal to the dividends that would have targets tested as at 31 March 2011.
In the case of Mr Ingram, the accrued on those shares if the director remains an employee of the Remuneration Committee determined at his retirement on 21 July Caledonia group for a three year period commencing on the first day 2010 that, based on the measurement of the performance targets of the financial year in which the award is made.
The vesting of these from the relevant grant date to his retirement, all of his matching shares is not subject to a further performance condition.
awards granted in 2008 should lapse.
Voluntarily deferred share awards There have been no changes in directors deferred share awards The shares comprised in a voluntary deferral are not subject to a up to the date of this report.
Mr Ingram retired as a director on 21 July 2010.
36 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Statement on directors pensions audited In respect of Mr Ingrams retirement, the Remuneration Committee Pension benefits accrued by The Hon C W Cayzer during the year exercised its discretion under the 2005 executive share option under the companys defined benefits scheme were as follows: scheme such that all of the share options granted to him up to 2006, which had satisfied their performance targets prior to his retirement Row date being an aggregate of 52,848 shares, would become fully ref exercisable for a period of one year following his retirement date.
Accrued pension at 31 March 2011 a 149,143 The Remuneration Committee further agreed that unapproved Increase in accrued pension during the year b 18,476 options over a total of 93,401 shares granted to Mr Ingram in 2008 and 2009 should, subject to satisfying their performance targets Increase in accrued pension during the year, at the end of their normal three year performance measurement net of inflation c 13,180 period, be exercisable within one year from the date on which the Transfer value of increase in accrued performance targets calculations are determined.
As stated above, pension over the year, net of inflation d 169,834 the performance targets for options granted in 2008 were tested Transfer value of accrued pension as at 31 March 2011 and were not achieved.
Accordingly, the options at 31 March 2011 e 2,077,903 over 40,151 shares granted to Mr Ingram on 3 June 2008 have lapsed.
The Remuneration Committee also exercised its discretion in respect Transfer value of accrued pension of HMRC approved options over 1,729 shares granted to Mr Ingram at 31 March 2010 f 1,791,350 on 29 May 2009 and, based on the measurement of the performance Change in transfer value over the year g 286,553 targets up to the date of his retirement, determined that options over 1.
The accrued pension shown in row a was the amount which would be paid at normal 865 shares should become fully exercisable within twelve months of retirement age, ignoring any revaluation, if The Hon C W Cayzer had left service at 31 March 2011. his retirement date and the balance, being options over 864 shares, 2.
The transfer value shown in row d represented the value of the increase in accrued pension should, as stated above, lapse.
net of inflation during the year, as set out in row c. 3.
The change in transfer value over the year shown in row g calculated as row e less row f There have been no changes in directors options to acquire ordinary reflected the impact on the transfer value of factors beyond the control of the company and the directors, such as movements in stock markets.
These can cause transfer values at different shares up to the date of this report.
points in time to fluctuate significantly.
Disclosed changes in value may therefore be subject to a large degree of volatility and may even be negative.
The company currently has two executive share option schemes 4.
The transfer value was the present value of the accrued deferred pension and associated a 1998 scheme under which option grants were made from benefits at 31 March 2011, calculated using the transfer basis then in force.
Transfer values are September 1998 to May 2004 and a 2005 scheme under which calculated using the transfer value basis as determined by the trustees of the Caledonia Pension Scheme.
option grants commenced in August 2005.
Under the terms of both schemes, options may be exercised between Mr Wyatt has established his own money purchase pension three and ten years after the date of grant, although only one-third of arrangements, into which the company made employer contributions the shares comprised in an option may be exercised after three years of 55,275 2010 30,625 and in addition to which, and in from grant, with the remaining two-thirds becoming exercisable six accordance with his service contract, he was paid cash in lieu of years after grant.
Options may only be exercised if performance pension contributions of 17,655.
In accordance with their service targets are met.
On 25 March 2010, the Remuneration Committee contracts, Mr King and Mr May elected to receive their pension amended the rules of the 1998 scheme such that certain options entitlements by way of cash payments in lieu of pension contributions granted on 26 May 2004 which had already met their performance of 35,383 and 39,411 respectively 2010 10,704 and 37,677 targets and would ordinarily have become fully exercisable on respectively.
Mr Cayzer-Colvin is a member of the GPPP, a defined 26 May 2010, became exercisable on or after 25 March 2010 and contribution scheme into which employer contributions of 33,750 therefore shortly before their normal sixth anniversary date.
2010 30,625 were paid during the year on his behalf.
For the part For options granted in 2002 and 2003 under the 1998 scheme, the of the year until his retirement on 21 July 2010, and in accordance performance target requires the companys adjusted NAV per share with his service contract, the company paid 20,000 into Mr Ingrams to outperform either the Retail Prices Index by 9%, or the FTSE personal pension plan, in addition to which he was paid cash in lieu of pension contributions of 18,419 2010 55,208 and 68,521 All-Share index, over any consecutive three financial years prior to expiry.
For options granted in 2004, the performance target is respectively.
such that 50% of the shares comprised in an option will vest if the Statement on directors share options audited companys NAV per share outperforms the Retail Prices Index by Options to acquire ordinary shares in the company held by those at least 9% over the relevant measurement period, with the other directors who served during the year ended 31 March 2011, or to 50% vesting if the companys NAV per share outperforms the date of retirement if earlier, and gains on the exercise of share FTSE All-Share index over the relevant measurement period.
options were as shown in the following table.
The options shown The performance measure has to be achieved either over the first as lapsed are those granted on 3 June 2008 which failed to meet three years, or over the first four years, after the date of grant.
either of their performance targets, tested as at 31 March 2011.
If the performance measure is not achieved four years after the In the case of Mr Ingram, the lapsed options also include HMRC date of grant, the options will lapse.
approved options over 864 shares granted on 29 May 2009 which The performance target for the 2005 scheme requires that 50% the Remuneration Committee determined should lapse at the date of the shares comprised in an option will vest if Caledonias NAV per of his retirement on 21 July 2010, based on the performance targets measured up to that date.
share outperforms the Retail Prices Index by at least 9% over the measurement period.
The other 50% of the shares comprised in the option will vest if NAV per share outperforms the FTSE All-Share index by at least 3% over the measurement period.
The measurement period for these purposes is the period of three financial years measured at the end of the third financial year following the date of grant of the options.
There is no re-testing of the performance targets.
To the extent that the performance target is not met over this three year period, the options will lapse.
Included within the options granted on 29 May 2009 are 865 HMRC approved options which are only exercisable until 21 July 2011.
The performance targets have been met for all outstanding options appropriate benchmark for the companys other objective of shown in the table above granted up to 2006.
The options granted in achieving a positive total return over rolling five year periods.
2008 have failed to achieve either of their performance targets and As stated above, for the financial year ending 31 March 2012 and accordingly all have lapsed.
for future years, the Remuneration Committee intends to change the performance benchmark to the FTSE All-Share Total Return index The Remuneration Committee has selected the FTSE All-Share index for both the companys annual bonus scheme and its longer term as the performance measure for both the companys shorter term share plans as it regards a total return basis as a more appropriate annual bonus scheme and its longer term share plans as it believes measure of the companys objectives.
The Remuneration Committee that this is the best way to incentivise executives to deliver continued is also proposing to replace the Retail Prices Index with the FTSE strong NAV per share performance, which underpins Caledonias Actuaries UK Index-linked Gilts all stocks Total Return index as objective of achieving TSR in excess of the FTSE All-Share Total the other benchmark for its longer term share plans as it regards Return index over five and ten year periods.
TSR itself has not the latter as more reflective of the companys aim to provide a long been chosen as a measure of executive management performance, term store of wealth for its shareholders.
as this may be affected by the level of Caledonias share price discount, which can be influenced by factors outside the companys As at 31 March 2011, the market price of the companys shares was control.
The Retail Prices Index has also been chosen as a 1725p 2010 1625p and the range during the year was 1532p performance measure for the companys longer term incentive to 1928p.
plans, as the Remuneration Committee believes that this is an 38 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Statement on executive directors service contracts and the Chairmans and non-executive directors letters of appointment Executive directors have service contracts with Caledonia Group Services Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, details of which are summarised below: Name Date of contract Notice period Unexpired term W P Wyatt 02.06.05 12 months Rolling 12 months The Hon C W Cayzer 11.06.02 12 months Rolling 12 months J M B Cayzer-Colvin 19.04.05 12 months Rolling 12 months S A King 19.11.09 12 months Rolling 12 months J M May 01.09.03 12 months Rolling 12 months Directors service contracts contain provisions whereby the company may, at its discretion, terminate the contract without notice and make a lump sum payment in lieu of notice and other than in the case of Mr Kings service contract whereby a liquidated sum is payable in the event of termination within one year following a change of control.
Any such payment in lieu of notice or liquidated sum would be equivalent to no more than one years total emoluments.
Mr Kings service contract contains provisions whereby, as an alternative to the payment of a lump sum in lieu of notice, the company may elect to pay the equivalent amount in equal monthly instalments, such instalments to be reduced by 50% of one-twelfth of the basic salary in excess of 20,000 that Mr King receives from any alternative employment that he takes up during the notice period.
The service contract of The Hon C W Cayzer is also subject to a provision whereby, in the event of a payment in lieu of notice or payment of a liquidated sum on termination, he would be entitled to an increase in his pensionable service equivalent to the unexpired period of notice under his contract.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not have service contracts, but are appointed under letters of appointment which provide for termination without notice or compensation.
Executive directors service contracts and the Chairmans and non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection at the registered office of the company.
The directors remuneration report was approved by the board on 25 May 2011 and signed on its behalf by: Mark Davies Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
