DIReCtoRs ReMUneRAtIon RePoRt The Board has prepared this report in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
An ordinary resolution for the approval of this report will be put to the members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The law requires the Companys auditors to audit certain of the disclosures provided.
Where disclosures have been audited, they are indicated as such.
The Auditors opinion is included in their report on pages 34 and 35.
Remuneration Committee The Company has five Directors all of whom are non-executive see page 4.
There is no separate Remuneration Committee and the Board as a whole considers changes to Directors fees from time to time.
The Company Secretary, Baillie Gifford & Co, provides advice and comparative information when the Board considers the level of Directors fees.
Policy on Directors Fees The Boards policy is that the remuneration of Directors should be set at a reasonable level that is commensurate with the duties and responsibilities of the role and consistent with the requirement to attract and retain Directors of the appropriate quality and experience.
It should also reflect the experience of the Board as a whole and be fair and comparable to that of other investment trusts that are similar in size.
It is intended that this policy will continue for the year ending 31 December 2012 and subsequent years.
The fees for the non-executive Directors are determined within an aggregate limit set out in the Companys Articles of Association which currently stands at 100,000.
Non-executive Directors are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options, long term incentive schemes or other benefits.
The Board reviewed Directors fees during the year and concluded that the fees should remain unchanged at 25,500 for the Chairman and 17,000 for each Director.
In addition, it was agreed the Chairman of the Audit Committee would receive an additional 2,000 per annum with effect from 1 July 2011.
Directors service Contracts It is the Boards policy that none of the Directors has a service contract.
All of the Directors have been provided with appointment letters.
The terms of their appointment provide that a Director shall retire and be subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment.
Under the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors are required to retire at each Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-election.
There is no notice period and no provision for compensation upon early termination of appointment.
Date of Due date for name appointment election re-election Julian Cazalet 18 January 2008 AGM 2012 Timothy Curtis 22 July 2004 AGM 2012 Douglas McDougall 13 February 2002 AGM 2012 Stewart Newton 6 January 2012 AGM 2012 HERALD INVESTMENT TRUST plc 31
