Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Remuneration report Anthony Ruys Overview Chairman, Remuneration Committee As Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, I am very much aware that the last 12 months have seen increasing debate surrounding executive remuneration.
The proposals announced by the Business Secretary in January 2012 which include increased transparency of reporting and more shareholder power to agree a companys future pay policy show just how far that debate has come.
British American Tobacco has been active in contributing its views to that discussion.
We responded to the consultation document issued by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills on Executive Remuneration and on the linked consultation We have for many document on Narrative Reporting.
We are broadly supportive of years aimed to build a those proposals that aim to link pay to a companys performance and to increase transparency for shareholders.
Indeed, we have for strong link between the many years aimed to build a strong link between the Companys performance and the level of remuneration received by the Companys performance Executive Directors and the senior management team.
Our and the level of incentive schemes are designed to closely reflect the Groups key performance measures and we listen to shareholders on how our remuneration received reporting may be improved.
by the Executive Directors It seems that others also believe we are on the right track.
In and the senior November 2011 we were awarded the  Building Public Trust Award for FTSE 100 Executive Remuneration management team.
I am clear that whilst the final details of the regulatory proposals on executive remuneration have yet to be determined, the Company is already relatively well placed to meet the Governments objectives.
Committee evaluation Summary of key activities in 2011 During 2011, the Remuneration Committee also discussed the Following on from the review undertaken by the Remuneration report on its own effectiveness, prepared following the 2010 Committee in 2010, and the consultation with key shareholders at Board evaluation: the key recommendation of which had been the end of that year and into 2011, last year our shareholders to review the size and composition of the Committee.
Members agreed to amend the Groups Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The of the Committee had a very fruitful discussion and while the new rules increased the maximum annual award under the LTIP creation of a smaller committee was considered, the current scheme from 300 per cent to 400 per cent of annual base salary external profile of remuneration, generally, led them to believe and also introduced a clawback clause giving the Committee the that all Directors, at least for the time being, should be involved discretion to reduce or to forfeit entirely a participants unvested in remuneration issues.
The Committee therefore continues to award.
This would be considered in circumstances where there had be made up of all independent Directors.
Our discussions did been a material misrepresentation involving the participant in connection with a prior vested award.
however, lead to a number of significant changes for the Committee.
These include at least one additional remuneration We had also discussed with shareholders our desire to reduce meeting being scheduled in 2012 as well as a revised agenda the number of performance measures from six to four for the for each meeting and more regular discussions between International Executive Incentive Scheme IEIS and at the shareholders and me over remuneration proposals.
Full details suggestion of a number of shareholders we also increased of this review and its outcomes are set out elsewhere in this the proportion of salary that Executive Directors are required report.
However, I am pleased that the Committee has looked in to hold as shares under our shareholding guidelines.
detail at the way in which it works and that we have some These measures were all implemented in 2011 and I am positive proposals to further improve our approach to executive confident that the revised reward structure for the Executive remuneration and reporting.
Directors and members of the Management Board further improves the alignment between remuneration and the delivery of the Groups strategy.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 74 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Summary Terms of Reference The Remuneration Committee is responsible for: x setting executive remuneration policies covering salary and benefits: performance-based variable rewards: pensions: and the terms of service contracts: x determining, within the terms of the agreed policy, the specific remuneration packages for the Chairman, the Executive Directors and the members of the Management Board, both on appointment and on review and, if appropriate, any compensation payment due on termination of appointment: x the setting of targets applicable for the Companys performance-based variable reward schemes and determining achievement against those targets, exercising discretion where appropriate and as provided by the applicable scheme rules: and x monitoring and advising the Board on any major changes to the policy on employee benefit structures for the British American Tobacco Group.
The Committees current terms of reference date from 1 January 2011 incorporating minor amendments made following a review in December 2010.
The full terms of reference are available from the Company Secretary and on www.
com governance Attendance at meetings in 2011 Remuneration Committee Meetings Current members Meetings eligible Anthony Ruys Chairman attended to attend Karen fide Segundo 2 Name Ann Godbehere Robert Lerwill Anthony Ruys 55 Christine Morin-Postel Karen fide Segundo 45 Dr Gerry Murphy 3 Ann Godbehere 22 Kieran Poynter Sir Nicholas Scheele Robert Lerwill 45 Notes: Ana Maria Llopis 23 1.
Ana Maria Llopis ceased to be a member of the Remuneration Committee Christine Morin-Postel 55 following her retirement as a Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of Gerry Murphy 55 the Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2011.
Ann Godbehere was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 24 October 2011.
Kieran Poynter was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Note: Committee with effect from 25 October 2011.
Those Directors who were absent from one or more meetings were either At the date of this report, the Committee comprises independent unable to attend a meeting arranged at short notice or had a long-standing Non-Executive Directors of the Company as set out in the prior engagement.
No Executive Director or Management Board member plays any The Secretary to the Committee is Nicola Snook, the part in determining his or her own remuneration.
During the year Company Secretary.
ended 31 December 2011, both the Chief Executive and the Chairman were consulted and invited to attend meetings of the Committee, except when their own remuneration was under consideration.
In determining remuneration for the year, the Committee considered reports from Deloitte LLP, the Committees remuneration consultants, and also consulted the Chief Executive, the member of the Management Board responsible for Human Resources and the Group Head of Reward.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 75 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Remuneration report continued The Remuneration Committee is authorised by the Board Key activities of the Remuneration to seek any information it requires from, and require the Committee in 2011 attendance at any of its meetings of, any Director or member The Remuneration Committee met five times during 2011. of management, and all employees are expected to cooperate The Committee followed its regular work programme designed with any request made by the Committee.
The Committee is around its two scheduled meetings in February and October authorised by the Board to obtain, at the Companys expense, each year at which it: outside legal or other independent professional advice if it x benchmarked, reviewed and set the salaries for the considers this necessary.
Executive Directors and the Management Board members Deloitte LLP provided remuneration services and advice to the taking into account the pay and employment conditions Remuneration Committee throughout the year at a cost of elsewhere in the Group, and particularly in the UK: 101,800.
Deloitte is an international professional services firm x assessed the achievement of the targets for the 2010 IEIS which, during the year, has also provided tax, corporate finance award and set the IEIS targets for 2011: and consulting services to British American Tobacco Group companies around the world.
Herbert Smith LLP has also been x assessed the measurement of the performance conditions retained by the Company to provide legal advice in respect of the for the vesting of the LTIP 2008 award: Companys share schemes, as well as providing other legal services x determined the LTIP awards for March 2011 the general to British American Tobacco as a whole.
Ernst & Young LLP LTIP population and May 2011 Executive Directors and provides tax advice to international assignees and in respect members of the Management Board and their associated of the Companys share schemes.
performance conditions: Evaluation of the Remuneration Committee x assessed the achievement of the targets for the 2010 In October 2011, the Remuneration Committee discussed Share Reward Scheme award and set the targets for the and considered the report on its effectiveness following the 2011 award: externally facilitated Board evaluation of 2010 with the following outcomes: x monitored the continued application of the Companys shareholding guidelines for the Executive Directors and x remuneration consultants it was confirmed that the the Management Board members: remuneration consultants Deloitte performed well in providing external views and benchmarking information x maintained oversight of the Groups salary review processes to the Remuneration Committee in a manner that was to ensure consistency of application: and independent from the Company: x reviewed the remuneration report for the year ended 2010 x size of the committee it was recognised that the prior to its approval by the Board and subsequent approval Committee was in the minority among comparable by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in April 2011. companies in having all or nearly all of its Non-Executive In addition, the Remuneration Committee considered the Directors as members of the Committee: however, the following: Committee concluded that, as these arrangements did not impair its effectiveness, and given the current external profile x feedback from the consultation with the Companys largest of remuneration issues, generally, that this membership shareholders in connection with the proposed changes to profile of the Committee should continue for the time being: the LTIP and IEIS prior to the recommendation of revised proposals to the Board in February 2011: x number of meetings and agenda development in recognition of the increasing workload of the Committee it x changes to the Companys shareholding guidelines was agreed that the number of meetings of the Committee requiring an increase in the amount of shares to be held be increased from two to at least three scheduled meetings by the Executive Directors from 1 May 2011: each year to include private sessions without management x the application of the Groups policy on returning expatriate present and with an appropriately revised calendar of employees in respect of John Dalys relocation from Hong agenda items: Kong back to the UK in late 2010: x oversight it was agreed, following a trial at the meeting x the terms of appointment and termination in connection of the Committee in February 2011, to provide greater with Management Board appointments and departures formality to the reporting of the appraisal process and during the year: associated outcomes for the Executive Directors and members of the Management Board: and x the constituents of the Pay Comparator Group for the 2012 salary review and agreed to review the current criteria and x consultation process with institutional shareholders constituent companies during 2012, for use in the 2013 it was agreed that the Chairman of the Committee would salary review: seek regular meetings with institutional shareholders on remuneration matters irrespective of whether there might x a review of the report on the effectiveness of the be any formal matters requiring shareholders approval.
Remuneration Committee as outlined above: and British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 76 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information x consideration of the impact of the tax treatment of UK pensions Remuneration policy: risk management benefits for applicable Executive Directors and members of the The Companys strategy clearly underpins the remuneration Management Board following legislative changes.
In particular, performance criteria for the IEIS are aligned to the Groups KPIs see business review Remuneration policy: Group reward strategy with no individual performance objectives.
Awards under the The Company adopts a straightforward approach to remuneration.
LTIP only vest to the extent that total shareholder returns and The remuneration package comprises core fixed elements base earnings per share have met appropriate thresholds.
The design salary, pension and other benefits as well as performanceof the IEIS and its positioning as the Companys sole bonus based variable elements a single cash and share incentive scheme means that the risk of inappropriate individual annual bonus plan IEIS, and a single long-term incentive behaviour to drive reward opportunities is minimised.
The scheme LTIP with the performance based elements forming annual outcomes of the IEISs four measures for performance approximately 60 per cent of the total remuneration package.
are reviewed by the Groups external auditors and internal audit These arrangements are very much plain vanilla and it is rare also provides a control framework see audit and accountability that the Remuneration Committee is called upon to exercise in the corporate governance statement.
Committee is therefore confident that there are clear processes in place to provide sufficient comfort that the Company only Financially based Group key performance indicators KPIs form rewards true and verified performance.
the basis for the majority of the performance-related bonus incentives with market share being an important additional Benchmarking of remuneration non-financial indicator.
The Executive Directors and the The setting of remuneration for Executive Directors remains members of the Management Board are also held accountable underpinned by responsible independent benchmarking.
for their performance in respect of the business measures which The approach is focused on a peer group which is made up of comprise a mixture of other financial and non-financial targets.
companies which meet the criteria of a consumer goods focus, Taken together, these elements provide a comprehensive set an international spread of operations and a competitor for top of challenging performance criteria which sit alongside the management talent.
It includes selected FTSE 100 companies Companys positive position on sustainability and governance and, the Groups key competitor, Philip Morris International issues.
Payouts and grants under the respective incentive the Pay Comparator Group.
This is supplemented by market schemes are directly linked to the Companys objectives, data of listed companies of a similar size and complexity to the achieving a high level of alignment with the long-term Company, as well as the practice of the FTSE 30 companies.
The interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Pay Comparator Group as at 31 December 2011 is set out below.
The current Executive Directors percentage of fixed and variable Associated British Foods Philip Morris International remuneration for 2011 is illustrated in the bar chart below.
This is based on a number of assumptions: 1 base salary represents AstraZeneca Reckitt Benckiser annual salary: 2 pension represents the annual service cost to BP Reed Elsevier the Company as calculated in accordance with IAS24 Nicandro BT Group Royal Dutch Shell Durantes transfer value is based on constant exchange rates : 3 benefits are core benefits such as car allowance, private medical British Sky Broadcasting SABMiller and personal accident insurance: 4 bonus is the amount received Diageo Tesco for performance in 2011 delivered in cash and deferred shares: GlaxoSmithKline Unilever and 5 LTIP represents the target annualised expected value of the long-term incentive award granted in 2011 expressed as a Imperial Tobacco Group Vodafone percentage of base salary.
Fixed remuneration comprises: salary, Marks & Spencer WPP Group pension and benefits.
Variable remuneration comprises: bonus Pearson cash and deferred shares and LTIP.
The Remuneration Committee has agreed to review the Executive Directors percentage of xed constituents of the Pay Comparator Group during 2012, with and variable remuneration any revisions to be implemented for the the 2013 salary review.
N Durante J B Stevens J Daly % 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Salary Pension and Benets Bonus Cash Deferred Shares LTIP British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 77 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Remuneration report continued Salary Performance-related bonus International Executive Incentive Scheme IEIS Purpose reward individual performance reflect skills and experience Purpose incentivise the attainment of corporate targets on an annual basis Delivery monthly Delivery annual award cash 50 per cent cash Policy annual review in February with salary 50 per cent shares deferred shares changes effective from April or ad hoc through the Deferred Share Bonus review on a significant change of Scheme responsibilities dividend equivalent payment benchmarked for appropriate salary levels using a company size and complexity Policy four measures for performance for 2011 model coupled with: 1 the Pay Comparator reduced from six for 2010 with the Group: and, for Executive Directors, 2 following weightings: adjusted profit from published salary data of listed companies operations 40 per cent : Groups share of of a similar size and complexity to key subsidiary markets 20 per cent : Global the Company Drive Brand volume 20 per cent : and cash base salary is pensionable flow from operations 20 per cent the annual on-target bonus opportunity 2011 Update no change to policy for the Chief Executive is 100 per cent of The process of salary review for the Executive Directors and the base salary with a maximum award of Management Board members undertaken by the Remuneration 200 per cent of salary, and for the Chief Committee initially takes into account outcomes applied to the Operating Officer and the Finance Director salary review process for senior managers and other levels in the and Chief Information Officer the onorganisation.
The Committee then applies the key policy target bonus opportunity is 90 per cent principles set out in the table above.
with a maximum award of 180 per cent for the Management Board the on-target Base salary Base salary bonus opportunity is 67.5 per cent of the from 1 April at 1 April 2011 base salary with a maximum award of 2012 135 per cent of salary awards are non-pensionable Nicandro Durante Chief Executive 1,050,000 1,000,000 2011 Update structure and potential bonus opportunity remain unchanged Ben Stevens Finance Director and Chief introduction of four measures for Information Officer 782,000 750,000 performance for 2011 as above John Daly The IEIS rewards short-term business performance within the Chief Operating Officer 690,000 650,000 context of longer-term sustainability.
Appropriately stretching business and financial performance targets are set by the The Management Board members will receive salary increases Remuneration Committee at the beginning of each year.
The averaging around 4.9 per cent: centre-based UK employees will annual bonus opportunity for 2011 remained unchanged although receive salary increases averaging around 4.0 per cent in each the previous six measures were reduced to four with the applicable case with effect from 1 April 2012.
Actual rises have been based weightings as referred to above.
These four performance measures on each individuals contribution and performance and account provide a simplified and appropriate mix of criteria that look to is also taken of current UK market conditions to ensure that assess the vitality and performance of the Company while still individual salaries are competitive.
providing full clarity for both shareholders and eligible participants In addition to basic salary, the Executive Directors receive certain about the required areas of performance.
benefits in kind, principally: a car or car allowance: the use of a Relevant performance points for each of the four measures are: driver: the installation and then maintenance of home security threshold which must be exceeded to attract any bonus systems: tax advice where appropriate : and private medical payout in respect of that measure : target which amounts to and personal life and accident insurance.
With the exception of the budgeted performance : and maximum the level of the car or car allowance it is also the practice of the Company performance, exceeding budget, and at which the bonus to pay the tax which may be due on any such benefits.
payout for that measure is capped.
No element of the bonus is guaranteed and, as in previous years, the specific performance targets are commercially sensitive and not made public.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 78 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information For senior managers only the total payouts reflect performance at a In February each year, the Committee receives a report allowing global, regional, area or end market level, as applicable to their it to assess the extent to which each of the performance roles.
The annual bonus opportunity for senior managers remained measures has been achieved.
Subject to the Committee unchanged in 2011 with the exception of the alignment to four exercising its judgment with regard to the Companys overall performance measures with the annual on-target bonus performance, the total payout is determined by the Companys opportunity being 45 per cent of base salary with a normal performance for each measure relative to that measures maximum award of 90 per cent of salary rising to 135 per cent of performance points.
base salary in cases of excellent performance.
The award for senior In respect of the year ended 31 December 2011, the managers continues to be delivered in variable proportions split performance against the measures and the total payouts under between cash and deferred shares according to grade.
the IEIS were: Between Between threshold target and IEIS: measures of performance Threshold and target Target maximum Maximum Performance in 2011: four measures Adjusted profit from operations 40 per cent Groups share of key subsidiary markets 20 per cent Global Drive Brand volume 20 per cent Cash flow from operations 20 per cent Performance in 2010: six measures Adjusted profit from operations 16.6 per cent Groups share of key subsidiary markets 16.6 per cent Global Drive Brand volume 16.6 per cent Net revenue 16.6 per cent Cash flow from operations 16.6 per cent Overheads and productivity savings 16.6 per cent In respect of the year ended 31 December 2011, the total Paul Adams retired as Chief Executive on 28 February 2011 and payouts under the IEIS are shown below.
The actual ceased to be an employee of the Company from that date.
In performance-related payments are shown in Table 5 accordance with the rules of the IEIS, his performance-related annual cash bonus and deferred share bonus.
bonus in respect of the first two months of the year ended 31 December 2011 is pro-rated as an on-target amount Payout: payable as a 100 per cent cash bonus instead of 50 per cent 50 per cent in cash, 50 per cent 2011 2010 in cash and 50 per cent in deferred shares.
in deferred shares % % For senior managers whose bonus was linked to global Nicandro Durante performance the total payout under the IEIS in respect of Chief Executive 200.0 156.5 the year ended 31 December 2011 was 135 per cent 2010: Ben Stevens 96.9 per cent, paid 94.5 per cent in cash and 40.5 per cent Finance Director and in deferred shares.
Chief Information Officer 180.0 156.5 Awards made under the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme are in the John Daly form of free ordinary shares in the Company which are normally Chief Operating Officer 180.0 156.5 held in trust for three years and no further performance conditions Management Board members 135.0 117.4 apply in that period.
This element of reward deferral has been a key element of the Companys bonus structure for a number of years and, in certain circumstances, such as resigning before the end of the three year period, participants may forfeit the shares.
The Remuneration Committee encourages a culture of ownership of these awarded shares and participants receive a cash sum equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position of all unvested ordinary shares held in the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme at the dividend record date.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 79 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Remuneration report continued Long-term incentives Award levels Purpose incentivise growth in earnings per share The current award levels for Executive Directors and Management and total shareholder return TSR over a Board members are set out in the table below.
Senior managers three year period receive awards of 75 per cent or 25 per cent of salary dependent on grade.
Delivery discretionary annual award awards of shares Multiple Multiple variable due to performance over three of base of base salary % salary % year period LTIP awards 2011 2010 dividend equivalent payment Chief Executive 400 300 Policy maximum annual award of 400 per cent Finance Director and Chief Information 300 250 of salary Officer three year performance period Chief Operating Officer 300 250 TSR performance 50 per cent of the total award combines both the share price and Management Board 200 200 dividend performance during the three year performance period as against two Since 2005, participants have been entitled to receive a dividend comparator groups 25 per cent for each equivalent payment to the value of the dividends that they would measure : 1 constituents of the FTSE 100 have received as shareholders on their vesting awards.
The LTIP Index: and 2 a peer group of FMCG dividend equivalent payment continues to be important in aligning further the interests of senior management with those of companies shareholders.
The values of the LTIP dividend equivalent payments earnings per share measure 50 per cent for the Executive Directors are shown as individual emoluments in of the total award relates to earnings per Tables 4 and 5. share growth on an adjusted diluted basis relative to inflation Following assessment by the Remuneration Committee, LTIP 2011 Update shareholders approved an increase in awards may only be normally exercisable after three years to the the maximum annual award under the extent that the performance conditions are satisfied in accordance LTIP scheme rules from 300 per cent to with the measures set out above at the end of the three year 400 per cent of annual base salary performance period.
Any proportion of an award that lapses does not attract the payment of the LTIP dividend equivalent payment.
LTIP awards made in May 2011 were made at 400 per cent of annual base Performance salary for the Chief Executive and at 300 The percentage of award vesting is based on a combination of total per cent for the other Executive Directors shareholder return TSR and earnings per share EPS performance the introduction of a discretionary power conditions measured over a three year period.
The Remuneration to reduce forfeit unvested awards in the Committee periodically reviews the suitability of TSR and EPS as event of material misrepresentation performance measures but continues to believe that the current all other elements of the LTIP remain combination of measures provides an important balance of unchanged measures relevant to the Groups business and market conditions as well as providing a common goal for the Executive Directors, The long-term element of remuneration continues to be the Management Board members and shareholders.
delivered through the Companys LTIP.
All the Executive Directors, Management Board members and senior employees TSR performance condition participate in the Long-Term Incentive Plan adopted in 2007 A total of 50 per cent of the total award is based on the the 2007 LTIP the successor plan to the 1998 LTIP.
The 2007 Companys TSR performance against two comparator groups LTIP provides for awards of free ordinary shares, provided 25 per cent for each measure : 1 the constituents of the demanding and appropriately stretching performance London Stock Exchanges FTSE 100 Index at the beginning of conditions are met over a three year period.
the performance period: and 2 a peer group of international FMCG companies.
In the event of upper quartile performance by the Company relative to the comparator groups above, 25 per cent of the total award vests in full.
From 2008, 6 per cent of the total award vests for median performance.
There is pro rata vesting between these two points.
The TSR portions of an LTIP award do not vest for below median performance.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 80 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information These comparator groups, which are regularly reviewed to A local currency basis is used for the purposes of TSR measurement.
ensure that they will remain both relevant and representative, This approach is considered to have the benefits of simplicity and are chosen to reflect the Companys financial and business directness of comparison with the performance of the comparator trading environments.
companies and is in line with the historic approach taken by the Remuneration Committee for the purposes of TSR measurement.
The applicable FMCG peer groups for the outstanding LTIP awards as at 31 December 2011 are shown below.
EPS performance condition Half of the award is based on earnings per share growth relative to Award: 13 Award: 25 Award: 27 inflation.
This element of the award will vest in full if EPS growth over May 2011 March 2010 March 2009 Vesting Vesting date: Vesting date: the three year performance period is an average of at least 8 per cent date: 13 25 March 27 March per annum in excess of inflation.
Eight per cent of the award will vest FMCG peer group May 2014 2013 2012 if the EPS growth over the performance period is 3 per cent in excess Anheuser-Busch InBev of inflation.
An award will vest on a pro rata basis between these two points.
None of the EPS portion of an award vests if EPS growth is less Cadbury than 3 per cent per annum in excess of inflation.
Campbell Soup These EPS targets are consistent with and support the Companys Carlsberg strategy to deliver high single-digit EPS growth on average over Coca-Cola the medium to long term.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed Colgate-Palmolive the EPS targets as part of its review of long-term incentives in 2010 and the consultation with key shareholders at the end of 2010 and Danone early 2011.
It concluded that the current targets continue to be Diageo appropriately stretching.
Heineken For awards made up to and including 2008, growth in EPS for HJ Heinz these purposes is calculated on an adjusted diluted EPS basis using Imperial Tobacco Group a formula which incorporates: 1 the adjusted diluted EPS for the year prior to the start of the first performance period and then for Japan Tobacco the first, second and third years of that performance period: and Johnson & Johnson 2 retail price index RPI for the last month of the year immediately Kellogg preceding the performance period and then the RPI for the respective first, second and third years of that performance period.
Kimberly-Clark Kraft Foods Since the LTIP award made in March 2009, EPS performance is measured as an increase in adjusted diluted EPS between the base LVMH year and the final year of the performance period, expressed as an Nestl annual growth rate over the period.
Under this approach, only the PepsiCo base year and final year adjusted diluted EPS results are considered.
However, on the basis that rolling annual awards are made, all Pernod Ricard years of performance ultimately will be taken into account in Philip Morris International calculating EPS growth over time.
This change was made in order Procter & Gamble to simplify the approach and to bring it into line with prevailing Reckitt Benckiser market practice.
Where EPS grows at a relatively constant rate, the two methodologies will produce broadly similar results, although SABMiller the outcome will differ for different growth profiles.
Both methods Sara Lee are considered to be fair and reasonable measures of performance.
Unilever Vesting of LTIP award made in 2009 TSR continues to be measured according to the return index An LTIP award was made to Executive Directors and Management calculated by Datastream and reviewed by the Companys Board members on 27 March 2009 with the performance period independent advisers.
It is measured on the basis that all being completed at 31 December 2011 the 2009 Award.
The companies dividends are reinvested in the shares of those Remuneration Committee has assessed the performance of the companies.
The return is the percentage increase in each Company against the two performance conditions.
On the TSR companys index over the three year performance period.
The measure, the Company ranked 21st out of the FTSE 100 group of opening and closing indices for this calculation are respectively the companies, giving a vesting of 25 per cent for performance at the average of the index numbers for the last quarter preceding the upper quartile.
A vesting of 25 per cent was also achieved for performance period and for the last quarter of the final year of that ranking 5th out of the peer group of international FMCG companies, performance period this methodology is employed to reflect this also being upper quartile.
EPS growth was 10.8 per cent per movements of the indices over that time as accurately as possible.
annum in excess of inflation.
The overall assessment of both LTIP measures, therefore, resulted in a vesting of 100 per cent of the award.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 81 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Remuneration report continued In accordance with the rules of the 2007 LTIP, the Remuneration Historical total shareholder return performance Committee also resolved that the participants would receive an LTIP Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding over five dividend equivalent payment on the vesting of their 2009 awards.
years FTSE 100 comparison based on a 30 trading day average values The following table shows the vesting of the award made in 2009 in the context of the performance of LTIP awards vesting 300 during the years ended 31 December 2009 to 31 December 2011, inclusive.
250 200 Long-Term Incentive Plan 150 Vesting of Past Awards 100 Years Ended 2009 to 2011 50 LTIP award date 27-Mar-09 15-May-08 15-May-07 Dec 06 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Year ended 31-Dec-11 31-Dec-10 31-Dec-09 FTSE 100 British American Tobacco Performance period 2009 2011 2008 2010 2007 2009 Vesting date 15-May-11 15-May-10 27-Mar-12 Total shareholder return annual % TSR FTSE 100 group FTSE 100 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2011 of companies: The FTSE 100 comparison is based on three months Ranking upper 21 12 8 average values quartile 60 British American Tobacco Percentage of 25 25 25 50 25.4% vesting award 40 Median 13.7% 30 TSR FMCG peer 20 group: 10 Ranking upper 5 2 2 0 quartile -10 -20 Percentage of 25 25 25 -30 vesting award -40 Earnings per share Upper quartile growth: Lower quartile Percentage per annum 10.8 15.9 12.1 above inflation Total shareholder return annual % Percentage of 50 50 50 FMCG group 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2011 vesting award The FMCG group comparison is based on three months average values Total vesting 100 100 100 percentage 40 British American Tobacco 35 25.4% Performance graph 30 Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups 25 Median 16.1% Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 requires that the 20 Company must provide a graph comparing the TSR performance 15 of a hypothetical holding of shares in the Company with a broad 10 equity market index over a five year period.
In this context, the 5 Directors have again chosen to illustrate the performance of TSR 0 against the FTSE 100 Index over a five year period, commencing on Upper quartile 1 January 2007.
In the opinion of the Directors, the FTSE 100 Index Lower quartile is the most appropriate index against which TSR should be measured because it is a widely used and understood index of broadly similar sized UK companies to the Company.
The LTIPs change of control performance graph is shown on this page.
The rules of the 2007 LTIP provide that in the event of a change of control of the Company as a result of a takeover, reconstruction or winding up of the Company not being an internal reorganisation, LTIP awards will become exercisable for a limited period based on the period of time which has elapsed since the date of the award and the achievement of the British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 82 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information performance conditions at that date, unless the Remuneration Options and awards outstanding Committee determines this not to be appropriate in the To satisfy the future exercise of awards or options under the circumstances.
In addition, the 2007 LTIP allows as an Groups employee share schemes, ordinary shares are acquired alternative to early release that participants may, if permitted, in the market by the Groups employee share ownership trusts exchange their LTIP awards for new awards of shares in the or the Company issues new shares.
acquiring company on a comparable basis.
During the year, new ordinary shares were issued by the Company All-Employee Share Scheme in relation to the Sharesave Scheme and to certain participants in The Executive Directors, Management Board members and the Share Option Scheme resident outside the UK.
senior managers are also eligible to participate in the following Under the Sharesave Scheme, a total of 881,940 options all-employee share schemes which are designed to incentivise over ordinary shares in the Company were outstanding at employees of the Group by giving them opportunities to build a 31 December 2011.
The options outstanding under the shareholding in the Company: the British American Tobacco Sharesave Scheme are exercisable until September 2016 at Sharesave Scheme Sharesave Scheme and the Employee option prices ranging from 1,152p to 1,974p.
The British American Tobacco Group Sharesave Scheme Employee Trust BATGET The Sharesave Scheme is approved by HM Revenue & Customs BATGET is used to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of HMRC.
Eligible employees, including the Executive Directors and ordinary shares made under the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme, and Management Board members, have been granted employee the 1998 LTIP and the 2007 LTIP as well as the exercise of options savings-related share options to subscribe for ordinary shares in the under the Share Option Scheme.
The number of shares held in Company.
Following a review of its timetable for making grants of BATGET to satisfy outstanding awards is consistently monitored by options under the Sharesave Scheme, the Company has, since a committee of senior management that reports to the Boards March 2011, introduced a practice of making grants of options Employee Share Schemes Committee.
BATGET is funded by under the Sharesave Scheme at that time each year following its interest-free loan facilities from the Company totalling 600 million, Preliminary Announcement.
Options are granted to be exercisable enabling the trust to facilitate the purchase of ordinary shares to in conjunction with either a three year or five year savings contract satisfy the future vesting or exercise of options and awards.
The up to a monthly limit of 250.
Options are normally granted at loan to BATGET amounted to 424 million at 31 December 2011 a discount of 20 per cent to the market price at the time of the 2010: 325 million.
The loan is either repaid from the proceeds of invitation, as permitted under the rules of the Sharesave Scheme.
the exercise of options or, in the case of ordinary shares acquired by At 31 December 2011, Nicandro Durante and Ben Stevens each BATGET to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards, the Company held options under the Sharesave Scheme.
will subsequently waive the loan provided over the life of the awards.
If the options lapse, ordinary shares may be sold by Employee Share Ownership Plan BATGET to cover the loan repayment.
The Employee Share Ownership Plan is an HMRC-approved share incentive plan, which incorporates a Partnership and Details of the ordinary shares in the Company held by BATGET Free Shares element.
The Partnership Share Scheme is open are set out below.
to all eligible employees, including Executive Directors and 1 January 31 December Management Board members.
Employees can allocate part of 2011 2011 their pre-tax salary to purchase shares in the Company.
The maximum amount that can be allocated in this way is 1,500 Number of ordinary shares 11,949,088 12,123,853 in any year.
Shares purchased are held in a UK-based trust, Market value of ordinary shares 294.4m 370.4m normally capable of transfer to participants tax-free after a five Percentage of the issued share year holding period.
At 31 December 2011, Nicandro Durante capital of the Company 0.59 0.59 participated in the Partnership Share Scheme.
The Company also operates the Free Shares element of the plan, BATGET currently waives dividends on the ordinary shares held known as the Share Reward Scheme.
Under this Scheme, eligible by it.
BATGET waived payment of the final dividend for 2010 of employees including Executive Directors and members of the 9.0 million in May 2011 and the interim dividend for 2011 of Management Board receive an award of shares in April of each 4.8 million in September 2011. year in which the Scheme operates in respect of performance in While shares are held by BATGET, the trustee does not exercise the previous financial year.
An award of 3,000 will be made any voting rights.
However, as soon as shares held in BATGET are to Executive Directors and Management Board members on transferred out to share scheme participants, the participants may 2 April 2012 in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011.
The exercise the voting rights attaching to those shares.
performance conditions are aligned to those set for the IEIS in respect of the same performance period.
The plan shares are held in Details of the Companys material share-based payment a UK-based trust for a minimum period of three years and during arrangements, reflecting both equity share-based and cash-settled that time the trust will exercise its voting rights as directed by the share-based arrangements, are set out in note 27 on the accounts.
The maximum individual award under the Share Reward Scheme is 3,000.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 83 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Remuneration report continued Shareholding guidelines Executive Directors with the exception of Nicandro Durante The Remuneration Committees guidelines require Executive are, like other UK employees, eligible for membership of the Directors to hold shares in the Company equal to the value British American Tobacco UK Pension Fund Pension Fund.
of a percentage of salary as set out below and excludes shares The Pension Fund, for members who joined before 1 April 2005, is earned but not yet vested under Company share plans.
The early retirement Management Board members are also required to hold shares in rules in the Pension Fund permit a member to draw the accrued the Company equal to the value of 100 per cent of their salary.
retirement pension within five years of Fund normal retirement age Actual without actuarial reduction, subject to the employing companys Required Required multiple of agreement.
Alternatively, an Executive Director may choose to multiple of multiple of base salary % leave and take a pension at any time on or after his or her 50th base salary % base salary % at 31 birthday without the employing companys agreement, subject since 1 May up to 1 May December Shareholding guidelines 2011 2011 2011 to a reduction as determined by the Pension Fund trustee in conjunction with the Pension Fund actuary.
Accrual rates differ Nicandro Durante according to individual circumstances but do not exceed oneChief Executive 300 200 455 fortieth of pensionable salary for each year of pensionable service.
Ben Stevens Pensionable pay covers base salary only and therefore bonus Finance Director and Chief Information awards and the value of benefits in kind are not pensionable.
Officer 200 150 233 The Pension Fund includes provision for spouses benefits on death John Daly in service or after retirement.
In the event of death in service, a Chief Operating spouses pension equal to half of the members prospective Officer 200 150 170 pension at normal retirement age would be payable.
A spouses pension payable in the event of death after retirement is equal to John Daly, who was appointed an Executive Director and Chief half of the members full pension, irrespective of any decision to Operating Officer on 1 September 2010, is currently subject to the exchange part of the benefit for a lump sum.
transitional provisions in place for those Executive Directors and John Daly and Ben Stevens each joined the Pension Fund after Management Board members who do not meet the requirements of 1989.
As a result, prior to 6 April 2006, these individuals were the shareholding guidelines upon appointment.
In such cases, subject to the HM Revenue & Customs cap on pensionable individuals may, generally, only sell a maximum of up to 50 per cent earnings notionally 129,000 for the tax year 2011 12.
In of any shares vesting after tax under Company share plans until the addition, each has an unfunded pension promise from the threshold under the shareholding guidelines has been met.
Company in respect of earnings above the cap on an equivalent The interests of the Directors of the Company in the ordinary basis to the benefits provided by the Pension Fund.
This is shares of the Company are shown in Table 6. provided through membership of an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme UURBS.
Further to the changes Executive Directors pension benefits to the applicable tax regulations, the pension accrual in the Purpose provision of competitive post-retirement Pension Fund for John Daly and Ben Stevens has, with member benefits consent, been restricted to the statutory annual allowance of 50,000 per annum with the balance of approximately 1,840 Delivery British American Tobacco UK Pension per annum being provided through the UURBS.
There has been Fund and Company supplementary no change to the overall pension entitlement of either Director.
pension arrangements monthly quarterly pension payment These commitments are included in note 12 on the accounts.
Members of the Pension Fund are entitled to receive increases in Policy pension accrues at one-fortieth of annual their pensions once in payment in line with price inflation as base salary measured by the Retail Prices Index up to 6 per cent per annum.
Fund normal pensionable age of 60 maximum pension payable will not exceed John Daly was formerly a member of the P J Carroll Directors two-thirds of base salary averaged over Plan in Ireland.
He is also entitled to a deferred benefit currently the preceding 12 months at age 60 amounting to 107,479 per annum, payable from the age of 60.
This benefit is scheduled to increase each year between UK Pension Fund retains a scheme-specific January 2011 and December 2015 by the lower of 4 per cent or cap the Irish Consumer Price Index.
The increase amount is excess benefits over the scheme-specific confirmed each year by the Minister of Social Protection in cap and the statutory annual allowance Ireland the increase for 2011 was 1.75 per cent.
effective from the commencement of the pension input period from 1 October Paul Adams retired as an Executive Director on 28 February 2011.
2010 continue to be accrued within an Details of his pension entitlements are set out in note 6 to Table 8. unfunded unapproved retirement benefit scheme where possible British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 84 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Nicandro Durante is a member of the Fundao Albino Souza Cruz The Remuneration Committee, however, has discretion to agree FASC in Brazil.
This is a non-contributory defined benefit scheme longer contracts in the event that an Executive Director is and includes a spouses death in service benefit equal to 37.5 per recruited externally or from overseas, when it may then be cent of the members prospective pension at normal retirement appropriate to offer a contract with an initial period of longer age.
Accrual rates do not exceed 1.85 per cent of basic salary than one year, reducing to a one year rolling contract after the excluding bonus averaged over the 12 months to normal expiry of the initial period.
None of the current Executive retirement age, for each year of pensionable service.
Nicandro Directors falls within this type of contract.
Durantes Brazilian pensionable salary will be reviewed by the An Executive Directors compensation payment, in lieu of notice, Company annually with reference to the salary of that of a General would comprise: 1 12 months salary at his then current base pay: Manager of Souza Cruz SA which will be adjusted annually in line and 2 a cash payment in respect of other benefits under the with local practice and agreed with the Company.
Benefits from the contract such as medical insurance, or the Company may at its FASC remain subject to the rules of that scheme.
option continue those benefits for a 12 month period.
The In addition, Nicandro Durante accrues a pension of 0.65 per cent Committee maintains discretion as to how to deal with any grants for each year of service the UK Accrual Rate with effect from or awards made prior to termination under the LTIPs and the IEIS.
1 March 2006, being the date of his appointment as a member of Pension entitlements are dealt with in accordance with the terms the Management Board.
At retirement the pension will be based on and conditions of the applicable pension scheme and do not form Nicandro Durantes 12 month average UK base salary excluding part of the contractual compensation payment.
bonus immediately prior to retirement.
This accrued pension will The compensation payment is payable where the requisite be provided through the UURBS.
12 months notice is not given to the Executive Director or when he Further, with effect from 1 January 2011, the UK Accrual Rate for terminates by giving 12 months notice and the Company does the element of the base salary in excess of 670,000 increased from not wish him to serve his notice.
If a period of notice is served, 0.65 per cent as stated above to 2.50 per cent for each year of the compensation payment is reduced pro rata.
In the unlikely service and will continue to be provided through the UURBS.
The event that the contract is terminated for cause such as gross initial base salary level of 670,000 in respect of the 2.50 per cent misconduct, the Company may terminate the contract with accrual provided through the UURBS will be adjusted annually by immediate effect and no compensation would be payable.
the same percentage as that agreed for Nicandro Durantes Nicandro Durante has a service contract with the Company pensionable salary for the purposes of calculating benefits payable in the form outlined above.
In addition, as a result of the from the FASC.
Following legislative changes to the applicable UK application of local labour laws in Brazil, Nicandro Durante tax relief regulations in respect of members of overseas pension retains certain termination or compensation rights in respect of arrangements, Nicandro Durante has elected to commence his former employment with Souza Cruz SA.
In the event of any the receipt of his benefits from the FASC in Brazil with effect compensation being payable to Nicandro Durante pursuant to from 1 April 2012.
The resulting tax charge for the period from his service contract with the Company, these Souza Cruz rights 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2012 will be tax equalised by way will be taken into account first in arriving at a final compensation of a payment to Nicandro Durante of an allowance.
No further amount in order that he does not benefit twice from these compensation will be made or element of remuneration adjusted dual arrangements.
in lieu of further pension accrual in the FASC.
Executive Directors service contracts Each Executive Director has a one year rolling contract, executed at the time of his original appointment.
The contract may be varied from time to time to take account of changes in terms and conditions as well as to incorporate best practice.
Each contract includes a provision for a termination or compensation payment in lieu of notice.
Length of service as an Date of last Executive Director as at Execution date of Date first appointed reappointment 2012 AGM Executive Director current service contract to the Board at AGM Years Months Nicandro Durante 10 December 2010 1 January 2008 28 April 2011 4.4 Ben Stevens 26 March 2008 3 March 2008 28 April 2011 4.2 John Daly 24 October 2010 1 September 2010 28 April 2011 1.8 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 85 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Remuneration report continued Executive Directors external appointments Executive Directors and members of the Management Board are able to accept one substantive external Board appointment provided that permission is respectively sought from the Board or Chairman.
Any fees from such appointments are retained by the individual in recognition of the increased level of personal commitment required.
None of the Executive Directors or Management Board members currently holds such an appointment.
John Daly, an Executive Director of the Company, has been a non-executive director of Reynolds American Inc RAI since 1 December 2010.
RAI is an associate undertaking of the Company and John Daly was designated by Brown & Williamson Holdings, Inc. a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the Company, as its nominee to sit on the board of RAI.
In accordance with present arrangements, the Group received a fee of US$237,000 from RAI 2010: US$195,525 in respect of John Dalys service in that role for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company but instead have letters of appointment.
Since 2010 and following the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Non-Executive Directors have terms of appointment of one year only which are considered for renewal around the time of the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Each Director is then subject to election or re-election by shareholders every year.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 86 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information The date of appointment, the most recent reappointment and length of service for each Non-Executive Director are shown in the table below.
Length of service as at Date of last 2012 AGM Non-Executive Director Date of appointment reappointment at AGM Years Months Karen fide Segundo 1 October 2007 28 April 2011 4.7 Ann Godbehere 3 October 2011 0.7 Robert Lerwill 1 January 2005 28 April 2011 7.4 Christine Morin-Postel 1 October 2007 28 April 2011 4.7 Gerry Murphy 13 March 2009 28 April 2011 3.1 Kieran Poynter 1 July 2010 28 April 2011 1.10 Anthony Ruys 1 March 2006 28 April 2011 6.2 Sir Nicholas Scheele 28 February 2005 28 April 2011 7.2 On termination, at any time, a Non-Executive Director is entitled to any accrued but unpaid Directors fees but not to any other compensation.
Non-Executive Directors remuneration policy The current fees structure for the Non-Executive Directors is shown below: With effect from Jan-Dec 1 Jan 2012 2011 Basic fee 90,000 90,000 Supplements: Senior Independent Director 28,000 28,000 Audit Committee Chairman 28,000 28,000 CSR Committee Chairman 23,000 23,000 Nominations Committee Chairman Remuneration Committee Chairman 28,000 23,000 Committee Membership Fees not Chairmen : Audit Committee 5,000 5,000 CSR Committee 5,000 5,000 Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee 5,000 The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are considered annually Non-Executive Directors fees including those of the Chairman and are determined in light of market best practice and with are determined within the overall aggregate annual limit of reference to the time commitment and responsibilities 2,500,000 authorised by shareholders with reference to the associated with the roles.
The Board as a whole considers the policy and structure for the Non-Executive In October 2011, in order to recognise the increasing focus on Directors fees on the recommendation of the Chairman and the remuneration matters and the corresponding increase in the Chief Executive.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate workload of the Remuneration Committee, the supplement in discussions on their specific levels of remuneration.
for chairing that Committee was increased to 28,000 and a Committee membership fee of 5,000 per annum was Non-Executive Directors are generally reimbursed for the cost introduced for Non-Executive Directors who are members of travel and related expenses incurred by them as Directors of of the Remuneration Committee.
the Company in respect of attendance at Board, Committee and General meetings.
In the instances where the cost of The basic fee and other supplements and Committee membership reimbursement of such expenses are classified as a benefit fees for Non-Executive Directors remain unchanged.
to the Director, the Company will meet, as appropriate, the personal income tax liability that arises.
They receive no other British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 87 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Remuneration report continued pay or benefits.
It is the policy of the Board that the spouses of the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors may accompany the Directors for business purposes on designated trips and functions during the year.
Anthony Ruys has been a Non-Executive Director of ITC Limited ITC an associate undertaking of the Company since 20 January 2009.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, Anthony Ruys received INR 720,000 8,724 in fees from ITC 2010: INR 680,000 9,713.
This amount is the subject of an annual supplement from a Group company so that he receives a total annual fee for this appointment of 75,000.
Anthony Ruys also has an interest in options over shares in ITC see Table 9.
Chairmans terms of appointment and remuneration The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the terms of engagement and fees payable to the Chairman.
This process takes into account the breadth of that role coupled with its associated levels of commitment and expertise.
Richard Burrows has been a Director of the Company since 1 September 2009 and has been Chairman of the Company from 1 November 2009.
Since September 2011, Richard Burrows has a term of appointment of one year only which is considered for renewal around the time of the Companys Annual General Meeting each year unless the appointment is terminated earlier by: 1 the Company giving three months notice or a discretionary compensation payment in lieu of notice: or 2 by him giving one months written notice, with the Company having discretion to make a compensation payment in lieu of such notice.
The compensation payment is limited to any fees which are payable for such part of the relevant notice period as the Board does not require him as Chairman to perform his duties.
The current terms of Richard Burrows appointment provide for: 1 an annual fee of 570,000: 2 the use of a driver: 3 private medical insurance and personal accident insurance benefits: and 4 the reimbursement by the Company of the cost of return airline tickets to London from Ireland in connection with his duties as Chairman.
In common with the Non-Executive Directors, Richard Burrows does not participate in the British American Tobacco share schemes, bonus schemes or incentive plans and is not a member of any Group pension plan.
In February 2012, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the fees for the Chairman against practice in the FTSE 30 and agreed to increase his annual fees from 570,000 to 600,000 with effect from 1 April 2012.
Copies of service contracts and terms of appointment Copies of the Executive Directors service contracts and the details of the terms of appointment of each Non-Executive Director and the Chairman are available for inspection during normal business hours at the Companys registered office and will also be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting on 26 April 2012.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 88 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Appendices to the remuneration report Table 1: Aggregate emoluments audited The emoluments of the Directors of British American Tobacco p. l. c. were as follows: 2011 2010 Salaries and fees 3,732,000 4,094,584 1 Benefits: cash and non-cash 868,923 1,239,126 Performance-related pay cash bonus 2,260,000 3,500,527 deferred share bonus 2,260,000 1,257,217 DSBS and LTIP equivalents 578,618 701,947 Share Reward Scheme 7,767 6,084 Former Directors 1,051,593 43,602 Total 10,758,901 10,843,087 The figures shown for benefits in Tables 1 to 5 are shown as gross amounts as it is the normal practice of the Company to pay the tax which may be due on any benefits, with the exception of the benefit of the car or car allowance.
2010 benefits 1,214,506 restated: see Table 2 Note 1 and Table 3 Note 1.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 89 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Appendices to the remuneration report continued Table 2: Fees of the Chairman audited Richard Burrows 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 Fees Benefits Total Fees Benefits Total 2 1 Total 558,750 112,673 671,423 525,000 168,363 693,363 Notes: 1.
Richard Burrows: 2010 benefits of 157,319 are restated to take account of the change in the Companys reporting of hotel accommodation and related expenses in respect of Directors attendance at Board meetings of the Company in the UK in respect of which UK tax is payable.
Richard Burrows: 2011 benefits comprise: 1 health insurance 12,643 : 2 the use of a company driver 50,050 : 3 maintenance of home security systems 8,939 : and 4 hotel accommodation and related expenses incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at certain business functions and or corporate events.
The total benefits in respect of 2010 have been restated in the table above 2010: 47,068 to take account of the change in the Companys reporting of hotel accommodation and related expenses in respect of Directors attendance at Board meetings of the Company in the UK in respect of which UK tax is payable.
This change affected a number but not all of the Directors.
Those Directors whose numbers are restated above are the following: a Robert Lerwill: 2010: 774 : b Christine Morin-Postel: 2010: 0 : c Anthony Ruys: 2010: 5,543 : d Sir Nicholas Scheele: 2010: 16,131 : and e Ana Maria Llopis: 2010: 0.
The total benefits shown for these Directors exclude the reimbursement of travel expenses air, rail and taxi fares in respect of Directors attendance at Board meetings of the Company in the UK in respect of which UK tax is payable.
The gross amounts of the travel costs and the tax which is due thereon is: 2011: 102,706: and 2010: 69,298.
Benefits for these Non-Executive Directors include those expenses incurred in connection with accompanied attendance at business functions.
In addition, Anthony Ruys received INR 720,000 8,724 2010: INR 680,000 9,713 from ITC Limited, the Groups associate undertaking in India in respect of his services as a Non-Executive Director of that company during 2011.
This was supplemented by a further payment of 66,276 2010: 65,287 paid by the Group for services up to and including 31 December 2011.
During 2011 no fees were payable to members of the Remuneration Committee: only the Committee Chairman received a fee.
From 1 January 2012, 5,000 per annum will be paid to Remuneration Committee members.
No fees are paid in respect of membership of the Nominations Committee.
The Executive Directors remuneration shown above does not include, in respect of the LTIP awards made in March 2009 and which will vest on 27 March 2012: 1 the illustrative values of those awards as at 21 February 2012 reference should be made to the illustrative values shown for each Executive Director in Table 7 : and 2 the values of the LTIP dividend equivalent payments to be made in respect of those awards which are: Nicandro Durante 323,176: Ben Stevens 301,631: and John Daly 176,669.
Paul Adams: benefits comprise: 1 a car allowance 2,640 : 2 health insurance 504 : 3 the use of a company driver 11,925 : 4 maintenance of home security systems 409 : and 5 a retirement gift and other expenses incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at certain business functions and or corporate events.
Paul Adams: performance related pay comprises: 1 556,597 as the LTIP dividend equivalent payment for the LTIP awards which vested at his retirement, in full and or on a pro-rated time and performance basis in accordance with the LTIP rules: and 2 215,000 as an on-target pro-rated cash bonus for the period from 1 January 2011 until the date of his retirement on 28 February 2011 in accordance with the rules of the IEIS.
Table 5: Analysis of remuneration of Executive Directors audited Nicandro Durante 2011 2010 Salary 1,000,000 Salary 660,000 1 Benefits: cash 15,840 Benefits: cash 13,560 2 Benefits: non-cash 323,023 Benefits: non-cash 573,369 Annual cash bonus 1,000,000 Annual cash bonus 524,275 Value of deferred share bonus 1,000,000 Value of deferred share bonus 524,275 3 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 34,136 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 25,046 3 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 222,937 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 85,833 Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during the year 2,589 during the year 2,028 Total see Table 4 3,598,525 Total see Table 4 2,408,386 Notes: 1.
Cash benefits comprise: a car allowance 15,840.
Non-cash benefits comprise: 1 life and health insurance 14,139 : 2 tax advice 49,340 : 3 the use of a company driver 63,633 : 4 travel and related costs in respect of the relocation of Nicandro Durante from Brazil 142,686 : 5 employee welfare and medical payments made by Souza Cruz SA in respect of Nicandro Durantes subsisting employment rights in Brazil 36,202 : 6 maintenance of home security systems in the UK and Brazil 10,013 : and 7 other expenses incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at certain business functions and or corporate events.
Cash dividend equivalent payments: 1 DSBS these are cash sums equivalent to the dividend on the after-tax position on all unvested ordinary shares comprised in the share awards held by participants in the DSBS at each dividend record date: and 2 LTIP this is a cash sum equivalent to the dividends that an LTIP participant would have received as a shareholder on the actual number of shares under an LTIP award.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 91 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Appendices to the remuneration report continued Table 5: Analysis of remuneration of Executive Directors audited continued Ben Stevens 2010 2011 Salary 742,500 Salary 654,167 1 Benefits: cash 13,560 Benefits: cash 13,560 2 Benefits: non-cash 93,929 Benefits: non-cash 95,095 Annual cash bonus 675,000 Annual cash bonus 563,400 Value of deferred share bonus 675,000 Value of deferred share bonus 563,400 3 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 32,245 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 24,215 3 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 157,913 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 95,371 Share Reward Scheme: value of shares Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during the year received during the year 2,589 2,028 Total see Table 4 2,392,736 Total see Table 4 2,011,236 Notes: 1.
Cash benefits comprise: a car allowance 13,560.
Non-cash benefits comprise: 1 life and health insurance 7,030 : 2 the use of a company driver 75,838 : 3 maintenance of home security systems 2,761 : and 4 other expenses incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at business functions and or corporate events.
John Daly from 1 September 2010 2011 2010 Salary 650,000 Salary 216,667 1 Benefits: cash 147,272 Benefits: cash 110,382 2 Benefits: non-cash 118,554 Benefits: non-cash 54,593 Annual cash bonus 585,000 Annual cash bonus 169,542 Value of deferred share bonus 585,000 Value of deferred share bonus 169,542 3 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 19,919 Cash dividend equivalent DSBS 4,918 3 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP 111,468 Cash dividend equivalent LTIP Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received Share Reward Scheme: value of shares received during the year during the year 2,589 Total see Table 4 2,219,802 Total see Table 4 725,644 Notes: 1.
Cash benefits comprise: 1 a car allowance 13,560 : and 2 a contractual payment made in respect of the relocation of John Daly from Hong Kong 133,712.
Non-cash benefits comprise: 1 life and health insurance 6,191 : 2 tax advice 3,954 : 3 the use of a company driver 74,181 : 4 the installation and maintenance of home security systems 28,976 : and 5 other expenses incurred in connection with individual and or accompanied attendance at business functions and or corporate events.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 92 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Table 6: Directors interests in British American Tobacco p. l. c. ordinary shares of 25p At 1 Jan 2011 Changes from or date of At 31 Dec 31 Dec At 21 Feb appointment 2011 2011 2012 Richard Burrows 10,000 10,000 10,000 1 Nicandro Durante 112,167 150,261 1,430 151,691 Ben Stevens 77,902 58,059 58,059 John Daly 22,802 36,543 36,543 Karen fide Segundo 2,000 2,000 2,000 Ann Godbehere from 3 October 2011 Robert Lerwill 3,000 3,000 3,000 Christine Morin-Postel 4,700 4,700 4,700 Gerry Murphy 3,000 3,000 3,000 Kieran Poynter 5,000 5,000 5,000 Anthony Ruys 3,000 3,000 3,000 Sir Nicholas Scheele 5,000 5,000 5,000 Total 248,571 280,563 1,430 281,993 Notes: 1.
The changes in Directors interests since 31 December 2011 relate to: 1 the purchase by Nicandro Durante of a total of 9 shares pursuant to the Companys Partnership Share Scheme: and 2 the acquisition of 1,421 shares following the exercise of a Sharesave option on 9 January 2012.
Based on the performance for 2011, the Executive Directors will each be awarded a number of ordinary shares to the value of 3,000 pursuant to an appropriation of shares under the Share Reward Scheme on 2 April 2012.
In addition to the shares shown above, the Executive Directors have further interests in the ordinary shares in the Company set out in Table 7 below and which are held in trust pursuant to the British American Tobacco DSBS.
The value of these shares has been included as Directors emoluments in the prior year.
Details of the DSBS are given in the remuneration report.
On 31 December 2011, the Groups employee share ownership trust referred to in the remuneration report held a total of 12,123,853 ordinary shares in the Company.
All participating employees, including the Executive Directors, are deemed to have a beneficial interest in these shares.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 93 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Appendices to the remuneration report continued Table 7: Executive Directors: 1 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007 awards: 2 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme share interests: and 3 share options ordinary shares of 25p in British American Tobacco p. l. c. audited Nicandro Durante Shares Long-Term Incentive Plan At 1 Jan Awarded Vested Lapsed At 31 Dec Illustrative 2011 in 2011 in 2011 in 2011 2011 Value vested value vesting 2 Performance Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of in 2011 2012 period Award date shares shares shares shares shares Vesting date 2008 2010 15-May-08 74,962 74,962 2,015,353 15-May-11 2009 2011 27-Mar-09 94,996 94,996 27-Mar-12 2,958,175 2010 2012 25-Mar-10 69,751 69,751 25-Mar-13 2011 2013 13-May-11 147,329 147,329 13-May-14 Total 239,709 147,329 74,962 312,076 2,015,353 2,958,175 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme At 1 Jan Awarded Released At 31 Dec 2011 in 2011 in 2011 2011 Number of Number of Number of Number of Award date shares shares shares shares 13-Mar-08 6,028 6,028 27-Mar-0929,164 29,164 25-Mar-1017,005 17,005 25-Mar-11 22,056 22,056 Total 52,197 22,056 6,028 68,225 Options Sharesave Scheme At 1 Jan Granted Exercised in At 31 Dec 2,3 2011 in 2011 2011 2011 Dates Number of Number of Number of Number of from which Latest shares Grant dateGrant price shares shares shares exercisable expiry date 1,421 24-Nov-06 1,152.0p 1,421 Jan 2012 Jun 2012 The Long-Term Incentive Plan Notes, the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Notes and the Sharesave Scheme Notes are set out at the end of the Directors shares and options disclosures for Table 7.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 94 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Ben Stevens Shares Long-Term Incentive Plan At 1 Jan Awarded Vested Lapsed At 31 Dec Illustrative 2011 in 2011 in 2011 in 2011 2011 Value vested value vesting 2 Performance Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of in 2011 2012 period Award date shares shares shares shares shares Vesting date 2008 2010 15-May-08 53,098 53,098 1,427,539 15-May-11 2009 2011 27-Mar-09 88,663 88,663 27-Mar-12 2,760,965 2010 2012 25-Mar-10 65,323 65,323 25-Mar-13 2011 2013 13-May-11 79,558 79,558 13-May-14 Total 207,084 79,55853,098 233,5441,427,539 2,760,965 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme At 1 Jan Awarded Released At 31 Dec 2011 in 2011 in 2011 2011 Number of Number of Number of Number of Award date shares shares shares shares 13-Mar-08 6,655 6,655 27-Mar-0926,114 26,114 25-Mar-1015,925 15,925 25-Mar-11 23,702 23,702 Total 48,694 23,702 6,655 65,741 Options Sharesave Scheme At 1 Jan Granted in Exercised in At 31 Dec 2,3 2011 2011 2011 2011 Dates from Number of Number of Number of Number of which Latest shares Grant date Grant price shares shares shares exercisable expiry date 1,000 25-Nov-09 1,555.0p 1,000 Jan 2015 Jun 2015 The Long-Term Incentive Plan Notes, the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Notes and the Sharesave Scheme Notes are set out at the end of the Directors shares and options disclosures for Table 7.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 95 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Appendices to the remuneration report continued Table 7: Executive Directors: 1 Long-Term Incentive Plan 2007 awards: 2 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme share interests: and 3 share options ordinary shares of 25p in British American Tobacco p. l. c. audited continued John Daly Shares Long-Term Incentive Plan At 1 Jan Awarded Vested Lapsed At 31 Dec Illustrative 2011 in 2011 in 2011 in 2011 2011 Value vested value vesting 2 Performance Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of in 2011 2012 period Award date shares shares shares shares shares Vesting date 2008 2010 15-May-08 37,481 37,481 1,007,676 15-May-11 2009 2011 27-Mar-09 51,931 51,931 27-Mar-12 1,617,131 2010 2012 25-Mar-10 37,643 37,643 25-Mar-13 2011 2013 13-May-11 71,823 71,823 13-May-14 Total 127,055 71,82337,481 161,3971,007,676 1,617,131 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme At 1 Jan Awarded Released At 31 Dec 2011 in 2011 in 2011 2011 Number of Number of Number of Number of Award date shares shares shares shares 13-Mar-08 5,872 5,872 27-Mar-0915,151 15,151 25-Mar-108,601 8,601 25-Mar-11 17,833 17,833 Total 29,624 17,833 5,872 41,585 Options Sharesave Scheme At 1 Jan Granted in Exercised in At 31 Dec 2,3 2011 2011 2011 2011 Dates from Number of Number of Number of Number of which Latest shares Grant dateGrant price shares shares shares exercisable expiry date 25-Mar-11 1,974.0p 457 457 May 2014 Oct 2014 The Long-Term Incentive Plan Notes, the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Notes and the Sharesave Scheme Notes are set out at the end of the Directors shares and options disclosures for Table 7.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 96 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Former director Paul Adams Shares Long-Term Incentive Plan 6 6 At 1 Jan Vested Vested Lapsed At 31 Dec 2011 in 2011 in 2011 in 2011 2011 Performance Number of Percentage Number of Number of Number of Value vested in 2011 period Award date Vesting date shares of award shares shares shares 2008 2010 15-May-08 15-May-11 163,418 100 163,418 4,037,241 2009 2011 27-Mar-09 27-Mar-12 224,192 86.5 140,057 84,135 3,460,108 2010 2012 25-Mar-10 25-Mar-13 162,754 81.4 51,520 111,234 1,272,801 Total 550,364 354,995195,369 8,770,150 Deferred Share Bonus Scheme 4 At 1 Jan Awarded in Released At 31 Dec 2011 2011 in 2011 2011 Number of Number of Number of Number of Award date shares shares shares shares 13-Mar-0825,603 25,603 27-Mar-0963,297 63,297 25-Mar-1036,728 36,728 Total 125,628 125,628 Long-Term Incentive Plan Notes 1.
The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. on the following award dates was: 15 May 2008 1,966.0p : 27 March 2009 1,534.0p : 25 March 2010 2,278.0p : and 13 May 2011 2,704.0p.
The March 2009 award will vest on 27 March 2012 at 100 per cent in the manner described in the remuneration report.
For illustrative purposes only, the share price on 21 February 2012, being the latest practicable date prior to publication, of 3,114.0p has been used to value the vesting awards.
The performance conditions applicable to the LTIP awards relate to an apportionment between measures relating to TSR and EPS-based criteria with reference to a three year performance period.
TSR combines both the share price and dividend performance of the Company as set against two comparator groups: a the FTSE 100 Index at the beginning of the performance period: and b a peer group of FMCG companies.
A total of 50 per cent of the total award is based upon each of two separate measures 25 per cent for each measure.
50 per cent of an award is based on EPS growth relative to inflation.
Further details of the performance conditions are set out in the long-term incentives section of the remuneration report.
There have been no variations in the terms and conditions of the LTIP interests during the year.
The awards made in March 2010 and May 2011 are due to vest in March 2013 and May 2014 respectively.
At 31 December 2011, the performance percentage reflecting performance to date, was 91.4 per cent for the March 2010 award and 77.4 per cent for the March 2011 award.
Paul Adams retired as a Director on 28 February 2011.
The Remuneration Committee agreed that, in accordance with the LTIP rules, his outstanding LTIP awards of shares would vest immediately upon his retirement the Awards.
The 2008 Award, having completed the entire performance period, vested in full.
The 2009 Award and the 2010 Award vested on a pro-rated time and performance basis.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 97 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Appendices to the remuneration report continued Deferred Share Bonus Scheme Notes 1.
Each Executive Director has an interest in the ordinary shares of the Company, as shown in the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme tables, which are held in trust pursuant to the British American Tobacco Deferred Share Bonus Scheme.
The cost of these shares has been included as Directors emoluments in the prior year.
Details of the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme are given in the remuneration report.
The DSBS shares awarded on 13 March 2008 were released on 14 March 2011.
The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. on 14 March 2011 was 2,366.0p.
The Remuneration Committee agreed that the unvested awards of 125,628 ordinary shares made to Paul Adams would vest in full immediately upon his retirement in accordance with the rules of the Deferred Share Bonus Scheme.
Subject to a sale of 26,923 shares to cover tax liabilities, 98,705 shares were transferred to Paul Adams on 1 March 2011.
On 9 January 2012 Nicandro Durante acquired 1,421 ordinary shares following the exercise of options held under the Sharesave Scheme at an option price of 1,152.0p per share.
Sharesave Scheme: in respect of the Executive Directors, no options lapsed during the year ended 31 December 2011.
There have been no variations in the terms and conditions of these interests in share options during the year.
Options granted under the Sharesave Scheme are exercisable in conjunction with a three year or five year savings contract up to a monthly limit of 250.
Options are normally granted at a discount of 20 per cent to the market price at the time of the invitation, as permitted under the rules of the Sharesave Scheme.
The aggregate gain on the exercise of Sharesave Scheme options in 2011 was nil 2010: 81,912.
The closing mid-market price of ordinary shares in British American Tobacco p. l. c. on 30 December 2011 being the last trading day of the year was 3,055.5p and the range during the year was 2,282.5p to 3,068.0p.
The market price on 31 December 2011 exceeded the grant price of all the options detailed in the Options tables for the Executive Directors.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 98 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Table 8: Executive Directors pension entitlements audited Total Total Transfer Transfer value Transfer value change in accrued Gross Increase in value of net of accrued of accrued transfer pension at increase in accrued increase in pension at pension value Normal 31 Dec accrued pension net accrual over 31 Dec at 31 Dec during retirement 2011 pension of inflation period 2010 2011 period age 5 Nicandro Durante 60 465,256 339 22,052 555,831 9,840,627 11,727,138 1,886,511 3 Ben Stevens 60 231,047 41,552 32,426 776,422 3,737,054 5,532,3181,795,264 3,4 John Daly 60 208,942 37,809 29,567 754,877 3,680,288 5,334,5211,654,233 Former Director 6 Paul Adams 60 603,382 23,157 53,332 1,391,721 14,767,041 16,792,5552,025,514 Notes: 1 The amount of total accrued pension is the pension that would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year, excluding any increase granted under statute before retirement.
2 The value of net increase in accrued pension represents the incremental value to the Executive Director of his service during the year, calculated on the assumption that service terminated at the year end.
3 The pension accrual in the Pension Fund for John Daly and Ben Stevens has, with member consent, been restricted to the statutory annual allowance of 50,000 per annum with the balance of approximately 1,840 per annum being provided through the UURBS.
There has been no change to the overall pension entitlement of either Director.
4 John Daly was formerly a member of the P J Carroll Directors Plan in Ireland.
He is entitled to a deferred benefit currently amounting to 107,479 per annum, payable from the age of 60.
This deferred benefit is scheduled to increase each year between January 2011 and December 2015 by the lower of 4 per cent or the Irish Consumer Prices Index.
The increased amount is confirmed each year by the Minister of Social Protection the increase for 2011 is 1.75 per cent.
The transfer value in respect of John Dalys deferred benefit is included in Table 8 above and has been calculated in accordance with the method used for the Pension Fund.
5 Nicandro Durante is entitled to a benefit promise of 0.65 per cent of final sterling pensionable salary calculated as a 12 month average in relation to service from 1 March 2006.
This is provided through the UURBS.
At the point where the sterling pensionable salary exceeds 670,000 as an initial base, then the accrual rate will increase from 0.65 per cent as stated above to 2.50 per cent in respect of base salary in excess of 670,000 for each year of service and will continue to be provided through the UURBS.
In addition, Nicandro Durante is entitled to a pension from the Souza Cruz Pension Scheme based on an accrual rate of 1.85 per cent of final Brazilian real pensionable salary calculated as a 12 month average in relation to service from December 1981 the value of this pension in terms of sterling has decreased during 2011 due to a 13 per cent fall in value of the Brazilian real.
The accrued pension amount and transfer value shown above are based on the sum of these promises, with the accrual rate since March 2006 being a total of 2.50 per cent.
Nicandro Durante is entitled to receive that part of the promise from the Souza Cruz Pension Scheme based on 1.85 per cent accrual rate with immediate effect: this right to take the benefit early has been ignored for the purposes of the calculation of the above transfer value.
6 Paul Adams retired as a Director on 28 February 2011.
He elected to commute part of his pension for a cash lump sum of 450,000 at his retirement and he received 90,092 in respect of benefits that exceeded the statutory lifetime allowance, as permitted under the rules of the Pension Fund.
The figures shown in Table 8 above exclude the amount which relates to that cash lump sum.
7 Changes in the transfer values reflect both individual Executive Directors circumstances such as the date of joining the Pension Fund and changes in salary during the year, together with the application of market value adjustments in accordance with actuarial and legislative requirements.
The increase in the transfer values during the year ended 31 December 2011 was largely attributable to the underlying reduction in gilt yields from 4.22 per cent to 3.13 per cent.
The transfer value basis used is consistent with that used by the Trustee of the Pension Fund for the ongoing funding of the Pension Fund.
The transfer values of the accrued entitlement represent the value of assets that the Pension Fund would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the Pension Funds liability in respect of Executive Directors pension benefits.
They do not represent sums payable to individual Executive Directors and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
Further, although Nicandro Durante is not a member of the Pension Fund, the transfer values calculated above have been calculated in accordance with the method used for the Pension Fund.
Although Paul Adams, John Daly and Ben Stevens receive a significant element of their overall entitlement from the UURBS, the transfer values above have been calculated in accordance with the method used for the Pension Fund.
8 The Pension Fund is non-contributory.
Voluntary contributions paid by Executive Directors and resulting benefits are not shown.
No excess retirement benefits have been paid to or are receivable by any Executive Director or past Executive Director.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 99 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Appendices to the remuneration report continued Table 9: Non-Executive Directors share options Ordinary Shares of INR1 each in ITC Limited audited Anthony Ruys ITC Employee Stock Option Schemes At 1 Jan 2011 Number of Granted Number of At At 1 Jan shares over in 2011 shares over Exercised 31 Dec Number of 2011 which Number which in 2011 2011 options that Dates Number of options Grant Grant price of options Number Number may be from which Latest expiry 2 2 options held date per option options granted of options of options exercised exercisable date 20,000 200,000 23-Jul-09 Rs.
ITC Limited ITC is an associate undertaking of the Company and is listed on stock exchanges in India.
Anthony Ruys, a Non-Executive Director of the Company, is also a non-executive director of ITC.
Anthony Ruys has been granted options over shares in ITC under the ITC Employee Stock Option Schemes 2006 and 2010 which provide for the grant of options to its Non-Executive Directors as permitted by the Securities and Exchange Board of India Employee Stock Option Scheme and Employee Stock Purchase Scheme Guidelines 1999 the Schemes.
Each option entitles its holder to apply for and to be allotted 10 ordinary shares in ITC of INR1 each upon the payment of the grant price during the appropriate exercise period.
An exercise period begins at the date of vesting of an option and expires at the end of five years from that vesting date.
The vesting periods for the conversion of an option under the Schemes are as follows: a 30 per cent vests 12 months from date of grant: b 30 per cent vests 24 months from date of grant: and c 40 per cent vests 36 months from the date of grant.
Status of remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 5 and Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to Directors remuneration as set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code referred to in the corporate governance statement.
As required by the Companies Act 2006, a resolution to approve the Directors remuneration report the Report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company on 26 April 2012, at which the financial statements will be presented for approval.
The vote will have advisory status, will be in respect of the remuneration policy and overall remuneration packages and will not be specific to individual levels of remuneration.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditors to report to the Companys shareholders on the audited information within the Report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the Report have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The report of the independent auditors, in respect of the Company, addresses those aspects of this Report, and those which have been subject to audit have been clearly marked: Table 1, Table 2, Table 3, Table 4, Table 5, Table 7, Table 8 and Table 9.
On behalf of the Board Anthony Ruys Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 22 February 2012 British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 100
