notes to the Financial Statements noteS to tHe FInAnCIAl StAteMentS continued 33.
FINANcIAL rISK MANAGEMENT coNTINuED Securities accepted as collateral are normally restricted to FTSE 100 stocks, UK Gilts or other high quality bonds.
The collateral value assigned 33 b credit risk continued to the client account is updated daily, and each security is assigned a haircut value e. g. a client is typically allowed to use 80% of a FTSE 100 Limited risk accounts current market value and 90-95% of a UK Gilt market value.
The Groups with the exception of Nadex products are margin-traded.
If the market moves adversely by more than the clients initial margin deposit, the Group is exposed to client credit risk.
The Group mitigates this risk on some account and trade types by designating Clients are only permitted to use non-cash collateral value to cover initial margin requirements, and losses in excess of cash held are due and them as limited risk accounts.
This involves the client setting a level in advance the Guaranteed Stop level at which the deal will be payable as part of the normal margining process.
closed-out, meaning a maximum client loss can be calculated at the opening of the trade.
Clients placing trades with Guaranteed Stop levels pay a small premium on the transaction.
The maximum loss is then the amount the client is required to deposit to open the trade, The fair value of collateral held at 31 May 2011 against amounts due from clients was 5,788,000 2010: 2,823,000. meaning that in most circumstances the client can never lose more than their initial margin deposit.
Numerical credit risk disclosures Guaranteed Stops transfer an element of market risk to the Group, and are managed under the Groups Market Risk Policy, which restricts The following tables present further detail on the Groups exposure to credit risk.
External credit ratings Standard and Poors long-term ratings both the products on which they are offered and the size of positions subject to Guaranteed Stops.
or equivalent are available for exposures to brokers and banks, and these are shown below.
No external credit rating of clients and certain of the Groups sport related brokers is available and therefore the balances are classified as unrated.
The close-out monitor The Groups management of client credit risk is supported by a significantly automated liquidation process, the close-out monitor COM, Amounts due from clients are considered past due from the date that positions are closed and are aged from that date.
If debtors arise on whereby accounts which have broken the liquidation threshold are automatically identified.
open positions, the amounts due from clients are considered neither past due nor impaired unless impairment is provided.
If the margin of a client which is not subject to the COM liquidation process is eroded, the client is requested to deposit additional funds The analysis of neither past due nor impaired credit exposures in the following table excludes retail client funds held in segregated client money up to at least the required margin level and will also be restricted from increasing their market positions.
If subsequently, the clients accounts or money market facilities established under the UKs Financial Services Authority FSA CASS rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose intra-day losses increase such that their total equity falls below the specified liquidation level, positions will be liquidated immediately.
Under these rules, client money funds held with trust status are protected in the event of the insolvency of the Group.
This has resulted in significantly improved client liquidation times and reduced credit risk exposure for the Group.
cash and cash trade receivables trade receivables collateral held at equivalents due from brokers due from clients fair value The majority of client positions are monitored on the Groups real-time COM system or are limited risk accounts with Guaranteed Stops.
As at 2010 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 2011 31 May 2011, 98.8% 2010: 95.7% of financial client accounts are subject to the automatic COM procedure or are limited risk accounts.
000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 group note 17 note 16 note 16 Credit accounts Individually impaired Clients holding other types of account are permitted to deal in circumstances where they may be capable of suffering losses greater than Gross exposure - - - - 19,408 22,240 - - the funds they have deposited on their account, or in limited circumstances are allowed credit.
The Group has a formal credit policy which Allowance for impairment - - - - 18,382 21,461 - - determines the financial and experience criteria which a client must satisfy before being given an account which exposes the Group to credit risk, including trading limits for each client and strict margining rules.
- - - - 1,026 779 - - Past due but not impaired The Group may offer credit limits with the result that any open loss can be paid subject to agreed credit terms.
These accounts typically Ageing profile: only create a credit exposure when the clients loss exceeds their initial margin deposit.
0-3 months - - - - 523 535 - - 4-6 months - - - - - - - - In addition to the waiver of payment of open losses on a trade, the Group may also offer clients credit in respect of their initial margin.
7-9 months - - - - - - - - This is a permanent waiving of initial margin requirements while the credit limit is active on the account.
10-12 months - - - - - - - - 12 months - - - - - 72 - - Credit limits are only granted following provision by the client of evidence of their available financial resources and credit accounts limits are continuously reviewed by the Groups Credit Department.
Credit accounts are small in number, are not actively promoted and in - - - - 523 607 - - general they are not made available to new clients.
neither past due nor impaired Credit rating: Risk-based tiered margins AA & above - - - - - - 3,509 - The Group applies a tiered-margin requirement for equities and other instruments with risk-adjusted margin requirements dependent on AA to AA- 28,420 13,447 75,814 119,507 - - 161 - several factors including the volatility and liquidity of the underlying instrument.
This has resulted in potential margin requirements of up A to A- 89,489 114,091 189,035 80,538 - - 757 - to 90% of the value of the notional client position for large client positions, but a reduced margin requirement for smaller client positions.
1 BBB to BBB- 5,954 348 638 871 - - 751 - BB to B 420 - - - - - 102 - These tiered margins have, in addition to the COM discussed earlier, contributed to the further mitigation of the Groups client 1 Unrated 245 211 2,305 2,798 763 1,143 508 2,823 counterparty credit risk exposure.
124,528 128,097 267,792 203,714 763 1,143 5,788 2,823 Management of client collateral Total carrying amount 124,528 128,097 267,792 203,714 2,312 2,529 5,788 2,823 The Group also accepts collateral from a small number of clients in the form of shares or other securities which mitigate the Groups credit risk.
Clients retain title to the securities lodged whilst their trading account is operating normally, but are required to sign a collateral agreement 1 Balances are primarily related to the Groups operations in South Africa.
which will allow the Group to take title and sell the securities in the event of the client defaulting on any margin obligations.
Prepayments and other receivables are all unrated 2010: all unrated.
114 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 115 notes to the Financial Statements noteS to tHe FInAnCIAl StAteMentS continued 33.
FINANcIAL rISK MANAGEMENT coNTINuED The Groups largest credit exposure to any one individual broker at 31 May 2011 was 73,312,000 AA rated or 27% of the exposure to all 33 b credit risk continued brokers 2010: 44,170,000, AA rated, 22%.
Included in cash and cash equivalents, the Groups largest credit exposure to any bank at Impairment of trade receivables due from clients 31 May 2011 was 39,116,000 A rated or 31% of the exposure to all banks 2010: 43,302,000, A rated, 34%.
The Group has no The Group records specific impairments of trade receivables due from clients in a separate allowance account.
Impairments are recorded significant exposure to any one particular client or group of connected clients.
where the Group determines that it is probable that it will be unable to collect all amounts owing according to the contractual terms of the agreement.
There are no collective impairments taken, and no other assets are considered impaired.
Below is a reconciliation of All of the Companys credit exposures are in the UK, at both 31 May 2011 and 31 May 2010. changes in the separate allowance account during the period: 33 d Liquidity risk 2011 2010 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations arising from its financial liabilities that are settled by group 000 000 delivering cash or other financial assets.
Balance at 1 June 21,461 23,897 Impairment loss for the year Management of liquidity risk - gross charge for the year 1,159 2,441 Liquidity risk is managed centrally and on a Group-wide basis.
The Groups approach to managing liquidity is to ensure it will have sufficient - recoveries 3,321 3,505 liquidity to meet its broker margin requirements and other financial liabilities when due, under both normal circumstances and stressed Write-offs 1,172 1,367 conditions.
The Group has carried out an Individual Liquidity Adequacy Assessment ILAA during the year, and whilst this applies specifically Foreign exchange 255 5 to the Groups FSA regulated entities, it provides the context in which liquidity is managed on a continuous basis for the whole Group.
Balance at 31 May 18,382 21,461 The Group does not have any material liquidity mismatches with regard to liquidity maturity profiles due to the very short-term nature Credit risk Company of its financial assets and liabilities.
Liquidity risk can, however, arise as all retail client funds are required to be placed in segregated client Held within prepayments and other receivables in the Statement of Financial Position of the Company are amounts payable to the Company money accounts or money market facilities as previously discussed.
A result of this policy is that short-term liquidity gaps can potentially from related parties that are unrated.
The Company is not otherwise exposed to material amounts of credit risk.
arise in periods of very high client activity or significant increases or falls in global financial market levels.
33 c concentration risk During periods of significant market falls the Group will be required to fund margin payments to brokers prior to the release of funds from Concentration risk is defined as all risk exposures with a loss potential which is large enough to threaten the solvency or the financial position of the segregation, and in periods of significant market increases or increased client activity, the Group will be required to fund higher margin Group.
In respect of financial risk, such exposures may be caused by credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk or a combination or interaction of those risks.
requirements at brokers to hedge increased underlying client positions.
These additional requirements are funded from the Groups own available cash resources while these retail client positions are open, as retail client funds remain in segregated client money bank accounts.
The following table analyses the Groups credit exposures, at their carrying amounts, by geographical region and excludes retail client funds held in segregated client money accounts or money market facilities established under the UKs Financial Services Authority FSA In order to mitigate this and other liquidity risks, the Group regularly stress tests its three-year liquidity forecast to validate the correct level CASS rules and similar rules of other regulators in whose jurisdiction the Group operates.
of committed unsecured bank facilities held.
At the year-end, these amounted to 180.0 million 2010: 160.0 million and were not drawn upon during the current nor proceeding financial year.
As well as the three-year liquidity forecast, the Group also produces more detailed Analysis of credit exposures at carrying amount by geographical segment: short-term liquidity forecasts and detailed stress tests.
rest of uK europe australia japan the World total The key measure used by the Group for managing liquidity risk is the level of total available liquidity.
For this purpose total available group 000 000 000 000 000 000 liquidity is calculated as set out in the following table inclusive of undrawn committed facilities.
Total available liquidity at each year-end was as follows: as at 31 may 2011 2011 2010 Financial assets 000 000 Cash and cash equivalents 28,967 44,059 39,296 9,133 3,073 124,528 Trade receivables due from brokers 76,774 134,190 31,492 - 25,336 267,792 own cash and title transfer funds 124,528 128,097 Trade receivables due from clients 2,048 86 178 - - 2,312 Amounts due from brokers 267,792 203,714 Total financial assets 107,789 178,335 70,966 9,133 28,409 394,632 available cash resources 392,320 331,811 Analysed as: rest of uK europe australia japan the World total Own funds 324,618 269,406 group 000 000 000 000 000 000 Title transfer funds 67,702 62,405 as at 31 may 2010 available liquidity Financial assets Available cash resources 392,320 331,811 Cash and cash equivalents 83,699 3,054 1,790 17,656 21,898 128,097 Less broker margin requirement 217,360 154,694 Trade receivables due from brokers 80,027 89,197 23,004 - 11,486 203,714 net available cash 174,960 177,117 Trade receivables due from clients 2,298 66 165 - - 2,529 Less title transfer funds 67,702 62,405 Total financial assets 166,024 92,317 24,959 17,656 33,384 334,340 net own cash available 107,258 114,712 Of which declared as dividend 53,368 48,758 Committed banking facilities 180,000 160,000 total available liquidity including facilities 233,890 225,954 116 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 117 notes to the Financial Statements noteS to tHe FInAnCIAl StAteMentS continued 33.
FINANcIAL rISK MANAGEMENT coNTINuED Amounts payable on demand: 33 d Liquidity risk continued nonderivative derivative total In the Directors opinion the Group has sufficient liquid funds available to meet all operational requirements in the event of a large market 000 000 000 movement.
Liquidity management is also dependent on credit risk management previously described.
as at 31 may 2010 Derivative and non-derivative cash flows by remaining contractual maturity Group Financial assets The following tables present the undiscounted cash flows receivable and payable excluding interest payments by the Group under Cash and cash equivalents - 128,097 128,097 derivative and non-derivative financial assets and liabilities allocated to the earliest period in which the Group can be required to pay Trade receivables due from brokers 20,384 224,098 203,714 although the remaining contractual maturities may be longer.
Trade receivables due from clients - 2,529 2,529 20,384 354,724 334,340 Amounts payable on demand: nonFinancial liabilities derivative derivative total Trade payables due to clients - 57,673 57,673 000 000 000 - 57,673 57,673 as at 31 may 2011 20,384 297,051 276,667 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents - 124,528 124,528 Trade receivables due from brokers 5,064 272,856 267,792 Amounts payable over five years: Trade receivables due from clients - 2,312 2,312 The Group has non-derivative cash flows payable over five years in relation to the redeemable preference shares at 31 May 2011 and 2010, as disclosed in note 22.
5,064 399,696 394,632 Financial liabilities Derivative and non-derivative cash flows by remaining contractual maturity Company Trade payables due to clients - 83,490 83,490 The maturity of the Companys non-derivative cash flows is shown in the following table.
There were no Company derivative cash flows as at 31 May 2011 2010: nil.
- 83,490 83,490 on demand over five years total 5,064 316,206 311,142 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 company 000 000 000 000 000 000 Derivative trade receivables disclosed in the table above represent the Groups open positions with brokers.
Non-derivative trade as at 31 may receivables and payables disclosed in the table above represent cash margin held at brokers, closed client debtors, and client trading Financial assets margin held on deposit respectively.
Derivative and non-derivative cash flows are presented alongside each other in the table above as Cash and cash equivalents 304 8 - - 304 8 they result from the same underlying trading relationship, and as the Group has both the legal right and intention to settle on a net basis.
304 8 - - 304 8 Trade receivables are disclosed as repayable on demand, as when client positions are closed the corresponding positions relating to the Financial liabilities hedged position are closed with brokers.
Accordingly the Group releases cash margin, which is repaid by brokers to the Group on demand.
Redeemable preference shares - - 40 40 40 40 Trade payables are disclosed in the table above as repayable on demand, as positions can be closed at any time by clients and can also - - 40 40 40 40 be closed by the Group, in accordance with the Groups margining rules.
If after closing a position a client is in surplus, then the amount owing is repayable on demand by the Group.
118 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 119 notes to the Financial Statements noteS to tHe FInAnCIAl StAteMentS continued 34. cAPITAL MANAGEMENT AND rESourcES 31 May 2011 were authorised for issue by the Board of the Going concern redemption amount with a corresponding entry in equity.
The capital management Directors on 19 July 2011, and the Statements of Financial Position The Directors have prepared the Financial Statements on a going accretion of the discount on the liability is recognised as a finance The Group is supervised on a consolidated basis by the UKs Financial signed on the Boards behalf by Tim Howkins and Christopher Hill.
concern basis, which requires the Directors to have a reasonable charge in the consolidated Income Statement.
The liability is Services Authority FSA.
The Groups subsidiaries in Australia, Japan, IG Group Holdings plc is a public limited company incorporated expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in re-measured to the final redemption amount with any periodic Singapore, South Africa and the United States are also regulated.
and domiciled in England and Wales.
The Companys ordinary operational existence for the foreseeable future.
changes to the estimated liability recognised in the consolidated Individual capital requirements in these jurisdictions are taken into shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
On expiry of the forward the liability is account when managing the Groups capital resources.
Basis of consolidation eliminated as paid and any difference in the value of the nonThe Group and Company Financial Statements have been The Group Financial Statements consolidate the Financial controlling interest to the exercise price deducted from equity.
The Groups regulatory capital resources management objective prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Statements of IG Group Holdings plc and the entities it controls is to ensure that the Group complies with the regulatory capital Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and IFRIC its subsidiaries made up to the reporting date, as listed in note 14.
On an  basis, non-controlling interests resources requirement set by the FSA and other global regulators interpretations as they apply to the Financial Statements of the are measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling interest in jurisdictions in which the Groups entities operate.
Group and of the Company for the year ended 31 May 2011 and Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date of their acquisition, proportionate share of the acquirees net assets.
The Group has applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act being the date on which the Group obtains control, and continue elected to apply the proportionate share of the acquirees net The Groups capital management policy aims to maximise returns 2006.
The Group and Company Financial Statements have been to be consolidated until the date that such control ceases.
Control assets methodology to the acquisition completed during the year.
on equity while maintaining a strong capital position to enable prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by the comprises the power to govern the financial and operating policies the Group to take advantage of growth opportunities, whether revaluation of financial assets and liabilities including derivatives of the investee so as to obtain benefit from its activities, and is The Group treats transactions with non-controlling interests as organic or by acquisition.
The Group does not seek to generate at fair value through profit and loss.
achieved through direct or indirect ownership of voting rights: transactions with equity owners of the Group.
For purchases higher returns on equity by introducing leverage through, for currently exercisable or convertible potential voting rights: or by way from non-controlling interests, the difference between any example, the use of long-term debt finance.
The principal accounting policies adopted by the Group and the of contractual agreement.
The Financial Statements of the subsidiaries consideration paid and the relevant share acquired of the carrying Company are set out in note 37. used in the preparation of the consolidated Financial Statements are value of the non-controlling interest is recorded in equity.
The Groups 2010 ICAAP was approved by the Board in January prepared for the same reporting year as the parent company and are 2011.
There have been no capital requirement breaches during the 37.
AccouNTING PoLIcIES based on consistent accounting policies.
All inter-company balances Losses applicable to the non-controlling shareholder in a financial year.
The Group also regularly undertakes three-year stress Basis of preparation and transactions between Group entities, including unrealised profits consolidated subsidiarys equity may exceed the non-controlling and scenario testing of its main financial and operational risks to The accounting policies which follow have been applied in preparing arising from them, are eliminated on consolidation.
interest in the subsidiarys equity.
The excess, and any further project its future capital and liquidity adequacy requirements.
the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 May 2011. losses applicable to the non-controlling shareholder, are allocated On acquisition, the assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of a against the majority interest, except to the extent that the nonThe Groups Pillar 3 Disclosures are published on its website The Group has presented its consolidated Income Statement in a subsidiary are measured at their fair values at the date of acquisition.
controlling shareholder has a binding obligation and is able to www.
com and these provide additional information on columnar format.
This enables the Group to continue its practice of The cost of an acquisition is measured at the fair value of consideration make an additional investment to cover the losses.
If the subsidiary the Groups enterprise-wide risk management framework and its improving the understanding of its results by presenting profit for paid, including an estimate of any contingent or deferred consideration.
subsequently reports profits, such profits are allocated to the management of regulatory capital on a consolidated and solo the year before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets Contingent or deferred consideration is re-measured at each Statement majority interests until the non-controlling shareholders share of entity basis.
associated with the Groups Japanese business and impairment of of Financial Position date with periodic changes to the estimated liability losses previously absorbed by the majority has been recovered.
the goodwill associated with the Groups Sport business certain recognised in the consolidated Income Statement.
This is the profit measure used to calculate adjusted EPS costs are expensed as incurred.
Any excess of the cost of acquisition over Non-controlling interests represent the portion of profit or loss The Group had significant surplus regulatory capital resources over the see note 10 and is considered to be the most appropriate the fair values of the identifiable net assets acquired is recognised as and net assets in subsidiaries that is not held by the Group and regulatory capital resources requirement throughout the year.
An analysis measure as it better reflects the Groups underlying cash earnings.
Any deficiency of the cost of acquisition below the fair values of is presented within equity in the consolidated Statement of of the Groups consolidated capital resources and capital resources Profit before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets the identifiable net assets acquired discount on acquisition is credited Financial Position, separately from parent shareholders equity.
requirement is provided in the Operating and Financial Review.
associated with the Groups Japanese business and impairment to the profit and loss in the period of acquisition.
of the goodwill associated with the Groups Sport business is Foreign currencies 35.
SuBSEQuENT EvENTS reconciled to profit before tax on the Income Statement.
The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are The functional currency of each company in the Group is that of the On 8 June 2011 the Group reached agreement to sell the majority included in the consolidated Income Statement from the effective date country of incorporation as disclosed in note 14 as this is consistent of the client list relating to extrabets sport spread betting and As permitted by Section 408 1 b, 4 of the Companies Act 2006, of acquisition or up to the effective date of disposal, as appropriate.
with the primary economic environment in which the entity fixed odds betting business to Spreadex Limited on terms where the individual Income Statement of IG Group Holdings plc the operates.
The Groups most significant functional currency is sterling.
the Group will receive semi-annual payments for the next three Company has not been presented in these Financial Statements.
Where necessary, adjustments are made to the Financial Transactions in other currencies are initially recorded in the functional years, calculated by reference to the revenue that the acquirer The amount of profit after taxation for the financial year dealt Statements of subsidiaries to bring the accounting policies used currency by applying spot exchange rates prevailing on the dates generates from clients on the list.
with in the Financial Statements of IG Group Holdings plc is into line with those used by other members of the Group.
A statement of comprehensive monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are On 12 July 2011 the Group completed the redundancy income for IG Group Holdings plc has also not been presented Non-controlling interests retranslated at the functional currency rate of exchange prevailing on consultation process with the employees of extrabet.
As a result of in these Financial Statements.
No items of other comprehensive Where the Group and a non-controlling shareholder enter into a the same date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities carried at fair value this any extrabet employees unable to find a role within the Group income arose in the year 2010: nil.
forward contract symmetrical put and call options under which that are denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the rates will be made redundant as of 19 July 2011 and the business closed.
the Group is required to purchase the non-controlling interest for prevailing at the date when the fair value was determined.
Gains The Group and Company Financial Statements are presented its fair value formulae-based valuation, at the forward date, the and losses arising on translation are taken to the Income Statement, 36.
AuTHorISATIoN oF FINANcIAL STATEMENTS in sterling and all values are rounded to the nearest thousand Group continues to recognise the non-controlling interest at the except for exchange differences arising on monetary assets and AND STATEMENT oF coMPLIANcE WITH IFrS pounds 000, except where otherwise indicated.
proportionate share of the acquirees identifiable net assets, until liabilities that form part of the Groups net investment in a foreign The Financial Statements of IG Group Holdings plc the Company expiry of the arrangement.
The forward liability is also recognised operation.
These are taken directly to equity until the disposal of the and its subsidiaries together the Group for the year ended for managements best estimate of the present value of the net investment, at which time they are recognised in profit or loss.
120 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 121 notes to the Financial Statements noteS to tHe FInAnCIAl StAteMentS continued 37.
AccouNTING PoLIcIES coNTINuED Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase Development costs - straight-line basis over 3 years operating leases On consolidation, the assets and liabilities of the Groups method.
Any excess of the cost of the business combination over Software and licences - straight-line basis over the contract Leases are classified as operating leases where the lessor retains overseas operations are translated into sterling at exchange the Groups interest in the net fair value of the identifiable assets, term of up to 5 years substantially all the risks and benefits of ownership of the asset.
rates prevailing on the Statement of Financial Position date.
liabilities and contingent liabilities is recognised in the Statement Trade names - sum of digits method over 2 years Lease payments under an operating lease are recognised as Income and expense items are translated at the average of Financial Position as goodwill and is not amortised.
To the Customer relationships - sum of digits method over 3 to 5 years an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term unless exchange rates for the period.
Exchange differences arising, if extent that the net fair value of the acquired entitys identifiable and client lists another systematic basis is more representative of the time any, are classified as equity and taken directly to a translation assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is greater than the cost pattern of the users benefit.
Such translation differences are recognised as income or of the investment, a gain is recognised immediately in the Income The carrying value of intangible assets is reviewed for impairment as expenses in the period in which the operation is disposed of.
Any goodwill asset arising on the acquisition of equity whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the Financial instruments Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of accounted entities is included within the cost of those entities.
carrying value may not be recoverable.
In addition, the carrying The Group determines the classification of its financial a foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign value of capitalised development expenditure is reviewed for instruments at initial recognition in accordance with the entity and translated at the closing rate.
After initial recognition, goodwill is stated at cost less any accumulated impairment annually before being brought into use.
categories outlined below, and re-evaluates this designation impairment losses, with the carrying value being reviewed for at each financial year-end.
When financial instruments are Property, plant and equipment impairment, at least annually and whenever events or changes in Impairment of assets recognised initially, they are measured at fair value, being Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired.
At least annually, or when impairment testing is required, the the transaction price plus, in the case of financial assets and depreciation and accumulated impairment losses.
Cost comprises Directors review the carrying amounts of the Groups tangible and financial liabilities not at fair value through profit or loss, directly the aggregate amount paid and the fair value of any other For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication attributable transaction costs.
Financial instruments are disclosed consideration given to acquire the asset, and includes costs directly related cash-generating units monitored by management, usually that those assets have suffered an impairment loss.
If any such in note 32 to the Financial Statements.
attributable to making the asset capable of operating as intended.
at business segment level or statutory company level as the case indication exists or at least annually for goodwill, the recoverable may be.
Where the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent Financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and equipment is less than its carrying amount, including goodwill, an impairment of the impairment loss if any.
Where the asset does not generate through profit or loss at rates calculated to write off the cost, less estimated residual loss is recognised in the Income Statement.
cash flows that are independent from other assets, the Group Financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, or value based upon estimated useful lives.
Estimated residual estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to designated as such on inception, are included in this category and value and useful lives are reviewed on an annual basis and The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to a cash-generating which the asset belongs.
relate to the financial derivative open positions included in trade residual values are based on prices prevailing at the Statement unit is taken into account when determining the gain or loss on receivables due from brokers and trade payables due to clients of Financial Position date.
Depreciation is charged on a straightdisposal of the unit, or of an operation within it.
The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less selling costs as shown in the Statement of Financial Position and related notes.
line basis over the expected useful lives as follows: and value-in-use.
In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future Financial instruments are classified as held for trading if they are Intangible assets cash flows are discounted to their present values using a pre-tax expected to settle in the short-term.
The Group uses derivative financial Leasehold improvements - over the lease term Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation discount rate.
This rate reflects current market assessments of the instruments in order to hedge derivative exposures arising from open of up to 15 years and accumulated impairment losses.
time value of money as well as the risks specific to the asset for client positions, which are also classified as held for trading.
Office equipment, fixtures and fittings - over 5 years which the estimates of future cash flows have not been adjusted.
Computer and other equipment - over 2, 3 or 5 years Intangible assets acquired separately from a business are carried All financial instruments at fair value through the profit and loss are initially at cost.
An intangible asset acquired as part of a business If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than carried in the Statement of Financial Position at fair value with gains or The carrying values of property, plant and equipment combination, such as a trade name or customer relationship, its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced losses recognised in revenue in the consolidated Income Statement.
are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in is recognised at fair value outside goodwill if the asset is to its recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised as an circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable, separable or arises from contractual or other legal rights and its expense immediately.
Determination of fair value and are written down immediately to their recoverable amount.
fair value can be measured reliably.
Expenditure on internally Financial instruments arising from open client positions and the An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon developed intangible assets, excluding development costs, is An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether Groups hedging positions are stated at fair value and disclosed disposal or when no future economic benefits are expected to taken to the Income Statement in the year in which it is incurred.
there is any indication that previously recognised impairment according to the valuation hierarchy required by IFRS 7.
Fair values arise from the continued use of the asset.
The gain or loss arising on Development expenditure is recognised as an intangible asset losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such are predominantly determined by reference to third party market derecognition of an asset is determined as the difference between only after all the following criteria are met: indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated.
A values bid prices for long positions and offer prices for short the sale proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, and is previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there positions as detailed below: included in the Income Statement in the period of derecognition.
T he projects technical feasibility and commercial viability can has been a change in the estimates used to determine the be demonstrated assets recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was Level 1: Valued using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for Goodwill T he availability of adequate technical and financial resources and recognised.
If that is the case, the carrying amount of the asset identical financial instruments.
Goodwill arising on consolidation represents the excess of an intention to complete the project have been confirmed is increased to its recoverable amount.
That increased amount the cost of acquisition fair value of consideration paid over T he correlation between development costs and future cannot exceed the carrying amount that would have been Level 2: Valued using techniques where a price is derived based the Groups interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, revenue has been established determined, had no impairment loss been recognised for the significantly on observable market data.
For example, where an liabilities and contingent liabilities of a business at the date of asset in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised active market for an identical financial instrument to the product acquisition.
Goodwill is recognised as an asset and is allocated Following initial recognition, the historic cost model is applied, as income immediately, although impairment losses relating to offered by the Group to its clients or used by the Group to hedge to cash-generating units for purposes of impairment testing.
with intangible assets being carried at cost less accumulated goodwill may not be reversed.
its market risk does not exist.
Cash-generating units represent the smallest identifiable group of amortisation and accumulated impairment losses.
assets that generates cash inflows that are largely independent of Investments in subsidiaries Level 3: Valued using techniques that incorporate information the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets.
Intangible assets with a finite life are amortised over their Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less accumulated other than observable market data that is significant to the expected useful lives, as follows: impairment losses.
122 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 123 notes to the Financial Statements noteS to tHe FInAnCIAl StAteMentS continued 37.
AccouNTING PoLIcIES coNTINuED Prepayments and other receivables Taxation Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded as the Derecognition of financial assets and liabilities Prepayments and other receivables are non-derivative financial The income tax expense represents the sum of tax currently proceeds received, net of direct issue costs.
Equity instruments A financial asset or liability is generally derecognised when the assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted payable and movements in deferred tax.
are classified according to the substance of the contractual contract that gives rise to it is settled, sold, cancelled or expires.
in an active market, do not qualify as trading assets and have not arrangements entered into.
An equity instrument is any contract been designated as fair value through profit and loss.
Such assets are The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Group after Financial assets carried at amortised cost using the effective interest method if the Taxable profit differs from net profit as reported in the Income deducting all of its liabilities.
A financial asset is derecognised where the rights to receive cash time value of money is significant.
Gains and losses are recognised Statement because it excludes items of income or expense that flows from the asset have expired: the Group retains the right to in income when the receivables are derecognised or impaired, and are taxable or deductible in other periods, and it further excludes own shares held in Employee Benefit Trusts receive cash flows from the asset, but has assumed an obligation when economic benefit is consumed.
A provision for impairment is items that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for Shares held in trust by the Company for the purposes of to pay them in full without material delay to a third party under a established where there is objective evidence of non-collectability.
current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or employee share schemes are classified as a deduction from pass-through arrangement: or the Group has transferred its rights substantively enacted by the Statement of Financial Position date.
shareholders equity and are recognised at cost.
Consideration to receive cash flows from the asset and either a has transferred cash and cash equivalents received for the sale of such shares is also recognised in equity, substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or b has Cash comprises cash on hand and demand deposits which may be Deferred tax is generally accounted for on all temporary differences with any difference between the proceeds from the sale and the neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and accessed without penalty.
Cash equivalents comprise short-term between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the original cost being taken to revenue reserves.
No gain or loss is rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
highly liquid investments that are readily convertible into known Financial Statements and the corresponding tax basis used in the recognised in the Income Statement on the purchase, sale, issue amounts of cash and which are subject to an insignificant risk of computation of taxable profit.
In principle, deferred tax liabilities or cancellation of equity shares.
Where the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash changes in value.
For the purposes of the consolidated cash flow are recognised for all temporary differences, and deferred tax assets flows from an asset and has neither transferred nor retained statement, net cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and cash are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits revenue recognition substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset nor transferred equivalents as defined above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts.
will be available, against which deductible temporary differences Trading revenue represents gains and losses arising on client control of the asset, the asset is recognised to the extent of may be utilised.
Such assets and liabilities are not recognised if the trading activity, primarily in financial spread betting, contracts for the Groups continuing involvement in the asset.
Continuing The Group holds money on behalf of clients in accordance with the temporary difference arises from goodwill or negative goodwill or difference, binary bets or sports spread bets and the transactions involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the client money rules of the UK Financial Services Authority FSA and from the initial recognition other than in a business combination undertaken to hedge the risk associated with client trading transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original carrying other regulatory bodies.
Such monies are classified as either cash of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the activity.
Open client and hedging positions are carried at fair amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration and cash equivalents or segregated client funds in accordance tax profit nor the accounting profit.
market value and gains and losses arising on this valuation are that the Group could be required to repay.
with the relevant regulatory requirements.
Segregated client recognised in revenue as well as gains and losses realised on funds comprise retail client funds held in segregated client money Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary positions that have closed.
The policies and methodologies Financial liabilities accounts or money market facilities.
Segregated client money differences arising on investments in subsidiaries and associates, associated with the determination of fair value have been A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the accounts hold statutory trust status restricting the Groups ability to except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the discussed above under Financial Instruments.
liability is discharged or cancelled or expires.
Where an existing control the monies and accordingly such amounts are not held on temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on the Groups Statement of Financial Position.
difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Revenue is recognised when it is probable that economic benefits substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are associated with the transaction will flow to the Group and the substantially modified, such an exchange or modification is treated as The amount of segregated client funds held at year-end is disclosed in The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each revenue can be reliably measured.
a derecognition of the original liability and the recognition of a new note 17 to the Financial Statements.
The return received on managing Statement of Financial Position date and reduced to the extent liability, such that the difference in the respective carrying amounts, segregated client funds is included within net operating income.
that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be Trading revenue is reported gross of introductory broker commission together with any costs or fees incurred, are recognised in profit or loss.
available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
as these amounts are directly linked to trading revenue.
Introductory Title transfer funds are held by the Group under a Title Transfer broker commission, along with betting duties paid, are disclosed as Trade receivables and trade payables Collateral Arrangement TTCA by which a client agrees that full Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured on an undiscounted an expense in arriving at net operating income.
Assets or liabilities resulting from profit or losses on open positions are ownership of such monies is unconditionally transferred to the basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply when the related asset carried at fair value.
Amounts due from or to clients and brokers are Group.
Title transfers funds are accordingly held on the Groups is realised or liability is settled, based on tax rates and laws enacted Finance revenue and interest income on segregated client netted against other assets and liabilities with the same counterparty Statement of Financial Position with a corresponding liability to or substantively enacted at the Statement of Financial Position date.
funds is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the principal where a legally-enforceable netting agreement is in place and where it clients within trade payables.
Deferred tax is charged or credited in the Income Statement, except outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable.
is anticipated that assets and liabilities will be netted on settlement.
when it relates to items credited or charged directly to equity, in which The effective interest rate is the rate which exactly discounts other payables case the deferred tax is also dealt with in equity.
estimated future cash receipts over the expected life of the Trade receivables represent balances with counterparties Non-trading financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value financial asset to that assets net carrying amount.
Interest income and clients where the combination of cash held on account and carried at amortised cost using the effective interest rate Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when they relate to on segregated client funds is disclosed within revenue and and the valuation of financial derivative open positions result method if the time value of money is significant.
income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group therefore operating profit, as this is consistent with the nature of in an amount due to the Group.
A provision for impairment intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
is established where there is objective evidence of nonProvisions collectability.
Reference is made to an aged profile of debt and Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present legal or classification of shares as debt or equity Net trading revenue, disclosed on the face of the consolidated the provision is subject to management review.
constructive obligation as a result of past events: it is probable When shares are issued, any component that creates a financial liability Income Statement and in the notes to the Financial Statements, that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the of the Group is presented as a liability in the Statement of Financial represents trading revenue from financial instruments carried Trade payables represent balances with counterparties and obligation: and the amount can be reliably estimated.
Where Position, measured initially at fair value net of transaction costs and at fair value through profit and loss, and has been disclosed net clients where the combination of cash held on account and material, provisions are discounted and recognised at the present thereafter at amortised cost until extinguished on conversion or of introductory broker commission as this is consistent with the valuation of financial derivative open positions results in an value of expenditures expected to settle the obligation, with the redemption.
The corresponding dividends relating to the liability the management information received by the Chief Operating amount payable by the Group.
unwind of the discount recognised as an interest expense.
component are charged as interest expense in the Income Statement.
124 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 125 notes to the Financial Statements noteS to tHe FInAnCIAl StAteMentS continued 37.
AccouNTING PoLIcIES coNTINuED the Income Statement as part of administrative expenses, with a Previously segregated client funds which comprise retail IAS 1 amendment Presentation of Financial Statements.
Dividends receivable are recognised when the shareholders right corresponding entry in equity.
client funds held in segregated client money accounts or The amendment provides clarification that the potential to receive the payment is established.
money market facilities were held on the Groups Statement settlement of a liability by the issue of equity is not relevant to The grant by the Company of options over its equity instruments of Financial Position within cash and cash equivalents, and the its classification as current or non-current operating profit to employees of the subsidiary undertakings in the Group is corresponding liability to clients within trade and other payables.
IFRS 2 amendments Group cash-settled share-based Operating profit is the sum of the results of the principal activities treated as a capital contribution.
The fair value of the employee Segregated clients funds have been excluded from the Groups payment transactions.
The amendments include IFRIC 8 of the Group after charging depreciation of property, plant and services received is recognised over the vesting period as an Statement of Financial Position in order to better reflect the and 11 and expand the guidance in IFRIC 11 to address the equipment, amortisation of intangible assets, operating lease increase in the investment in subsidiary undertakings, with a statutory trust status of such monies, including the restrictions classification of group arrangements not previously covered rentals on land and buildings, foreign exchange differences, corresponding credit to equity.
placed on the Groups ability to control the funds, as well as profit or loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and other increase comparability with the Groups peers.
The impact on the Other new standards, amendments and interpretations, including administrative expenses.
Segment information Financial Statements as well as the amount of segregated client those listed below, have been issued but are not effective for The Groups segmental information is disclosed in a manner funds held at year-end is disclosed in notes 17 and 19 to the accounting periods beginning 1 June 2010 and have not been Exceptional items consistent with the basis of internal reports regarding Financial Statements.
A restated five-year Statement of Financial early adopted by the Group: Exceptional items are those items of income and expense components of the Group that are regularly reviewed by the Position has been included in the Investor Resources and Other that the Group considers are material and or of such a nature Chief Operating Decision Maker CODM in order to assess Information section of the Annual Report IFRS 9 Financial instruments, issued in November 2009. that they merit separate presentation in order to aid a readers the performance and to allocate resources to those operating This standard is the first step in the process to replace IAS 39, understanding of the Groups financial performance.
The Group has therefore determined its operating New and amended standards adopted by the Group Financial instruments, recognition and measurement.
IFRS segments based on the management information received on a The Group has adopted the following new or amended standards 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring Finance costs and interest expense on segregated regular basis by the Executive Directors of the IG Group Holdings as of 1 June 2010: financial assets.
The standard is not applicable until 1 January client funds plc Board, as they are considered to be the CODM.
Operating 2013 and has not yet been endorsed by the EU.
The Group has Finance costs and interest expense on segregated client funds segments that do not meet the quantitative thresholds required IAS 27 revised Consolidated and separate Financial yet to assess the impact of IFRS 9 are accrued on a time basis by reference to the principal amount by IFRS 8 are aggregated.
The revised standard requires the effects of all IAS 24 revised Related party disclosures, issued in November charged at the effective interest rate applicable.
The effective transactions with non-controlling interests to be recorded in 2009 effective after 1 January 2011 interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts the future expected The Group has also early adopted the IFRS Improvements equity if there is no change in control.
The application of the IFRS 13 Fair value measurement effective 1 January 2013 cash flows to the carrying amount of the liability.
Issue costs are Standard issued in April 2009 that provides an amendment to amendments to IAS 27 revised has not had a material impact IAS 19 revised 2011 Employee benefits effective included in the determination of the effective interest rates.
IFRS 8 such that segment assets are not required to be disclosed on the accounting or disclosure of the acquisition completed in 1 January 2013 as segment assets are not reported to the CODM.
the period Amendment to IFRS 7 Financial instruments: disclosures Interest expense on segregated client funds is disclosed within IFRS 3 revised Business combinations.
The revised standard effective 1 July 2011 operating profit as this is consistent with the nature of the The Group envisages that the reportable segments may change requires that all acquisition costs be expensed and that all Amendment to IAS 12 Income taxes on deferred tax Groups operations.
as overseas businesses move towards operational maturity, payments to purchase a business are to be recorded at fair value effective 1 January 2012 breaking through the quantitative thresholds of IFRS 8.
The at the acquisition date.
Any contingent payments are classified Amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements retirement benefit costs segments are therefore subject to annual review and the as debt and re-measured through the Income Statement.
Nonon OCI effective 1 July 2012 The Group operates defined contribution schemes.
Contributions comparatives restated to reflect any reclassifications within the controlling interests are measured either at fair value or at the are charged to the Income Statement as and when they become segmental reporting.
non-controlling interest proportionate share of the acquirees The new standards and amendments listed above are not payable according to the rules of the schemes.
The Group has elected to apply the proportionate expected to have a material impact on the Group or Company.
changes in accounting policies share of the acquirees net assets methodology to the acquisition Share-based payments The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of Financial completed in the period.
The application of the amendments to critical accounting estimates and judgements The Company operates three employee share plans: a share Statements are consistent with those followed in the preparation IFRS3 revised has not had a material impact on the accounting The preparation of Financial Statements requires management incentive plan SIP, a long-term incentive plan LTIP and a value of the Groups Annual Report for the year ended 31 May 2010, or disclosure of the acquisition completed in the period to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts sharing plan VSP all of which are equity-settled.
The cost of other than the presentational changes set out below: reported for assets and liabilities as at the year-end and the these awards is measured at fair value calculated using option The following new standards and interpretations are also effective amounts reported for revenues and expenses during the year.
The pricing models refer to note 26 for additional detail of the models I ntroductory broker commissions have been disclosed as a for accounting periods beginning 1 June 2010 but have not had a nature of estimates means that actual outcomes could differ from and assumptions used for the various award schemes and is component of net operating income, as these commissions are material impact on the presentation of, nor the results or financial those estimates.
recognised as an expense in the Income Statement on a straightdirectly linked to trading revenue.
This change has been made position of the Group: line basis over the vesting period based on the Companys in order to present trading revenue on a basis more consistent In the Directors opinion, the accounting estimates or estimate of the number of shares that will eventually vest.
with the nature of the Groups operations and to increase IAS 38 amendment Intangible assets.
The amendment judgements that have the most significant impact on the comparability with the Groups peers.
This has resulted in an clarifies guidance in measuring fair value of an intangible asset Financial Statements are the impairment of trade receivables At each Statement of Financial Position date before vesting, increase in reported trading revenue for the year ended acquired in a business combination and permits grouping of see note 3 and 33, the calculation of the Groups taxation the cumulative expense is calculated representing the extent 31 May 2011 of 32,854,000 and for the year ended 31 May intangible assets as a single asset if each asset has a similar charge see note 9 c and 9 f, the measurement and to which the vesting period has expired and managements 2010 of 45,876,000.
An equivalent commission expense has useful economic life impairment of goodwill see note 15, the estimation of best estimate of the achievement or otherwise of non-market been recognised in each of these periods.
There is no change IFRS 5 amendment Measurement of non-current assets share-based payment costs see note 26 and the assessment conditions determining the number of equity instruments that to any of net trading revenue, net operating income or profit or disposal groups classified as held for sale.
The of net market risk and associated disclosures see note 33. will ultimately vest.
The movement in cumulative expense since before taxation for either of these periods amendment provides clarification to the existing standard the previous Statement of Financial Position date is recognised in disclosure requirements 126 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 127 Inv In ev se tor R stor R es eour sour ce cs and es and Other In other Infformation ormation INVESTOR RESOURCES AND OTHER INFORMATION FIvE-YEAr SuMMArY 130 ExAMPLE: BuYING A SPrEAD BET 134 ExAMPLE: SELLING A coNTrAcT For DIFFErENcE 136 GLoSSArY oF TErMS 138 GLoBAL oFFIcES 140 SHArEHoLDEr AND coMPANY INForMATIoN 142 cAuTIoNArY STATEMENT 143 12 128 8 | IG GR | IG GROUP HOLDING OUP HOLDINGS PL S PLC | 2 C | 2011 ANNU 011 ANNUAL REPOR AL REPORT T 1 129 29 Investor Resources and other Information FIve-YeAR SuMMARY GrouP INcoME STATEMENT GrouP STATEMENT oF FINANcIAL PoSITIoN 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 for the year ended 31 may 000 000 000 000 000 as at 31 may 000 000 000 000 000 net trading revenue 320,392 298,551 257,089 184,008 121,990 Assets Other net operating income 4,863 1,172 377 621 2,345 non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 16,761 9,632 11,632 9,824 8,158 Net operating income 325,255 299,723 257,466 183,387 124,335 Intangible assets 117,202 265,328 260,607 112,056 107,675 Adjusted administrative expenses 151,642 133,782 126,380 84,894 53,984 Deferred tax assets 11,264 14,264 7,562 8,053 3,940 EBITDA 173,613 165,941 131,086 98,493 70,351 145,227 289,224 279,801 129,933 119,773 Depreciation, amortisation and amounts written current assets off property, plant and equipment 10,583 8,654 6,423 4,922 4,590 Trade receivables 270,104 206,243 183,085 263,323 352,628 EBIT 163,030 157,287 124,663 93,571 65,761 Prepayments and other receivables 8,199 7,084 4,928 5,690 3,954 Cash and cash equivalents 124,528 128,097 99,407 102,759 93,283 Finance revenue 2,402 2,664 2,887 4,047 3,409 Finance costs 2,432 2,312 1,678 628 276 402,831 341,424 287,420 371,772 449,865 adjusted profit before taxation 163,000 157,639 125,872 96,990 68,894 totaL assets 548,058 630,648 567,221 501,705 569,638 Amortisation and impairment of intangibles Liabilities 1 arising on consolidation 155,953 17,298 14,613 - - current liabilities Trade payables 83,490 57,673 90,642 213,726 334,871 Profit before taxation 7,047 140,341 111,259 96,990 68,894 Other payables 45,149 44,825 27,326 26,715 18,472 Tax expense 32,339 38,855 32,607 29,702 21,027 Provisions 1,427 1,377 - - - Income tax payable 37,060 38,863 36,560 16,508 14,547 Profit for the year 25,292 101,486 78,652 67,288 47,867 167,126 142,738 154,528 256,949 367,890 1 Includes the amortisation and impairment of intangible assets associated with the Groups Japanese business and impairment of the goodwill associated with the Groups Sport business and related taxation.
non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities - 11,463 16,740 - - Provisions 1,991 1,779 - - - Redeemable preference shares 40 40 40 40 40 2,031 13,282 16,780 40 40 total liabilities 169,157 156,020 171,308 256,989 367,930 capital and reserves Total shareholders equity 378,700 471,449 393,364 244,676 201,668 Non-controlling interests 201 3,179 2,549 40 40 total equity 378,901 474,628 395,913 244,716 201,708 totaL eQuIty and LIabILItIes 548,058 630,648 567,221 501,705 569,638 Each Statement of Financial Position presented above has been restated in order to be prepared consistently with the accounting policies disclosed in the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 May 2011.
130 | IG GROUP HOLDINGS PLC | 2011 ANNUAL REPORT 131
