Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:17 Page 38 Corporate Governance Remuneration Report We keep our policy under review to ensure it remains appropriate I am pleased to introduce our Directors in the face of evolving best practice, regulatory developments Remuneration Report for the year ending and market data.
In this regard, I wanted to highlight two key areas: December 2011.
This report sets out our We are proposing to freeze executive director salaries and policy on executive remuneration as well as incentive award levels for 2012.
We believe that the current providing details on the pay of our salaries are in line with market data for UK public companies of a similar size and complexity.
executive directors during the year.
With effect from 2013, we are introducing malus provisions for our deferred bonus arrangements.
These provisions will The key principles of our executive remuneration policy remain allow the Committee to reduce unvested awards in certain unchanged.
We believe in a simple and consistent framework with a significant portion linked to both annual performance and circumstances.
the creation of sustainable value for our shareholders over the I would like to thank my colleagues on the Committee for their long term.
hard work and valuable input during the year.
The remuneration packages for our executives must be sufficient The Committee appreciates dialogue with, and feedback from, to attract and retain the calibre of management which we need shareholders and hopes to receive your support at the AGM on to operate successfully in our markets, whilst always being 26th April 2012. minded that we do not want to pay more than is necessary to achieve this.
The Committee believes that this policy has served the business well over the last few years and has helped to deliver strong earnings and share price performance in what have been very difficult markets.
John Paynter Chairman, Remuneration Committee Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and as Remuneration Committee such voluntarily operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to This Remuneration Report has been prepared by the Remuneration executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
Committee in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the relevant Geoffrey Howe, Dominic Burke and Robert Potter Group HR schedules of the Companies Act 2006 and the Directors Strategy Director attended as ex-officio members of the Committee Remuneration Report Regulations in Schedule 8 to the Large and but did not participate in any discussions regarding or affecting their Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports own remuneration.
Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Committee comprises five non-executive directors Executive Directors who served throughout the year: John Paynter Chairman, Lord The Group firmly believes in a philosophy of payment for Leach, Simon Keswick, Nick MacAndrew and Richard Harvey.
Where pay is increased, this reflects continuing strong The principal purpose of the Committee is to determine the financial performance of the Group and the contribution individual Company's policy on the remuneration of the Chairman, executive employees make to that performance.
Although remuneration for a directors and other members of the Group Executive Committee and number of our senior executives at and below main board level has to approve specific remuneration packages for each of them.
increased in 2011 over 2010, this reflects the excellent progress the The terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Groups Group has made in 2011, despite significant competitive challenge website.
and many unfavourable macro-economic headwinds.
In 2011, Group underlying diluted earnings per share increased by 12% and total The Committee is directly accountable to shareholders and the shareholder return over the year measured 13%.
This performance Chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to has continued the success of recent years: over the three years to answer shareholders questions regarding remuneration.
31st December 2011, underlying diluted earnings per share increased In addition to several ad hoc meetings throughout the year, the by 49% and total shareholder return increased by 77%.
Committee met formally three times in 2011 and the attendance of The Remuneration Committee has noted the decision by Jardine the Committee members at those formal meetings is shown in the Matheson to increase its holding during 2011 by some 10% and table on page 34. believes this is strong testimony both to the achievements of recent years and the Groups compelling business strategy.
Deloitte LLP acted as independent advisers to the Committee during the year, providing information and assistance.
Deloitte LLP was In setting remuneration, the Committee is also mindful of the fact that appointed by the Committee.
They also provide services to the Group it operates in a highly competitive sector, and its policy on the in respect of corporate tax advice and in relation to the winding up of remuneration of executive directors is to ensure that the Group is able dormant companies within the Group.
38 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011
