64 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION.
I am pleased to present the Directors Report on Remuneration for 2011.
THANK YOU TO SIR DAVID WALKER In starting my first report to shareholders, I would like to recognise my predecessor, Sir David Walker, and his very valued contribution to the Remuneration Committee over the past years.
Sir Davids vast experience, ethics and attention to the highest levels of good governance have set a leading example.
The Committee will work hard to maintain this standard.
OUR APPROACH TO REMUNERATION Our core remuneration structure applies throughout the organisation and aims to fairly reward employees and recognise achievements.
We define core remuneration as RUDY MARKHAM base salary, a bonus that is closely aligned to performance CHAIRMAN OF THE and other benets such as pension, car allowance, health REMUNERATION COMMITTEE cover and life assurance.
In addition, for the executive directors and Leadership Team approximately 30 people there is a long-term incentive plan based on TSR.
CLEAR AND TRANSPARENT REPORTING The Remuneration Committee contributed its views to the BIS consultation on Narrative Reporting and Executive Remuneration.
We believe that our own remuneration structure is both transparent and straightforward and we continue to try and enhance the reporting within this Directors Remuneration Report which, we hope, will highlight our reward philosophy and summarise the We have organised our report into key remuneration issues for 2011.
The Committee will two main sections: continue to contribute to the wider debate on dening best practice and will clearly have due regard to all developments during 2012 and beyond.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEES GOVERNANCE AND APPROACH page 66 The Committee welcomes engagement with shareholders OUR REMUNERATION POLICIES pages 67 to 81 in order to share thoughts and clarify its remuneration approach.
It is looking at ways to improve its interaction Our remuneration polices section is with shareholders in 2012. further broken down into: LINK OF PERFORMANCE AND REWARD 1.
General policy page 67 The Company strongly believes in the relationship of 2.
Single gure of remuneration page 68 performance to reward.
Package for Executive directors pages 69 to 75 on achievement of objectives and on the way in which 4.
Policy for other senior managers page 69 those objectives have been attained.
This latter element has been introduced in 2011.
Policy for Non-executive directors pages 74 and 75 6.
Shareholding requirements page 76 REVIEW OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR 7.
Other shareholding information pages 77 to 79 REMUNERATION STRUCTURE 8.
Other benets page 80 During 2011, a full review was undertaken of the executive 9.
Other general information page 81 directors remuneration structure.
Weconcluded that the overall structure remained sound but it was recognised OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION A AN NNU NUAL AL REPORT REPORT A AN ND D A AC CCOU COUNTS NTS 20 201 11 1 65 65 that some elements were below mid-market ranges in After due consideration of Company performance and relation to other FTSE 100 companies.
However, given other factors, it was concluded that the appropriate level the uncertain economic environment and ongoing for awards under the Performance Share Plan PSP was changes in regulatory requirements, it was felt 200% of salary for 2012. inappropriate to make changes at this time, so the current structure will continue into 2012.
However, ANNOUNCED PLANNED RETIREMENT OF GROUP the Committee will review the position again in 2012.
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER TIM BREEDON The Groups Performance Share Plan will expire in 2014 During 2011, Tim Breedon announced his intention on its tenth anniversary, and shareholder consent will toretire at or by the end of 2012.
He will continue to be be sought for any replacement.
paid in line with our current remuneration policy and his existing contractual terms.
The Company does not THE 2012 PAY REVIEW foresee any additions to this.
This year has continued to see a challenging economic environment and volatile market conditions.
However, the CODE STAFF Company has succeeded in meeting or exceeding many The Remuneration Committee extended its remit in 2011 areas of its plans.
In setting its pay review budgets, the to review individual pay and bonus decisions for those Company takes into consideration both the external employees deemed to be Code staff or Control Functions market and Company performance.
For 2012, UK core under the FSAs response to the Capital Requirements pay review budgets have been set at 2.25% for managers Directive CRD3.
Legal & General falls under the 2.6% in LGIM and 3.0% for staff grades 3.2% in LGIM.
The aggregate remuneration for Code staff in relation to 2010 was reported on our internet The Remuneration Committee takes into consideration website during the year and will again be published on the the remuneration base pay and bonus budgets for internet for 2011. employees below Board level when determining the remuneration for the executive directors.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NEDS FEES The role and responsibilities of the NEDs were reviewed The executive directors salaries have, therefore, been by the Board during 2011.
Fees were last increased in increased within the budget agreed for employees 2008.
The 2011 review maintains the base fee at 65,000. throughout the Company.
An exception is Mark Gregory However, for those NEDs who sit on two or more who joined the Board at a salary well below the midcommittees, excluding the Nominations Committee, market range.
As seen from the results in Savings on anadditional fee of 10,000 pa will be paid.
The fees pages 20 to 23, Mark is making a significant contribution of Committee Chairmen and the Senior Independent to the business and therefore, in recognition of this, his Director SID were also reviewed.
The new fee structure salary has risen in line with our policy of progression is outlined in detail on page 74.
A further change was towards the mid-market range.
Total pay increases for the torequire the NEDs to hold the equivalent of one years executive directors, including Mark Gregory, total 2.16% base fee in Legal & General shares to be retained until against a non LGIM management budget of 2.25%.
The annual executive directors bonus awards are I sincerely hope you nd this report of the Committees assessed by a combination of financial results against key work comprehensive and understandable.
I hope you Group performance indicators and the achievement of willsupport the resolution to vote for this Directors personal and strategic objectives.
Under the annual bonus Remuneration Report pages [64] to [81] at the AGM.
plans, bonuses of between 61.69% and 91.69% of the maximum potential 125% were awarded to executive directors compared to 73% to 90% in 2010.
Further details of how these awards were determined are set out on page 71.
The Committee considers this level of bonus RUDY MARKHAM to be appropriate in light of the strong results, for example CHAIRMAN OF THE increases over 2010 in operating profit, net cash generation REMUNERATION COMMITTEE and EEV per share.
The Groups KPI results are shown on pages 10 and 11.
66 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 DIRECTORS REPORT ON REMUNERATION.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEES GOVERNANCE AND APPROACH GENERAL GOVERNANCE payand bonus decisions in relation to the Control The Directors Report on Remuneration has been functions Risk, Regulatory Compliance and Internal prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Audit, and also the oversight departments of Finance Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Human Resources to ensure that decisions are and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts not biased depending on reporting linesto either the and Reports Regulations 2008.
It also describes the business orfunctional head.
Groups compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to remuneration.
The Company is TERMS OF REFERENCE an active member of the ABI and the Committee, The Committees terms of reference are available on consistent with its approach of operating within the our website or on request.
The terms of reference were highest standards of corporate governance, takes reviewed during 2011 to ensure they continued to significant account of guidelines issued by the ABI accurately reect the remit of the Committee which and shareholder bodies such as theNAPF when embraces the remuneration strategy and policy for setting the remuneration strategy for the Company.
thewhole Company as well as the executive directors.
It also seeks to maintain an active and productive The Committee retained Hewitt New Bridge Street dialogue with investors on developments in the HNBS as its independent adviser until August 2011. remuneration aspects of corporate governance The lead consultant adviser to the Committee, John Lee, generally and any changes to the Companys left to become managing partner of a new rm, FIT executive pay arrangements in particular.
Remuneration Consultants LLP FIT, and the Committee decided to appoint this rm.
The terms ofagreement The Remuneration Committees remit extends between the Company and HNBS andFIT are available beyond the executive directors.
It reviews the on request.
Both HNBS and FIT are signatories to the ongoingpay andbonus decisions on an individual Remuneration Consultants Group Code of Conduct in basis for any employees who earn a base salary relation to Executive Remuneration Consulting in the UK.
It also reviews the overall Remuneration Committee members and attendees the Committee met four times during 2011 Remuneration Committee members Position Comments Chairman of Remuneration Committee Rudy Markham from26 May 2011 Independent Member of the Committee until 25 May 2011, John Stewart now a standing attendee by invitation Independent upon appointment on 1 March 2010 Nick Prettejohn Member from 2 November 2010 Independent Mike Fairey Member from 1 May 2011 Independent Stuart Popham Member from 1 July 2011 Independent James Strachan Member of the Committee until 25 May 2011 Independent Sir David Walker Chairman of the Committee until 25 May 2011 Independent Remuneration Committee attendees Position Comments Tim Breedon Group Chief Executive Attends by invitation Attends as an executive responsible for advising Elaine MacLean Group HR Director onthe remuneration policy Group Head of Reward Attends as an executive responsible for advising Rosemary Lemon and Executive Remuneration onthe remuneration policy Kaye Maguire Secretariat Attends as secretary to the Committee Hewitt New Bridge Street HNBS FIT Remuneration Attends by invitation as the Committees John Lee Consultants FIT independentadviser No person is present during any discussion relating to their own remuneration.
