party 80 Governance Annual report & accounts 2011 Directors Remuneration Report Unaudited I.
Directors Remuneration Report Purpose of the Committee Introduction The Board has appointed the Remuneration Committee to oversee bwin.
party continues to operate in a dynamic and challenging theremuneration policy and practices adopted by the Group.
The environment and it remains a core objective of the Groups Committees terms of reference are available on bwin.
partys website, remuneration policy to provide competitive remuneration packages http: www.
com AboutUs CorporateGovernance that support the business and its strategic goals, by recruiting and .
It is essential that these individuals have the necessary skills and entrepreneurial drive to grow this fast The key objectives of the remuneration policy are to: moving business and ensure bwin.
party continues to be a leader in digital entertainment.
Establish competitive remuneration terms that allow the Group torecruit, retain and incentivise the most talented managers: The Merger has been a time of significant change for employees and has Promote the achievement of bwin.
partys rolling three-year business raised retention challenges for the business.
Simultaneously, the United strategy through the provision of appropriate targets that stretch States looks increasingly likely to introduce regulated online poker andmotivate employees to deliver on the strategic objectives: which, while a welcome business growth opportunity for bwin.
party, Ensure effective risk management and sustainable performance creates additional employee retention issues, as US and other operators isencouraged through reward: and seek to build up their online gaming teams and look to bwin.
party as a valuable source of knowledgeable and experienced staff.
Despite these Ensure senior executive remuneration is aligned with the interests challenges, the remuneration policy, based on the new equity plans ofbwin.
partys shareholders and other stakeholders introduced in 2011, continues to attract, incentivise and retain the The Committees main responsibilities are: experienced online gaming experts and entrepreneurs who are key tobwin.
Agree the remuneration policy for the Chairman of the Board, Executive Directors, Company Secretary and senior executives The Remuneration Committee regularly reviews the Companys risk together the Senior Officers and review regularly the ongoing policy against the operation of the Companys incentive plans to ensure appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy: that their operation is consistent with this policy.
The Committee believes that the opportunities within the incentive arrangements are Ensure the remuneration policy provides for individuals to receive warranted by the challenges set out above and that these arrangements appropriate remuneration and incentives to encourage enhanced encourage the sustainable long-term value of the Company.
performance and to be rewarded, in a fair and responsible manner, fortheir individual contributions to the success of the Group: This report has been prepared on behalf of the Board in accordance Review annually the total individual remuneration package of the withSchedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Senior Officers: Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Liaise with the Nominations Committee to ensure that the Financial Services Authority anddescribes how the Board has applied remuneration of any newly appointed Senior Officer is within the the principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Companys overall remuneration policy: Governance Code relating to Directors remuneration.
An advisory Set and monitor performance criteria for any bonus arrangements resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Companys forthe Senior Officers and the framework of the bonus structure for Annual General Meeting on 7 June 2012. staff generally: The auditors are required to report on the auditable part of this report Approve the length and terms of all service contracts and the and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been appointment letter for the Board Chairman and Executive Directors: properly prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Review and approve the introduction of new share option and share Report Regulations 2002.
BDO LLP and BDO Limited have audited the award schemes, set or recommend the performance criteria for sections headed Summary of the long-term incentive plans and awards, determine each year whether awards will be made and the Totalemoluments overview to the extent they are required to overall amount of the awards and approve any awards proposed for dosobythe Regulations.
Senior Officers: and Rod Perry Approve the terms of termination of the Chairman of the Board or any Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Executive Director and ensure such terms are fair and reasonable and 29 March 2012 not excessive, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised bwin.
party 81 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 Membership Business during the year The members of the Remuneration Committee are all independent During 2011 the Remuneration Committee met six times to review and Non-Executive Directors: consider the following items of business: Rod Perry Chairman from 31 March 2011 February: Approve the 2010 senior management bonuses Tim Bristow until 31 March 2011 Set the 2011 performance formula for the Bonus Banking Plan Set the 2011 performance formula for the Bonus & Shares Plan Per Afrell appointed 31 March 2011 Determine the extent outstanding awards under the Executive Share Helmut Kern appointed 31 March 2011 Option Plan and Performance Share Plan have met their performance objectives Lewis Moonie Chairman until 31 March 2011 Review the proposed Directors Remuneration Report for the year Advisers ended 31December 2010 April:  LLP PwC in London provides guidance Set the 2011 financial and individual objectives for the Bonus tothe Remuneration Committee on remuneration trends, short and Banking Plan long-term incentives and general market remuneration developments.
Considered setting the initial price of the Value Creation Plan and PwC was appointed by the Committee following a tender process allocation of the participation rights in any Value Creation Plan pool inmid-2010 in which a number of potential advisers participated.
of value Aseparate department of PwC provided an internal audit review of Set the 2011 financial objectives for the Bonus & Shares Plan.
partys marketing function during 2011, however this work was Agreed an amendment to the terms of the share awards granted completely unrelated to and segregated from the work performed by tokey Cashcade employees PwCs remuneration consultancy and in the Remuneration Committees view did not undermine their independence.
Whilst Helmut Kern was June: amanagement consultant partner with PwC in Austria until October Further review of the 2011 personal objectives set for the Co-CEOs 2011, he was not a Director when PwC were appointed and took no part toensure in practice they were complimentary and remained in any decision regarding their continued appointment.
His function appropriate with PwC Austria was completely independent of and segregated from Reviewed shareholder feedback from the setting of the initial price the work performed by PwCs remuneration team in London.
for the Value Creation Plan August: The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Remuneration Agreed the remuneration of the new Group Director of Poker Committee.
Agreed the remuneration of the new Group Director of Bingo In performing its duties during the year, the Remuneration Committee December: consulted with the Chairman of the Board, the Group Human Resources Advised by PwC on current market remuneration trends Director, the Co-CEOs and the CFO.
The Remuneration Committee Reviewed the Groups remuneration policy ensured, however, that no individual was involved in any decisions Met with PwC without management representatives present about their own remuneration.
Reviewed the remuneration consultants bwin.
party 82 Governance Annual report & accounts 2011 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration policy As a result of the above considerations, the Group has adopted a highly leveraged incentive policy to ensure that the profile of the remuneration The Groups remuneration policy continues to be to provide marketon offer is supportive of the Groups business strategy and the effect of competitive total remuneration packages enabling the business to legislative changes.
In conjunction with this approach, the policy adopts recruit and retain high calibre entrepreneurs required to drive the future comparatively modest elements for the fixed elements of the total growth and performance of its business.
The online gaming sector remuneration package, with generally lower to median quartile salaries, continues to be a highly competitive and dynamic environment and minimal benefits and no pension provision.
thefollowing key factors are taken into account: Comparator groups The nature of the market in which the Group operates and, in particular, the fact that the regulation and legality of online gaming The Remuneration Committee has adopted a combination of the varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, is subject to uncertainties and following comparator groups to benchmark its remuneration: may be impacted by adverse changes to regulation of online gaming i Companies in the FTSE 250 Index: or the interpretation of regulation by regulators: ii Companies in the FTSE 51100: The need for incentive arrangements to incorporate suitable iii A bespoke comparator group of the following international companies: riskadjustment provisions to ensure executives do not receive unjustified windfalls: 888 Holdings Monster Worldwide The need to attract and retain key talent and drive high performance: ASOS NCR Increasing regulation impacting the Groups margins due to Betsson AB Net Entertainment Ne AB additional cost of compliance and taxation: Boyd Gaming Corporation Opentable The requirement for the Executive Directors and certain senior Concur Techs Paddy Power executives to relocate and discharge all of their responsibilities Cybersource Playtech fromGibraltar: Digital River Rank Group The opening of the US online gambling market under a federal or state E Trade Financial Rightmove licensing regime, together with the timing of such a development, Expedia Sportingbet may have a substantial impact on the Groups financial and share Fortinet Unibet price performance.
The remuneration policy has to be flexible and IAC Interactivecorp Verisign durable enough to accommodate these changes without becoming International Game Technology William Hill compromised: and Ladbrokes WMS Industries The need to reconcile UK corporate governance guidance with Las Vegas Sands Yell Group marketremuneration practices in all jurisdictions where the Group MGM Resorts Intl.
Com Grp In this context particular focus is placed on providing a share-based remuneration package appealing to entrepreneurial and innovative executives.
The current share-based awards were designed in 2010 and introduced in 2011 following the completion of the Merger and aim to take account of the risks associated with the online gaming business and seek to address the following: Long-term incentives with standard three-year performance periods are difficult to use to motivate and retain senior executives due to the fast moving nature of the market: Comparative total shareholder return targets are inappropriate as even direct industry comparators have a different focus on the various gaming verticals and different risk exposure: Incentives need to be flexible enough todeal with the changing regulatory environment in which the Group operates: and The remuneration challenge for the Group is to have remuneration arrangements in place where part of the reward provided to senior executives is linked to shareholder return and is not completely undermined by the risk factors impacting the sector and theGroup bwin.
party 83 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 The following table summarises the Remuneration Committees policy for each element of the remuneration package against the previous comparators: Potential total short-term Potential annual Potential total Base salary Bonus Pension Benefits in kind remuneration available share awards compensation value Lower Quartile to Upper None Lower Median to Upper Median to Median Quartile Quartile Upper Quartile Quartile Upper Quartile This supports the performance based culture of the Company.
Fixed costs are minimised and total The policy in respect of long-term incentives and  will only reach and exceed the median ifthe performance-based bonus is earned potential compensation value is an extension forthe relevant financial year.
In certain circumstances, the Remuneration Committee will, atitsdiscretion, ofthepolicy on total short term remuneration.
setbase salary outside of policy in order to secure the recruitment and retention oftheappropriate Executive Directors willonly receive a market individualfor the role.
In such cases the Committee will take into account factors such as the individuals competitive package if the annual bonus and longskillsand level of experience.
The charts on page 84 show the on target and maximum compensation for each of the Executive Directors based on the following assumptions for 2012: Assumption On Target Maximum Salary Salary Salary Benefits Benefits Benefits Bonus 50% of Maximum 100% of Maximum Contribution Contribution Fair Value of 50% of the 100% of the VCP Award at Grant Fair Value Fair Value The Committee also considers corporate performance on environmental, social and governance ESG issues when setting the remuneration ofExecutive Directors and senior managers, ensuring these good practice objectives are appropriately addressed in each individuals objectives.
TheRemuneration Committee also reviews whether incentive structures may raise ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour and is of the view that this is not the case with the current incentive structures.
party 84 Governance Annual report & accounts 2011 Directors Remuneration Report Jim Ryan Co-CEO Target Jim Ryan Co-CEO Maximum Salary Salary Benets Benets Bonus Banking Plan Bonus Banking Plan VCP Fair Value VCP Fair Value Norbert Teufelberger Co-CEO Target Norbert Teufelberger Co-CEO Maximum Salary Salary Benets Benets Bonus Banking Plan Bonus Banking Plan VCP Fair Value VCP Fair Value Joachim Baca COO Target Joachim Baca COO Maximum Salary Salary Benets Benets Bonus Banking Plan Bonus Banking Plan VCP Fair Value VCP Fair Value Martin Weigold CFO Target Martin Weigold CFO Maximum Salary Salary Benets Benets Bonus Banking Plan Bonus Banking Plan VCP Fair Value VCP Fair Value bwin.
party 85 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 Remuneration components a.
Salaries Policy Lower Quartile to Median of Comparator Groups 2011 2012 Percentage Name & Role Basic Salary Basic Salary Increase Jim Ryan Co-CEO 500,000 500,000 0.0 Norbert Teufelberger Co-CEO 500,000 500,000 0.0 Joachim Baca COO 428,500 446,000 4.1 Martin Weigold CFO 428,500 446,000 4.1 When determining the base salary of the Executive Directors the c. Pensions Committee takes into consideration: Policy No pension provision The levels of base salary for similar positions with comparable During 2011 there was no company pension scheme in Gibraltar.
InApril status, responsibility and skills in organisations of broadly similar 2012 the Group is introducing a flexible benefits programme and this will sizeand complexity: provide the option for employees to contribute to a company provided The performance of the individual Executive Director: pension, with a modest contribution by the employing entity of 1% of salary if the employee contributes at least 3%of their salary.
The individual Executive Directors experience and responsibilities: and d. Incentives Pay and conditions throughout the Company.
The Committee has Bonus and long-term incentives access to pay and conditions of other employees within the Group Policy Upper Quartile of Comparator Groups when determining remuneration for the Executive Directors and also considered the relationship between general changes to pay and The incentive plans remain a core element of the remuneration policy in conditions within the Group as a whole.
The general increase in incentivising and retaining executives and aligning their interests with salaries across the Group was 3 to 4% those of bwin.
The Committee uses comparisons with caution to avoid increasing During 2011 the Executive Directors participated in the Bonus Banking remuneration levels without a corresponding improvement Plan and Value Creation Plan, which were both introduced in 2011 in inperformance.
conjunction with the Merger and following extensive shareholder consultation and a binding vote at the extraordinary general meeting b.
Benefits ofthe Companys shareholders on 28 January 2011.
Policy Lower Quartile of Comparator Groups i Bonus Banking Plan BBP Benefits only include private medical insurance, permanent health The key features of the BBP are: insurance and life assurance.
In line with the remuneration policy the level of fixed costs incurred as part of the executive remuneration In 2011, at the beginning of the plan period of three financial years, package has been set at the minimum level.
Details of the monetary participants were given a plan account to which contributions will values attributable to these benefits for 2011 are set out in the bemade emoluments table on page 95.
No contribution is be made to a participants plan account unless the performance criteria are met Each participant has a maximum annual contribution as a percentage of salary, set out in the table overleaf, which provides the following total cash opportunities for the Executive Directors bwin.
party 86 Governance Annual report & accounts 2011 Directors Remuneration Report Company Total Cash including value of deferred share Maximum annual element under the contribution as a % BBP Name Role of basic salary 000s Jim Ryan Co-CEO 300 1,500 Norbert Teufelberger Co-CEO 300 1,500 Joachim Baca COO 250 1,071 Martin Weigold CFO 250 1,071 Top tier seniormanagers 150200 236690 Total Cash is base salary plus targeted levels ofbonus.
It should be noted that under the BBP 50% of the element earned is deferred in shares.
The Remuneration Committee sets the performance criteria for each The Remuneration Committee believes that the BBP is appropriate and plan year.
The performance criteria are as follows: supports the remuneration policy for the following reasons: a minimum threshold level of Clean EBITDA for each financial year i the BBP provides flexibility for the Remuneration Committee to set is required for there to be any payment under the BBP: annual targets mitigating against some of the risks of the sector: assuming the threshold is met a percentage of Clean EBITDA ii the use of strategic key performance indicators as additional isused to create the bonus pool: conditions for payments to be made under the BBP allows a more holistic, flexible and durable approach rather than focusing purely a participants annual payment from the bonus pool is also on a relatively narrow set of financial metrics: subject to the satisfaction of additional individual performance objectives: iii it ensures that any objectives based on integration and synergy savings from the Merger are underpinned by profit performance where the forfeit threshold Clean EBITDA is not achieved 50% before any bonus is earned: ofthe deferred balance in a participants plan account will be forfeited: and iv the minimum performance thresholds ensure that key executives are encouraged to focus on sustainable long-term performance: and Participants are entitled to an annual payment of 50% of their plan account at theend of each plan year.
All balances aredeferred into v the deferral in shares and the real risk of forfeiture through shares.
On the fourth anniversary of the start of the plan period claw-back ensure a balance between the interests of shareholders 1January 2014 the remainder of the balance of participants plan and key executives accounts willbe paid bwin.
party 87 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 2011 Outcomes The following table sets out the Clean EBITDA targets for 2011 and their level of satisfaction: Clean EBITDA Clean EBITDA Clean EBITDA Threshold on Target Maximum EBITDA 161.9m 202.4m 242.9m % of EBITDA credited 2.4% 3.8% 3.2% to the Bonus Pool %age of Clean EBITDA Value of Contribution 2011 Outcomes Clean EBITDA credited to the Bonus Pool to the Bonus Pool 199.3m 3.8% 7.67m m 2011 EBITDA Clean EBITDA Maximum Clean EBITDA on Target Clean EBITDA Threshold 0 50 100 150 200 250 In addition, the Remuneration Committee has reviewed the performance of the Executive Directors and senior executives against their personal objectives set for 2011.
The objectives for the COO, CFO and senior executives were set by the Co-CEOs, whilst the objectives for the Co-CEOs were set by the Chairman.
All the personal objectives were reviewed and approved by the Remuneration Committee at the beginning of 2011 before being rolled out.
The 2011 objectives included: Co-CEOs COO CFO Oversee the delivery of the integration plan Manage the process of capturing the Oversee the combined Groups profit and andforecast synergies forecastsynergies lossaccount and budget and financial tracking andcontrol Implement strategic plans to exploit new or related Manage the form and delivery of the Groups business channels products and services Integrate the bwin financial systems with those of PartyGaming Embed innovation into the Groups strategy Oversee the optimisation of software development and IT operations Conduct a budgeting exercise for the Identify and enter into new strategic partnerships combinedGroup Align the bwin and PartyGaming processes Implement the tactical plan to re-enter the USonline Track and oversee the realisation of the poker market when it becomes regulated Enable quick and effective entry into newly Mergersynergies regulated markets Implement tactical plans relating to new markets Support the strategic decision-making process and Group culture Enhance the Groups payment processing operation Improve the customer experience bwin.
party 88 Governance Annual report & accounts 2011 Directors Remuneration Report As a result of this review process, the Remuneration Committee has determined that the Executive Directors are entitled to the following contributions in respect of 2011: Deferred % of Cash shares Total Basic Name Role payment Value value salary Jim Ryan Co-CEO 453,125 327,095 906,250 181 453,125 Norbert Teufelberger Co-CEO 453,125 327,095 906,250 181 453,125 Joachim Baca COO 319,813 230,862 639,626 149 319,813 Martin Weigold CFO 320,486 231,348 640,972 150 320,486 Number of shares calculated using the average share price for the 30-day measurement period to 31 December 2011, which was 138.53 pence.
The following chart shows the actual Company contribution to the planaccounts for the Executive Directors for 2011 compared to their maximum annual contribution: % Jim Ryan Co-CEO Norbert Teufelberger Co-CEO Joachim Baca COO Martin Weigold CFO 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 Maximum Contribution % of Salary Actual Bonus Contribution % of Salary 2012 maximum annual contribution and performance targets The Company 2012 maximum annual contribution for Executive Directors participating in the BBP is the same as the levels set for 2011.
For 2012 the Remuneration Committee has again set the minimum threshold for a payment under the BBP.
This is not disclosed in this report becausethe information is commercially sensitive, but will be disclosed in the 2012 Directors Remuneration Report using the format set out above.
The personal objectives for the Executive Directors and senior executives have also been set and agreed by the .
party 89 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 ii Value Creation Plan VCP The key features of the VCP are: Under the VCP, participants have been allocated a number of VCP points from a total pot and the Executive Directors have received thefollowing: Name Number of % of VCP Pool VCP Points Jim Ryan 1,000,000 10 Norbert Teufelberger 1,000,000 10 Joachim Baca 1,000,000 10 Martin Weigold 1,000,000 10 Top-tier senior manager 200,000 400,000 2-4 These VCP points have no value on grant but give the participants The annual hurdle will be the higher of: theopportunity, during the three-year performance period, to share 10% compounded annually from the initial price: and in 4% of the total value created for shareholders in excess of an annual the average share price at the start of the relevant year or hurdle of 10% share price growth from the initial share price at annual previous measurement date if this is higher than at the start of measurement points the relevant year : and The value to each participant will be set by reference to the number ofVCP points held in proportion to the total VCP points allocated and The initial price for determining the level of value required to be will be delivered in shares generated in 2011 was 151.52 pence The size of the VCP Pool is not capped The VCP fits with the Groups remuneration policy because: At each measurement date participants will bank shares in the it incentivises participants to focus on building shareholder value: formof a nil-cost option with a value equivalent to the excess value key executives will only benefit from material increases in absolute created using the prevailing share price.
50% of any banked shares total shareholder return ensuring a direct alignment between the willbecome exercisable at the end of year 3 2013, with the remainder benefits received and value to shareholders: and at the end of year 4 2014 the annual banking of shares under the VCP results in an immediate The level of value created for shareholders will be determined by shareholding which because of the restrictions on disposal provides reference to the appreciation in the Companys share price, the an ongoing exposure to the share price of the Company, encourages amount of dividends paid and any sharebuybacks absolute total decisions maintaining and enhancing shareholder value shareholderreturn The average share price for the 30-day period to 31 December 2011 The shareholder value created at each measurement date will be was138.53 pence.
With an initial price of 151.52 pence the share price calculated using the average share price over the 30 day period prior hadto reach a minimum of 166.67 pence before a VCP pool was created to the relevant measurementdate and therefore there are no awards to be granted under the VCP in respect of2011.
The price at which a VCP pool will begin to be created in respect of 2012 Share price on measurement date is 138.53 pence isif the average share price for the 30-day period to 31 December 2012 10% p. a. is183.34 pence.
Depends on the 10% p. a. outcome at the Year 2 end Year 1 Threshold of Year 2: Threshold Price however Price 183.34 pence minimum 166.67 pence Threshold Price would be 201.67 pence Year 1 2011 Year 2 2012 Year 3 2013 bwin.
party 90 Governance Annual report & accounts 2011 Directors Remuneration Report Total remuneration Policy median to upper quartile of comparator groups The Remuneration Committees policy is to set the potential total remuneration at the median to upper quartile of the comparator groups.
The level of total remuneration actually received will be dependent on the level of bonus earned under the BBP and the shares awarded under the VCP.
The table below shows for each of the Executive Directors the following information: the total remuneration payable under the Companys remuneration policy against the comparators.
Total remuneration consists of: base salary on target bonus fair value of long-term incentives pension contributions the actual total remuneration provided by the Company for 2011 Average of Comparators Company Company Policy Level Median Upper Quartile 2011 Actual Name 000s 000s 000s 000s Jim Ryan 2,101 1,980 2,831 1,406 Co-CEO Norbert Teufelberger 2,101 1,980 2,831 1,406 Co-CEO Joachim Baca 1,772 1,037 1,445 748 COO Martin Weigold 1,772 1,077 1,475 749 CFO Other share plans bwin.
party Bonus & Shares Plan Current Plan bwin.
party mid to senior management excluding those in the VCP In addition to the above plans, the Company also operates the following andBBP plans some of which the Directors do or may participate in: The Bonus & Shares Plan, launched in 2011 after the completion of the bwin.
party Global Share Plan Current Plan Merger duplicates in many respects the BBP.
It uses the same Clean All bwin.
party employees including Executive Directors EBITDA target set for the BBP and in determining a participants contribution performance against individual objectives set at the Under the Global Share Plan launched in 2011 following the Merger beginning of the year are considered.
As with the BBP, bonuses are paid participants are able to purchase a maximum of 1,500 shares annually.
in the form of a cash payment and deferred shares awarded as nil-cost Subject to retaining these purchased shares for three years and share options or restricted stock, but unlike the BBP there is no continued employment, the Company can provide a matching share for clawback mechanism for underperformance in future years.
Deferred each employee share purchased.
Participants, excluding the Executive shares vest over a three-year period.
The maximum annual contribution Directors, may also be awarded a nil-cost option no cost on grant and that can be earned under this plan is 150% of basic salary.
The deferred nostrike price or restricted bwin.
party stock up to a value of 25,000 per shares are funded through the allotment of new shares.
annum Executive Directors can only be granted an award up to3,000 invalue per annum.
These discretionary free share awards generally do not have any performance conditions and vest over a three-year period.
New shares are used to satisfy free share awards, whilst shares are purchased in the market in respect of the purchased share and matchingshare programme.
party 91 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 PartyGaming Plc Share Option Plan legacy pre-Merger plan bwin.
party Rollover Option plan legacy pre-Merger plan Jim Ryan, Martin Weigold and former PartyGaming employees and Norbert Teufelberger, Joachim Baca, former bwin non-executive consultants only directors and former bwin employees only Under this plan launched in 2005, option awards have been awarded The Company introduced the bwin.
party Rollover Option Plan ROP at with no cost on grant or exercise and generally without any the time of the Merger.
The purpose of this plan was to effect the grant performance conditions.
The shares used to fund exercised awards of rollover options over bwin.
party shares to replace unexercised under this plan come solely from the employee benefit trust, no new options granted under the two bwin fair market value option plans, shares are allotted to satisfy awards and the shares were largely some of which were subject to performance conditions.
On the day the donated to the employee benefit trust by the founder shareholders of Merger took effect the bwin options over bwin shares were rolled over PartyGaming in 2005 and 2006.
Whilst the Remuneration Committee at into equivalent options under the ROP over bwin.
party shares on the time these options were granted recognised the recommendation termswhich reflected the same exchange ratioas applied to bwin inthe Combined Code on Corporate Governance predecessor to the shareholders 12.23 bwin.
party shares for each bwin share.
The shares UKCorporate Governance Code not to award Executive Directors continue to vest on the same vesting timetable as the original long-term incentive awards without performance conditions or to bwinoptions.
award options at a discount, the Remuneration Committee deemed New bwin.
party shares will be issued to satisfy exercised ROP awards, itnecessary at the time to make these awards in order to attract and however, as explained in the Merger prospectus and circular, these bwin.
retain the services of the recipients.
The awards generally vest over a party shares will not count towards the Companys 10% dilution limit.
Other employees of the Group have participated inthis plan and the majority of awards were made in the period 2005 Details of the awards under the ROP granted to Norbert Teufelberger, to2007.
No awards have been made under this plan since 2010 and no Joachim Baca, Per Afrell, Manfred Bodner, Helmut Kern and Georg Riedl awards will be granted in thefuture.
are contained in the table in the section below.
Whilst the UK Corporate Governance Code recommends against granting options to NonPartyGaming Plc Performance Share Plan legacy pre-Merger plan Executive Directors, Per Afrell, Manfred Bodner, Helmut Kern and Georg Jim Ryan, Martin Weigold and former PartyGaming senior management Riedl received their original bwin options under a different corporate team only governance regime Austrian and the ROP awards simply convert the Under this plan launched in 2007, awards of restricted stock were value of these original awards into bwin.
No further share madeand vested subject to the Companys total shareholder return awards will be made under the ROP.
performance over a three-year period versus that of a peer group.
PartyGaming Plc Executive Share Option Plan legacy pre-Merger plan Onlythe Executive Directors of PartyGaming and the senior Jim Ryan, Martin Weigold and former PartyGaming senior management management team participated in this plan.
Details of how this legacy team only plan operated were set out in the 2010 Remuneration Report and all outstanding awards had their performance measured to 28 January Under this plan launched in 2007, Executive Directors and senior 2011, when shareholders approved the Merger.
The vesting schedule for managers were awarded fair market options vesting after three years all outstanding awards did not change.
As a result, the Remuneration subject to the satisfaction of a Clean EPS growth target.
All awards Committee determined asfollows: madeunder this plan have lapsed.
No future awards will be granted under this plan.
April 2009 awards: TSR performance outperformance of 11.2% so 100% of each award will vest on 31 March 2012.
As a result Jim Ryan PartyGaming All-Employee Option Plan legacy pre-Merger plan will receive 125,000 shares and Martin Weigold will receive All former PartyGaming employees except Executive Directors 337,500shares Under this plan launched in 2007, all employees excluding the Executive September 2009 awards: TSR performance of 4.4% determining that Directors were eligible to receive fair market options.
These awards 57.8% of each award will vest on 30 September 2012.
None of the vested over three years and were not subject to any performance Executive Directors received an award conditions.
These awards, when exercised are satisfied by the issuance of new shares.
No new awards have been granted since 2010 and no April 2010 awards: The TSR threshold was not met and therefore these future awards will be granted under this plan.
awards have lapsed in their entirety.
Jim Ryan and Martin Weigold had 250,000 and 200,000 shares respectively under these grants No awards have been made under this plan since 2010 and no awards will be granted in the future.
party shares will be issued tosatisfy vested awards.
The total number of deferred shares he was awarded was 272,278, vesting in four tranches of 68,182 shares on 30June 2011, 30September 2011, 31 December 2011 and 31 March 2012.
The information contained in this table has been audited by BDOLLP and BDO Limited.
party 93 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 Dilution summary Issued share capital as at 19 March 2012 822,901,408 10% of issued share capital 82,290,140 5% of issued share capital 41,145,070 New issue limits No more than 10% of issued share capital can be committed to the Global Share Plan, BBP, VCP, Bonus & Shares Plan, PartyGaming Plc All-Employee Option Plan and PartyGaming Plc Performance Share Plan.
Within the above limit, no more than 5% of the issued share capital can be committed to BBP, VCP, Bonus & Shares Plan and PartyGaming Plc Performance Share Plan.
Total Number of free shares committed to the Global Share Plan 1,514,920 Total number of shares committed to the PartyGaming Plc All-Employee Option Plan 18,351,601 Total number of shares committed to PartyGaming Plc Performance SharePlan 958,837 Total Share commitments as at 19 March 2012 20,825,358 To date no share awards have been made under the BBP, VCP or Bonus & Shares Plan.
As described above, shares allotted in respect of the bwin.
party Rollover Option Plan 32,105,881 bwin.
party shares, which addresses the legacy bwin.
party options awarded prior to the Merger, do not count towards the Companys 10% dilution limit.
Service agreements Notice Periods Compensation provisions for early Name Date of appointment Nature of contract From bwin.
party From Director termination Joachim Baca 31.03.11 Rolling 12 months 12 months None Jim Ryan 30.06.08 Rolling 12 months 12 months None Norbert Teufelberger 31.03.11 Rolling See below See below See below Martin Weigold 04.04.05 Rolling 12 months 12 months None If Norbert Teufelbergers employment is terminated prior to 31 March toexercise its right to terminate the service agreement by making a 2014 by the Company or by Norbert Teufelberger in certain prescribed payment in lieu of notice.
If Norbert Teufelberger accepts the Companys circumstances under the Regulatory Process Agreement or on a change offer, he will have no right to claim compensation in respect of the ofcontrol, in each case where there are no grounds for summary termination ofhis contract of employment under the provisions termination by the Company, the Company will offer to engage him described above.
asaconsultant until 31 March 2014 on terms which are in respect of If a change of control of the Company as defined in each service remuneration including incentive arrangements no less favourable agreement takes place, each of the Executive Directors may, in when taken as a whole than the terms of his employment arrangements the12months following the change of control, terminate his would have been had they continued until 31 March 2014. employment ifthe Company makes a material adverse change to No compensation will be payable upon expiry of the term on the histitle, responsibilities or status or changes his principal place of thirdanniversary of his appointment date unless the period of the workto a place other than Gibraltar by giving three months notice to consultancy agreement is less than 12 months, in which case Norbert the Company in writing.
The Company will then be required to pay the Teufelberger will receive an additional payment on the expiry of the relevant Executive Director a payment equal to the amount he would consultancy agreement equal to the amount if any by which the have received had his employment been terminated in accordance with aggregate of any termination payments under the service agreement the payment in lieu provision in his service agreement.
and payments under the consultancy agreement is less than the The service agreements are governed by English law and contain payment in lieu of notice which Norbert Teufelberger would have non-compete provisions which apply during employment and for received under the service agreement if the Company had chosen 12months following termination.
party 94 Governance Annual report & accounts 2011 Directors Remuneration Report Non-Executive Directors The fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman ofthe Board, are determined by the Board on recommendation from theExecutive Directors.
The Chairmans fee is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
Fees are determined by reference to market information and the particular risks attaching to online gaming.
Position Annual Fee Chairman of the Board 350,000 Deputy Chairman & Senior Independent Director 250,000 Chairman of the Integration Committee 465,000 Independent Non-Executive Director 130,000 Non-Executive Director 100,000 Additional fee for chairing the Audit Committee 20,000 Additional fee for chairing the Ethics Committee 20,000 This fee includes chairing the Nominations Committee This fee includes chairing the Remuneration Committee The Chairman of the Integration Committee is a temporary appointment and his personal objectives relate to the achievement of synergy cost for a three-year period to 31 March 2014 and is a position held by realisations.
The Board resolved that in respect of his performance in Manfred Bodner.
The role is important in overseeing that management 2011 he would receive a total contribution of 697,500 equivalent to implements an effective integration of the bwin and PartyGaming 150% of his annual fee, payable 348,750 in cash and in 251,750 deferred businesses and recognises many merging businesses fail to deliver the bwin.
party shares this number calculated using the average share price synergy savings and other benefits from a consolidation.
In recognition for the 30-day measurement period to 31 December 2011, which was of the importance and special duties of the role, the Chairman of the 138.53 pence and has a value on the date of calculation of348,750.
Integration Committee receives a higher fee than a Non-Executive With the exception of the Chairman of the Integration Committee, the Director performing normal duties.
Non-Executive Directors cannot participate in the Value Creation Plan As part of the Chairman of the Integration Committees remuneration and Bonus Banking Plan or any other incentive arrangements operated package, healso participates in the Value Creation Plan and Bonus by the Company.
Under the Value Creation Plan, Manfred Bodner has been Each of the Non-Executive Directors has been appointed under a letter awarded 1,000,000 VCP points, representing an entitlement to 10% of of appointment.
With the exception of the Chairman of Integration any available VCP pool.
As disclosed earlier in this report, no value was Committee, these agreements do not provide for a fixed term of created under the Value Creation Plan in respect of 2011.
Under the service, but each Director stands for re-appointment by shareholders Bonus Banking Plan, Manfred Bodner is entitled to a maximum annual each year and the Nominations Committee and Board reviews matters contribution of 300% of his annual fee equivalent 1,395,000.
The of independence, commitment and performance beforerecommending mechanics of the Bonus Banking Plan have been described earlier in this aDirector for re-appointment.
report and Manfred Bodner is subject to the same Clean EBITDA target Notice Periods Dates of letters of Compensation provisions Name appointment Nature of contract From bwin.
party From Director for early termination Simon Duffy 21.10.10 Rolling 6 months 6 months None Per Afrell 16.12.10 Rolling 3 months 3 months None Geoff Baldwin 14.07.11 Rolling 3 months 3 months None Manfred Bodner 24.12.10 Rolling See below See below See below Tim Bristow 01.05.07 Rolling 3 months 3 months None Helmut Kern 16.12.10 Rolling 3 months 3 months None Lewis Moonie 16.12.10 Rolling 3 months 3 months None Rod Perry 16.12.10 Rolling 3 months 3 months None Georg Riedl 16.12.10 Rolling 3 months 3 months None bwin.
party 95 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 If the appointment of Manfred Bodner is terminated prior to 31 March Upon termination of the appointment of Manfred Bodner except 2014 by the Company, by him not being re-elected by the shareholders whereterminated summarily or where the appointment is terminated ina general meeting, or by Manfred Bodner in certain prescribed incircumstances where the Company is required to offer him a circumstances under the Regulatory Process Agreement or on a change consultancy agreement as described above, the Company will offer of control, in each case where there are no grounds for summary him a new appointment letter on its standard terms then applicable termination of the appointment by the Company, the Company will offer toNon-Executive Directors.
to engage him as a consultant until 31 March 2014 on terms which are no If a change of control of the Company takes place, Manfred Bodner less favourable in terms of fees including incentive arrangements than may, in the 12 months following the change of control, terminate his the terms of his letter of appointment would have been had it continued appointment if the Company makes a material adverse change to his until the third anniversary of his original appointment date.
title, responsibilities or status or changes his principal place of work No compensation will be payable upon expiry of the term on 31 March toaplace other than Gibraltar by giving three months notice to the 2014 unless the period of the consultancy agreement is less than 12 Company in writing.
The Company will then be required to pay him months, in which case Manfred Bodner will receive an additional apayment equal to the amount he would have received had his payment on the expiry of the consultancy agreement equal to the appointment been terminated in accordance with the payment amount if any by which the aggregate of any termination payments inlieuprovision in his letter of appointment.
under the appointment letter and payments under the consultancy External appointments agreement is less than the payment in lieu of notice which Manfred Bodner would have received under the appointment letter if the Executive Directors are required to seek the consent of the Board before Company had chosen to exercise its right to terminate the appointment accepting external appointments as non-executive directors of other letter by making a payment in lieu of notice.
If Manfred Bodner accepts companies.
None of the Executive Directors is a director of a company the Companys offer, he will have no right to claim compensation in outside the Group for which they or the Company receives or received respect of the termination of his appointment under the provisions afee during the year to 31 December 2011. described above.
Total emoluments overview The information contained in this table has been audited by BDO LLP and BDO Limited.
party 96 Governance Annual report & accounts 2011 Directors Remuneration Report Directors interests in bwin.
partyshares Performance graph Value of 100 since December 2006 To assist shareholders in reviewing the appropriateness of bwin.
partys remuneration policies and practices, the Company is required by 140 regulation to set out a graph in this report showing the total shareholder return TSR of bwin.
partys shares against the TSR performance of a 120 suitable index over a five-year period.
The Remuneration Committee 100 have chosen to use the FTSE250 Index as the comparator, because the 80 Company has been a constituent of this index for the last five years.
60 Thefollowing graph plots the value of 100 in bwin.
partys shares and inthe FTSE250 Index from 31 December 2006 to 31 December 2011.
40 Thechange in value of the holdings in the FTSE250 Index reflects any 20 changes in the constituent companies over the period.
The value of 0 dividend income is treated as reinvested in the period.
