Directors remuneration report Letter from Penny Hughes Core Banks Return on Equity ROE was 10.5%, with Retail & Chair of the Group Remuneration Committee Commercial ROE at 11.3%, or 16.6% excluding Ulster Bank.
Our investment banks ROE was 7.7%, notwithstanding the challenging market conditions: The Group funded balance sheet decreased by 49 billion to 977 billion: The Core Tier 1 ratio of 10.6% and tangible net asset value per share of 50.1p were broadly stable over the year, in spite of fiderisking costs and regulatory impacts: Dear Shareholder, Group operating profit was 1.9 billion, up 11% after adjusting for Remuneration in banks continues to be an important and sensitive topic the disposal of Global Merchant Services at the end of 2010: and this is particularly true at RBS.
And so it has been another eventful Group expenses were 7% lower in 2011 than in 2010 at 15.5 billion: and challenging year for the Group Remuneration Committee.
with staff costs down 9%: It is worth reiterating that since 2008, there has been a complete change Impairment losses totalled 7.4 billion, which is down 20% from of the executive leadership team at RBS.
Those who were responsible for 2010: and the problems of the past have been replaced by a team charged with fixing them.
On pay, we operate with a strong sense of restraint but it's Targets for reducing Non-Core assets have been exceeded, important that our people believe that they'll be treated fairly and reducing by 44 billion to 94 billion in 2011. competitively.
We consider that this is in the best interests of our As well as the financial achievements above, the Committee takes into shareholders and customers.
We aim to set pay and incentives based on account the Group's performance against a range of broader strategic performance and market conditions, appropriate to the different markets objectives, including support to personal and business customers in the in which our people operate, the objectives we set them and results we communities in which it operates.
In 2011 gross new lending to business get from them, and a desire to minimise costs where consistent with our increased by 22%, with lending to SMEs up 4%, exceeding the Group's wider goals.
We are a commercially run bank and that principle must Merlin targets.
The Committee also considers the scale of the businesses apply to how we pay all of our employees.
Overall, our pay is towards the our leadership team are managing.
For example, during 2011, our 2,000 lower end of market norms in aggregate.
UK retail branches served 18 million customers: our corporate banking division accounted for almost half of all new lending to UK SMEs: and our My priority as Chair of the Group Remuneration Committee is to investment bank operated in 38 countries and arranged 12 billion of implement a remuneration policy that serves the long-term interests of loans and 10 billion of bonds for UK corporates.
our shareholders including, of course, the UK taxpayer.
We recognise the duty of public accountability and therefore the need to be sensitive to the Whilst there is still much to do to deliver an overall profitable business as publics views on pay, particularly for senior people.
It is a difficult we pay for the costs of repair, we are already much better positioned as a balance that we are trying to achieve in reconciling the, at times, safer, stronger bank.
conflicting objectives of our various stakeholders.
Executive directors Financial Performance Events at the start of 2012 put the difficulty of balancing our stakeholders A key factor in the Committees deliberations is the financial performance interests firmly into the public spotlight.
The bonus for Stephen Hester in of the Group.
RBS is a unique recovery challenge and success must be relation to the 2011 performance year attracted considerable attention measured by the progress we are making towards being a safer, stronger from the media and politicians and I wanted to explain the reasons and more sustainable bank.
Effectively we are asking our management behind that decision.
team to do two jobs: to successfully compete with strong banking competitors across our ongoing businesses AND to recover RBS from its We have been very clear over recent years that pay for performance, not legacy risk profile, itself the largest corporate restructuring on record.
In failure, is at the heart of our remuneration policy.
Under the leadership of 2011 the Group put even greater priority on actions to strengthen its the current executive directors, RBS has made significant progress in balance sheet and reduce risks in the face of difficult economic and exceptionally difficult circumstances.
In recognition of this, the Board financial market conditions, as it continued to work through the believed, and still believe, that the award to its Group Chief Executive restructuring plan embarked upon in 2009.
Key financial achievements was justified in the context of the market and appropriate based on for 2011 were: achievement against the performance objectives that had been set see page 282 for further details.
The Boards decision was well-balanced Core Bank Operating Profit of 6.1 billion represents a strong and took into account all the circumstances, including the fall in share performance and compares well with other similar sized banks: price over 2011, which was mirrored in most other banks.
The award was offered on terms that are arguably amongst the most reformed in our industry and endorsed at the 2011 AGM by over 99% of our shareholders.
The award would have been delivered entirely in shares, been deferred and subject to clawback.
RBS Group 2011 272 Stephen Hester subsequently decided to waive his bonus because the We have sought to strike this balance fairly, while erring on the side of attention it received had become a damaging distraction for him and the restraint, reflecting the nature of our ownership.
In this context, I am Group.
Since this announcement, many of our major shareholders have pleased to report that the returns achieved in our investment bank, while expressed overwhelming support for all members of our leadership team below our targets, compare favourably to our competitors.
Yet our and are supportive of the Group Remuneration Committees efforts to compensation ratios are among the lowest and this has been the position ensure that these individuals are fairly rewarded as they continue to lead for the last three years.
the turnaround of the Group.
There is significant concern that the alternative - attempting to operate on a less-than-commercial basis - We do consider that pay at all investment banks became overheated would be value destructive if RBS becomes an unattractive place to work.
during the exuberant period of growth pre-financial crisis.
It is clear that the industry as a whole delivered results in 2011 below the cost of capital.
I am convinced that the remuneration approach that we have developed This is an unsustainable position with further significant costs of will serve all our stakeholders well in the long term.
We are committed to taking necessary action on pay alongside the other strategic business decisions we make around the Group-wide remuneration arrangements reduced size and scope of our activities in order to build a sustainable It is not only the executive directors interests that the Committee business, capable of serving customers and delivering fair and adequate considers.
It is also tasked with recognising the work of all our returns for shareholders and employees.
employees, whilst maintaining a balance and showing restraint.
Examples of where we have shown such restraint are as follows: Our restrained approach to pay is not without risk.
Employees at all levels of RBS have choices about where they work.
If we allow a sizeable gap More than 10,000 of the Groups most senior employees will not to open up between how we pay and how others pay, then it will affect receive a pay increase for 2012: our ability to attract and retain good, well-motivated people to work here.
We do not believe that this would be in the interests of our shareholders, Average salary increases for 2012 will be less than 1%: our customers, or the taxpayer.
85% of employees eligible for a bonus will receive less than 10,000.
We believe we are getting the balance right in difficult circumstances.
The majority of employees eligible for a bonus will receive less than Under the leadership of Stephen Hester and his team, RBS is a 2,000: challenging but inspiring place to work.
Employee engagement continues to improve, which demonstrates the pride our people have in helping to The investment bank bonus pool is down by 58% over the last year.
fix and recover from one of the biggest failures in corporate history.
This follows a 33% reduction between 2009 and 2010: and Whilst the road to recovery is proving more challenging than probably any of us envisaged, our people are working hard to help return the Group to There has been a 43% reduction at Group level in variable financial strength and the Group Remuneration Committee remains compensation.
Details of our variable compensation can be found in committed to helping create an environment in which they can meet their Note 3 on the consolidated accounts on page 332. ambitions.
The Committee recognises the importance of driving cultural change, not The remuneration process undertaken by the Group Remuneration just through pay, but in the wider sense.
As Group Remuneration Committee is thorough and robust.
This years report contains more detail Committee Chair, I am actively involved in the Groups initiatives relating on the decision process to demonstrate to you how engaged and to diversity, graduate recruitment and management development.
Im committed the Committee is to making the best decisions for the benefit impressed by the quality and depth of these initiatives around the Group, of shareholders, employees and wider stakeholders.
many of which have received award-winning recognition.
Finally, let me thank my fellow Committee members for their extensive Another area of focus for the Group Remuneration Committee in 2011 contributions and all those who supported the Committee to help us has been how value is shared between investors and employees.
weigh up all the relevant factors and seek the right balance in our Shareholders have rightly questioned whether banks, and in particular decision-making.
investment banks, have got this right in the past.
We are working hard to get this right now and in the future.
A balance is always required between minimising compensation costs, and so maximising profits in the year, and protecting the business from which future profits can flow.
Penny Hughes Chair of the Group Remuneration Committee 22 February 2012 RBS Group 2011 273 Directors remuneration report continued Report of the Group Remuneration Committee The role and responsibilities of the Group Remuneration Committee a strategy session is carried out to ensure agendas focus on key The Group Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the issues in relation to remuneration: Groups policy on remuneration and overseeing its implementation.
It considers and makes recommendations to the Group Board in respect of reporting between the Committee and the Group Board has been the remuneration arrangements of the executive directors of the Group.
improved so that all directors are fully informed and able to discuss No director is included in decisions regarding his or her own the approach being taken: and remuneration.
greater focus was placed on international regulatory compliance as The Group Remuneration Committee is also responsible for approving requirements emerge across the territories in which we operate.
remuneration and severance arrangements for members of the Groups Executive and Management Committees, as well as overseeing Principal activity of the Group Remuneration Committee during 2011 arrangements for employees who are In-Scope under the Asset Protection Scheme APS or Code Staff under the FSA Remuneration First quarter Code.
Details of the FSA Remuneration Code can be found at new arrangements for the executive directors.
uk and a definition of Code Staff is provided on page 279. shareholder consultation and consideration by the Committee, Share Bank arrangements and new long term incentive plans LTIP The terms of reference of the Group Remuneration Committee are performance measures were introduced: available on the Groups website www.
com and these are reviewed annually by the Committee and approved by the Group Board.
remuneration arrangements and year-end performance reports for members of the Executive Committee, Management Committee and Membership of the Group Remuneration Committee annual performance objectives for 2011 and also LTIP performance All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
objectives: The Committee held nine meetings in 2011.
The Chair and members of the Committee, together with their attendance at meetings, are shown remuneration arrangements and year-end performance reports for below: APS In-Scope employees and Code Staff: Attended new process for divisional bonus pools implemented with advice Scheduled from the Board Risk Committee on risk performance: Penny Hughes chair 9 9 Sandy Crombie 9 9 progress against unvested LTIP performance measures: Alison Davis 1 4 4 John McFarlane 2 9 9 approval of the Group and divisional bonus pools: and Notes: 1 Became a member of the Committee on 1 August 2011.
2 Will step down as a member of the Committee on 31 March 2012. approval of Directors remuneration report.
Enhanced governance Second quarter The Group Remuneration Committee has taken a number of steps during key business and strategic priorities: presentations from Non-Core, 2011 to enhance its governance arrangements: RBS Insurance and GBM: Alison Davis was appointed as an additional member to bring further project to enhance risk input into remuneration: and financial experience and fresh expertise: formal remuneration strategy session - compensation structure and private sessions are held at each Committee meeting with only the priorities for the forthcoming year were agreed.
Group Chairman and non-executive directors present: RBS Group 2011 274 Third quarter half year performance reviews for executive directors, members of PwC also provide professional services in the ordinary course of the Executive Committee and Management Committee: and business including assurance, advisory, tax and legal advice to subsidiaries of the Group.
The Committee Chair is notified of other work outcome of Group Internal Audit review on how the FSA that is being undertaken by PwC and is satisfied that there are processes Remuneration Code has been implemented which showed in place to ensure that the advice the Committee receives is independent.
management is aware of the key risks and are pro-active in identifying issues relating to remuneration.
As well as receiving advice from PwC during 2011, the Committee took account at meetings of the views of the Group Chairman, Group Chief Fourth quarter Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Human Resources Director, review of risk-adjusted performance across the Group and divisions: Group Head of Reward, Group Secretary and the Chief Risk Officer.
preliminary bonus pools discussions for Group and divisions: Performance evaluation process An internal review of the effectiveness of the Group Remuneration enhanced process for review of risk trigger events for clawback and Committee was conducted by the Group Secretary during 2011.
The bonus reduction: evaluation was based on detailed questionnaires and individual meetings with each member and attendee.
Amongst the areas reviewed were the content for shareholder consultations undertaken in December 2011 role of the Committee, composition, meetings and processes, continuing and January 2012: and professional development and communication.
Generally, the Committee was considered to be effective and meeting its objectives, with members report from the project to enhance risk input into remuneration with willing to spend the time necessary to discharge their responsibilities.
The evaluation respondents agreed that the Committee was the right size, with an appropriate composition and was headed by a committed In addition, the Committee received regular knowledge updates on global Chair.
The respondents were also impressed by the level of work remuneration regulatory developments: pay consultations issued by the undertaken outside of the meetings, particularly by the Chair.
FSA, Department for Business, Innovation & Skills, HM Treasury and the High Pay Commission: guidelines from shareholders and investor bodies: A number of actions arose from the evaluation relating to the further and market trends reports.
improvement of the meeting arrangements, including: Advisers to the Group Remuneration Committee improved performance from the Committees internal and external The advisers to the Group Remuneration Committee are appointed resources: independently by the Committee, which reviews its selection of advisers annually.
The advisers are instructed by and report directly to the further improvement on length and clarity of materials provided to Committee.
The Committee Chair oversees the fees for the advisers.
the Committee: and  LLP PwC were appointed as the Committees monitoring of the new processes for risk input into remuneration and remuneration advisers on 14 September 2010, and their appointment processes for reporting and escalation of trigger events which may was reconfirmed by the Committee in June 2011 after an annual review lead to clawback or bonus reduction.
of the quality of the advice received and fees charged.
PwC are signatories to the voluntary code of conduct in relation to remuneration The Committee has considered and discussed the report on the consulting in the UK.
outcomes of the evaluation and is satisfied with the way in which the evaluation was conducted, the conclusions and the recommendations for actions.
The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Group Board and the actions are being progressed.
RBS Group 2011 275 Directors remuneration report continued Key inputs to the Group Remuneration Committee to assist its decision-making The Group Remuneration Committee receives regular updates on regulatory developments and general remuneration issues, as well as market and benchmarking data to support its decisions.
It also received information from a number of external and internal sources during 2011.
The diagram below illustrates this: RBS Group 2011 276 Shareholder consultation and its impact on remuneration policy In late 2011 and early 2012, an extensive consultation was undertaken The population receiving LTIP awards has also been reviewed, and for with institutional shareholders and other stakeholders on the Groups 2012, there will be a significant reduction as LTIP awards are targeted at remuneration approach.
Investors recognised the difficult challenge the Groups most senior management.
All LTIP awards are subject to faced by the Group Remuneration Committee in balancing the need to both group-wide and division function specific performance conditions to pay competitively to support business goals but at the same time being ensure that the leadership team is focused on both value creation and mindful of the wider economic environment and the need to show other key objectives.
Group performance targets will be aligned to the restraint.
executive director LTIP performance targets to ensure a consistent view of performance.
The shareholders gave a clear message that increases to base pay and pension contributions for executive directors were not appropriate.
The Group Remuneration Committee and the Group Board have However, the overall shape of executive remuneration structure received considered carefully their responsibilities and have applied judgement to widespread support.
Shareholders recognised the need for retention of achieve a balance whereby remuneration policy supports business goals the current executive team and the potentially destructive effect that any without causing unacceptably high people risks.
break up would have on rebuilding the Group.
The support received by shareholders during the consultation period has This consultation included UKFI and as with other shareholders, the been greatly encouraging.
Shareholders have played a key role in Committee received their input.
However, in line with the Groups developing remuneration practices that support the long term goals of the mandate to operate commercially, the Committee did not receive formal business.
Risk and regulatory environment The consultation process involved one-to-one meetings, a roundtable FSA Remuneration Code compliance session hosted by the Association of British Insurers and National The Group has been fully compliant throughout 2011, in practice and in Association of Pension Funds and a number of follow-up letters and spirit, with all aspects of the FSA Remuneration Code.
How risk is reflected in our remuneration process Topics discussed with investors included both Group-wide and executive Focus on risk is achieved through clear risk input into incentive plan directors pay positioning, scale and design of incentive structures, risk design and target setting, as well as thorough risk review of performance, alignment of remuneration, deferral, clawback and remuneration bonus pools and clawback.
The Group Remuneration Committee is disclosures.
supported in this by the Board Risk Committee and the Groups risk management function.
The importance of value sharing between investors and employees, retaining capital, and taking this into account in remuneration decisions During 2011, a project was undertaken, co-sponsored by the Chairs of were key themes from the shareholder consultation.
As mentioned in the the Group Remuneration Committee and Board Risk Committee, to letter from the Committee Chair, value sharing between investors and identify and implement further areas of improvement in risk remuneration employees and retention of capital have been key areas for the alignment.
The project focussed on three workstreams: Remuneration Committee during 2011.
In 2011 variable compensation was 11% of Core Bank operating profit, down from 16% in 2010.
This robust governance clarify and enhance respective roles of the proportion compares favourably with other banks.
Group Remuneration Committee and Board Risk Committee and the interaction between them : There was also concern over falling share prices across the industry.
Some shareholders proposed that LTIP award levels to employees pay-for-performance risk input into objectives and performance should be scaled back given the fall in the share price over 2011.
The reviews and enhanced clawback process : and Committee recognises the impact that the fall in share price has had both on shareholders and employees.
The share awards that were made to control function input and risk adjusted performance measures.
employees at the beginning of 2011, under bonus deferral or the long term incentive plan, have fallen in value.
This is clear alignment with the How do we apply this in practice?
value reduction that shareholders have experienced.
It is also true in the The assessment undertaken by the risk function and Board Risk case of prior year unvested and vested but retained awards.
Committee confirmed that, for some divisions, a number of risk-related events needed to be taken account of when determining bonus pools, The Committee has considered the LTIP award policy for 2012 in light of including regulatory, compliance and credit and market risk issues.
the Groups current share price and has reduced potential awards to executive directors by capping them at 300% of salary.
RBS Group 2011 277 Directors remuneration report continued The enhanced process for individual accountability review assessments The process for determining bonus pools is discretionary, to avoid the which consider material risk management, control and general policy unintended consequences and incentives of formulaic systems.
However, breach failures, accountability for those events and appropriate action the Group Remuneration Committee's discretion is applied within a against individuals is operated across divisions and functions.
RBS Risk structured framework which starts with an assessment of financial Management has concluded that the accountability review assessments performance measured against budget, prior year and long-term strategic approach is robust and complete from a perspective of all known material plans.
This analysis is used to adjust market median bonus funding levels events having been considered.
obtained from rigorous benchmarking against market compensation data to a performance-adjusted basis.
The outcomes from recent accountability reviews for the performance year 2011 have included: Risk is taken into account in the performance assessment through a thorough risk analysis carried out by RBS Risk Management to a preadjustment of current year bonus awards: agreed framework approved by the Group Remuneration and Board Risk dismissal: Committees.
Performance assessments may be adjusted in situations clawback of previously awarded deferred and LTIP awards: and where risk performance is outside risk appetite or strategic plans.
Nonsuspended vesting pending further investigation.
financial factors such as turnover, succession issues, customer issues, market environment and franchise development are then taken into External developments account in developing a final bonus proposal.
Bonus proposals are In September 2011, the Department for Business Innovation and Skills reviewed in the context of key compensation framework ratios including: BIS issued a consultation on plans for investors to have greater clarity compensation to revenues, compensation to pre-compensation profit and on how companies are run and how executive pay is matched to bonus to pre-bonus profit.
These ratios help to ensure appropriate performance.
The Group Remuneration Committee played an active role sharing of value between employees and shareholders.
Finally bonus in this consultation process, providing responses and meeting with proposals are reviewed against our capital adequacy framework to representatives from BIS on a number of occasions to discuss possible ensure that regulatory requirements are met.
This demonstrates a real willingness to engage not just with shareholders but with wider stakeholders in developing a responsible approach to future remuneration practices.
Market Benchmarking HM Treasury published a consultation on 6 December 2011 with draft regulations on remuneration disclosure.
This proposes that all large banks operating in the UK, publish the pay details of their eight highest Financial Performance paid senior executive officers who are not main board directors.
The consultation follows the Project Merlin agreement in February 2011 that Capital Compensation applied to the five major UK banks including RBS.
Details are set out on adequacy ratios Risk Adjustment page 294.
Pay for performance Non-financial Factors The Group Remuneration Committees formal process for determining bonus pools is outlined in the diagram below.
This process is designed to ensure that financial, risk and non-financial performance measures are all taken in to account in an integrated and structured way with appropriate Proposed bonus pool reference being made to the business plan and capital adequacy.
There is strong central governance and oversight of both bonus pools and individual awards.
Across the Group, bonus awards for the 2011 performance year are significantly lower than those made last year.
This is due to a combination of factors including financial performance, particularly in the investment bank division, but also recognising the need for moderation and the external climate.
This year we have recorded substantial losses for two issues: PPI and Greek sovereign debt.
Whilst current management inherited these issues, the Committees judgement is that reductions to shareholder value of this scale must be reflected in lower variable compensation across the Group and overall bonus pools have been reduced as a result.
RBS Group 2011 278 Remuneration policy The remuneration policy supports the Groups business strategy and is ensure that the Groups metrics, reward structures and governance designed to: processes as a whole provide coverage of the key risks in an appropriate way.
attract, retain, motivate and reward high calibre employees to deliver long term business performance within acceptable risk parameters: In the Non-Core division and businesses we are exiting, appropriate arrangements are put in place to ensure that employees are motivated to provide clear alignment between annual and long-term targets for reduce risk effectively, to minimise losses taken on value of businesses individuals and Group divisional strategic plans: and assets at the point of divestment.
The remuneration policy applies the same principles to all employees including Code Staff 1.
The current key principles underpinning the Group-wide remuneration policy are set out below: Base salary Base salaries are reviewed annually.
Base salaries should be competitive in the specific market for the business in which the individual works: reflect the talents, skills and competencies that the individual brings to the Group: and be sufficient so that inappropriate risktaking is not encouraged.
Annual The annual incentive pool is based on a balanced scorecard of measures including financial performance, risk, people and customer incentives measures.
Capital adequacy and the impact of incentive awards on the balance sheet are also taken into account.
Allocation from the pool depends on divisional, functional and individual performance.
Individual performance assessment is supported by a structured performance management framework.
Guaranteed bonuses are only used in limited circumstances in accordance with the FSA Remuneration Code.
Immediate cash bonuses are limited to a maximum of 2,000.
Deferred awards support a performance culture where employees recognise the importance of sustainable Group, business and individual performance.
Under the Group-wide deferral arrangements a significant proportion of annual incentive awards for our more senior employees are deferred over a three year period.
Deferred awards are subject to clawback.
In certain circumstances, formulaic short-term incentive arrangements are used to align the objectives of employees with the strategy of the relevant division in which they work.
For such schemes, specific design principles are in place, with strict governance procedures that ensures that all existing and future incentive schemes support our business strategy and risk appetite.
All incentive awards are subject to appropriate governance, including independent review by the Risk Management, Finance and HR functions, with oversight from the Group Performance and Reward Committee, which has delegated authority from the Group Remuneration Committee over incentive schemes operating over a period of 12 months or less.
LTIP To encourage the creation of value over the long term and to further align the rewards of the participants with the returns to shareholders, the Group provides certain employees in senior roles with long-term incentive awards.
Awards are structured as performance-vesting shares.
Vesting will be based partly on divisional or functional performance and partly on performance across the Group.
All awards are subject to clawback.
Other share Employees in certain countries are eligible to participate in share plans which are not subject to performance conditions.
plans Benefits In most jurisdictions, employee benefits or a cash equivalent are provided from a flexible benefits account.
including pension 1 The following groups of employees have been identified as meeting the FSAs criteria for Code Staff: Members of the Group Board and Group Executive and Management Committees: Staff performing a Significant Influence Function within RBS Group: Employees who have approval authorities such that their decision-making could have a material impact on the RBS Group income statement: Employees who are responsible for a business or businesses whose performance could have a material impact on the RBS Group income statement: and Key control function roles.
RBS Group 2011 279 Directors remuneration report continued Executive directors In determining directors remuneration, the Group Remuneration Committee takes into account pay and employment conditions of employees of the company.
It does so by reference to annual market data against an assessment of the competitiveness of the current base salary ranges or benchmarks and actual salaries in payment.
Any salary increases awarded to executive directors are also considered in the context of salary increases for the wider employee population.
A summary of executive directors remuneration for 2011 and 2012 is set out below: Policy 2011 arrangements 2012 arrangements Base Base salaries are reviewed annually.
Stephen Hester: 1,200,000 No increase to executive directors base salary.
salary Bruce Van Saun: 750,000 from 1 April 2011 Annual Executive directors have a normal For the 2011 performance year, the annual Both Stephen Hester and Bruce Van Saun will Incentive maximum incentive opportunity of 200% incentive was delivered as an allocation to Share have a maximum incentive opportunity of 200% of of salary with an exceptional maximum Bank.
salary with an exceptional maximum of 250% of of 250% of salary.
Stephen Hester: Provisional maximum allocation of 6.0 million Incentives will be awarded entirely in shares which shares to Share Bank.
Final allocation based on will vest in two equal tranches on the first and performance: 3.6 million shares.
Stephen Hester second anniversaries of the date of grant.
Prior to has waived this award.
vesting, shares will be subject to clawback and shares must be held for a further six months post Bruce Van Saun: vesting.
Provisional maximum allocation of 3.75 million shares to Share Bank.
Final allocation based on performance: 3.0 million shares.
The shares will vest in two equal tranches on the first and second anniversaries of the date of grant.
Prior to vesting, shares will be subject to clawback and shares must be held for a further six months post vesting.
LTIP Awards to executive directors have a Both Stephen Hester and Bruce Van Saun Stephen Hester and Bruce Van Saun will be normal maximum limit of 400% of salary.
received share awards capped at 375% of basic granted long term share awards which will salary.
ultimately vest in a range between zero and a cap All awards are subject to performance of 300% of basic salary depending on conditions, deferral and clawback.
The awards will vest in 2014 in an amount based performance over the next three years.
These on the achievement of performance conditions share awards have a notional value at grant see description on page 284.
These will each assessed at 1.62 million and 1.01 million have the ability to deliver a number of shares respectively.
worth up to 100% of salary: however, the number of shares that vest will be subject to an overall The awards will vest in 2015 in an amount based cap in value of 375% of salary based on salary on the achievement of performance conditions and share price at the time the award was made.
These will each have the ability to deliver a number of shares An additional six month holding period after worth up to 100% of salary: however, the number vesting will apply.
of shares that vest will be subject to an overall cap in value of 300% of salary based on salary and share price at the time the award was made.
The notional value of these awards would be 45% of face value, which is 135% of salary.
An additional six month holding period after vesting will apply.
Benefits Benefits are available from a flexible Benefits provided in line with Group policy.
Benefits provided in line with Group policy.
including account on a similar basis to other Pension employees.
35% of base salary pension allowance.
None of the current executive directors are members of the Group's defined benefit pension plans.
Current executive directors receive an allowance in lieu of pension contributions.
RBS Group 2011 280 Shareholding guidelines 2009-2011 average compensation outcome for Group Chief Executive The Group operates shareholding guidelines for executive directors.
The The preceding charts are based on target expected values of total target shareholding level for the Group Chief Executive is 200% of gross compensation.
Press commentary tends to focus either on these values, annual salary and 100% of gross annual salary for executive directors.
A or on maximum values assuming all performance conditions are met.
period of five years is allowed in which to build up shareholdings to meet However, in practice over the period 2009 to 2011, the value received will the guideline levels.
be significantly less than the maximum or even target value incentives, in light of bonus waivers, performance conditions and share price fall over The mix of executive directors remuneration the period.
The chart below shows the likely average pay-out to the The charts below show the composition of remuneration opportunity for Group Chief Executive from salary, pension and incentives from awards on-target annual performance, with the long term incentive awards shown made over the 2009-2011 period.
The average maximum award is shown at the expected value.
Short term incentive payments earned in relation on the left, but is then adjusted allowing for the impact of LTIP to 2012 performance will be deferred and will vest, subject to satisfactory performance conditions, bonus conditions and voluntary waivers and performance.
The actual value of the long term incentive awards will finally the impact of the share price fall on the remaining value of awards.
depend on performance over the period 2012 to 2014 and the share price at the time the awards vest.
The data shows that Stephen Hester is likely to receive just 10% of the maximum value of his incentives awarded over the last three years, and Group Chief Executive - Stephen Hester around 29% of his maximum total compensation.
This is despite the majority of financial and non-financial targets for RBS having been met when measured over the three year period since 2009.
In comparison, Salary levels of pay-out at RBS are expected to be at least one-third lower than recent levels of pay-out in the FTSE-30 and less than half recent payBenefits outs in the international banking sector.
Pension allowance 9,000 On-Target Bonus deferred LTIP into shares 8,000 Bonus Long-term incentive award expected value Pension 7,000 Base Salary 6,000 5,000 Group Finance Director - Bruce Van Saun 4,000 3,000 Salary 2,000 Benefits 10% of maximum 1,000 29% of Pension allowance incentives maximum total 0 On-Target Bonus deferred ti into shares Maximum Impact of LTIP Impact of bonus Impact of share Likely award performance conditions price fall outcome Long-term incentive award expected value conditions waivers RBS Group 2011 281 2009-2011 A verage A nnual Total C om pensation 000's Directors remuneration report continued Assessing past performance 60% and the Group Finance Director an award of 80% of their maximum Executive directors annual incentive 2011 allocation for the 2011 performance year, which equates to 3.6 million Executive directors have a normal maximum incentive opportunity of and 3.0 million shares respectively into Share Bank in 2012.
The Group 200% of salary with an exceptional maximum of 250% of salary.
Share Chief Executive has waived his allocation.
The shares vest in two equal Bank arrangements were put in place for the 2010 and 2011 performance tranches on the first and second anniversaries of the date of grant and years.
The maximum potential allocation into Share Bank for the 2011 are subject to a holding period of six months after vesting.
Clawback performance year was 6.0 million shares for the Group Chief Executive provisions will apply prior to the vesting of shares.
and 3.75 million shares for the Group Finance Director.
This was based on the normal maximum annual incentive levels for executive directors at Stephen Hester a share price of 40p per share calculated as an average share price over Stephen Hesters performance is measured against a number of strategic December 2010. and business objectives.
In the course of 2011 the Groups priority has been to strengthen its balance sheet and reduce risk as it works through The Group Remuneration Committee has reviewed executive directors the restructuring plan, and this is reflected in good progress on the key performance against targets set at the beginning of the year as risk measures set out in 2009.
Targets for capital, short-term wholesale summarised in the table below.
Accordingly, the Committee funding, liquidity reserves and leverage have all been met ahead of recommended, and the Group Board excluding executive directors schedule, while the Group loan:deposit ratio improved further.
approved, that the Group Chief Executive should receive an award of Core objectives Targets for 2011 Progress in 2011 Strategic progress Delivery of the five year strategic The Group recovery strategy set out in 2009 has proven its effectiveness and in 2011, most plan.
tasks are on or ahead of Plan.
This includes operation of Core Non-Core structure, rebuilding management and operations and reducing risk.
Key Group strategic plan risk measures set in 2009 were all significantly exceeded in 2011.
However, the deterioration in external economic and financial conditions impacted profits and further led the Group to prioritise fide-risking over driving returns, which affect profitability measures.
An extra 1 billion was spent over 2011 in order to accelerate the achievement of RWAs reduction, liquidity and deposit-gathering goals.
It was also necessary to make alterations to the strategic plan for the investment banking business in the light of new regulation and market developments.
Business delivery ROE, profitability, costs, core tier Retail & Commercials ROE improved to 11.3%, or 16.6% excluding Ulster Bank.
GBM and financial 1 ratio, funding and risk profile, ROE was 7.7% above median compared to peers, leaving Core overall ROE at 10.5%.
performance lending commitments, EU Core cost:income ratio was 60%, with Core Tier 1 ratio at 10.6%.
The liquidity portfolio was mandated disposals.
held above target levels at 155 billion, while short-term funding was cut to 102 billion.
Gross new lending to business increased by 22%, with lending to SMEs up 4%, exceeding the Groups Merlin targets.
The branch sale to Santander made good progress as did the turnaround of RBS Insurance: facilitating its planned divestment.
Risk and control Funding, leverage ratio, risk All risk reduction and control measures were exceeded.
This includes Group loan:deposit measures and Asset protection ratio LDR improved to 108%, with Core loan:deposit ratio ahead of target at 94%.
Scheme APS compliance Leverage was stable at 16.9x.
Performance against agreed APS objectives was requirements.
satisfactory and significantly improved compared with prior year.
Stakeholder Relationships with shareholders Positive feedback from key shareholders and regulators.
Increased engagement with management and other external stakeholders.
external stakeholders in particular on sustainable lending policies.
Good progress to Customer satisfaction and address risks identified by UK US regulators relating to TCF.
Treating Customers Fairly TCF measures.
People management Groups people strategy including Stephen Hester is widely acknowledged internally and externally as having provided strong performance, succession and leadership to the Group in extraordinary circumstances.
Talent and bench reviews people management.
completed in all businesses and actions plans agreed.
Female executive representation Improvements in employee increased to 18%.
The Groups Your Feedback 2011 staff survey results showed a engagement.
continued upward trend in the vast majority of categories.
RBS Group 2011 282 Bruce Van Saun Bruce Van Sauns performance is measured against a number of Group and divisional targets.
Bruce continues to perform at the level of a world class Chief Financial Officer CFO, providing strong individual and broader finance contribution to the Groups priority to strengthen the balance sheet and reduce risk.
Group Treasury has facilitated a significant reduction on the Groups reliance on short-term funding and Bruce Van Saun has displayed strong leadership on a number of key strategic projects including negotiation of the EU mandated sale of retail branches, the response to the Independent Commission on Banking ICB and the preparations for the divestment of RBS Insurance.
Core objectives Targets for 2011 Progress in 2011 Strategic progress Monitoring improvement of Group and Increased effectiveness of strategic planning process resulting in successful Divisional Strategic Plans.
Work with Board offsite and strong contribution to GBM strategy revisions and the APA Group Chief Executive on Group analyses.
Strategy M&A and APS compliance requirements.
Strong leadership displayed on key strategic projects including: branch disposal, ICB response, RBS Insurance divestment.
13 M&A transactions delivered, with 70% managed by an in house team led by the CFO.
Significant progress made on the Groups cost-reduction programme, with further progress targeted for 2012.
Performance against agreed APS objectives was satisfactory and significantly improved compared with prior year.
Business delivery and Statutory regulatory management Achievement of best in class for external reporting within the UK market.
Strategic planning, contribution to fide-risking strategy with significantly reduced reliance on short budgeting and forecasting.
Capital term funding and raised 20 billion for 2011 term funding in challenging and funding planning.
Good interest rate positioning achieved.
New central bank and lending target reporting requirements implemented.
Improved capital planning capabilities, with detailed capital plans developed at Group and UK solo entity level.
Risk and control Regulatory change impacting capital, Strong stewardship over the financial risk and control environment, viewed as a funding, liquidity, improve quality of strong risk partner by risk function.
Effective management against FSA liquidity risk and financial data.
Balance sheet substantiation programme completed.
Mobilisation of the FiRST programme, to enhance risk and finance data quality.
Stakeholder management External relationships, including Strong external feedback received on Investor Relations programme.
investors, rating agencies and Strong engagement with policy makers on the regulatory agenda: stronger regulators.
Major role in working with the FSA through capital and liquidity assessments, as well as the ICB response and RBS N. V. consolidation.
People management Lead upgraded team and build Key strategic hires made for Group Internal Audit and Group Strategy positions, positive culture.
which are a key part of upgrade agenda.
External hiring complemented by robust programmes for internal talent implemented across all levels.
Number of key executive positions filled internally in 2011.
Strong focus on programmes in mentoring, diversity and training & development.
RBS Group 2011 283 Directors remuneration report continued Executive directors long-term incentive plan LTIP awards 2011 The following tables provide a current assessment of executive The table below summarises the assessment of the first year of a three directors' performance against LTIP awards granted in previous years.
Each measure has the ability to deliver a The Group Remuneration Committee does not believe that these number of shares worth up to 100% of salary: however, the number of outcomes are reflective of the executive directors' performance over the shares that vest will be subject to an overall cap in value of 375% of period 2009 to 2011.
As highlighted in the opening letter to this salary.
An assessment of performance remuneration report, very significant progress has been made across the of each relevant element is provided by the control functions and an Groups strategic plan targets since 2009, resulting in a significantly external firm assesses relative Total Shareholder Return TSR safer, more resilient and sustainable bank.
However, this is not being performance.
The Group Remuneration Committee determines overall reflected in the LTIP outcomes.
In 2009 and 2010, LTIPs were linked vesting based on these assessments including consideration of the entirely to share price and economic profit targets.
In line with the whole drivers of performance and the context against which it was delivered.
sector, and exacerbated by its legacy portfolio, RBS's performance The assessment is analytical and if any discretion is used, it would be against these metrics has been heavily impacted by the economic and explained.
This award is due to be assessed in March 2014 to determine regulatory environment.
The table below represents an early indication only.
Performance measure Weighting Rationale Vesting Current assessment of performance Core Bank 25% Ensures that Threshold: 25% vesting for average return on tangible Continued difficult economic Economic performance reflects equity over the performance period at a reasonable conditions in a number of our Profit risk adjusted enduring margin above the cost of capital.
key markets mean that based earnings for the Bank.
on performance to date, the Maximum: 100% vesting for performance ahead of the threshold targets have not yet Groups Strategic Plan.
Relative TSR 25% Ensure alignment with Threshold: 20% vesting if the Groups TSR is at the Based on share price shareholders.
median of the companies in the comparator group.
performance to date, the threshold targets have not yet Maximum: 100% vesting if the Groups TSR is at the been met.
upper quartile of the companies in the comparator group.
Pro-rata vesting in between these points.
Balance Sheet 25% Ensure alignment with Vesting will be qualified by Group Remuneration Most targets have been met or & Risk the advancement of Committee discretion.
Indicative vesting levels are: exceeded.
Strong performance the strategic position on capital, leverage and funding and capability of the Over half of objectives not met: 0%: measures, risk appetite organisation and the embedded.
building of a Half of objectives met: 25%: sustainable business.
Good progress on brand Strategic 25% Two-thirds of objectives met: 62.5%: and franchises e. g. Helpful Scorecard Banking in UK, sustainability Objectives met or exceeded in all material and employee engagement respects: 100%.
Further work needed on cost:income ratio.
RBS Group 2011 284 2010 Awards to executive directors under the LTIP in 2010 are subject to improvements in Economic Profit, Relative TSR and Absolute TSR.
The award is due to be assessed in May 2013 to determine the final level of vesting.
The table below is an interim assessment and based on performance to date, the threshold targets have not yet been met.
Performance measure Weighting Rationale Vesting Current assessment of performance Economic Profit 50% Ensures that Maximum vesting of the Economic Profit measure will be Continued difficult economic performance reflects triggered by early delivery of Core Business profitability, conditions in a number of our enduring earnings for well ahead of the range implied by the published Strategic key markets mean that based the Bank.
Plan targets and also in excess of the cost of capital.
on performance to date, the threshold targets have not yet been met.
performance to date, the threshold targets have not yet Maximum: 100% vesting if the Groups TSR is at the upper been met.
quartile of the companies in the comparator group.
Absolute TSR 25% Ensure alignment with Threshold: 20% vesting if the Groups share price reaches Based on share price shareholders.
performance to date, the threshold targets have not yet Maximum: 100% vesting if the Groups share price reaches been met.
Note: For the formulaic performance conditions applying to the executive directors, the percent vesting outcomes were calculated by PwC, based on incremental economic profit figures from Group Finance Group operating profit less 25% tax less a charge of 10% of tangible equity and TSR for the period up to and including 3 January 2012.
2009 In 2009, executive directors received long-term incentives under two plans, the Medium Term Performance Plan MPP and Executive Share Option Plan ESOP.
These awards are due to be formally assessed in June 2012.
It is currently anticipated that, based on performance to date, the threshold targets would not be met and there would be nil vesting under any of the elements of these awards.
Performance measure Weighting Rationale Vesting Current assessment of performance Relative TSR 50% Ensure alignment with Threshold: 25% vesting if the Groups TSR is at the Based on share price shareholders.
performance to date, the threshold targets would not be Maximum: 100% vesting if the Groups TSR is at the upper met and there would be no quartile of the companies in the comparator group.
vesting under this element of the award.
Absolute TSR 50% Ensure alignment with Threshold: 25% vesting if the Groups share price reaches Based on share price shareholders.
performance to date, the threshold targets would not be 50% vesting if the Groups share price reaches 55p.
met and there would be no vesting under this element of Maximum: 100% vesting if the Groups share price reaches the award.
Note: The TSR calculations were provided by PwC based on TSR calculations up to and including 3 January 2012.
RBS Group 2011 285 Directors remuneration report continued Total Shareholder Return performance The first graph below shows the performance of the company over the past five years in terms of TSR compared with that of the companies comprising the FTSE 100 Index.
This index has been selected because it represents a cross-section of leading UK companies.
The TSR for FTSE banks for the same period has been added for comparison.
The TSR for the company and the indices have been rebased to 100 for 2006.
The second graph shows the same performance of the company during 2011.
Implementation of the Groups recovery plan started in January 2009 with the publication of the preliminary 2008 losses.
The share price reached a low point of just under 10p per share on the news.
Since that date to 22 February 2012, the day before the Groups 2011 results announcement, the Groups share price has risen 265% which compares to 164% and 145% respectively for the FTSE banks index and the FTSE 100 index as a whole.
Total shareholder return - one year Financial shares outperformed the market for most of the first half of the year.
However, focus shifted to the fiscal positions of peripheral Eurozone economies, particularly Greece and Italy, in the summer.
This prompted investor concerns about the implications for banks exposed to these countries and caused stresses in European bank funding markets.
The RBS share price was impacted broadly in line with other domestic UK banks and European peers, underperforming the market in the second half.
Accompanying this was a reduction in the consensus outlook for bank earnings, driven by a weaker outlook for growth in the global economy.
In addition, the weight of new regulation on European banks raised concerns about banks' ability to generate attractive returns.
Specifically in the UK, the publication of the ICB report in September recommending the ring-fencing of retail banking operations was perceived as detrimental for RBS and its UK domestic peers, although details of the regulations are yet to be finalised.
RBS Group 2011 286 Setting performance for 2012 The executive directors annual performance objectives are approved by the Group Remuneration Committee.
The risk objectives are reviewed by the Board Risk Committee.
Core objectives Stephen Hester Bruce Van Saun Strategic progress Revise original Strategic Plan to respond to significant Monitor and improve the Group and Divisional Strategic changes in the macro environment and outlook for Plans.
Drive effective design and implementation of wholesale banking.
Deliver execution of revised strategy.
Work with CEO on Group Strategy M&A APS.
Business delivery and Lead delivery of overall performance, including measures Ensure statutory, regulatory and management reporting is financial performance relating to ROE, cost management, Core Tier 1 capital compliant with all external and internal standards.
ratio, funding and risk profile, lending, EU mandated Continue to improve best in class external reporting.
disposals and restructuring of the wholesale business.
Provide strong CFO role to the business through strategic planning, budgeting, forecasting and reporting.
Ensure a robust capital and funding planning framework.
Successful completion of EU mandated disposals.
Risk and control Continue culture change across the Group including Implementation of effective regulatory changes impacting delivery of measures relating to wholesale funding reliance capital, funding, liquidity.
Improve quality of risk and and liquidity reserves and leverage ratio.
Continue development of Internal Audit agreed APS objectives.
Deliver against agreed APS objectives.
Stakeholder management Achievement of customer franchise measures, maintain Continue to develop effective external relationships, strong and effective relationships with external including investors, rating agencies and regulators.
stakeholders and continue progress on TCF actions.
People management Ensure each division function has high quality leadership Lead upgraded team and build positive culture.
Contribute teams, build out performance management, talent to overall Group management.
management and succession planning across the Group.
The Group Remuneration Committee will determine the actual value of Core bank Economic Profit is defined as return attributable to the award by reference to the extent to which executive directors have shareholders less equity multiplied by the cost of equity, where: met the performance targets.
Awards will be paid entirely in shares and will vest in two equal tranches on the first and second anniversaries of Return attributable to shareholders is Core Operating Profit reported in the date of grant.
Clawback provisions will apply prior to the vesting of the the financial statements, excluding movements in the fair value of own shares.
debt and APS, taxed at a standard tax rate.
Long-term incentive plan LTIP Equity is defined as tangible equity allocated to the Core businesses, with 2012 Awards have four performance categories, each with equal adjustments to strip out distorting impacts arising from movements in the weighting.
fair value of own debt, available-for-sale reserves and cash flow hedging reserve.
Core bank economic profit 25% As the value of the Group will be determined by the Core Banks ability to Current Cost of Equity is 12%, which is subject to review at least generate enduring returns for shareholders, the Economic Profit measure annually.
is focused on the Core Bank to ensure that performance reflects enduring earnings for the bank.
Economic Profit, being a risk-adjusted financial At the end of the performance period for the 2012 awards, the Group measure, is consistent with the FSA Code and also provides a balance Remuneration Committee will assess economic profit performance between measuring growth and the cost of capital employed in delivering against plan in light of targets set by it at the start of the performance that growth.
Details of the actual targets, and performance against these, will be disclosed retrospectively once the awards vest.
RBS Group 2011 287 Directors remuneration report continued Relative Total Shareholder Return TSR 25% Strategic Scorecard 25% The relative TSR measure provides a direct connection between The balanced Strategic Scorecard rewards management for delivering a executive directors awards and relative performance delivered to robust basis for future growth in terms of the strength of our franchise, shareholders.
The measure compares the Group's performance against a efficiency, reputation, and the strength and engagement of employees.
group of comparator banks from the UK and overseas, weighted towards Performance measures those companies most similar to the Group.
Performance is measured Non-Core assets over a three year performance period.
The Remuneration Committee Cumulative Non-Core loss reviewed the weightings within the TSR peer group, and made a small Balance Core Tier 1 Capital number of adjustments to reflect emerging regulatory influences, the Sheet and Risk Wholesale funding future geographic and business focus of RBS, and consequent future measures Liquidity reserves relevance of peer companies.
This has resulted in reducing the and targets Leverage ratio weightings of a small number of banks in the peer group for 2012 LTIP Loan:deposit ratio awards.
Earnings volatility Customer franchise Strategic Relative TSR Comparator Group Cost:income ratio in core bank Weighting Scorecard Lending targets 1 Barclays 200% measures Sustainability performance 2 Lloyds Banking Group and targets Progress in people issues 3 HSBC 150% 4 Standard Chartered Both quantitative and qualitative strategic measures are used, including 5 Bank of America 50% measures relating to reputation, customer excellence, organisational 6 BBVA capability and sustainability, given that these will support the long term 7 BNP Paribas goals of the business.
Targets for each measure are set at the start of the 8 Citigroup performance period and where applicable, are aligned with the Groups 9 Credit Agricole strategic plan targets.
At the end of the period each measure will be 10 Credit Suisse Group assessed against the target, and vesting will be based on the proportion 11 Deutsche Bank of targets fully met see below, qualified by the Group Remuneration 12 JP Morgan Chase Committees discretion, taking other relevant factors into account.
13 National Australia Bank Limited 14 Royal Bank of Canada Commentary will be provided on an annual basis in relation to progress 15 Santander against the targets, where these are not commercially sensitive.
16 Societe Generale 17 The Toronto-Dominion Bank Group Vesting point Indicative performance 18 UBS Does not meet 0% Over half of objectives not met 19 Unicredito Partially meets 25% Half of objectives met 20 Wells Fargo & Company Significantly meets 62.5% Two-thirds of objectives met To receive any of the LTIP awards subject to this performance measure Fully meets 100% Objectives met or exceeded in all the Groups performance must be at least as good as the median of the material respects comparator companies, with vesting as follows with a pro-rata proportion Qualified by Group Remuneration Committee discretion taking into of the award vesting in between these points : account changes in circumstances over the performance period, the relative importance of the measures, the margin by which individual 20% of the award will vest if the Groups TSR is at the median of the targets have been missed or exceeded, and any other relevant factors.
companies in the comparator group.
100% of the award will vest if the Groups TSR is at the upper quartile of the companies in the comparator group.
Balance Sheet & Risk 25% The Balance Sheet & Risk measures have a particular focus on risk reduction, the resolution of the Non-Core business and the building of a sustainable and responsible franchise for the Group.
RBS Group 2011 288 Risk underpin and clawback Except as noted below, in the event of severance where any contractual The Group Remuneration Committee will also review financial and notice period is not worked, the employing company may pay a sum to operational performance against the Strategic Plan and risk performance the executive in lieu of the notice period.
In the event of situations prior to agreeing vesting of awards.
In assessing this, the Committee will involving breach of the employing company's policies resulting in be advised independently by the Board Risk Committee.
If the Group dismissal, reduced or no payments may be made to the executive.
Remuneration Committee considers that the vesting outcome calibrated Depending on the circumstances of the termination of employment, the in line with the performance conditions outlined above does not reflect the executive may be entitled, or the Group Remuneration Committee may Group's underlying financial results or if the Committee considers that the allow, outstanding awards under long-term incentive arrangements to financial results have been achieved with excessive risk, then the terms vest, subject to the rules of the relevant plan.
of the awards allow for an underpin to be used to reduce vesting of an award, or to allow the award to lapse in its entirety.
All awards are subject Stephen Hester to clawback.
In the event of his personal underperformance, the company is entitled, after giving reasonable opportunity to remedy any failure, to terminate Service contracts Stephen Hesters contract by giving written notice with immediate effect The company's policy in relation to the duration of contracts with directors and without making any payment in lieu thereof and Stephen Hester will is that executive directors' contracts generally continue until termination forfeit any unvested stock awards.
In the event that Stephen Hester's by either party, subject to the required notice, or until retirement.
The employment is terminated by the company other than by reason of his notice period under the service contracts of executive directors will not personal underperformance, he will be entitled to receive a payment in normally exceed twelve months.
In relation to newly recruited executive lieu of notice to the value of base salary, bonus and benefits including directors, subject to the prior approval of the Group Remuneration pension contributions.
If he resigns voluntarily and the company does Committee, the notice period may be extended beyond twelve months if not require him to work out his notice period, Stephen Hester may receive there is a clear case for this.
Where a longer period of notice is initially a payment in lieu of notice based on salary only i. e. no bonus or approved on appointment, it will normally be structured such that it will benefits.
In both cases the treatment of any other unvested stock awards automatically reduce to twelve months in due course.
All new service will be determined at the discretion of the Group Remuneration contracts for executive directors are subject to approval by the Group Committee.
Those contracts normally include standard clauses covering the performance review process, the company's normal Bruce Van Saun disciplinary procedure, and terms for dismissal in the event of failure to In the event that Bruce Van Saun's employment is terminated by reason perform or in situations involving actions in breach of the Group's policies of his personal underperformance, the company is entitled, after giving and standards.
Any compensation payment made in connection with the reasonable opportunity to remedy any failure, to terminate by giving departure of an executive director will be subject to approval by the written notice with immediate effect and without making any payment in Group Remuneration Committee, having regard to the terms of the lieu of notice.
Any payment in lieu of notice that may be made to Bruce service contract and the reasons for termination.
Van Saun would be based on salary only i. e. no bonus or benefits.
The company has agreed that, provided certain conditions are met, on leaving Information regarding the executive directors' service contracts is shown employment, Bruce Van Saun will not forfeit awards under the rules of below: the Groups share plans.
Notice period - Notice period - Date of current contract from the company from executive Stephen Hester 4 November 2008 12 months 12 months Bruce Van Saun 8 September 2009 12 months 12 months RBS Group 2011 289 Directors remuneration report continued Chairman and non-executive directors Termination Information regarding the terms of appointment for the Chairman and No compensation would be paid to any non-executive director in the non-executive directors is shown below.
event of termination of appointment.
Re-election Arrangements for the Group Chairman Under the Articles of Association of the company, directors must stand for Philip Hampton is entitled to receive a cash payment in lieu of notice if his re-election by shareholders at least once every three years.
However, in appointment is terminated as a result of the Group's majority shareholder accordance with the provisions of the Code, all directors of the company seeking to effect the termination of his appointment.
The applicable will stand for annual re-election by shareholders at the companys Annual notice period is twelve months.
In the event that the company terminates General Meetings.
Philip Hampton's appointment without good reason, or his re-election is not approved by shareholders in General Meeting resulting in the Letter of engagement termination of his appointment, he will be entitled to receive a cash The non-executive directors do not have service contracts or notice payment in lieu of notice of twelve months' fees.
periods although they have letters of engagement reflecting their responsibilities and commitments.
Fees for non-executive directors The table below sets out the remuneration structure for non-executive Time commitments directors for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Senior Independent Letters of engagement make clear to non-executive directors the time Director and Chairs of the Board Committees receive a composite fee commitment they are expected to give to their Board duties.
Since 2010, and therefore do not receive additional fees for membership of any other non-executive directors letters of engagement specifically state that their committees or the Group Board.
time commitment should be in line with the Walker Review of corporate governance of banks and other financial institutions in respect of their general Board duties.
Additional time will be spent as necessary in respect of Committee duties, including in particular any Committees which they chair.
Chairmans fee 750,000 Senior Independent Director composite fee 150,000 Chairman of Group Audit Committee, Board Risk Committee or Group Remuneration Committee composite fee 150,000 Non-executive director Group Board fee 72,500 Membership of Group Audit Committee, Board Risk Committee or Group Remuneration Committee fee 25,000 Membership of Nominations Committee fee 5,500 No director received any expense allowances chargeable to UK income tax or compensation for loss of office termination payment.
The non-executive directors did not receive any bonus payments or benefits.
RBS Group 2011 290 Remuneration in detail The tables and explanatory notes on pages 291 to 293 detail the remuneration of each director for the year ended 31 December 2011 and have been audited by the company's auditors, Deloitte LLP.
Directors' remuneration Salary 2011 2010 fees Benefits Total Total 000 000 000 000 Chairman Philip Hampton 750 750 750 Executive directors Stephen Hester 1 1,200 26 1,226 3,267 Bruce Van Saun 1,2 744 132 876 2,298 Notes: 1 Stephen Hester waived his award of 3.6 million shares which was approved by the Group Board and which was due to be awarded in March 2012.
Bruce Van Saun will receive an award of 3.0 million shares in respect of 2011 performance, which will be delivered into Share Bank in March 2012 and will vest in March 2013 and 2014.
For subsequent reporting years, the 3.0 million shares awarded to Bruce Van Saun will be detailed in the Deferred Awards table see page 292.
Further details of the performance assessment of the executive directors in 2011 is outlined on pages 282 and 283.
Amounts disclosed as performance bonus under the remuneration table in the 2010 Report & Accounts represent the cash value that was subsequently converted to shares at the date of award in March 2011.
The awards are shown as deferred awards granted in 2011 as set out on page 292.
2 Bruce Van Saun is director of ConvergEx Holdings LLC and retains the fee paid to him in this respect.
Non-executive directors The level of remuneration for non-executive directors reflects their responsibility and time commitment and the level of fees paid to non-executive directors of comparable major UK companies.
Non-executive directors do not participate in any incentive or performance plan.
Non-executive directors fees are reviewed regularly.
Board Board Committee 2011 2010 fees fees Total Total 000 000 000 000 Non-executive directors Sandy Crombie 150 150 150 Alison Davis 1 30 13 43 Tony Di Iorio 2 24 19 43 Penny Hughes 3 150 150 130 Joe MacHale 4 73 60 133 141 John McFarlane 73 30 103 103 Brendan Nelson 5 150 150 111 Baroness Noakes 6 30 13 43 Art Ryan 73 22 95 103 Philip Scott 150 150 150 Former non-executive director Colin Buchan 7 44 33 77 150 Notes: 1 Appointed on 1 August 2011.
Lower fee in 2010 reflects appointment as Chair of Group Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 June 2010.
4 Board Committee fee includes membership of the Asset Protection Scheme Senior Oversight Committee.
Lower fee in 2010 reflects appointment to the Board from 1 April 2010 and as Chairman of the Group Audit Committee from 28 April 2010.
7 Retired from the Board with effect from 5 August 2011.
RBS Group 2011 291 Directors remuneration report continued Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP No variation was made to any of the terms of the plan during the year.
Awards to executive directors under the LTIP in 2011 are subject to performance conditions detailed on page 284.
Performance conditions for awards made in 2010 are detailed on page 285.
Market End of period price on for qualifying Awards held Awards Awards Market price Awards held at 1 January granted award vested in on vesting at 31 December conditions to 2011 in 2011 2011 2011 be fulfilled Stephen Hester 8,578,432 1 0.49 8,578,432 14.05.13 10,114,178 0.44 10,114,178 07.03.14 8,578,432 10,114,178 18,692,610 Bruce Van Saun 5,182,803 2 0.49 5,182,803 14.05.13 6,321,362 0.44 6,321,362 07.03.14 5,182,803 6,321,362 11,504,165 Notes: 1 Stephen Hester has agreed to a voluntary holding period of two further years beyond the vesting date for the net post-tax number of vested shares in respect of at least one third of the award.
2 Bruce Van Saun has agreed to a voluntary holding period of two further years beyond the vesting date for the net post-tax number of vested shares for the amount over 300% of his salary.
Deferred awards Below are details of deferred awards granted to executive directors.
Awards are structured as conditional rights to receive shares and are subject to clawback.
No variation has been made to any of the terms of the plan during the year.
Market End of period Awards held Awards price on Awards Market price Awards held for qualifying at 1 January granted award vested in on vesting at 31 December conditions to 2011 in 2011 2011 2011 be fulfilled Stephen Hester 1 4,585,094 0.44 4,585,094 07.03.12 - 07.03.13 2 Bruce Van Saun 957,071 0.38 957,071 18.06.12 3 3,030,882 0.44 3,030,882 07.03.12 - 07.03.13 2 957,071 3,030,882 3,987,953 Notes: 1 In February 2010, Stephen Hester agreed to waive his deferred award in respect of the 2009 performance year.
2 The awards granted on 7 March 2011 relate to an allocation of shares under the Share Bank arrangements for annual incentives in respect of the 2010 performance year.
The allocation was made as a conditional right to acquire ordinary shares under The RBS 2010 Deferral Plan.
The Awards are due to vest in two equal tranches on 7 March 2012 and 7 March 2013 and any vested shares are subject to a further six month retention post-vesting.
Mr Hester has voluntarily agreed to a total retention period of 12 months post-vesting.
Clawback provisions will apply prior to vesting of the shares.
3 The Award was granted in March 2010 and relates to an allocation of shares in respect of annual incentives for the 2009 performance year.
Share options The ESOP was approved by shareholders in April 2007.
No further awards will be made under the ESOP as it has been replaced by the LTIP.
Performance conditions applying to the outstanding awards are shown on page 285.
Market price at Options held at Options held date of Option 31 December 2011 at 1 January Number of options exercise price 2011 exercised in 2011 Number Exercise period Stephen Hester 9,550,000 0.37 9,550,000 22.06.12 - 21.06.19 Bruce Van Saun 905,306 0.57 905,306 08.09.12 - 07.09.19 No options had their terms and conditions varied during the year ended 31 December 2011.
No payment is required on the award of an option.
The plan was amended in 2009 to introduce a clawback provision for grants made in 2009.
In respect of the grant of options in 2009, the performance conditions for executive directors are based on a combination of relative and absolute TSR measures.
The market price of the company's ordinary shares on 30 December 2011 was 20.18p and the range during the year ended 31 December 2011 was 17.34p to 49.0p.
RBS Group 2011 292 Medium-Term Performance Plan MPP The MPP was approved by shareholders in April 2001.
No further awards will be made under the MPP as it has been replaced by the LTIP.
No variation was made to any of the terms of the plan during the year.
In respect of the 2009 awards, the performance conditions for executive directors are based on a combination of relative and absolute TSR measures.
Scheme interests Market price Awards Awards Scheme interests End of period for share equivalents on award vested in exercised share equivalents qualifying conditions at 1 January 2011 2011 in 2011 at 31 December 2011 to be fulfilled Stephen Hester 1 4,800,000 0.37 4,800,00022.06.12 Bruce Van Saun 2 1,810,611 0.57 1,810,61122.06.12 Notes: 1 Stephen Hester has voluntarily agreed to retain any shares that he receives for a further two years past the vesting date.
2 End of qualifying period 22 June 2012, however award unavailable for exercise until 8 September 2012, three years from date of award.
Restricted Share Award No variation was made to any of the terms of the plan during the year and no awards were granted under the Restricted Share plan in 2011.
Awards held Awards Market price Awards Market price Value of Awards held at End of period for at 1 January granted in on award vested in on vesting awards vested 31 December qualifying conditions 2011 2011 2011 2011 to be fulfilled Stephen Hester 3,463,298 0.48 799,292 0.4234 338,420 1  610,687 0.48 610,687 0.1983 121,099 2 4,073,985 4,073,985 1,594,119 Philip Hampton 3 5,172,413 0.29 5,172,413 27.02.12 Notes: 1 Awards to replace bonus and share awards Stephen Hester forfeited on leaving The British Land Company PLC, which reflect the vesting dates of the original awards.
Initially Stephen Hester was awarded 10,407,081 restricted shares on joining the Group.
The remaining awards granted to Stephen Hester under this plan on joining the Group vested during 2011.
2 These awards vested as to one-third on each of the first, second and third anniversary of award, subject to their terms.
3 The performance conditions attached to the awards above included measures on effective governance and stewardship of RBS, relationships with key stakeholders and delivery of value and return to shareholders.
Philip Hampton has waived his right to an award of restricted shares which was made in 2009 and due to vest in 2012.
Performance conditions for outstanding share awards made 2010 in prior years Full details of the 2010 LTIP measures are set out on page 259 of the Summaries of the performance targets and current assessment of 2010 Report & Accounts which can be found on ww.
performance can be found on pages 284 and 285.
2009 2011 Full details of the 2009 performance measures are set out on page 235 of The 2011 LTIP measures are similar to those adopted for 2012 awards the 2009 Report & Accounts which can be found on www.
as set out on page 287, although there are some differences in terms of Shareholder dilution the individual components within the four headings.
Full details of the During the ten year period to 31 December 2011, awards were made that 2011 LTIP measures are set out on page 251 of the 2010 Report & could require new issue shares under the company's share plans Accounts which can be found on www.
represented 3.7% of the company's issued ordinary share capital including the B share capital, leaving an available dilution headroom of 6.3%.
The company meets its employee share plan obligations through a combination of new issue shares and market purchase shares.
Directors pension arrangements Executive directors receive a cash allowance in place of pension benefits or have amounts credited to a defined contribution pension arrangement: 2011 2010 000 000 Cash allowances in place of pension Stephen Hester 420 420 Amounts credited to defined contribution arrangements Bruce Van Saun 1 403 321 Note: 1 This amount includes additional employer pension contribution that Mr Van Saun sacrifices from his salary.
Penny Hughes Chair of the Group Remuneration Committee 22 February 2012 RBS Group 2011 293
