126 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration report Rewarding for sustained performance Dear Shareholder Ruth Markland Remuneration in the banking industry has remained Chairman of the Remuneration Committee under significant scrutiny in 2011.
More and more countries are consulting on and introducing their ownremuneration regulations.
Within Europe and theUK in particular we have seen the regulatory enhancements of the past three years continue to evolve through the introduction of new guidelines andfurther consultation in relation to remuneration structures and disclosure.
The Remuneration Committee, together with input from the Board, has continued to focus on ensuring that theGroups policies remain aligned tobest practice, and competitive with our peers.
Whilst being sensitive tothe broader issues surrounding executive compensation and meeting the specic requirements of regulators guidelines, we take a global approach on remuneration, as 98 per cent of our employees are based outside the UK.
It is vital we pay our people for their performance across our footprint of Asia, Africa and the Middle East many labour markets remain It is vital we pay our people for their buoyant and highly competitive, withsalary ination in performance across our footprint of Asia, several markets double digit.
Africa and the Middle East many labour Aligning remuneration policy to business strategy markets remain buoyant and highly As described in more detail later, our performance, reward competitive.
andbenets arrangements support and drive our business strategy and reinforce our values in the context of a clearly articulated risk appetite and One Bank framework.
Throughout 2011 the Committee has worked closely with the Board to ensure that there is a collegiate approach to decision making on pay.
Our focus continues to be based around rewarding for sustained performance over time.
Decisions forpay in 2011 are strongly based on differentiation both for performance and for behaviours we do not reward failure.
Global regulatory environment Although 2011 has seen some convergence of regulatory requirements in Europe and some of our markets, significant differences remain and this was acknowledged in the Financial Stability Boards recent thematic review.
This unlevel playing eld continues to add challenges to how we respond in competitive environments across Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
As in previous years, we continue to support remuneration practices that encourage financial stability, strong risk management processes and behaviours.
We have also met the more extensive disclosure requirements imposed in 2011 by both the European Union and the Financial Services Authority FSA and await the outcome of the European Banking Authoritys review of certain aspects of remuneration.
We will also actively monitor future developments following the UK Governments recent consultation on executive remuneration structures anddisclosure.
Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 127 Changes to our variable compensation plans Year-end compensation decisions At the 2011 Annual General Meeting shareholders approved As in previous years, in considering the level of year-end the 2011 Standard Chartered Share Plan 95 per cent voted compensation, the Committee carefully considered the infavour.
Following the cessation of the 2001 Performance balance of all stakeholders interests including the value Share Plan, shareholders have now approved a more exible delivered to shareholders.
The Committee recognised that share plan that has allowed for simplication of the way in 2011 was the ninth year of record income and profits.
The which the FSAs remuneration requirements are met, as a Committee also acknowledged that this success was part of a variety of award types can now be made under the same plan, long-term and sustained performance in which the Group has including performance shares, deferred shares, restricted generated substantial value for shareholders.
Since the end shares and deferred cash.
Performance shares remain a key of2006: element of our compensation arrangements for both executive t The Groups operating profit has risen by 113 per cent directors and several layers of senior employees within equivalent to compound annual growth of 16 per cent theGroup.
t Total shareholder return has grown by 31 per cent relative During 2011 we also reviewed the Groups existing deferral toa decline of 44 per cent in our peer group framework.
The current Group-wide policy means that the deferral framework applies to all employees, overlaid where t Lending has grown by 91 per cent there are requirements for a higher deferral level by local t Dividends grown by a compound annual rate of 8.1 per cent regulators.
We felt that it was appropriate to maintain the year on year adjusting for 2008 2010 rights issues current approach and all our employees continue to be subject to the higher of our deferral framework or regulatory t On the back of our strong capital and liquidity position, in requirements.
We believe that the current deferral levels recent years the Group has received ratings upgrades from remain meaningful and appropriate.
We have also chosen to the three leading credit ratings agencies amend the existing deferral mechanism so that employees Consequently the Committee believed it was appropriate to who have the highest proportion of their annual performance make variable compensation awards to those that contributed award deferred may elect for a portion to be deferred in to that continued success including the executive directors.
cash 50 per cent of the deferred amount, with the balance These awards were at a level that rewarded that contribution continuing to be deferred in shares in line with market practice.
and recognised the competitive markets in which we operate.
Retirement benets More context on the Committees decision is set out on pages The Committee has also undertaken a comprehensive review 140 and 141. of pension provision arrangements for the Groups executive The Directors remuneration report has been prepared by the directors.
Following this review, all newly appointed executive Committee and approved by the Board as a whole.
On behalf directors will be eligible for an executive pension allowance to of the Committee, I encourage you to vote in favour of our fund personal arrangements rather than be eligible for a report at the Companys 2012 Annual General Meeting and, dened benefit promise.
We will honour the contractual inthe meantime, welcome any feedback that you may have.
arrangements currently in place for existing directors, albeit the cost of such arrangements will continue to be fully factored into total compensation decisions taken by the Committee.
Ruth Markland Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 128 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Remuneration Committee 12 3 4 5 Members 1 Scheduled Other attendees at Committee meetings meetings include: Group Chief Executive officer: 5 Group Head, Human Resources and R Markland Chairman 3 5 5 Communications: Group Chief Risk V F Gooding 2 5 5 officer: Group Head, Performance, J G H Paynter 5 5 5 Reward and Benets: Group Company Sir John Peace 1 4 5 Secretary: the Committees independent P D Skinner 4 4 5 remuneration adviser.
1 There were no ad hoc meetings of the Committee during 2011 Performance and reward philosophy Our highlights The Groups success depends upon the performance and commitment of talented employees.
Our performance, reward t The 2011 Standard Chartered share plan was approved and benets approach supports and drives our business by shareholders and the Groups discretionary share strategy and reinforces our values in the context of a clearly awards are now being made under it articulated risk appetite and a Group-wide framework, under which we apply a consistent approach to reward for all t A detailed review of existing retirement benefit employees.
arrangements for executive directors that has led to the elimination of dened benefit pensions for all new Our approach: directors t Supports a strong performance-oriented culture, ensuring t The global harmonisation of allowances and benets that individual reward and incentives are aligned with: i the arrangements for the most senior employees of performance and behaviour of the individual ii the theGroup performance of the business iii the interests of shareholders t Enhancement of the Groups claw-back and shareholding requirement policies to strengthen t Ensures a competitive reward package that reects our compliance with FSA rules and extend the application international nature and enables us to attract, retain and of claw-back to performance shares motivate our employees t Introduction of a cash deferral element of Annual t Reects the fact that many of our employees bring Performance Award in order to maintain a variable international experience and expertise and that we recruit compensation structure that meets the requirements from a global marketplace ofour regulators and provides a competitive t Encourages an appropriate mix of xed and variable compensation structure relative to peers compensation based on i the individuals accountability ii the individuals and business risk prole 2012 priorities t Support the Group strategy, ensuring compliance withthe dynamic regulatory environment t Review remuneration policy in line with peer banks approach in more detail t Participate in national and global discussions on what future remuneration structures and reporting should look like t Undertake a comprehensive review of performance award targets for executive directors and enhanced disclosure of how reward decisions are made relative toperformance t Review the effectiveness of the new share plan andassociated performance conditions t Continue differentiation for performance through pay and not rewarding failure or over-rewarding mediocrity Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 129 Committee role and focus Committee effectiveness The Committee has oversight of all reward policies for In addition to completing an online questionnaire, the Standard Chartered employees.
It is responsible for setting Committee trialled the use of in the moment conversations the principles and governance framework for all compensation atthe end of each meeting to assess the Committees decisions.
In particular the Committee: effectiveness.
This provides the opportunity to identify andimplement enhancements on a continuous basis.
t Determines and agrees the remuneration of the senior executives and employees with the potential to have a Advisers material impact on the risk prole of the Group In July a review of the Committee adviser was undertaken t Approves any proposal to award a high remuneration andthe decision was made to reappoint Towers Watson as package to new recruits or a high level individual itsindependent adviser for a further 12 months to advise performance award to a Group employee onarange of executive remuneration related issues.
t Ensures that the remuneration policy is appropriate and Towers Watson also provides pensions, actuarial and human consistent with effective risk management, with the Group resources advisory services to companies in the Group.
We Chief Risk officer attending key meetings of the Committee are satisfied that the consultants advising the Committee are during the year signicantly independent of other Towers Watson activities in the Group.
The engagement with Towers Watson has regard t Approves the overall total variable compensation paid to the code of conduct for remuneration consultants in the UK.
globally on an annual basis The Committee also received advice from the Group Head, Committee linkages to the Board and its committees Human Resources and Communications, the Group Head, As the global remuneration regulatory market continues to Performance, Reward and Benets and, as noted above, the introduce more detailed and prescriptive rules it is key that Group Chief Risk officer where appropriate.
theCommittee devotes appropriate time to ensuring that Towers Watson provided formal reward survey data to the these regulations are met and that they have the relevant Committee.
Clifford Chance LLP advised on the design understanding of the business to ensure that this is done in andoperation of our share plans and on issues relating to away that continues to support the Groups objectives.
To executive and non-executive directors contracts.
McLagan assist in its decision making the Committee draws upon the Partners also provide formal reward survey data andadvice relevant experience and knowledge of its members, especially onmarket practice in variable compensation arrangements benefiting from the fact that a number of them hold positions forour Wholesale Banking business.
on other Board committees, details of which can be found on pages 95 and 96.
In addition, important remuneration issues are brought to the Board for approval and all independent non-executive directors are involved in discussions before nalapproval is given.
130 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration report continued Reward arrangements for all We employed nearly 87,000 people in 71 countries and Groups key remuneration policies and structures as they were territories at the end of 2011.
Within our One Bank approach applied during 2011.
The Committee intends to adopt a similar toremuneration, it is necessary to structure compensation approach in 2012.
Further details on the main elements of our and benets to reect differing local market and statutory approach to remuneration are set out in the subsequent andregulatory conditions.
The table below summarises the sections of this report.
Fixed Objective Delivery Programme detail Base pay t To attract and retain talent t Cash t Reviewed annually and only byensuring that salaries are amended as appropriate taking Reviewable t Typically only base pay competitive to the relevant account of the latest available allowances element is pensionable market in which the individual market data is employed t Off-cycle reviews take place t To ensure that xed where there is a particular compensation is sufficient to needto ensure market allow a truly exible variable competitiveness compensation policy t Increases, if any, typically take effect from 1 April Benets Objective Delivery Programme detail Core t To support and be consistent t Normally includes retirement t Reviewed periodically taking benets with our values benets, medical insurance, account of local regulations and lifeassurance and annual leave competitive market practice Sharesave t To encourage employee t All employees are invited to t In countries where it is not plans shareownership at all levels open a three-year or five-year possible to operate Sharesave, throughout the Group savings contract typically because of securities laws, regulatory or other similar t To engage employees in t Option price is set at a issues, we offer an equivalent ourperformance, align their discount of up to 20 per cent cash plan interests more closely with to the share price at the date those of our shareholders, and ofinvitation offer them an opportunity for t Within a period of six months long-term savings and a share after the relevant anniversary, in the financial success that employees may exercise the they help to create option and purchase shares t No performance conditions Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 131 Variable compensation Objective Delivery Programme detail Annual t To focus participants on t Awards are delivered in cash t Group deferral levels are performance theachievement of annual andshare components reviewed annually, taking award APA objectives, which align our upfront and deferred intoaccount both regulatory short-term performance with depending on the amount requirements and market t Cash thesustainable creation of andemployee practice.
The maximum rate t Upfront shareholder value ofdeferral is 60 per cent of t Awards in excess of $50,000 shares totalvariable compensation t To provide a portion of total aresubject to our deferral t Deferred reward that is performance framework, overlaid by any t Code Staff may only sell shares related higher deferral requirements upfrontshares and vested oflocal regulators deferred shares ifshare holding t Deferred t To ensure that the proportion requirement is already satisfied cash ofvariable compensation t Employees with the highest opportunity which might be levelof deferred compensation delivered through a cash $120,000 or more deferred award and deferred shares areable to take an element in cash increases with deferred cash accountability and quantum t Deferred shares and deferred cash vest in equal tranches after one, two and three years, subject to claw-back t Half of any non-deferred annual performance award foran employee subject to theFSA Remuneration Code Code Staff will be delivered inthe form of shares Performance t To focus participants on t Award of shares with no t Appropriate performance shares meetingand exceeding costsubject to a three-year conditions are set by the our long-term performance performance period, Committee each time an targets, which are linked to exercisable after the third, but awardis made safeguarding shareholder before the tenth, anniversary t Awards are entirely discretionary interests of the date ofgrant, subject to and are based on individual continued employment and t To align the interests of senior performance and contribution performance conditions being managers with shareholders tolong-term value creation met over the first three years byensuring that they build and t Performance shares are part retain an appropriate equity t Awards granted since ofthe overall reward package stakein the Group 2011and as part of variable forexecutive directors and the compensation are subject to Groups most senior managers claw-back including Wholesale Banking 132 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration report continued Governance and regulatory requirements Benchmarking Standard Chartereds compensation arrangements against emerging regulatory best practice.
Regulatory benchmarking Emerging regulatory Standard Chartered practice best practice Fixed and variable t Fixed remuneration is set to be at a level that is both appropriate for the individuals role compensation balance andthe market that they are in as well as allowing for truly exible variable remuneration arrangements where, for example, no performance award could be paid t There is a single variable compensation pool from which all variable compensation irrespective of structure e. g. cash, deferred shares, performance shares is funded Remuneration policy t Risk management is core to all business decisions across the Group and we have a robust that supports effective process for ensuring that compensation decisions take risk into account further details are risk management on the following pages processes Rewarding for t Employees are assessed and rewarded on performance against objectives and adherence performance and to Group values.
Those role modelling our values typically receive an uplift of up to 20 per adherence to values cent over target variable compensation compared with those who demonstrate the values less frequently t A claw-back policy on deferred compensation including performance shares from 2011 that can be activated by inappropriate behaviours and non-adherence to Group values Strong, dened link t Variable compensation for senior management is driven by collective and individual between remuneration objectives that are clearly linked to the achievement of business objectives consistent and strategy withthe Groups risk appetite Risk and performance t The use of a robust risk adjusted profit metric that takes into account regulatory capital, alignment credit and market risk in the formulation of performance award pools t Claw-back can be applied on deferred performance awards prior to vesting t The Groups share plan uses a risk-based performance condition to ensure it is aligned torisk t The three-year vesting period for share awards is consistent with the tenor of the Groups banking book.
For example, within Wholesale Banking, at least 65 per cent of loans and advances are short term one year in nature Meaningful levels of t A Group-wide deferral framework with a top rate of 60 per cent deferral of total variable deferral for variable compensation applies to all employees compensation t All Code staff employees, or those subject to the remuneration requirements oflocal regulators are subject to the higher of these deferral requirements and the Group deferral framework Strong internal t The Committee oversees all material variable compensation plan spend and reviews governance process theremuneration of the most highly paid and those subject to FSA deferral requirements t The Group Chief Risk officer attends key Committee meetings t Control function variable compensation pools are managed separately from the businesses they control t A comprehensive set of reward plan committees provides rigorous challenge of variable compensation decisions and allocation of pools t Control functions provide input into reward plan committee meetings on any control or audit issues positive or negative that should inuence compensation and claw-back decisions Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 133 Eight highest paid employees beneath the Board The following table sets out, on an anonymised basis, the remuneration of the eight highest paid employees who are not executive directors.
The disclosure is not limited to those discharging managerial responsibility PDMRs.
2011 Variable Compensation NonDeferred 2 Fixed Deferred Upfront Deferred shares and 1 Compensation Cash Shares Cash performance Total 2 3 Employee $000 $000 $000 $000 shares $000 $000 1 674 1,900 1,900 2,475 3,227 10,176 2 783 1,321 1,321 1,804 2,157 7,386 3 644 1,286 1,286 1,741 2,117 7,075 4 631 1,224 1,224 1,648 2,024 6,752 5 605 224 224 276 5,353 6,681 6 577 1,036 1,036 1,414 1,696 5,759 7 841 915 915 1,185 1,561 5,417 8 514 248 4,300 5,063 1 Includes base salary, benets and allowances paid in respect of 2011 and where appropriate on a pro rata basis for new joiners 2 Part of any annual performance award for an employee designated as Code Staff under the FSA Remuneration Code is delivered in the form of shares including the non-deferred element that must be retained subject to the Groups revised shareholding requirements policy 3 Includes the deferred share element of annual performance award, the expected value of any performance shares, and if appropriate, any distribution from any carried interest plan paid in 2011 Supporting risk management through The Committee reviews the Groups performance ourremuneration practices andrewardpolicy on a regular basis against significant Effective risk management is fundamental to building regulatory developments in our markets, market practice sustainable performance and is the central tenet of the andshareholder expectations.
As part of its review process financial and operational management of the Group.
The Risk the Committee receives the following input from Risk: function ensures management of risk throughout the Group t The Group Chief Risk officer GCRO attends all of the via a robust and rigorous Risk Management Framework that Committee meetings that approve overall and individual comprises the core building blocks of the Groups overall performance awards approach to risk management.
Risk appetite is set in the context of the Groups strategy and the annual Strategy Board t All reward plan committees are constituted with meeting sets strategic goals that are translated into financial cross-functional representation and are typically chaired and business targets and, ultimately, to employees objectives.
by the representative from a control function for example The Board also remains involved in all material decisions made risk or compliance regarding performance and reward.
t The Group Reward Plan Committee GRPC is made up Since performance against these objectives is a significant ofthe GCRO, the Group Finance Director, Group Head, factor in the determination of an individuals APA, employees Human Resources and Communications and the Group are required to ensure the effective management of risks Chief Executive officer within the scope of their direct organisational responsibilities.
t Reward plan committees oversee the formation and allocation ofaward pools taking all risk issues into consideration 134 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration report continued Through our reward practices, our employees are motivated The Committee then uses this information and exercises tofocus on business and personal objectives, deliver and discretion to determine the final pool and approve allocations sustain outstanding performance and act in-line with the to business and support functions.
In arriving at its decision Groups values.
Assessing how an individual has achieved itlooks at the proposed aggregate payouts relative to both anobjective, as well as what has been achieved, is a trading profit and risk adjusted profit, notably risk capital keycomponent of our performance process and adjusted profit RCAP.
The Committee is also informed by remuneration decision.
theunderlying funding frameworks for individual pools and has oversight for the allocation of the overall Group pool Pool funding across businesses.
The Groups total variable compensation TVC spend is The GRPC is responsible for allocating the approved pools to calculated after sufficient profit has been accrued to accord each business specic Reward Plan Committee RPC, who shareholders an appropriate risk adjusted return and in the then oversee the allocation of variable compensation spend context of the forward looking capital plan.
The two key within their areas.
In 2011, 100 per cent of both our Wholesale elements to pool determination are overall payout and Banking and Consumer Banking discretionary variable allocation of the TVC spend between respective businesses compensation was delivered under RCAP-based pools.
The Group operates a single discretionary annual Governance of reward committees performance plan comprised of a number of pools.
Reward Each business specic RPC involves Risk, Compliance and issues are governed on a top-down basis and our variable Human Resources HR functions in compensation decisioncompensation awards deliberately do not contain any direct making.
For each RPC, Risk and Finance representatives formulaic link between business income and individual reward jointly oversee the compilation and accuracy of financial data to avoid the shortcomings of incentive plans which are based used to underpin award pool funding.
In addition, the HR purely on short-term financial results.
function provides independent input to minimise the risk of conicts of interest which mightarise.
Although each performance award pool has an initial funding mechanism, the Committee approves the TVC spend, To ensure consistency from an overall Group perspective, including the amount to be spent on any performance share thebusiness specic RPCs are governed by the GRPC.
The awards, for the Group taking into account a submission it GRPC oversees all reward plans in the Group and ensures receives from the GRPC.
The Committee exercises its that decision making is in accordance with the Groups judgment to ensure that the overall payout appropriately established performance and reward philosophy.
The GRPC reects Group performance, the control environment, and any acts as a link to the Committee and will provide feedback to other qualitative factors that it considers appropriate including the other RPCs as necessary.
performance relative to peers, the latest remuneration guidelines, political and investor sentiment on banking compensation and emerging market intelligence on competitor practice.
Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 135 Risk adjustment of compensation The Committee views management of variable compensation These levers are used to make what is called ex ante risk and in a holistic way, using a number of levers to determine both performance adjustments beginning with the use of RCAP.
In the appropriate size of the variable compensation pool and addition, the Committee has agreed a number of mechanisms individual recommendations taking account of current and to make ex post performance adjustments that provide further future risks to the Group at the time compensation decisions alignment to actual performance outcomes see below.
Considerations at the time of award ex ante Initial pool funding t TVC has been established in a similar way to previous years, but with even greaterreliance on pool determination based on risk adjusted profit in 2011 t An assessment of the pools relative to financial performance both year on year and versus budget is made with reference to multiple financial lenses including i trading profit ii risk capital adjusted profit Validation of the TVC pool t The Committee reviews the TVC pool against the financial dimensions above, but exercises its judgment to ensure that the overall payout appropriately reects Group performance, the control environment, and any other qualitative factors that the Committee considers appropriate Adjustments after awards made ex post Balance of upfront and deferred t The Committee considers the balance of cash, deferred and performance shares annual performance awards to be delivered both at an aggregate level and at an individual level.
Expost and performance shares adjustments are only effective if the right people get the appropriate levelof deferrals and performance shares t In the Group, deferrals start at $50,000 and up to 1,000 employees are eligible toreceive performance shares depending on individual performance Performance adjustment t This is achieved through multiple lenses andclaw-back t Potential diminution in value of deferred award: through share price movement until vesting t Claw-back prior to vesting: applied if an individual exhibits inappropriate values or behaviour t Claw-back prior to vesting: applied if there is a material event including a restatement, breach of regulatory guidelines or failure in risk management ataGroup or business level t Potential diminution in value of performance shares: through share price movement as well as subsequent testing of performance conditions 136 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration report continued Determining individual variable compensation awards In respect of claw-back, the Committee has discretion in very The Group aims to sustain a high performance culture in exceptional circumstances to determine that a whole award which every employee has a clear set of objectives, receives will not vest, will only partially vest, or will be subject to delayed ongoing feedback on their performance and behaviour and vesting.
Such circumstances dened as a Material Event may isappropriately rewarded for their individual contribution.
include a material restatement of the Groups financial statements, the discovery of endemic problems in financial Through our ePerformance system we have a disciplined and reporting or where, as a result of financial losses, a material transparent approach to managing employee performance.
breach of regulatory guidelines e. g. in relation to capital Employees agree their objectives with their manager and both holdings or liquidity or significant failure in risk management team and individual objectives are based on the Groups atGroup or business unit level has occurred or is likely to occur.
This underpins focus on setting quality objectives against which performance can be regularly Where the Group financial statements have been subject to reviewed.
amaterial restatement or there has been a risk management failure, the Committee may also determine that forfeiture is There is no direct formulaic link between business income tobe restricted to the award holders in a particular business generated by an individual and that individuals reward.
unit if issues in that unit alone have been the cause of the Differentiating performance and values ratings at all levels restatement or the risk management failure.
enables us to target spend towards those who have made the most effective contribution to the Groups performance and Individual award holders may also forfeit their awards if it is unique culture, recognises and aids retention of our highest determined that the employee or former employee or group performers and balances this with affordability considerations.
ofemployees has, as a result of an appropriate review, been deemed to have i caused in full or in part a material loss for Application of deferrals and claw-back the Group as a result of reckless, negligent or wilful actions Annual discretionary performance awards above $50,000 or ii exhibited inappropriate values or behaviour.
aresubject to deferral under the Groups standard framework.
The deferred portion is delivered entirely in shares for the Shareholding requirements majority of employees.
However, those employees with the The Group has for many years operated a shareholding highest level of deferrals a minimum total deferred APA of guideline framework to align the interests of its executives $120,000 can elect for 50 per cent of their deferred award to withits investors.
We remain committed to the principles of be delivered as deferred cash.
All deferred awards, shares and share ownership by executives with an expectation that such cash, vest equally over three years and remain subject to the employees build up a shareholding over time.
Last year we Groups claw-back policy.
Deferred share and upfront share revised our shareholding requirements to ensure that they awards for Code Staff under the APA may only be sold if the metthe requirements of the FSA Remuneration Code.
employee meets their minimum shareholding requirement.
Under the requirements, Code Staff are required to hold a The current deferral thresholds are shown in the following specified minimum number of vested ordinary shares that table: effectively results in a 12-month retention period for vested and up-front share awards.
Members of the Group Annual performance award thresholds $ Percentage deferred Management Committee GMC are required to hold the 50,000 or less No deferral, paid higher of the number of shares in line with our revised incash shareholding requirements and a specified number ofshares 1 120,000 and 200,000 shares, including unvested deferred Above 50,000 and equal to 250,000 25 per cent shares, for executive directors and Group Chief Executive Above 250,000 and equal to 500,000 35 per cent respectively.
Above 500,000 and equal to 3 million 50 per cent Group share plans 2 Above 3 million 65 per cent 2011 Standard Chartered Share Plan the 2011 Plan 1 A minimum deferral into shares of $5,000 exists, effectively meaning Approved by shareholders in May 2011 this is the Groups that deferral applies to awards of $70,000 and above main share plan, applicable to all employees with the exibility 2 The net deferral rate will be capped at an aggregate deferral of to provide a variety of award types.
The 2011 Plan is designed 60percent including an expected value of any performance shares to deliver performance shares, deferred awards and restricted Where local regulators have their own remuneration requirements shares, giving us sufficient exibility to meet the challenges of employees are subject to the higher of these and the Groups deferral the changing regulatory and competitive environment.
framework Discretionary share awards are a key part of both executive directors and senior managements variable compensation and their signicance as a proportion of potential total remuneration is one of the strongest indicators of our Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 137 commitment to pay for sustainable performance and aligning proportion of the award should vest.
TSR performance is reward with our risk horizon.
measured using a local currency approach.
This reects the international composition of the Group, but also takes into Performance shares account that a significant proportion of each companys profit Performance share awards for executive directors are is generated in the same currency as its primary listing.
This currently limited to an overall maximum amount of 400 per approach measures the real impact for a shareholder by cent of base salary in face value terms and delivered as nil cost focusing on relative share movement rather than taking into options.
Awards vest after a three-year period and are subject account exchange rate uctuations.
to three performance measures: Awards made Awards Awards in 2011 and made in made in Total Shareholder Return TSR 1 1, 2 1, 2 TSR comparators going forward 2010 2009 Relative TSR, which measures the growthin share price plus Banco Santander dividends paid to shareholders, isrecognised as one of the best indicators as to whether shareholders have achieved a Bank of America good return investing in a specic company relative to a basket Bank of China of similar companies orasingle index.
Bank of East Asia Earnings Per Share EPS Barclays EPS provides an appropriate measure ofacompanys Citigroup underlying financial performance.
Credit Suisse Return on Risk Weighted Assets RoRWA DBS Group RoRWA is a key performance indicator of the Group that is Deutsche Bank already used to calculate capital adequacy.
This performance measure takes into account not only the return on assets but HSBC also risk adjusts the assets by looking at credit, operational, ICBC and market risk.
ICICI The weighting between the three elements is split equally one JP Morgan Chase third of the award depending each on the achievement of TSR, EPS and RoRWA, assessed independently of one another Kookmin supporting a balanced scorecard approach through equal Oversea-Chinese focus upon financial measures, investor interests and prudent BankingCorporation risk taking.
Using a risk adjusted measure ensures that there is an appropriate return for the risk taken and that the measure is Royal Bank of Scotland aligned with the Groups risk appetite.
Socit Gnrale RoRWA is a check on inappropriate pursuit of income, Standard Bank rewarding as much for prudent capital management as State Bank of India pursuing financial management.
UniCredito Performance shares under the 2011 Plan will vest after United Overseas Bank athree-year performance period.
In keeping with other variable compensation decisions and to reect the fact Standard Chartered thatperformance shares form an intrinsic part of variable Lloyds Banking Group compensation, from 2011 all performance share awards aredenominated in US dollars.
1 The percentage of the award that employees receive at the end of the relevant three-year performance period depends on where the Group is TSR element ranked against its comparators TSR performance.
Minimum vesting is The constituents of our comparison peer group for awards achieved if we are ranked median, with full vesting if we are ranked in the made in 2009, 2010 under the 2001 Performance Share Plan upper quintile of our comparison group.
Straight-line vesting applies and 2011 under the 2011 Plan are set out in the table below.
between the two vesting points 2 Awards made in 2010 and 2009 were granted under the 2001 For awards granted from 2011 the Group changed the way it Performance SharePlan calculates the TSR ranking to be better aligned to market practice and excludes Standard Chartered when calculating the position of comparators.
Standard Chartereds TSR is positioned within the comparator group to determine what 138 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration report continued Earnings per share element Deferred awards One third of the award will be subject to the Groups growth in Deferral levels have increased in recent years in response EPS over the three-year performance period.
The percentage toboth the FSA requirements and to stay in line with market of award is normally exercisable at the end of the relevant practice.
For the 2011 performance year, elements of the three-year performance period and is as follows: APAplan that are deferred will be delivered under the 2011 Plan.
These awards will be subject to a three-year deferral Increase in EPS Percentage of award subject 1 period, vesting equally one third on each of the first, second over the base EPS to EPS measure exercisable and third anniversaries.
These awards are not subject to an Less than 15 per cent Nil annual limit to ensure that regulatory requirements relating to 15 per cent 30 deferral levels can be met and, in line with market practice of our competitors, deferred awards will not be subject to any 15 to 30 per cent More than 30 1, 2 further performance criteria, although the claw-back policy but less than 100 willapply.
More than 30 per cent 100 Restricted shares 1 Calculated on a straight line basis Awards that are made outside of the annual performance 2 For awards granted in 2011 normalised EPS of 197.8 cents has been process, as additional incentive or retention mechanisms, are used as a base gure provided as restricted shares under the 2011 Plan.
These awards vest in equal instalments on the second and the third RoRWA element anniversaries of the award date.
In line with similar schemes One third of awards will be subject to RoRWA over three operated by our competitors, our existing restricted share financial years calculated by reference to the three-year awards are not subject to an annual limit and do not have average normalised post-tax earnings over the average anyperformance conditions.
ofRiskWeighted Assets RWA over that period, i. e. RoRWA.
Earnings in Y1 Earnings in Y2 Earnings in Y3 3 2001 Performance Share Plan PSP end of Y0 RWA end of Y1 RWA end of Y2 RWA end of Y3 RWA 4 The Groups previous plan for delivering performance shares was the PSP.
Under this plan half the award was dependent 30 per cent of this portion of the award will vest for minimum upon our TSR performance compared with a dened peer threshold performance with 100 per cent vesting for higher group.
The balance was subject to a target EPS growth range.
For awards granted in 2011 and for those to be Both measures use the same three-year period.
Although the granted in 2012, threshold vesting will occur at a RoRWA of PSP was replaced in 2011, there are still awards under the plan 1.5per cent with maximum vesting occurring at a RoRWA yet to vest that were made to employees in respect of the of1.7per cent.
2009 performance year awards made in 2009 in respect of the 2008 performance year vest in March 2012 see below.
The Committee will review RoRWA performance prior to Outstanding awards under the PSP were made in the form vesting of awards and, if appropriate, adjust for the impact of ofnil cost options.
items under the RoRWA measure which, in its view, is not an accurate reection of the underlying financial performance of The table below shows the performance of the Groups the Group.
performance share awards over the last five years.
Maximum Actual award under plan % of salary at grant Performance conditions and level of performance Vesting % of award % salary Year of grant at grant CEO CFO TSR EPS RoRWA TSR EPS RoRWA Total 2007 400% 275% 250% 100th percentile 20.35% growth N A 50.00% 27.48% N A 77.48% 2008 400% 350% 350% 100th percentile 18.18% growth N A 50.00% 22.41% N A 72.41% 2009 400% 340% 286% 95th percentile 17.51% growth N A 50.00% 20.84% N A 70.84% 2010 400% 325% 267% half of awards half of awards N A subject to TSR subject to EPS performance performance 2011 400% 339% 308% third of awards third of awards third of awards subject to TSR subject to EPS subject to performance performance RoRWA performance Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 139 All-employee Sharesave plans Dilution limits We believe in encouraging employee share ownership at all Our share plans contain monitored limits that govern both levels in the organisation.
We seek to engage employees in our theaggregate amount of awards that may be granted and the performance to align their interests more closely with those of amount of shares that may be issued to satisfy any subsequent our shareholders and offer them an opportunity for long-term exercise of awards.
These limits are in line with those stated in savings and a share in the financial success that they help the Association of British Insurers corporate guidelines and tocreate.
theterms of our listing on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
There are no performance conditions attached to options granted under these Sharesave plans.
Vesting provisions on a change of control Where it is not possible, due to local securities laws or Performance shares do not automatically vest in the event of a regulatory issues, to offer Sharesave in a country in which we change in control.
However, the rules do provide that the number operate, we offer an equivalent cash-based plan.
of shares subject to the award be pro-rated based on the length of the shortened performance period.
The Committee may, at Further details on the Groups share plans are set out in the itsdiscretion and acting fairly and reasonably, determine the notes to the financial statements.
extent to which awards vest having taken into account StandardChartereds performance since the date of grant.
Other share plan-related items Performance graph Vesting provisions for leavers The graph on the left below shows our TSR performance on When an employee ceases employment, unless classied as acumulative basis over the last five years alongside that of the an eligible leaver, any unvested share awards will normally FTSE 100.
The FTSE100 provides a broad comparison group lapse.
For an eligible leaver: against which our shareholders may measure their relative t Deferred annual performance awards and performance returns.
Standard Chartered is a constituent member of the share awards granted as part of TVC will normally continue FTSE 100 Index and the London Stock Exchange is the to vest over the original vesting period, subject to: principal exchange for our shares.
For illustrative purposes wehave also shown our TSR performance against those peer There being no breach of relevant non-compete and banks that have been part of our performance share award non-solicit conditions comparator group throughout the five-year period.
The Groups claw-back policy Performance conditions being satisfied The graph on the right below illustrates the Groups TSR position against the relative comparator group for performance share awards vesting between 2008 and 2012.
Total shareholder return TSR Percentage change over Assessing TSR performance under five-year period the Performance Share Plan % % TSR growth 200 150 2nd 155.43 133.23 130.60 100 126.83 150 1st 1st 92.8% 50 76.95 34.6% 34.8% 110.34 107.94 6th 100 97.98 107.36 0 Rank Rank Rank Rank 70.61 69.42 69.05 93.10 17.0% 6 15 1 15 1 15 2 21 56.27 50 50 30.29 0 Jan 07 Jan 08 Jan 09 Jan 10 Jan 11 Jan 12 100 06-08 07-09 08-10 09-11 Performance period Data provided by Thomson Reuters Standard Chartered Standard Chartered TSR position in comparator group FTSE 100 Comparator group TSR performance range with Standard Chartered actual performance Comparator median 140 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration report continued t Restricted or performance share awards granted as targetswere delinked from base salaries.
The Committee is incentives or for retention will normally be subject to the proposing, during 2012, to undertake a comprehensive review original vesting schedule, vesting on a pro-rated basis of both the underlying methodology and individual award according to the period of time from the date of grant to the levels.
In the interim, the current policy remains in place with date of cessation of employment subject to the achievement amaximum opportunity of no more than 250 per cent of each of performance conditions executive directors target performance award level albeit in the case of Mike Rees this is 150 per cent.
Actual awards are General based on a range of financial and non-financial metrics, The middle market price of an ordinary share at the close of primarily profit, EPS performance and values driven behaviour.
business on 30 December 2011 was 1409.0 pence.
The share The Committee has agreed the following targets in respect of price range over the year was 1141.5 pence to 1794.5pence 2012: P A Sands $2,000,000: SPBertamini $1,500,000: per share based on closing middle market prices.
Unless J S Bindra $1,500,000: R H Meddings $1,750,000: indicated otherwise, the foreign exchange rates used in AMGRees $10,000,000: V Shankar $1,500,000.
thisdirectors remuneration report are based on average ratesthroughout the relevant financial year.
As outlined in the Committee Chairmans covering letter, the Groups performance was very good in 2011, even more so in Reward arrangements for executive directors the context of the continuing economic turbulence and pace Each executive director has documented priorities that are of regulatory change.
Total compensation for each executive presented to the Committee at the start of the financial year director is currently structured to provide an appropriate mix and assessed at the year-end.
These are based on a broad ofxed versus variable compensation with the potential to range of factors including both financial and non-financial earn upper quartile total compensation relative to peers for measures.
The importance of each executive directors upper quartile performance.
The Groups ninth successive individual performance and that of Standard Chartered as a year of record income and profits means that it delivered determinant in their compensation is reected in the variation upper quartile performance relative to its peers.
of the annual performance awards made in recent years.
Therefore, in reaching its decisions, the Committee has Comparisons on market compensation are typically made sought to reward appropriately for performance, addressing against our international banking peers and the FTSE 20. any significant gaps to market rates of pay at an individual These two groupings have business characteristics, such as level, comparing year-on-year compensation trends and international scope of operations, complexity and size, that ensuring an appropriate mix of xed and variable aresimilar to ours, and represent organisations with which compensation.
Factors considered by the Committee in wecompete for talent.
making 2011 remuneration decisions include earnings per share and total shareholder return in addition to profit growth, Executive directors have target performance awards that performance against both the GMC collective agenda and wereoriginally set with reference to the market and individual individual priorities agreed at the start of the year, the risk and experience levels.
However, these levels have remained control environment, and adherence to the Groups values.
unchanged for several years since executive directors Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 141 t The Groups compensation review at the end of 2011 Richard Meddings: Total variable compensation for adopted a prudent approach to increases in xed Richard Meddings is also up 1.7 per cent year-on-year compensation across the whole business, with base with a at APA and a grant of performance shares up 4 salary increases targeted at junior employees based in per cent.
Richard has provided outstanding management highination markets across the Groups footprint of Asia, of the Groups capital and liquidity position and enforced Africa and the Middle East.
Salary increases for executive tight discipline on costs.
directors and other management are very much by S teve Bertamini: A strong performance by Consumer exception.
No salary increases have been made for Banking, where profits grew by 26 per cent, was a strong anyexecutive directors.
driver in his total variable compensation increasing by t In determining the level of total compensation the 8per cent.
Committee reviewed all elements of each individual Jaspal Bindra: His total variable compensation grew by package such as pension before determining the overall 7 per cent against strong operating profit growth in Asia level of variable compensation.
of17 per cent in 2011 overall with strong performances in t Total variable compensation TVC awards were made Hong Kong, Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia against to the directors to recognise another year of record income weaker year on year performance in India.
and profits, and strong performance relative to peers.
Mike Rees: A good performance in challenging market Atanindividual level, awards were made to reect relevant conditions by Wholesale Banking, where profits grew by business and or geographical performance year on year as 9per cent in 2011.
However, given profit growth was not well as broader leadership of the Groups strategic priorities as strong as 2010, Mikes total variable compensation and values, and delivery of individual priorities agreed at the decreased by 7 per cent year-on-year.
This performance assessment is reected in both the annual performance award and in the absolute The Committee believes that the aggregate TVC outcomes level of performance shares, which together comprise TVC.
strike the right balance in aligning reward with the Groups The following brief commentary gives some additional overall profit performance, income growth, risk management insight into the decisions made by the Committee.
and, in particular, returns to shareholders.
The Committee also believes that the individual recommendations appropriately Peter Sands: As Group Chief Executive officer Peter reward contribution to the financial performance of the Group Sands has led the Group to its ninth year of record and take appropriate account of personal performance income and profits.
Total variable compensation against a range of non-financial metrics.
increased by 1.7 per cent as a consequence of a at APA and a performance share grant up 4 per cent year-on-year.
This total compensation is set in the context of Group operating profits growth of 11 per cent and EPS of 198 cents post rights issue.
V Shankar was appointed to the Board effective 1 January 2012 142 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration report continued Executive directors performance and reward reviewprocess Objective Interim review Final review Compensation setting outcomes January February July December February Personal objectives agreed Mid-year discussion on Self appraisals prepared t CEO Chairman provide with line manager performance to date and performance performance updates against objectives discussion held with line Objectives shared with the t Feedback from Risk and manager Committee other control functions is taken into account t Committee assesses general affordability, market competitiveness and individual and business performance t Committee shared recommendations with other NEDs before nalisation Group objectives are determined and aligned to Groups Directors variable compensation is determined by the strategic goals, which are agreed annually by the Board.
Committee with all awards including performance shares funded from the global risk-adjusted pool.
Each director shapes their priorities around five core pillars: The final APA is determined against a range of factors t Deliver superior financial performance including individual performance against objectives all t Improve the way we work pillars equally important as well as the performance of the business unit and the Group in aggregate.
t Multiply our leadership capability In line with the Groups strong values culture, any variable t Strengthen regulatory and community relationships compensation will depend on how an objective hasbeen t Reinforce our brand and culture achieved equally importantly to what has been achieved.
Hard measures will be included such as RoRWA, EPS Before nalisation, recommendations are discussed with andoperating profit.
non-executive directors not on the Committee.
Objectives vary according to the businesses in which the director works and their roles.
Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 143 Retirement benets Executive directors appointed prior to 1 January 2012 who In 2011, the Committee undertook a comprehensive review of have been building up pension benets on a dened benefit the pension arrangements for executive directors.
This review basis will retain their accrued entitlements and may continue looked in detail at the cost to the company of funding current to build up benets in their existing arrangements, with the arrangements, market practice and trends as well as the Committee continuing to take into account the value of such existing arrangements being operated elsewhere in the Group.
benets as part of total compensation.
With effect from 1January 2012, executive directors with a dened benefit In light of this detailed review, the Committee concluded that promise have the option to give up part or all of their future itwas appropriate to adopt a new policy under which dened pension accrual and have it replaced with an individually benefit promises will not be extended to newly appointed costed pension allowance.
This allowance has been executive directors in future and that in its place an annual determined on a cost neutral basis to the Group, reecting the cash pension allowance will be paid.
In addition, the level of benefit given up and the individual executive directors Committee also believes that it is important to offer existing age as at 1 January 2012.
To date, no executive director had executive directors an alternative to their current dened elected to switch to a cash supplement in full or part.
benefit arrangements through the provision of a cash allowance that individuals may opt to receive on a voluntary No changes have been made to the terms and conditions basis.
Both of these policies are in line with the Groups applying to the dened benefit promises and executive broader aim to provide pension benets via dened directors retain any existing opportunity to waive a proportion contribution plans in place of dened benefit arrangements.
of the cash element of any potential annual performance award or their annual base salary to enhance their unapproved The provision of retirement benets represents a significant retirement benets.
Any amounts waived in respect of this year element of total compensation and the Committee makes are shown in the directors retirement benets table: our fullallowance of the cost of providing these benets and consulting actuary has calculated the additional pension theirvalue to individual executives when determining total benets using assumptions adopted for IAS19 Employee compensation levels.
As explained in more detail below, Benets IAS19.
theCommittee has been careful to ensure that the introduction of pension allowances does not lead to any Dened benefit pension provision continues to be made increase in Group costs.
through a combination of the Standard Chartered Pension Fund, an approved non-contributory plan, and an unapproved In order to determine a suitable annual cash allowance for retirement benefit plan.
The unapproved plan is unfunded but newly appointed directors, the Group took into account a the benets accrued prior to 1 April 2011 are secured by a number of factors it considered to be of relevance.
The first of charge, in the name of an independent trustee, over specic these was that any new arrangements should be cost neutral assets.
The unapproved unfunded retirement benefit scheme to the Group.
With the assistance of external actuarial advice provides the part of the executives benefit that exceeds the the Group calculated the cost to it of providing the current UK Governments lifetime allowance.
In other respects the dened benefit pension promise using a smoothed funding terms of the unapproved scheme are designed to mirror the methodology, which resulted in a calculated cost equivalent to provisions of the Standard Chartered Pension Fund.
Upon the 46 per cent of salary.
Other considerations in respect of death in service of an executive director, benets are available internal relativity and external levels of provision were then also to a spouse and dependent children in a lump sum form.
The directors emoluments and directors pensions tables Based on a consideration of these factors the Committee andthe accompanying notes provide details of the pension decided that newly appointed executive directors will be benets for each executive director.
Base salary is the only provided with an executive pension allowance equal to element of remuneration that is pensionable.
40percent of their base salary to fund personal pension arrangements, this being the cost equivalent rate of the existing dened benefit arrangements.
To ensure alignment with the new policy of existing directors currently participating in dened contribution arrangements, an increase from 35to40 per cent of base salary in Steve Bertaminis pension allowance was approved by the Committee with effect from 1April 2012.
144 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration report continued Executive directors contracts of employment Details of non-executive directorships held by the Executive directors receive and are required to give 12 executive directors months notice.
The dates of the executive directors contracts Certain executive directors serve as non-executive directors of of employment are as follows: other companies.
Details of these directorships are contained on pages 95 and 96.
The executive directors are permitted to P A Sands 31 December 2003 hold a maximum of one non-executive directorship with a listed company on the basis that there is no conict of interest S P Bertamini 22 April 2008 or time commitment.
Details of non-executive fees of the J S Bindra 1 March 2008 executive directors are shown below.
Current R H Meddings 12 December 2003 1 Name Organisation annual fees A M G Rees 7 January 2010 P A Sands The Institute of International No fees payable V Shankar 14 April 2010 Finance, inc The Department of Health No fees payable The contracts contain payment in lieu of notice PILON British Bankers Association No fees payable provisions that can be exercised at our discretion.
The PILON Roundhouse Trust No fees payable comprises an amount equal to 12 months base salary, pension J S Bindra Vital Voices Global Partnership No fees payable contributions entitlement and certain benets and allowances Board of Governance for XLRI No fees payable such as life assurance and car allowance.
APAs payable as School of Business & Human part of a PILON are determined by the Committee, after taking Resources into consideration the performance ofboth the individual and 1 Standard Chartered.
Payments underPILON are made in R H Meddings 3i Group Plc GBP84,672 quarterly instalments and are subject to mitigation.
International Chamber of No fees payable Commerce Special provisions apply in the event that Standard Chartered terminates an executive directors contract in the 12 months 1 Indicates that fees are retained by the executive director following a change of control without giving notice.
Unless the executive director has been summarily dismissed or is serving Executive director changes out their notice, an amount equal to 12 months base salary, With effect from 1 January 2012, V Shankar was appointed as APA, pension contributions entitlement and certain benets a group executive director.
Details are provided earlier in this and allowances will be paid infour equal instalments.
Any APA report of his base salary and contract of employment, the payable in respect of the 12months following the date of latter of which has similar provisions to those outlined above, termination is only made at the discretion of the Committee.
in relation to other executive directors.
Inthe unlikely event that less than six months of the performance year in question has passed, anaward Gareth Bullock stepped down from the Board from 1 May equivalent to the executive directors target performance 2010.
As outlined in last years directors remuneration report, award is payable.
The APA payable in respect of the Gareth remained an employee until 30 April 2011 in order to performance period prior totermination is decided by provide an orderly transition to his successor and to continue theCommittee, taking into account both the performance to provide input on strategic developments.
During this period ofthe individual and Standard Chartered.
A pro rata target between stepping down from his Board role and the end of performance award is payable if this period is less than hisemployment, he was paid in accordance with contract of sixmonths.
employment, including the receipt of base salary, car benefit, life and medical cover.
The value of base salary and benets for the period 1 January 2011 to 30 April 2011 was GBP165,279 and GBP35,432 respectively.
Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 145 Reward arrangements for the Chairman and Chairman non-executive directors Contract Fees for non-executive directors are determined by the Sir John Peaces contract of employment, dated 2 July 2009 Chairman and executive directors.
and updated on 1 March 2011, is subject to 12 months rolling The fees are reviewed at least every two years and, in line with notice.
The terms of his contract governing PILON provisions executive directors remuneration, reect the international and payments on termination are similar to those previously nature of the roles performed by the non-executive directors.
outlined in relation to executive directors.
There were no changes in fees in 2011.
Basic annual fees and committee fees are designed to be Remuneration competitive against our international peer group.
The fees Sir Johns compensation as Chairman comprises two key ofthe non-executive directors are commensurate with the parts.
He receives an annual base fee, partly delivered in cash experience and the increased time commitment that they $1,041,820 GBP650,000 and partly delivered in restricted bring to the Board.
The current fees, last reviewed in March shares GBP500,000 granted in two equal tranches annually.
2010, are set out in the following table.
This structure aligns his interests with those of shareholders and demonstrates the Chairmans commitment and Element Current fees GBP confidence in our future.
This is Sir Johns primary Base fee 100,000 employment where his duties take priority over any existing ornew outside interest.
Audit Committee Chair 65,000 The structure and quantum of the Chairmans compensation Committee Member 30,000 arrangements were benchmarked against comparable banking roles in both the UK and international marketplaces.
Remuneration Committee The arrangements ensure that Sir John is appropriately Chair 50,000 compensated for his contribution and reects the increased Committee Member 25,000 demands placed on the Chairmans role over the course of Nomination Committee theyear.
This is expected to continue in the foreseeable future.
Chair N A Sir John is also entitled to a car and driver, which he does not Committee Member 15,000 currently utilise, and is provided with private healthcare.
He is Governance Committee not eligible to receive discretionary performance share awards Chair No fees or to participate in either our annual performance award or retirement plans.
Committee Member No fees Board Risk Committee These remuneration arrangements will be reviewed again during the course of 2012.
Chair 65,000 Committee Member 30,000 Brand and Values Committee Chair 50,000 Committee Member 25,000 Senior Independent Director 30,000 UK based non-executive directors are able to take up to 100per cent of their monthly post-tax base fees to acquire shares in Standard Chartered.
Non-executive directors haveno service contract and do not participate in any performance-related remuneration arrangements.
146 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration report continued Audited information Remuneration of Group Chairman 2011 2010 Share Share Cash fee based fee Benets Total Cash fee based fee Benets Total Chairman $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Sir John Peace 1,042 774 2 1,820 1,004 613 2 1,619 1 Sir John Peace receives part of his annual fee in restricted shares.
Accordingly, he was granted an award over 14,863 shares in the Company on 22 June 2011 and 18,491 shares in the Company on 20 September 2011 2 Sir John is also a member of the Brand and Values, Governance, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, for which he does not receive additional fees Remuneration of non-executive directors 2011 2010 Fees Benets Total Fees Benets Total Non-executive directors $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 1, 2 R Delbridge 256 256 239 239 1, 2, 3, 5 J F T Dundas 377 377 340 340 4, 5 V F Gooding 240 240 226 226 8 S Lowth 168 168 103 103 1, 2, 3, 6, 7 R H P Markham 385 385 362 362 1, 2, 3, 4 R Markland 361 361 336 336 1, 4 J G H Paynter 248 248 233 233 5 9 9 Dr Han Seung-soo 200 118 318 187 80 267 2, 3, 4, 5 P D Skinner 353 353 314 314 2 O H J Stocken 208 208 195 195 Total 2,796 118 2,914 2,535 80 2,615 1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Board Risk Committee 3 Member of the Nomination Committee 4 Member of the Remuneration Committee 5 Member of the Brand and Values Committee 6 Member of the Governance Committee 7 Senior Independent Director 8 Became a member of the Board Risk Committee on 1 November 2011 9 This amount relates to benets received by Dr Han in relation to his non-executive duties and tax due on these benets, which the Group has agreedtopay on Dr Hans behalf 10 Any base salary fee or benefit item in the table above has been converted using the average foreign exchanges rates throughout the relevant financial year Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 147 Remuneration of executive directors 2011 Fixed Total variable compensation Annual performance award Salary Cash Upfront Deferred 1 3 4 5 6 fees Benets bonus shares shares PSA Total Directors $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Sub total $000 $000 P A Sands 1,693 132 700 700 2,100 3,500 2,726 8,051 1,2, 7 S P Bertamini 1,316 1,389 380 380 1,140 1,900 1,457 6,062 1,8 J S Bindra 831 747 360 360 1,080 1,800 1,363 4,741 R H Meddings 1,262 79 480 480 1,440 2,400 1,857 5,598 A M G Rees 1,124 67 2,000 2,000 6,000 10,000 2,197 13,388 Sub total 6,226 2,414 3,920 3,920 11,760 19,600 9,600 37,840 2010 Fixed Total variable compensation Annual performance award Salary Cash Upfront Deferred 1 3 4 5 7 fees Benets bonus shares shares PSA Total Directors $000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Sub total $000 $000 P A Sands 1,544 115 700 700 2,100 3,500 2,621 7,780 7 S P Bertamini 1,215 712 340 340 1,020 1,700 1,405 5,032 J S Bindra 772 799 340 340 1,020 1,700 1,253 4,524 R H Meddings 1,158 78 480 480 1,440 2,400 1,785 5,421 A M G Rees 926 78 2,200 2,200 6,600 11,000 2,089 14,093 Sub total 5,615 1,782 4,060 4,060 12,180 20,300 9,153 36,850 1 The benets column includes amounts relating to car allowances and medical and life assurance benets.
Steve Bertamini and Jaspal Bindra carry outtheir executive duties in a host country location and are eligible for allowances that cover the cost of accommodation and education of dependent children.
In addition, their contracts of employment provide for adjustments for cost of living and tax neutralisation such that their net pay is the same asif they were to remain in their respective home countries 2 Amounts shown in the benets column will vary year-on-year where tax neutralisation is adopted dependent upon the timing of the taxation payments actual amounts paid each year can vary even though there is no change in the underlying level of remuneration.
One consequence of this fact is that the benets gure for Steve Bertamini increased by $612,098 for 2011 3 The cash element of the annual performance award is shown inclusive of any amounts waived to provide additional pension benets.
See page 150 for further details 4 The amounts shown in the upfront shares column includes the proportion of annual performance awards that is not deferred but is required under the FSA remuneration code to be delivered in shares.
This portion equates to 20 per cent of the total annual performance award for each director.
The amount shown is the gross amount and the net amount post any withholding taxation requirements has been transferred to a trust and used to acquire shares that are beneficially allocated to the employee 5 The amounts shown in the deferred shares column include the proportion of the annual performance award deferred into restricted shares and subject to the Group claw-back policy for each executive director 6 The expected value of any performance share awards that are subject to the Group claw-back policy.
The values are based on an initial value adjusted for factors such as performance conditions, forfeiture risk and lack of dividends 7 Steve Bertamini received cash allowances of $341,246 2010: $315,000 in lieu of his participation in any pension plan and this is reected in the table above, as part of salary fees 8 Jaspal Bindra received a total 2011 discretionary annual performance award of $1,800,000 of which he has chosen to waive $249,231 2010: $nil intohis pension arrangement.
In addition, Jaspal has also waived $711,912 2010: $589,236 of his base salary.
This is an amendment as the amount was incorrectly stated as $602,121 in the 2010 annual report into his pension arrangement, details of which are included in the directors retirement benets table 9 Any base salary fee or benefit item in the table above has been converted using the average foreign exchanges ratesthroughout the relevant financial year.
For the purpose of Jaspal Bindras waiver into pension a current foreign exchange rate of $1 : GBP0.6452 has been used 148 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration report continued 2004 Deferred Bonus Plan Shares held Shares awarded Shares held in trust at Shares awarded in respect of Shares vested in trust at 1 1 January 2011 during the period notional dividend in the period 31 December 2011 P A Sands 66,093 567 66,660 S P Bertamini 28,916 248 29,164 J S Bindra 12,649 108 12,757 R H Meddings 45,439 390 45,829 2 A M G Rees 227,198 70,255 1,951 229,149 70,255 1 Market value on date of awards 8 March 2011 was 1,666.25 pence 2 Mike Rees will also be granted a final award under the Deferred Bonus Plan DBP in March 2012 in line with the arrangements put in place to deliver the outstanding deferred elements of his 2009 Annual Performance Award Under the 2004 Deferred Bonus Plan, shares were conditionally awarded as part of the directors deferred element of their annual performance award The shares are held in an employee benefit trust and automatically vest one year after the date of acquisition.
Anotional scrip dividend accrues on the shares held in the trust.
Thenumber of shares lapsed indicates the portion of the award that did not satisfy the performance conditions 4 Market value on date of award 6 May 2011 was 1,603.50 pence 5 Market value on date of exercise 11 March 2011 was 1,591.00 pence.
Exercise price is nil as the awards are made in the form of nil cost options 6 Market value on date of award 10 March 2011 was 1,611.00 pence 150 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Directors remuneration report continued Directors interests in ordinary shares At 1 January 2011 At 31 December 2011 Directors total interests Personal interests Family interests total interests Sir John Peace 7,543 7,543 7,543 P A Sands 200,000 200,000 200,000 S P Bertamini 47,465 115,276 115,276 1 J S Bindra 58,956 153,378 153,378 R Delbridge 4,961 8,497 8,497 J F T Dundas 3,141 3,141 3,141 V F Gooding 3,154 3,154 3,154 Dr Han Seung-soo 2,250 2,334 2,334 S J Lowth 3,392 5,687 5,687 R H P Markham 3,994 4,109 4,109 R Markland 3,616 3,722 3,722 R H Meddings 121,030 60,000 60,000 120,000 J G H Paynter 5,625 10,000 10,000 A M G Rees 135,334 137,176 137,176 P D Skinner 13,446 15,477 15,477 O H J Stocken 17,915 17,915 17,915 1 153,000 of these shares are subject to a charge from 28 December 2011 The beneficial interests of directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out above.
The directors do not have any non-beneficial interests in the Companys shares No director had an interest in the Companys preference shares or loan stock, nor the shares or loan stocks of any subsidiary or associated undertaking of the Group No director had any corporate interests in the Companys ordinary shares Executive directors with dened benefit provisions Increase in accrued pension Transfer value of net of ination and waiver 1 2 4 Accrued pension $000 accrued pension during 2011 $000 Increase At Increase At At during the At 2011 1 January during 31 December 1 January year net 31 December waiver Annual Transfer 3 Director 2011 the year 2011 2011 of waiver 2011 $000 pension value P A Sands 418 81 494 6,223 1,715 7,857 58 945 5 J S Bindra 142 77 216 2,156 741 3,573 862 26 424 R H Meddings 408 62 466 6,593 1,503 8,021 41 737 A M G Rees 359 86 441 6,138 1,873 7,926 67 1,277 1 The accrued pension amounts include benets arising from transfer payments received in respect of service with previous employers 2 The transfer values under the unapproved scheme have been calculated using our pension accounting methodology and assumptions 3 Executive directors are given the opportunity to waive a portion of salary and any potential annual performance award payable in cash to enhance theirretirement benets.
The amounts waived in respect of 2011 are shown in the table 4 The increase in the accrued pension net of ination and waiver during the year is the difference between the accrued pension at the end of 2010 increased by an allowance for ination of 5.2 per cent 2010: 4.7 per cent and the accrued pension at the end of 2011 excluding any waiver 5 Jaspal Bindra waived $249,231 of his 2011 annual performance award $nil 2010 and $711,912 of his 2011 base salary 2010: $589,236.
Thisisanamendment as the amount was incorrectly stated as $596,652 in the 2010 Annual Report into his pension arrangements The amounts included in the table above as at 1 January and 31 December 2011 are calculated using the exchange rates at the end of 2011 GBP1:$1.5535 and 2010 GBP1 : $1.5605 respectively.
The other entries are calculated using the exchange rates stated earlier in the remuneration report.
For the purpose of Jaspal Bindras waiver into pension a current foreign exchange rate of $1 : GBP0.6452 has been used In addition to the amounts identied in the table above Standard Chartered paid $533,591 2010: $441,989 in retirement benets to former directors andtheir dependants Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 151 Deferred compensation In recognition of the substantial elements of deferred compensation and share awards forfeited when he left his previous employer, Steve Bertamini participates in a deferred compensation arrangement under which a total of $6,500,000 was initially allocated into an interest bearing account with the option for all or part of the value to be invested in alternative assets at his discretion.
The original allocation together with the accrued interest and investment returns vests in three tranches unless he resigns or is terminated for cause: $3,000,000 after the second, $2,000,000 after the fourth and $1,500,000 after the sixth anniversary of joining.
No further awards are planned.
The table below shows the value of the residual assets held in the arrangement.
Value as at Grant date Allocation 31 December 2011 S P Bertamini 19-May-08 $3,500,000 $4,520,652 Remuneration of the five highest paid individuals As a result of the Companys listing on The Stock Exchange ofHong Kong Limited, it is necessary to disclose certain information relating to our five highest paid employees.
Setoutbelow are details for five individuals, including one executive 1 director whose emoluments were the highest in the Group for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Components of remuneration $ Basic salary, allowances and benets in kind 3,924,285 Pension contributions 1,400,684 2 Annual performance award paid or receivable 36,800,000 Payments made on appointment Compensation for loss of ofce contractual other 3 Total 42,124,969 1 Executive director included in data is Mike Rees 2 Excluding any performance awards or commissions linked to profits generated by the individual collectively or with others engaged in similar activities.
Includes the deferred element of any annual performance award 3 Equal to HKD327,942,885 The emoluments were in the following bands: HKD approx.
