Report on Directors Remuneration The Report on Directors Remuneration sets out the role of the determining the remuneration of Executive Directors and Remuneration Committee, the Companys general remuneration the Chairman: policies and how they are applied to directors, and details of directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The reviewing the application of the Companys remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the policies to Senior Management, Brokers and other employees: Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, the Listing Rules and the UK Corporate a pproving the remuneration of Senior Management after Governance Code, and will be put to shareholders for approval at consultation with the Chief Executive: and the AGM on 10 May 2012. approving all share and long term incentive schemes and The Companies Act 2006 requires the auditor to report to the their application.
Companys members on certain parts of the Report on Directors Remuneration and to state whether in their opinion those parts of The Committees Terms of Reference are available on the the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Act.
Companys website or, on request, from the Company Secretary.
Except where indicated, all sections of this report are unaudited.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee attends Annual In this report, we use the following terminology: General Meetings of the Company and is available to answer questions raised by shareholders.
Executive Director means any executive member of the Board: Work of the Remuneration Committee during 2011 Senior Management means those members of the Companys Activity during the year included the benchmarking of the xed Executive Committee other than the Executive Directors and the remuneration of the two Executive Directors: the review and first level of management below that level: determination of the remuneration of the Chairman and of the Executive Directors: the review and approval of the remuneration Broker means front of ce revenue generators: and of Senior Management: the making of awards under the LTIP scheme: and the determination of the performance conditions Control Functions means those employees engaged in functions attached to those awards.
such as Compliance, Legal, HR, Finance, Operations and Risk Control.
The Remuneration Committee keeps up to date with the latest regulatory and market developments, guidelines and codes of practice published by various bodies, and research published by REMUNERATION COMMITTEE professional advisers.
Composition and Responsibility The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Rupert Robson.
The The FSAs remuneration code the Remuneration Code came into other members of the Committee throughout the year were David effect on 1 January 2011, bringing the Company within its scope Clark, Michael Fallon and Richard Kilsby.
Angela Knight and Stephen for the first time.
The Company is a Tier Four rm for the purpose of Pull became members of the Committee in December 2011.
All the application of proportionality under the Remuneration Code.
members of the Committee are independent The Remuneration Committee was satis ed that the Companys Non-executive Directors.
remuneration policies, processes and governance were in compliance with principles 1 to 11 of the Remuneration Code at the The Remuneration Committee is responsible on behalf of the Board end of 2010 as required.
The Company was able to utilise a for developing and maintaining formal and transparent policies on transitional provision allowing it until 1 July 2011 to be fully remuneration for the Companys employees, the framework in compliant with those aspects of Principle 12 of the Remuneration which that policy is applied, and its cost.
In addition the Committee Code that apply to the Company as a Tier Four rm.
will periodically review remuneration policies to ensure that they continue to be compliant with the relevant corporate governance The Remuneration Committee reviewed the Companys and regulatory requirements, including the FSA Remuneration Policy Statement including details of the Companys Remuneration Code.
policies and procedures with respect to compliance with Principle 12 of the Remuneration Code in June 2011, and concluded Amongst its other duties, the Remuneration Committee is that the Company was in full compliance with the Remuneration responsible, on behalf of the Board, for: Code at that date.
reviewing and approving the general principles of the The Remuneration Policy Statement, including the list of Code Staff, Companys remuneration policies: was reviewed again in December 2011, and the disclosures required to be made under the Remuneration Code were approved.
reviewing the relationship between incentives and risk: These disclosures were first made available on the Companys website in December 2011 and will be updated annually following determining the application of the Companys remuneration publication of the Annual Report.
policies to the Executive Directors: Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 36 The Remuneration Committee has concluded that the Companys Professional advice remuneration policies re ect the low risk pro le of the Company, During 2011 and subsequently the Remuneration Committee are consistent with and promote sound and effective risk received advice from  executive management, and do not encourage risk taking.
compensation consultants PwC on regulatory developments affecting remuneration, and on aspects of the remuneration of the The Remuneration Committee considers that the Companys Executive Directors.
PwC were appointed by the remuneration policies are consistent with the measures set out in Remuneration Committee.
the businesss compliance manuals relating to con icts of interest.
During 2011 and subsequently  LLP have The implementation of the remuneration policies set out below is also provided outsourced internal audit services, tax advice, and subject to annual independent internal review, as required by the other associated services.
The first review is planned to take place in the first half of 2012.
REMUNERATION POLICIES Remuneration policies for Executive Directors and Background Senior Management In reviewing and approving the general principles of the Companys 1.
Fixed remuneration remuneration policies, the Remuneration Committee takes into Salaries are paid monthly and are set at a level to provide a account the Companys objective to maximise returns to reasonable level of xed remuneration which would be appropriate shareholders over the medium to long term, at an acceptable level in circumstances where variable remuneration is not paid due to of risk.
The Remuneration Committee also considers the Companys weak performance.
Salaries are reviewed periodically and are only strategy to achieve that objective by building a business which increased if they are found to be signi cantly out of line with operates as an intermediary in the wholesale OTC financial markets the market.
internationally, with the scale and breadth to deliver superior performance and returns, whilst maintaining strong financial 2.
A high level of remuneration is variable and is dependent on performance.
It is offered to motivate and retain staff and to The Remuneration Committee takes into account general practices achieve superior returns for shareholders.
in the parts of the financial services sector in which the Company operates, and the fact that the majority of the Companys Variable remuneration for an individual, and in aggregate for the competitors are not UK listed companies.
These practices are Executive Director and Senior Management population, is characterised by high levels of variable remuneration.
The determined taking into account the overall performance of the Remuneration Committee has concluded that it is in the best business and its regulatory capital requirements.
As the business interests of the Company and shareholders to pay remuneration in does not take any trading risk and does not hold principal trading line with market practice in the sectors in which the positions, does not have valuation issues in measuring its pro ts, Company operates.
and does not retain any contingent risks, it is not necessary for the determination of variable remuneration to re ect an adjustment The Companys remuneration policies, which are set out below, are for risk in reviewing financial performance.
designed to attract, motivate and retain staff with the necessary skills and experience to deliver the strategy, in order to achieve the While the decision to pay variable remuneration will re ect, to a Companys objective.
degree, short term financial outcomes against budget, other factors are taken into account.
Consequently, it is possible that, in Risk some market circumstances, individual superior performance may The Remuneration Committee has carefully considered the not be re ected in the achievement of budgets but may merit a relationship between incentives and risk.
This approach is balanced by the Companys principle that the cost of staff should be sensitive to returns to Details of the Companys key risks and risk management are set out shareholders, and the Remuneration Committee reviews the in the Business Review in this Annual Report.
The majority of remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Senior transactions are brokered on a Name Give-Up basis where the Management population in the context of the operating pro t for business acts as agent in arranging the trade.
on these activities are received monthly in cash.
The business does not take any trading risk and does not hold principal trading Payment of variable remuneration is discretionary and not positions.
The business only holds financial instruments for contractual, with the level determined on the basis of judgements identi ed buyers and sellers in matching trades which are generally on performance relative to the trading conditions and other settled within 1-3 days.
The business does not retain any circumstances, and the achievement of objectives.
The business does not have valuation issues in measuring its pro ts.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 37 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Report on Directors Remuneration continued Variable remuneration is paid to the Executive Director and Senior The Remuneration Committee has concluded that the provision of Management population at least two months after the end of the long term equity based incentives to Senior Management, except in financial year.
The business realises its revenues in cash within a speci c individual circumstances, is not consistent with market short time frame, and all of the reported revenues will have been practice in the Companys key competitor organisations and realised in cash before these payments are made.
consequently no further awards will be made routinely to Senior Management under the Long Term Incentive Plan for the The Companys policy is to ensure that variable remuneration is not foreseeable future.
paid through vehicles or methods that facilitate avoidance of the Remuneration Code.
Pensions The Company provides fide ned contribution pension arrangements 3.
Caps on remuneration only and does not pay discretionary pension bene ts.
The variable remuneration for Executive Directors is effectively capped through the application of a formula that establishes the 7.
Medical insurance and bene ts in kind maximum amount of variable remuneration that will be paid.
The Company provides employees with medical insurance but otherwise seeks to avoid the provision of bene ts in kind.
The Remuneration Committee does not believe that the formal capping of variable remuneration for Senior Management and Remuneration policies for brokers Brokers is consistent with the delivery of enhanced returns to The Companys remuneration policy for Brokers is based on the shareholders.
In addition, it is not appropriate to apply percentages principle that remuneration is directly based on financial or multiples of salary to the determination of variable performance, generally at a desk team level, and is calculated in remuneration given the policy of paying xed remuneration of a accordance with formulae set out in xed term contracts of relatively low proportion of overall remuneration.
These formulae take into account the xed costs of the Brokers, and variable remuneration payments are therefore 4.
Deferral and claw-backs based on the pro ts that the Brokers generate for the business.
Payments of variable remuneration to the Executive Directors are Initial contract payments are only paid upfront when a claw-back subject to deferral through the requirement for an element of the provision is included in the contract of employment.
Typically, payments to be invested in the Companys shares which are to be Brokers receive a xed salary paid regularly throughout the year, held for a period before they can be realised.
with a signi cant proportion of variable remuneration dependent on revenue, which is paid after the revenue has been fully received Given the Companys low risk pro le, as discussed above, it is not in cash.
Once cash has been received, revenue is not subject to any considered necessary for the variable remuneration paid to Senior remaining contingency.
Management to be subject to deferral, or to attach claw-back conditions to variable remuneration paid either to Executive Remuneration policies for control functions Directors or to Senior Management.
The Companys remuneration policy for Control Function employees is that remuneration is adequate to attract quali ed 5.
Long term incentive plans and experienced staff, is in accordance with the achievement of Long term equity-based incentive plans are utilised where objectives linked to their functions, and is independent of the appropriate to motivate the Companys Executive Directors and performance of the business areas they support.
Employees in such Senior Management.
Recent awards have been structured to functions report through an organisation structure that is separate reward growth in relative and absolute shareholder value.
and independent from the business units.
The heads of such functions report to members of the Executive Committee and as The Remuneration Committee recognises the importance of Senior Management their remuneration is reviewed and approved aligning the interests of Executive Directors with those of by the Remuneration Committee.
shareholders and equity incentive awards will continue to form part of their remuneration packages.
Appointed 1 September 2011. remuneration available for 2011 for the Executive Directors, using Executive Directors the formula above and a WACC of 11.5%, was determined to be The Remuneration Committee took into account the pay and 4.225m 2010 variable remuneration: 4.615m.
The allocation of employment conditions of other employees in the Company in the total variable remuneration to each of the Executive Directors is determining the Executive Directors remuneration.
The relative importance of the xed and variable elements of Consistent with the approach taken in recent years, one-half of the remuneration for the Executive Directors was carefully considered 2011 variable remuneration for each of the Executive Directors is by the Remuneration Committee.
Apart from xed salaries, all awarded on condition that the net of tax amount will be invested other elements of remuneration are related to performance.
in the Companys shares, to be held for a minimum of two years.
Including the value of the LTIP awards as at the date of grant in total remuneration, for 2011 the proportion of remuneration that 2011 is the fourth successive year for which the Remuneration is related to performance for Terry Smith was 89% 2010: 90% and Committee has determined that 50% of the variable remuneration for Paul Mainwaring was 83% 2010: 84%.
awarded to each of the Executive Directors is on condition that it is invested in the Companys shares, to be held for a minimum of two The total remuneration of the Executive Directors was as follows: years.
The investments made in the Companys shares by the Executive Directors with 50% of the variable remuneration 1.
Fixed remuneration awarded for 2009 can now be divested, and the Remuneration The xed remuneration of the Chief Executive, Terry Smith, is Committee has determined that the investment condition for the 650,000 and has not been changed since 2005.
The xed 50% of the variable remuneration awarded for 2011 will be met by remuneration of the Finance Director, Paul Mainwaring, is 275,000 the Executive Directors being required to hold the requisite number and has not changed since his appointment in 2006. of shares purchased with the 2009 payment of variable remuneration for a further period of two years.
Variable remuneration Directors in the Companys shares are set out in the Directors The Remuneration Committee establishes the total amount of Report on page 28. variable remuneration to be paid to the Executive Directors and then allocates it between them taking into consideration their The Remuneration Committee intends to apply the formula set out personal contribution and internal relativities.
It is the policy of the above to determine the total amount of variable remuneration for Remuneration Committee not to pay variable remuneration to a the Executive Directors for 2012. director if it is not satis ed with personal performance.
In exceptional circumstances, the Remuneration Committee may As set out in the Report on Directors Remuneration in last years decrease or increase the amounts resulting from the formula to Annual Report, in order to determine the total variable take account of, for example, the impact of strategic investments remuneration for the Executive Directors, the Remuneration that depress short term results if it concludes that doing so would Committee applies a formula of 4.0% 4.5% of the surplus of be in the interests of shareholders.
The Remuneration Committee operating pro t over the threshold operating pro t which is will record and explain any such variation in the Report on calculated as the weighted average cost of capital WACC Directors Remuneration.
The determination of the total variable remuneration within the range takes account of additional In addition, the Remuneration Committee may change the formula factors, such as the achievement of the Companys and individuals in the future to take account of factors such as changes in the objectives and corporate performance relative to market number of Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee will circumstances.
record and explain any such change in the Report on Directors Remuneration.
For 2011 the Remuneration Committee determined that the operating pro t to be used in the formula should be before the charge for restructuring costs.
The amount of variable Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 39 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Report on Directors Remuneration continued 3.
Long-term incentives The outstanding share options awarded to each of the Executive Directors is set out in the table below: Shares Shares under under option at Granted Exercised Lapsed option at Date from Date of Date of 1 Jan during during during the 1 Jan Exercise which first expiry of Director grant 2011 the year the year year 2012 price exercisable option Terry Smith 22 June 671,441 369,293 302,148 1 in 22 June 22 June 2009 total 2012 2019 Terry Smith 21 May 634,559 634,559 1 in 21 May 21 May 2010 total 2013 2020 Terry Smith 18 April 446,001 446,001 1 in 18 April 18 April 2011 total 2014 2021 Paul Mainwaring 22 June 284,071 156,239 127,832 1 in 22 June 22 June 2009 total 2012 2019 Paul Mainwaring 21 May 162,707 162,707 1 in 21 May 21 May 2010 total 2013 2020 Paul Mainwaring 18 April 111,500 111,500 1 in 18 April 18 April 2011 total 2014 2021 Performance conditions companies comprising the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts The vesting of all awards is subject to the achievement of at 1 January 2010 is 50th and with maximum vesting of 100% if performance conditions, based on relative or absolute total the ranking percentile is 25th or better.
shareholder return TSR, subject to the achievement of return on capital employed ROCE of not less than 25% in the final The vesting of one-third of the awards made in 2010 is subject to year of each performance period the ROCE Hurdle.
absolute TSR over the three years to 31 December 2012, with minimum vesting of 25% of the awards if the Companys The determination of the extent of vesting with respect to annualised TSR over that period is equal to RPI 4.5% and with TSR is made by PwC on behalf of the Remuneration Committee maximum vesting of 100% if annualised TSR is equal to RPI 9.5% and the determination of ROCE is made by the Board.
The Remuneration Committee considers that the use of 2011 Awards relative and absolute TSR meets investors expectations of The value of the share options granted during the period to Terry outperformance, and the ROCE measure provides an appropriate Smith was 1,846,000 2010: 1,950,000 and to Paul Mainwaring financial performance hurdle.
2009 Awards The vesting of half of the awards made in 2011 is subject to relative The vesting of the awards made in 2009 was subject to relative TSR TSR over the three years to 31 December 2013, with minimum over the three years to 31 December 2011, with minimum vesting vesting of 25% of the awards if the ranking percentile of the of 25% of the awards if the ranking percentile of the Companys TSR Companys TSR over that period relative to the TSR of all other over the three years to 31 December 2011 relative to the TSR over companies comprising the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts that period of all other companies comprising the FTSE 250 at 1 January 2011 is 50th and with maximum vesting of 100% if excluding investment trusts at 1 January 2009 was 50th and with the ranking percentile is 25th or better.
maximum vesting of 100% if the ranking percentile was 25th or better, subject in both cases to achieving the ROCE Hurdle.
At the The vesting of half of the awards made in 2011 is subject to end of the three year period 45% of the awards vested and absolute TSR over the three years to 31 December 2013, with 55% lapsed.
minimum vesting of 25% of the awards if the Companys annualised TSR over that period is equal to RPI 4.5% and with The Companys actual TSR ranking percentile over that period has maximum vesting of 100% if annualised TSR is equal to RPI 9.5% been calculated by PwC as 43.3% and, as the Remuneration or above.
Committee has determined that the ROCE Hurdle has been met, 45% of the awards made in 2009 have vested Terry Smith 302,148 Share price during the year shares: Paul Mainwaring 127,832 shares and are first exercisable The lowest closing price of Tullett Prebon plc ordinary shares during from 22 June 2012. the year to 31 December 2011 was 266.3p and the highest closing price was 428.6p.
At 31 December 2011 the closing share price 2010 Awards was 270p.
The vesting of two-thirds of the awards made in 2010 is subject to relative TSR over the three years to 31 December 2012, with minimum vesting of 25% of the awards if the ranking percentile of the Companys TSR over that period relative to the TSR of all other Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 40 4.
Bene ts Non-executive Directors No pension contributions were made in respect of Terry Smith 1.
Paul Mainwaring received pension The fees paid to the Non-executive Directors are determined by the contributions during 2011 of 6,336 2010: 6,336.
These Board and the fees paid to the Chairman are determined by the contributions were made to the Tullett Prebon Group Personal Remuneration Committee.
These are benchmarked against Pension Plan.
published information on the fees paid to the non-executive directors of UK listed companies of comparable size and activities.
Terry Smith and Paul Mainwaring received private medical cover at It was determined that with effect from 1 September 2011 the a cost of 2,370 and 878 respectively during 2011.
Non-executive Directors would receive fees of 54,000 per annum from 50,000 with the exception of Angela Knight who receives a 5.
Outside directorships unaudited fee of 58,000 per annum in recognition of her position as the Neither Terry Smith nor Paul Mainwaring has any outside Senior Independent Director, and the Chairman whose fee was directorships.
increased to 175,000 per annum from 150,000.
The Nonexecutive Directors and the Chairman are not eligible to participate 6.
Service contracts unaudited in short or long term incentive plans or to receive any pension from The Companys current policy is that Executive Directors serve the Company.
under contracts terminable on 12 months notice with entitlement to salary and contractual bene ts subject to mitigation, and with 2.
Appointment Letters unaudited restrictive covenants.
It is the Remuneration Committees policy The Non-executive Directors serve under letters of appointment that termination payments will not exceed 100% of base salary subject to 12 months notice, as set out below: plus annual variable remuneration.
The contracts provide for retirement at the age of 65 in all cases.
Director Date of letter of appointment Keith Hamill 22 September 2000 Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out David Clark 10 March 2003 below: Michael Fallon 28 September 2010 Richard Kilsby 3 June 2005 Director Date of contract Angela Knight 1 September 2011 Terry Smith 29 January 2007 Stephen Pull 1 September 2011 Paul Mainwaring 25 September 2006 Rupert Robson 4 January 2007 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 41 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Report on Directors Remuneration continued Total shareholder returns A graph depicting the Companys total shareholder return in comparison to other companies in the FTSE 250 index and the FTSE 350 Financial Services index in the five years to 31 December 2011 is shown below: 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 Tullett Prebon plc 40 FTSE250 FTSE350 Financial Services 20 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The Board believes that the above indices are most relevant as they comprise either businesses of similar size or engaged in the financial services industry.
On behalf of the Board Rupert Robson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 6 March 2012 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 42
