Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report express their views by way of the shareholder vote on this Report at the AGM in April, which is attended by many of our owners.
We are grateful for the support that shareholders have shown for our approach to executive remuneration: last year, 95% of the votes cast by shareholders supported the 2010 Directors Remuneration Report.
The Committee is also very aware of the position of employees throughout the Group, how the remuneration principles established by John Varley the Committee translate into rewards for employees, and the fairness Non-Executive Director of the rewards earned by Executive Directors, SET members and and Chairman of the other senior executives in the overall Group context, especially in Remuneration Committee relation to annual salary increases.
We call for, and analyse, a significant amount of data relating to salaries, bonus levels and incentive scheme awards across the Group.
We also consider the levels of share ownership among SET members and other senior executives.
We know that in making judgements about the pay of I am pleased to introduce our Directors senior employees, particularly the Executive Directors, we must Remuneration Report the Report for 2011 for ensure that our decisions take account of the wider employee context.
which we seek approval at the Companys How, for example, does any percentage increase in the base pay of the CEO sit alongside base pay increases of junior staff?
you can see in our decisions this year, and in the behaviour of the CEO himself who has again declined an increase in base pay, that we are The job of the Remuneration Committee the Committee is to sensitive to these important issues.
Before awarding an increase in promote long-term, sustainable growth in shareholder value.
So its base pay and long-term compensation opportunity to our CFO, we main focus is on developing policy and remuneration decisions that consulted widely with our major shareholders.
The salary increase we support the Groups strategy as a focused, integrated, innovationhave decided to award sits within the range of base pay increases driven, global, prescription-based biopharmaceutical business.
This awarded to the wider UK employees of the Group for 2012.
Going involves taking careful account of the interests of our stakeholders.
forward, our intention is that any future increases for Executive Directors will be cost of living type increases made on an annual basis.
As your elected representatives, our primary task is to invest shareholders money, in the form of compensation resource, wisely.
In the decisions that it makes, the Committee seeks always to We are mindful of the UK Corporate Governance Codes main assess how these might affect AstraZenecas reputation.
We use principle which guides us to award levels of remuneration that are our discretion to avoid mechanistic outcomes of remuneration sufficient to attract, retain and motivate senior employees including arrangements that are not justified by the prevailing circumstances, be Directors of the quality required to run the Group successfully, while it underlying financial performance or the way in which the Company avoiding paying more than is necessary.
This means paying close does business.
We defer awards and have the ability to use claw-back attention to the design of incentive arrangements for Executive arrangements where appropriate to reinforce the importance of the Directors, SET members and other senior executives, as well as to Companys reputation and to deter inappropriate risk taking.
how our pay structures operate in practice.
To reinforce our objectivity, and to complement the objective mindset that is brought to bear We have changed the format of the Report this year.
Without reducing on remuneration decisions, the Committee takes advice from disclosure, we have sought in the first part to answer the question: Deloitte LLP, directly appointed by the Committee independently What was paid to the Executive Directors in 2011 and why?
set out extensive information of the sort that our shareholders are familiar with.
So the Report that follows is divided into three sections.
Base salaries are benchmarked against relevant industry market We start with What was paid to the Executive Directors in 2011 and data to ensure that they remain competitive, but this is not done why?.
We follow this with a section headed How the Remuneration blindly, continuously or in isolation: the Committee takes care also to Committee approaches its work that describes how we aim to consider, before making its decisions, the overall performance of the support business strategy: link reward with performance: and exercise business and the needs of the Company in terms of its strategic and judgement.
The third section describes the work of the Committee in operational targets.
We will not award increases that are not justified 2011.
We conclude with an Additional information section containing by individual performance.
For incentive arrangements, the Committee the remainder of the information which shareholders habitually wish to aims to select performance criteria which are appropriate to the see.
We would find it useful to receive feedback from shareholders on Companys circumstances and which will promote AstraZenecas this new approach in due course.
success and competitiveness in the pharmaceutical industry.
Whether it is the combination of a balanced scorecard, cash flow We have noted the proposals on executive remuneration announced and EPS performance for the annual bonus, or longer-term measures in January 2012 by the UK Secretary of State for Business, Innovation relating to shareholder value, such as TSR used in the AstraZeneca & Skills.
This Report is likely to evolve further in response to Performance Share Plan PSP and the dividend hurdles in the developing legislation.
AstraZeneca Investment Plan AZIP, we seek to establish clear and fair links between individual and Group performance, and appropriate On behalf of the Committee, I commend this Report to you.
John Varley We try to keep in touch with what our shareholders are thinking.
There Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is an annual opportunity for our larger investors to meet me and Board colleagues to share their opinions and, of course, shareholders AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Directors Remuneration Report 113 Directors Remuneration Report David Brennan Components of remuneration What was paid to the Chief Executive Officer % 2011 2010 2009 21 Fixed 20 Fixed 19 Fixed 12 13 Base Salary Base Salary Base Salary 18 Variable Variable Variable Bonus Bonus Bonus 34 27 32 PSP PSP PSP AZIP AZIP SOP 29 36 39 Bonus element is the actual bonus paid for the year in question.
PSP, AZIP and SOP elements are on an expected value basis.
In this section, we have set ourselves the task of explaining, as simply The CEO must defer one-third of any pre-tax bonus into Ordinary as we can, what was paid to the Executive Directors during 2011 Shares or ADSs.
These are held for three years before being and why.
The bonus is not pensionable.
The CEO received an LTI award in 2011 with an expected value of This Report has been prepared in accordance with the Large and 3 Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports 250% of base salary.
Full details can be found on page 126.
Under the rules of the PSP and the AZIP, in respect of any financial year Regulations 2008 Regulations and meets the relevant requirements of the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules.
As required by the of the Company, the maximum market value of shares that may in theory be put under a PSP or an AZIP share award in respect of Regulations, a resolution to approve this Report will be proposed at the AGM on 26 April 2012. an employee, is 500% of that employees base salary.
In respect of the LTI award made in 2011, the distribution between What was paid to the Executive Directors in 2011 and why?
the PSP and the AZIP was in the ratio 75% to 25%.
The summaries below set out the quantitative data for each Executive Director, including certain data for the preceding year to enable During 2011, as a result of the vesting of the 2008 share award comparison.
We follow this with short qualitative comments relating under the PSP, the CEO received 201,932 Ordinary Shares and to base pay, annual bonus or Short Term Incentive STI, Long Term a cash payment in respect of dividends accrued.
Incentive LTI and benefits, including pension.
The CEO is entitled to standard non-cash employment benefits, such as healthcare benefits, insurances and car purchase David Brennan arrangements.
Base pay per annum and % changes over previous year In relation to pension arrangements, the CEOs pension entitlement 2012 2011 2010 is provided through a combination of the AstraZeneca US Defined 997,223 997,223 972,900 Benefit Pension Plan and US defined contribution arrangements.
0% 2.5% 0% He has an accrued pension at 31 December 2011 of 978,000 per annum 2010: 972,000 per annum from his defined benefit The Committee reviewed the CEOs base pay in December 2011 arrangements.
Full details can be found on page 118. and decided to award an increase for 2012 of 2.5%.
This was within The Committee increased the CEOs shareholding requirement the range of salary increases for employees across the Group.
As in in January 2012 from 200% to 300% of base salary.
2010, the CEO declined to accept any increase.
At 31 December 2011, the CEO had a beneficial shareholding of The CEO was awarded a bonus for performance during 2011 of 4 273,263 AstraZeneca shares which, at that date, had a value 1,325,609 133% of base salary out of a maximum possible award approximately equivalent to 815% of his 2011 base salary.
of 180% of base salary, the cash element of which will be paid in 1 2012.
His bonus for performance during 2010, the cash element 1 The factors considered by the Committee in assessing performance during 2011 and determining the bonus are summarised on page 116. of which was paid in 2011, was 1,583,025 163% of base salary out 2 2 Each year in January, the Committee determines bonuses for performance in the previous year of a maximum possible award of 180% of base salary.
The 2011 and these are paid in February.
3 bonus was lower than the 2010 bonus by 16%.
The reasons for this The Company estimates the expected value of LTI awards taking account of the likelihood of performance conditions and targets being achieved.
are set out in the section below headed Variable elements of the 4 This figure includes an estimated 27,089 shares post-tax held in retention in the Deferred CEOs and CFOs remuneration in 2011.
114 Directors Remuneration Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Simon Lowth Components of remuneration What was paid to the Chief Financial Officer % 2011 2010 2009 26 Fixed 24 Fixed 23 Fixed 10 11 Base Salary Base Salary Base Salary 16 Variable Variable Variable Bonus Bonus Bonus PSP PSP PSP 35 36 32 AZIP AZIP SOP 30 31 26 Bonus element is the actual bonus paid for the year in question.
Simon Lowth After consulting major shareholders and taking their views into account, starting in 2012 the Committee has decided to increase Base pay per annum and % changes over previous year the target LTI award for the CFO from an expected value of 160% 2012 2011 2010 of base salary to 200%.
660,000 635,500 620,000 In respect of the LTI award made in 2011, the distribution between 3.85% 2.5% 13% the PSP and the AZIP was in the ratio 75% to 25%.
During 2011, as a result of the vesting of the 2008 share award The Committee reviewed the CFOs base pay in December 2011 under the PSP, the CFO received 73,060 Ordinary Shares and and decided to award an increase for 2012 of 3.85%.
This was a cash payment in respect of dividends accrued.
within the range of salary increases for employees across the Group.
The Committee consulted major shareholders and took The CFO is entitled to standard non-cash employment their views into account before awarding this increase.
benefits, such as healthcare benefits, insurances and car purchase arrangements.
The CFO was awarded a bonus for performance during 2011 of 769,902 121% of base salary out of a maximum possible award In relation to pension arrangements, the CFO receives a payment of 150% of base salary, the cash element of which will be paid in equivalent to 24% of his base salary, which amounted to 153,000 1 2012.
His bonus for performance during 2010, the cash element of in 2011 2010: 149,000, as a cash alternative to participation in a which was paid in 2011, was 918,245 148% of base salary out of a defined contribution pension scheme.
Full details can be found on 2 maximum possible award of 150% of base salary.
The 2011 bonus page 118. was lower than the 2010 bonus by 16%.
The reasons for this are set The Committee increased the CFOs shareholding requirement out in the section below headed Variable elements of the CEOs and in January 2012 from 125% to 200% of base salary.
At 31 December 2011, the CFO had a beneficial shareholding The CFO must defer one third of any pre-tax bonus into Ordinary 4 of 68,538 AstraZeneca shares which, at that date, had a value Shares or ADSs.
These are held for three years before being approximately equivalent to 321% of his 2011 base salary.
1 The factors considered by the Committee in assessing performance during 2011 and The CFO received an LTI award in 2011 with an expected value of determining the bonus are summarised on page 116.
Under 2 Each year in January, the Committee determines bonuses for performance in the previous year and these are paid in February.
the rules of the PSP and the AZIP, in respect of any financial year 3 The Company estimates the expected value of LTI awards taking account of the likelihood of the Company, the maximum market value of shares that may in of performance conditions and targets being achieved.
4 theory be put under a PSP or an AZIP share award in respect of This figure includes an estimated 14,312 shares post-tax held in retention in the Deferred Bonus Plan.
an employee is 500% of that employees base salary.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Directors Remuneration Report 115 Directors Remuneration Report Variable elements of the CEOs and CFOs remuneration Performance under the AZIP in 2011 Previously granted AZIP awards continued without lapsing as the in 2011 Bonus outcomes for 2011 full-year dividend for 2011 was $2.80 per Ordinary Share, which exceeded the 2009 and 2010 full-year dividends of $2.30 and For Executive Directors, the principal drivers of annual bonus opportunity are EPS 27% weighting, cash flow 9% weighting, $2.55 per Ordinary Share respectively.
Dividend cover did not fall below the 1.5 times threshold.
the Group scorecard 24% weighting and the relevant SET area scorecards 40% weighting.
In terms of the SET area scorecards, How the Remuneration Committee approaches its work an average of all SET area scorecards is used for the CEO and the Finance scorecard is used for the CFO.
The scorecards include Remuneration Committee membership The Committee members are John Varley Chairman of the categories relating to Values, Pipeline and People.
At the beginning of 2011, the Committee set EPS, cash flow and scorecard targets Committee, Rudy Markham, Louis Schweitzer and Nancy Rothwell.
Louis Schweitzer was considered by the Board to be independent against which the performance of the Executive Directors has been measured.
At CER, both revenue and Core operating profit for the upon his appointment as Chairman of the Board.
All other members of the Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The year declined by 2% and 4% respectively.
This partly accounts for the reduction of 16% in the bonuses of the CEO and the CFO.
However, Company Secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
There was strong double-digit growth for Crestor, Seroquel XR and Symbicort.
Emerging markets sales growth The Committee retains Deloitte LLP Deloitte, represented by Carol Arrowsmith, who provided independent advice on various matters it was 10% at CER.
Brilinta was approved and launched in the US and a number of other countries: other products made good progress considered in 2011.
The cost of this service to the Company in 2011 was 118,380 including VAT.
During the year, Deloitte also provided through regulatory approvals.
Both cash flow and EPS performance exceeded internal and external expectations.
Balanced against this taxation advice and other specific non-audit services to the Group.
The Committee reviewed the potential for conflicts of interest and were a number of pipeline disappointments, including olaparib and TC-5214, which both resulted in impairment charges.
The Company judged that there were no conflicts.
made net cash distributions to shareholders of $9,370 million by way of dividends and the share buy-back programme, boosted by the Committee terms of reference A copy of the Committees terms of reference is available on our successful disposal of Astra Tech.
In addition to a strong financial performance in a challenging environment, significant work was website, astrazeneca.
undertaken in 2011 to continue promoting a culture of responsibility, accountability and compliance.
The Company is ranked in the top 7% The Committee conducted a review of its terms of reference during 2011.
A small number of changes were recommended to the Board, in the sector in the Dow Jones Sustainability World and European Indexes, with its highest assessment score to date of 85%.
principally to reflect updated guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers in September 2011.
The changes were approved by The annual bonus ranges for the CEO and the CFO in 2012 are the Board in January 2012. unchanged from 2011.
For the CEO, the range is 0-180% of base salary and for the CFO it is 0-150% of base salary.
Supporting the business strategy The principal role of the Committee is to develop remuneration Vesting of PSP awards in 2011 and 2012 policies and practices that support the implementation of our business strategy and help create shareholder value over time.
The PSP share awards granted in 2008 in respect of the 2008-2010 performance period vested during 2011 at 125% for SET members, The remuneration components for all employees including Executive including the CEO and the CFO whose awards were based on TSR alone, following achievement of a relative TSR ranking of first in the Directors and SET members comprise fixed and variable performance-related elements.
A summary of the main components comparator group over the performance period.
The Committee used its discretion to determine this vesting of the maximum PSP of remuneration is set out on page 119. award because the Companys TSR performance was substantially better than that of the upper quartile of the comparator group in the Base pay and total compensation positioning against the relevant market is intended to be sufficient but no more than necessary to 2008-2010 performance period a TSR of 55% for the Company versus 16% for the next best performing company in the attract, retain and develop high-calibre talent.
Variable pay forms a significant part of the overall remuneration opportunity for Executive Directors, SET members and other senior The PSP share awards granted in 2009 in respect of the 2009-2011 performance period will vest during 2012 at 78% for SET members, executives.
It is linked to a range of measures designed to promote individual and team performance in a way that supports the Groups including the CEO and the CFO whose awards were based on TSR alone, following achievement of a relative TSR ranking of fourth in the success.
Such measures are intended to stretch and challenge the relevant individuals while at the same time giving them an opportunity comparator group with a TSR of 35% over the performance period.
This is in accordance with the performance measures determined by to participate as shareholders in the creation of long-term economic value.
This is made up of three elements: the Committee.
The annual bonus drives and rewards short-term performance Performance under the PSP in 2011 The TSR graphs on page 124 show, for each PSP share award, how against specific Group, functional and individual business objectives.
The PSP rewards the generation of cash at levels to finance the Companys TSR performance has compared with the TSR for the companies in the comparator group from the first day of the relevant investment in the business, debt repayment and the Companys shareholder distribution policy: and outperformance of industry performance period to 31 December 2011 and how the Company ranks against those other peer companies on this basis.
At the end of 2011, peers in terms of shareholder value-creation measured by the Company is on track to meet the cash flow target.
We will continue relative TSR.
to report on the performance of each PSP share award against the The performance and holding periods of the AZIP are aligned to relevant performance target during the relevant vesting period.
the Companys product development cycle, reflecting the long-term investment horizons that are a feature of the industry.
Dividendbased performance hurdles motivate the generation of returns for shareholders on a sustainable basis over an extended period of time.
116 Directors Remuneration Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Linking reward with performance gender and geographical data in relation to base salaries: and Executive Directors and other SET members are eligible to participate aggregate data about the shareholding levels of senior managers.
In in different elements of variable performance-related pay, which are particular, in reviewing the base salaries of Executive Directors and described in the Additional information section below.
The decision SET members, the Committee considers the overall level of any salary as to whether or not, in any given year, they receive any or all of increases being awarded to employees across the Group in the their elements of variable pay is determined by the Committee, which, relevant year.
in making such a determination, will typically have regard to the performance of the individual and the Group, and will consider the Main work of the Remuneration Committee during the year elements of variable pay applicable to senior employees in other The Committee met five times in 2011.
The individual attendance comparable organisations.
record of Committee members is set out on page 105.
At the invitation of the Committee, except where their own remuneration was being discussed, the CEO: the Executive Vice-President, Human Resources The Committee works with the Audit Committee to ensure that the Groups remuneration policies and practices achieve the right balance & Corporate Affairs: the Global Head, Reward & Employment: and the Vice-President, Global Compensation attended one or more between appropriate incentives to reward good performance and managing risk in terms of employee behaviour and how the Company Committee meetings in 2011 and provided advice and services that materially assisted the Committee.
The work of the Committee focused on the following principal matters The AstraZeneca annual bonus plan, in which all employees participate, contains goals demonstrating a commitment to distinction through during 2011: integrity, to enhance reputation and avoid reputational damage.
All LTI plans operated by AstraZeneca contain claw-back provisions.
A review of the terms of senior executives remuneration packages on appointment, promotion and termination, including the Exercising judgement remuneration packages on the appointment of a number of senior leaders in R&D.
The Committee believes that an essential element of its approach is the exercise of its judgement and discretion in determining The assessment of Group and individual performance against performance targets to determine the level of executive bonuses for remuneration in order to reflect relevant circumstances and achieve the right balance between the interests of the business, shareholders 2010 and to set executive bonus performance targets for 2011.
The assessment of performance against targets to determine the and employees.
The Committee always considers the overall performance of the Group when using its discretion under the terms level of vesting in 2011 under the PSP and to set PSP and AZIP performance thresholds for awards made in 2011. of AstraZenecas remuneration arrangements.
This is to avoid mechanistic outcomes under the terms of any remuneration plan The determination of awards made under the Groups main LTI plans: the PSP, the AZIP and the Global Restricted Stock Plan which would provide for rewards that are not justified either by underlying business performance or in circumstances where GRSP to SET members and other participants.
The determination of restricted share awards to a limited number of AstraZeneca has suffered reputational damage.
senior executives under the AstraZeneca Restricted Share Plan RSP.
The setting of the terms of appointment of Katarina Ageborg as Aligning senior executives interests with those of shareholders Chief Compliance Officer and a SET member.
A review of performance metrics used by the R&D organisation.
Part of the annual bonus of Executive Directors and SET members is deferred into shares, helping align senior executives interests with The approval of rules of a new UK all-employee savings-related share option scheme, which will be proposed to shareholders for those of shareholders.
approval at the 2012 AGM, to replace the AstraZeneca SavingsRelated Share Option Plan, which expires in 2013.
The proportion currently deferred into shares is one-third of the pre-tax annual bonus for Executive Directors and one-sixth for other Jointly with the Audit Committee, a review of compensation policy across the Commercial organisation.
The Committee reviews annually whether the proportion of bonus to be deferred should be changed in the light of The review and determination of incentive arrangements below SET level for a limited pool of eligible employees in the context of the market and or best practice developments.
The shares are acquired on the open market at the prevailing market price and held for a period Companys restructuring plans in Commercial and R&D.
A review of Group reward data, including average salary data of three years from the date of acquisition before being delivered to individual Executive Directors and other SET members.
Consideration of the review of the Committees effectiveness carried In addition to partial bonus deferral, there is a requirement for out by the Board.
A benchmarking review of the Committees activities and policies Executive Directors and other SET members to hold shares in the Company.
The shareholding requirement for the CEO was increased against institutional investor guidelines.
A review of the levels of share ownership of Executive Directors, other in January 2012 from 200% to 300% of base salary, and for the CFO from 125% to 200% of base salary.
The requirement for all other SET SET members and senior executives immediately below SET level.
A review of the pension entitlements of Executive Directors and members is 125% of base salary.
A review of the proportion of Executive Directors and SET In all aspects of its work, the Committee considers both the external environment in which the Company operates and the guidance issued members annual cash bonuses that are deferred into shares with a three-year vesting period.
by organisations representing institutional shareholders.
It consults the Companys largest investors on general and specific remuneration A review of the performance of Deloitte, the independent adviser to the Committee.
and provides an annual opportunity for representatives of those investors to meet the Chairman of the Committee and other The submission by the Company of a response to the executive remuneration discussion paper published by the UK Department Committee and Board members.
for Business, Innovation & Skills in September 2011.
The preparation, review and approval in January 2012 of this Report.
Considering the wider employee context The Committee sets overall remuneration policy and makes decisions about specific remuneration arrangements in the broader context of employee remuneration throughout the Group.
The Committee annually reviews Group remuneration data including bonus data: AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Directors Remuneration Report 117 Directors Remuneration Report Additional information Pension is payable to David Brennan in US dollars.
For ease of Audit understanding, the table below has been presented in both pounds The Executive Directors pension arrangements disclosed in the sterling and US dollars using the exchange rates for 2011 set out on Pension arrangements section on page 118, the Directors emoluments page 124.
Transfer values are calculated to be consistent with the disclosed in the Directors emoluments in 2011 section from pages value of the lump sum distribution equivalent to his deferred accrued 123 to 124 and the details of the Directors interests in Ordinary Shares pension annually.
disclosed in the Directors interests in shares section excluding the Beneficial interests sub-section from page 125 have been audited by Defined contribution arrangements KPMG Audit Plc.
In addition, David Brennan as a US citizen is a contributing member of the US 401 k savings plan.
He also participates in AstraZenecas Pension arrangements Executive Deferred Compensation Plan EDCP which is operated as CEOs pension arrangements a supplemental non-qualified plan in respect of US employees should Defined benefit arrangements annual contributions exceed the limit applicable to contributions David Brennan is a member of the AstraZeneca US Defined Benefit under the qualified 401 k plan.
During 2011, total employer matching Pension Plan US DBP, by virtue of his membership of pension plans contributions of $96,000 60,000 2010: $91,000 59,000 were applicable to legacy Astra Merck employees.
On his appointment to made to his 401 k plan and EDCP.
Member contributions of $719,000 the Board, the rules of the US DBP were amended to remove bonus 447,000 were paid through salary sacrifice into the plans.
payments from the calculation of his pensionable pay.
Benefits for members of the US DBP are delivered on a tax-qualified basis, with In the event of a US participant becoming incapacitated, permanent accrued benefits that exceed specific limits under the plans formula health insurance cover will provide continuation of a proportion of and the US Tax Code being delivered through a supplementary, salary, subject to the satisfaction of certain medical criteria.
event of the death of a participant prior to retirement, a life assurance policy will provide surviving spouses dependants with a lump sum The normal pension age under the US DBP is 65.
However, on equivalent to one times salary such salary being capped at the leaving or retiring from employment, David Brennan is eligible to take maximum pensionable salary under the plan.
a pension or lump sum equivalent based on accrued service and final pensionable pay ie without actuarial reduction due to his satisfaction CFOs pension arrangements of a condition in the pension plan relating to the combined age and Simon Lowth is eligible to join the AstraZeneca Group Self Invested service exceeding 85 years.
Personal Pension UK Defined Contribution Plan UK DCP at a company contribution rate of 24% of annual base salary or, David Brennans participation in the US DBP is subject to a service alternatively, to take the company contribution as a cash allowance.
cap at 35 years service, which has now been attained and therefore Since joining AstraZeneca, he has elected to take the cash allowance service beyond 35 years is not shown in the table below.
No further in lieu of a pension, which during 2011, amounted to 153,000 service accrual can be earned.
Members and, in the event of death, surviving spouses dependants In the event of a senior employee in the UK DCP including one who can elect, in relation to those benefits delivered on a tax-qualified basis has taken an alternative cash allowance becoming incapacitated, under the US DBP, to take pensions in lump sum form based on permanent health insurance cover provides continuation of a actuarial valuation.
Members or spouses dependants may not make proportion of salary, subject to the satisfaction of certain medical such an election in relation to any supplementary non-qualified criteria.
In the event of death prior to retirement, dependants are benefits which must be taken in lump sum form.
entitled to a lump sum secured from a multiple of 10 times salary capped at 4.3 million.
David Brennan 000 $000 Defined benefit arrangements 1.
Increase in accrued pension during year as a result of inflation 3.
Adjustment to accrued pension as a result of salary increase relative to inflation 6 10 4.
Increase in accrued pension as a result of additional service 5.
Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2010 14,211 22,738 8.
Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2011 14,055 22,488 9.
Change in transfer value during the period less employee contributions 156 250 4 10.
Pensionable service years at 31 December 2011 35 118 Directors Remuneration Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Components of remuneration for all employees Component of remuneration Role within the remuneration framework Summary of policy Applies to Base salary fixed Base fixed remuneration.
Based on conditions in the relevant market and recognising All employees the value of an individuals sustained personal performance and contribution to the business, taking account of the market rate for an individuals skills and experience.
Pension arrangements Provision of retirement benefits.
Benchmarked against the relevant local All employees fixed employment market.
Benefits fixed Provision of standard non-cash employment benefits, Cost-effective and compatible with relevant welfare All employees such as healthcare, insurances and, for certain employees, arrangements and local market norms.
Short-term bonus An annual cash incentive opportunity determined by Differs by market, but the Group performance measures All eligible variable reference to Group, functional and individual performance, ensure that all eligible employees receive an element of employees measured over a single financial year of the Company and reward based on the Groups overall financial performance.
taking into account external expectations of performance.
The functional goals are agreed by the Committee at the start of the year and are derived from the business scorecard, the key elements of which are set out in the Our strategy section from page 19, and are monitored as part of the quarterly business review QBR process.
Embedded into these goals is a commitment to distinction through integrity to avoid any damage to reputation.
Individual goals are based on annual objectives, which are linked to functional goals.
Performance measures for the annual bonus in respect of Executive Directors are set out in the Variable elements of the CEOs and CFOs remuneration in 2011 section on page 116.
Deferred bonus plan Aligns SET members interests with those of shareholders.
SET members must defer a proportion of their short-term SET members variable bonus one-third of pre-tax bonus for Executive Directors and one-sixth for other SET members into Ordinary Shares or ADSs for a three-year period.
LTI plans variable Long-term equity incentive awards to provide individual AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan.
SET members executives and employees with total compensation and other senior opportunities that are competitive against local market executives practice, for the achievement of operational excellence, AstraZeneca Investment Plan.
SET members strong financial performance and actions that are closely aligned with the interests of shareholders.
The primary Share Option Plan final awards made in 2009.
SET members LTI plans in which SET members participate are the PSP and other senior and the AZIP.
executives Global Restricted Stock Plan.
Eligible employees globally Note: Performance measures for the PSP and the AZIP are set out in the summary of those plans in the next section.
Other share plans All employee share participation arrangements, including Examples include the Share Incentive Plan and the Eligible employees 1 some that are tax-approved, for example Savings-Related Share Option Plan UK.
Shareholding Aligning SET members interests with those of shareholders.
The CEO is expected to hold shares equivalent to 300% of SET members guidelines base salary, the CFO 200% and other SET members 125%.
Overall approach When assessing the overall value of a SET members remuneration, the Committee considers, both separately and in aggregate, each component of the SET members total remuneration.
1 Further information on these plans is provided in Note 24 to the Financial Statements from page 176.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Directors Remuneration Report 119 Directors Remuneration Report Summary of the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan PSP and the AstraZeneca Investment Plan AZIP History PSP The PSP was approved by shareholders at the 2005 AGM and provides for the grant of performance share awards PSP Share Awards over Ordinary Shares or ADSs together, Shares.
AZIP The AZIP was approved by shareholders at the 2010 AGM and provides for the grant of share awards AZIP Share Awards over Shares.
Basis of participation PSP Participation in the PSP is highly selective and usually includes only senior employees on the basis of their performance.
Generally, PSP Share Awards can be granted at any time although in practice they are awarded annually, but not during a close or prohibited period of the Company.
In 2011, the main grant of PSP Share Awards was made on 28 March, with a smaller grant of Share Awards approved by the Committee in relation to, for example, new appointments, promotions and assignments being made on 26 August.
The number of Shares subject to a PSP Share Award is determined by reference to the market price of Shares over the three-day period immediately preceding the date of grant.
Details of PSP Share Awards granted to Executive Directors are shown in the Performance Share Plan table on page 126.
AZIP Participation in the AZIP is highly selective and usually includes only senior employees on the basis of their performance.
In 2011, the main grant of AZIP Share Awards was made on 28 March, with a further Share Award approved by the Committee in relation to Katarina Ageborgs appointment to the SET on 26 August.
The number of Shares subject to an AZIP Share Award is determined by reference to the market price of Shares over the three-day period immediately preceding the date of grant.
Details of AZIP Share Awards granted to Executive Directors are shown in the AstraZeneca Investment Plan table on page 126.
Individual limit PSP Under the PSP rules, in respect of any financial year of the Company, the maximum market value of Shares that may in theory be put under a PSP Share Award in respect of an employee is 500% of that employees base salary.
The actual individual limits that apply under the PSP, subject to this maximum, are set by the Committee from time to time.
AZIP Under the AZIP rules, in respect of any financial year of the Company, the maximum market value of Shares that may in theory be put under an AZIP Share Award in respect of an employee is 500% of that employees base salary.
The actual individual limits that apply under the AZIP, subject to this maximum, are set by the Committee from time to time.
Performance conditions and performance targets PSP Other than in exceptional circumstances, which are prescribed in the PSP rules, the vesting of PSP Share Awards is contingent on the satisfaction of specified performance targets balanced equally between cash flow and TSR and continued employment with the Group.
In addition to the satisfaction of these performance targets, PSP Share Awards will generally not vest until the third anniversary of the date of grant.
Fifty percent of the award is based on relative TSR against a selected peer group of global pharmaceutical companies, of which: 25% of the maximum award vests for performance at the median of the peer group: 75% of the maximum award vests for upper quartile performance: and 100% of the maximum award may vest at the Committees discretion if the Companys TSR performance is substantially better than that of the upper quartile of the comparator group.
For PSP Share Awards to vest at this level, the Company would need to have sustained a level of performance significantly in excess of upper quartile over a period of years and the Committee would need to be satisfied that this was warranted.
The peer group for the TSR measure is: Abbott, BMS, Eli Lilly & Company, GSK, Johnson & Johnson, Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and Sanofi-Aventis.
TSR measures share price growth, and dividends reinvested in respect of a notional number of shares from the beginning of the relevant performance period to the end of it, and ranks the companies in the selected comparator group by reference to their TSR achieved over that period.
The rank which the Companys TSR achieves over the performance period will determine how many Shares will vest under the relevant PSP Share Award.
Payouts against performance in relation to TSR for PSP Share Awards are expressed as a percentage of the maximum PSP Share Award currently payable, shown within a range of 0% to 100%.
This presentation is shown in the table below.
TSR ranking of the Company Vesting % Below median 0 Median 25 Between median and upper quartile Pro rata Upper quartile 75 Significantly above upper quartile Up to 100 In addition to the above TSR performance target being met for each PSP Share Award, the Committee has to satisfy itself that achievement of the TSR performance target is a genuine reflection of the Groups underlying financial performance.
It has the discretion to prevent PSP Share Awards from vesting or only to allow them to partially vest where this appears to the Committee to be warranted.
Fifty percent of the award vests subject to the achievement of the free cash flow target, which operates as a cumulative cash flow target over the same three-year performance period as the TSR measure.
The measure for the cash flow target is net cash flow before distributions and the level of vesting will be based on a sliding scale between a threshold cash flow target of $16 billion and an upper target of $23 billion.
Twenty five percent of the relevant portion of the award will vest for achievement of the threshold target, rising on a sliding scale to full vesting for achievement of the upper target as shown in the table below.
Net cash flow is considered to be the most appropriate measure of cash flow performance because it relates to the residual cash available to finance additional investment in specific business needs, debt repayments and our distribution policy.
The cash flow measure encompasses a number of important elements of operational and financial performance and helps to align executives rewards with shareholder value creation.
The level of vesting of this element is based on a sliding scale against a target that is intended to represent a significant challenge for the business.
It is intended that the Committee should have the discretion to adjust, but on an exceptional basis only, the free cash flow target during the performance period for material factors that might otherwise distort the performance measure in either direction.
This allows performance to be assessed against targets that have been set on a consistent basis.
For example, adjustments may be required to reflect exchange rate movements, significant acquisitions or divestments, and major legal and taxation settlements.
Any major adjustments to the calculation are disclosed to shareholders.
There is no retesting of performance.
120 Directors Remuneration Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Performance conditions and performance targets continued Adjusted cumulative cash flow Vesting % Less than $16 billion 0 $16 billion 25 Between $16 billion and $23 billion Pro rata $23 billion and above 100 AZIP The AZIP is aligned to AstraZenecas targeted product development cycle, reflecting the long-term investment horizons that are a feature of the industry.
The performance requirement attached to awards under the AZIP is a combination of dividend and dividend cover tests, assessed over a period of up to four financial years beginning at the start of the first financial year of the Company in which the award is granted.
The AZIP is operated over a four-year performance period Performance Period and a four-year holding period Holding Period.
At the end of the Performance Period, the extent to which the performance hurdle has been met will determine the number of Shares in respect of which the AZIP Share Award will vest at the end of the Holding Period.
The Committees intention in its choice of proposed performance tests has been to establish a performance requirement that motivates financial business performance that will generate returns for shareholders on a sustainable basis over an extended time period.
The performance hurdle for Share Awards made in 2011 is that: The annual dividend per share paid to holders of Ordinary Shares is increased from $2.55 over the four-year Performance Period $2.55 being the full-year dividend for 2010 : and Dividend cover based on reported earnings before restructuring costs does not fall below 1.5 times.
The performance hurdle for Share Awards made in 2010 is that: The annual dividend per share paid to holders of Ordinary Shares is increased from $2.30 over the period 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2013 $2.30 being the full-year dividend for 2009 : and Dividend cover over the same period based on reported earnings before restructuring costs does not fall below 1.5 times.
Performance Period Holding Period and vesting dates PSP In the case of all PSP Share Awards granted to date, the performance target relates to the three-year period commencing on 1 January of the year of grant.
Therefore, for PSP Share Awards made in 2011, the performance period runs from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2013.
The vesting date is the third anniversary of the date of grant.
AZIP Under the rules of the AZIP, the performance period is the period of up to eight years and not less than three years from 1 January of the financial year in which the AZIP Share Award is made.
The holding period starts at the end of the performance period and ends eight years from the first day of the performance period.
As described above, the AZIP is currently operated over a four-year performance period Performance Period and a four-year holding period Holding Period.
Cessation of employment PSP If a participant ceases to be in relevant employment, the award will be time pro-rated and vest at the end of the Performance Period, subject to the achievement of the relevant performance targets measured over the entire Performance Period.
AZIP During the Performance Period: If a participant ceases to be in employment and also, if relevant, an Executive Director with the Group during the Performance Period, his her AZIP Share Award will generally lapse, unless his her cessation is because of death, ill-health, injury, disability, redundancy, retirement with the agreement of his her employing company, or because of a sale or transfer out of the Group each a Good Leaver Reason.
In these circumstances, the maximum number of Ordinary Shares comprised in an AZIP Share Award will, unless the Committee determines otherwise, be pro-rated to reflect the proportion of the period of employment between grant and cessation, relative to the four-year Performance Period.
In circumstances where the Good Leaver Reason is death, ill-health, injury or disability being compassionate circumstances, the performance hurdle will be assessed and the AZIP Share Award may vest following cessation of employment, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
On cessation of employment for any other Good Leaver Reason, the pro-rated AZIP Share Award will remain subject to the performance hurdle, which will be assessed at the end of the Performance Period, unless the Committee determines that special circumstances apply, and the AZIP Share Award may then vest on the later of: i the end of the Performance Period: or ii 24 months after cessation of employment, unless the Committee determines otherwise.
During the Holding Period: If a participant ceases to be in employment and also, if relevant, an Executive Director with the Group during the Holding Period, his her AZIP Share Award will generally lapse, unless his her cessation is because of a Good Leaver Reason.
In circumstances where the Good Leaver Reason is death, ill-health, injury or disability being compassionate circumstances, the AZIP Share Award will vest in respect of all the Ordinary Shares subject to the AZIP Share Award as calculated at the end of the Performance Period as soon as possible following cessation of employment.
On cessation of employment for any other Good Leaver Reason, the AZIP Share Award will vest in respect of all the Shares subject to the AZIP Share Award as calculated at the end of the Performance Period on the earlier of: i the end of the period of 24 months from the date of cessation of employment: and ii the end of the Holding Period.
The Committee does have discretion to determine otherwise if it believes the circumstances justify this.
2011 performance PSP The TSR graphs on page 124 compare for each PSP Share Award, the Companys TSR performance against the TSR for companies in the comparator group from the first day of the relevant performance period to 31 December 2011.
At the end of 2011, the Company is on track to meet the cash flow target.
AZIP The full-year dividend was $2.80 for 2011 and dividend cover did not fall below the 1.5 times threshold.
Claw-back of Shares PSP In the event that an employee leaves the Companys employment for anything other than a Good Leaver Reason, any unvested award shall lapse unless the Committee decides otherwise.
AZIP The Committee can claw back some or all of the Ordinary Shares that are the subject of a participants AZIP Share Award at any time during the Performance Period and the Holding Period if, in the opinion of the Committee acting fairly and reasonably, any of the underlying Company performance, the occurrence of an event that causes or is very likely to cause reputational damage to the Company, or serious misconduct by the participant, warrants the claw-back.
If this discretion is exercised, the AZIP Share Award will be deemed to have been granted over the reduced number of Ordinary Shares.
No Ordinary Shares were subject to claw-back in 2011.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Directors Remuneration Report 121 Directors Remuneration Report Summary of other plans AstraZeneca Share Option Plan The Share Option Plan SOP was approved by shareholders for a period of 10 years and expired in May 2010.
Details of outstanding grants of option awards Option Awards granted to Executive Directors are shown in the Share option plans table on page 127.
The Committee imposed performance conditions in respect of the exercise of such Option Awards by SET members including the Executive Directors which, in the view of the Committee, were considered appropriately stretching.
In order for Option Awards to vest, the EPS of the Group must increase at least in line with the UK Retail Prices Index plus 5% per annum on average, over a three-year period, the base figure being the EPS for the financial year preceding the date of grant, with no retesting.
In addition, since the review of executive remuneration in 2004, the Committee has included a condition that, if an event occurs which causes material reputational damage to the Company, such that it is not appropriate for the Option Awards to vest and become exercisable, the Committee can make a determination to reflect this.
No such determination was made in 2011.
Global Restricted Stock Plan The AstraZeneca Global Restricted Stock Plan GRSP was introduced in 2010 and provides for the grant of restricted stock awards Stock Awards over Shares.
The GRSP is operated for below SET-level employees only.
In 2011, Stock Awards were made under the GRSP on 28 March, with other Stock Awards approved by the Committee in relation to, for example, new appointments, promotions and assignments being granted on 26 August.
Stock Awards granted under the GRSP do not involve the issue and allotment of new Ordinary Shares but rather rely on the market purchase of Ordinary Shares that have already been issued.
There is no increase in the overall quantum of awards applicable to target employees through the introduction of the GRSP.
Restricted Share Plan The AstraZeneca Restricted Share Plan RSP was introduced in 2008 and provides for the granting of restricted share awards RS Awards to key employees, excluding Executive Directors.
RS Awards are made on an ad hoc basis with variable vesting dates and may not operate in respect of Ordinary Shares which are newly issued or transferred from treasury.
The RSP was used seven times in 2011 to make RS Awards to a limited number of key senior executives in specific situations considered by the Committee.
The Committee has responsibility for agreeing any RS Awards under the RSP and for setting the policy for the way in which the RSP should operate.
Other plans In addition to the plans described above, the Company operates the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan and the AstraZeneca All-Employee Share Plan in the UK, both of which are HM Revenue & Customs approved plans.
Certain Executive Directors and other SET members are eligible to participate in these plans, more detailed descriptions of which can be found in Note 24 to the Financial Statements from page 176.
Dilution under share plans Other than the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan and the AstraZeneca All-Employee Share Plan, which operate in the UK only, and the SOP, none of the Companys share plans has a dilutive effect because they do not involve the issue and allotment of new Ordinary Shares but rather rely on the market purchase of Ordinary Shares that have already been issued.
Terms of employment for Executive Directors Service contracts Details of the service contracts for each of the Executive Directors are set out below.
Either the Company or the Executive Director may terminate the service contract on 12 months notice.
It is the Committees intention that, in the event of early termination of an Executive Directors employment, any compensation payable under his her service contract should not exceed the salary and benefits that would have been received had the contractual notice period been worked and this may be further reduced in line with the Executive Directors duty to mitigate losses.
None of the Executive Directors has any provision in their service contracts giving them a right to liquidated damages or an automatic entitlement to bonus for the duration of their notice period.
Compensation for any bonus entitlement will be assessed initially as on target but subject to adjustment by the Committee to take account of the particular circumstances of the termination.
Details of Executive Directors service contracts at 31 December 2011 are shown in the table below: Unexpired term at Notice Executive Director Date of service contract 31 December 2011 period David Brennan 1 January 2006 12 months 12 months Simon Lowth 5 November 2007 12 months 12 months Policy on external appointments and retention of fees Subject to specific Board approval in each case, Executive Directors and other SET members may accept external appointments as non-executive directors of other companies and retain any related fees paid to them, provided always that such external appointments are not considered by the Board to prevent or reduce the ability of the executive to perform their role within the Group to the required standard.
Simon Lowth is a Non-Executive Director of Standard Chartered PLC.
In respect of such position, he received fees of 105,000 for his services in 2011.
Non-Executive Directors None of the Non-Executive Directors has a service contract but all have letters of appointment.
In accordance with the Companys Articles, following their appointment, Directors must retire at each AGM and may present themselves for election or re-election.
None of the Non-Executive Directors has any provision in their letter of appointment giving them a right to compensation payable upon early termination of their appointment.
They are not eligible for performance-related bonuses or the grant of share awards or options.
No pension contributions are made on their behalf.
The annual Board fees applicable to Non-Executive Directors, including the Non-Executive Chairman, are set out in the Non-Executive Directors fees table on page 123.
In addition to the mandatory shareholding requirement imposed on all Directors under the Articles described in the Directors section on page 208, the Board encourages each Non-Executive Director to build up, over time, a shareholding in the Company with a value approximately equivalent to the basic annual fee for a Non-Executive Director 75,000 or, in the case of the Chairman, approximately equivalent to his annual fee 500,000.
122 Directors Remuneration Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Non-Executive Directors fees Chairmans fee 500,000 Basic fee 75,000 Senior independent Non-Executive Director 30,000 Membership of the Audit Committee 20,000 Membership of the Remuneration Committee 15,000 1 Chairman of the Audit Committee or the Remuneration Committee 20,000 Membership of the Science Committee 10,000 1 Chairman of the Science Committee 7,000 1 This fee is in addition to the fee for membership of the relevant Committee.
Directors emoluments in 2011 The aggregate remuneration, excluding pension contributions and the value of shares under option and shares subject to Share Awards, paid to or accrued for all Directors for services in all capacities during the year ended 31 December 2011 was 6,535,000 $10,458,000.
The remuneration of individual Directors is set out below in pounds sterling and US dollars.
All salaries, fees, bonuses and other benefits for Directors are established in pounds sterling.
2 This figure includes a sum of 447,000 $719,000 in respect of member contributions to the 401 k plan and to the AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan which was paid into the plans by means of a salary sacrifice see the Defined contribution arrangements section on page 118 for further details.
3 Relates to relocation allowances, a car allowance and cash of 880,000 $1,408,000 on the vesting of a PSP Share Award and 73,000 $117,000 on the release of Ordinary Shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan, in each case paid in respect of dividends accrued.
4 Relates to remaining cash following selection of benefits within AstraZenecas UK flexible benefits programme and cash of 318,000 $509,000 on the vesting of a PSP Share Award and 6,000 $10,000 on the release of shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan, in each case paid in respect of dividends accrued.
5 Part-year only as ceased to be a Director on 28 April 2011.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Directors Remuneration Report 123 Directors Remuneration Report In the tables in the Directors emoluments in 2011 section on page 123, salaries have been converted between pounds sterling and US dollars at the average exchange rate for the year in question.
These rates were: GBP USD 2011 0.625 2010 0.647 2009 0.645 Details of share options exercised by Directors and the aggregate of gains realised on the exercise of options and of awards under the LTI plans in the year are given in the Directors interests in shares section from page 125.
No Director has a family relationship with any other Director.
Transactions with Directors There were no material recorded transactions between the Company and the Directors during 2011 or 2010.
Total shareholder return The Regulations require the inclusion of a graph showing TSR over a five-year period in respect of a holding of the Companys shares, plotted against TSR in respect of a hypothetical holding of shares of a similar kind and number by reference to which a broad equity market index is calculated.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 100 Index and consequently, for the purposes of this graph, which is set out below, we have selected the FTSE 100 Index as the appropriate index.
This graph is re-based to 100 at the start of the rolling five-year period.
We have also included a Pharmaceutical peers average, which reflects the TSR of the same comparator group used for the PSP graphs below.
The PSP requires that the TSR in respect of a holding of the Companys shares over the relevant performance period be compared with the TSR of a peer group of pharmaceutical companies as described on page 120.
The graphs below show how the Companys TSR performance has compared with the TSR for the relevant companies in the comparator group from the first day in the relevant three-year performance period in respect of each Share Award to 31 December 2011 and how the Company ranks against those other companies on this basis.
To alleviate any short-term volatility, the return index is averaged in the TSR calculations for each company over the three months prior to the start of the relevant performance period as stipulated in the PSP and, for the purposes of the graphs below, over the last three months of 2011.
TSR over a five-year period TSR AstraZeneca compared with peer group 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2011 % 160 AstraZeneca 90 Pharmaceutical peers average 80 140 FTSE 100 70 60 120 50 40 100 30 20 10 80 0 January January January January January January 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 BMS MRK GSK AZ PFI SA LLY J&J AL NOV NOV RCH TSR AstraZeneca compared with peer group TSR AstraZeneca compared with peer group 1 January 2010 to 31 December 2011 % 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2011 % 50 30 25 40 20 30 15 20 10 10 5 0 0 -10 -5 BMS GSK LLY PFI AZ J&J AL MRK SA NOV RCH BMS PFI GSK LLY AL RCH SA J&J MRK AZ NOV Key: AZ AstraZeneca, AL Abbott Laboratories, BMS Bristol-Myers Squibb, GSK GlaxoSmithKline, J&J Johnson & Johnson, LLY Eli Lilly, MRK Merck, NOV Novartis, PFI Pzer, RCH Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd, SA Sano-Aventis 124 Directors Remuneration Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Directors interests in shares Beneficial interests The table below shows any change in the interests of the Directors including the interests of their Connected Persons, as such term is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 in Ordinary Shares from 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2011 or on the date of resignation of such Director if earlier.
All such interests were beneficial except as otherwise stated.
However, interests in Ordinary Shares or ADSs that are the subject of PSP Share Awards, AZIP Share Awards and or the Deferred Bonus Plan discussed in this Report, are not included in the table below but are shown in the Performance Share Plan, AstraZeneca Investment Plan and Deferred Bonus Plan tables from page 126.
No Director or senior executive beneficially owns, or has options over, 1% or more of the issued share capital of the Company, nor do they have different voting rights from other shareholders.
None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any of the Companys subsidiaries.
Between 31December 2011 and 2 February 2012, there was no change in the interests in Ordinary Shares shown in the table below.
Beneficial interest Beneficial interest in Ordinary in Ordinary Shares at Shares at 1 January 2011 or Change to beneficial 31 December 2011 or if later appointment date interest if earlier resignation date Louis Schweitzer 16,615 16,615 David Brennan 186,982 59,192 246,174 Simon Lowth 9,346 44,880 54,226 Bruce Burlington 553 553 Jean-Philippe Courtois 2,635 2,635 1 Jane Henney 1,314 1,314 Michele Hooper 2,400 2,400 Rudy Markham 1,940 512 2,452 Nancy Rothwell 1,314 518 1,832 Shriti Vadera 3,000 3,000 John Varley 1,294 450 1,744 Marcus Wallenberg 63,646 63,646 1 Ceased to be a Director on 28 April 2011.
Unitised stock plans David Brennan, in common with other participating executives in the US, has interests in the following plans which were awarded to him prior to him becoming CEO: the AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan, the AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and the AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan.
These are unitised stock plans into which the value of certain previous share incentive awards has been deferred and are not incentive awards in their own right.
Participants hold units in each plan, which represent a long-term equity interest in the Company.
A unit comprises part cash and part ADSs.
The overall unit value can be determined daily by taking the market value of the underlying ADSs and adding the cash position.
The ADSs held within these units carry both voting and dividend rights.
David Brennan is deemed to have a notional beneficial interest in these ADSs, calculated by reference to the fund value and the closing price of ADSs.
Therefore, the number of ADSs in which a notional beneficial interest arises can vary daily as a consequence of stock price movements.
ADSs held at Net ADSs acquired ADSs held Unitised stock plan 1 January 2011 during 2011 at 31 December 2011 AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan 37,741 2,261 40,002 AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan 8,523 499 9,022 AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Directors Remuneration Report 125 Directors Remuneration Report Performance Share Plan The interests of Directors at 31 December 2011 in Ordinary Shares that are the subject of Share Awards under the PSP are not included in the Beneficial interests in Ordinary Shares table on page 125 but are shown below: Price on Number of Award price vesting Vesting 1 1 1 Ordinary Shares pence date pence Grant date date Performance period David Brennan 2008 Share Award 161,546 1882 28.03.08 28.03.11 01.01.08 31.12.10 2009 Share Award 133,347 2280 27.03.09 27.03.12 01.01.09 31.12.11 2010 Share Award 127,520 2861 07.05.10 07.05.13 01.01.10 31.12.12 Total at 1 January 2011 422,413 2 Discretionary enhancement of 2008 Share Award 40,386 2 3,5 Vesting of 2008 Share Award 201,932 2874 2011 Share Award 131,075 2853 28.03.11 28.03.14 01.01.11 31.12.13 Total at 31 December 2011 391,942 Simon Lowth 2008 Share Award 58,448 1882 28.03.08 28.03.11 01.01.08 31.12.10 2009 Share Award 54,276 2280 27.03.09 27.03.12 01.01.09 31.12.11 2010 Share Award 52,009 2861 07.05.10 07.05.13 01.01.10 31.12.12 Total at 1 January 2011 164,733 2 Discretionary enhancement of 2008 Share Award 14,612 2 4,5 Vesting of 2008 Share Award 73,060 2874 2011 Share Award 53,459 2853 28.03.11 28.03.14 01.01.11 31.12.13 Total at 31 December 2011 159,744 1 UK date convention applies.
2 The Remuneration Committee used its discretion to determine that Share Awards granted in 2008 should vest in 2011 at 125%, based on the outcome of the performance conditions and targets which are set out in the Vesting of PSP awards in 2011 and 2012 section on page 116.
3 201,932 Ordinary Shares vested after the application of the 125% vesting percentage.
Following certain mandatory tax deductions, David Brennan became beneficially interested in a net number of 98,219 Ordinary Shares.
4 73,060 Ordinary Shares vested after the application of the 125% vesting percentage.
Following certain mandatory tax deductions, Simon Lowth became beneficially interested in a net number of 35,799 Ordinary Shares.
5 Cash payments equivalent to dividends accruing over the vesting period are made at the date of vesting and are included in Other payments and allowances in the Directors remuneration tables from page 123.
AstraZeneca Investment Plan The interests of Directors at 31 December 2011 in Ordinary Shares that are the subject of Share Awards under the AZIP are not included in the Beneficial interests in Ordinary Shares table on page 125 but are shown below: Number of Award price Vesting 1 1 1 Ordinary Shares pence Grant date date Performance period David Brennan 2010 Share Award 21,253 2861 07.05.10 01.01.18 01.01.10 31.12.13 Total at 1 January 2011 21,253 2011 Share Award 21,845 2853 28.03.11 01.01.19 01.01.11 31.12.14 Total at 31 December 2011 43,098 Simon Lowth 2010 Share Award 8,668 2861 07.05.10 01.01.18 01.01.10 31.12.13 Total at 1 January 2011 8,668 2011 Share Award 8,909 2853 28.03.11 01.01.19 01.01.11 31.12.14 Total at 31 December 2011 17,577 1 UK date convention applies.
126 Directors Remuneration Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Deferred Bonus Plan As described on page 117, there is a requirement for Executive Directors and SET members to defer a certain proportion of any short-term bonus payments into Ordinary Shares or ADSs.
2 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, David Brennan became beneficially interested in a net number of 8,213 Ordinary Shares.
3 Following certain mandatory tax deductions, Simon Lowth became beneficially interested in a net number of 656 Ordinary Shares.
4 Cash payments equivalent to dividends accruing over the vesting period are made at the date of vesting and are included in Other payments and allowances in the Directors remuneration tables from page 123.
Share option plans The interests of Directors who served during 2011, in options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares, granted under the SOP are included in the following table.
None of the Directors in the table below holds options under the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Plan.
There were no grants of options made to Directors under any of the plans in 2011.
Number of Exercise Ordinary price per Market price Shares under Ordinary on date First day Last day 1 2 3,4 3,4 option Share of exercise exercisable exercisable David Brennan At 1 January 2011 options over Ordinary Shares 592,975 2375p 24.03.09 26.03.19 market price above option price Ordinary Shares 505,244 2271p 19.05.09 26.03.19 market price at or below option price Ordinary Shares 87,731 2975p 24.03.09 23.03.16 At 31 December 2011 options over Ordinary Shares 592,975 2375p 24.03.09 26.03.19 market price above option price Ordinary Shares 505,244 2271p 19.05.09 26.03.19 market price at or below option price Ordinary Shares 87,731 2975p 24.03.09 23.03.16 At 1 January 2011 options over ADSs 322,519 $45.35 29.03.04 23.03.15 market price above option price ADSs 110,987 $40.35 24.03.08 23.03.15 market price at or below option price ADSs 211,532 $47.97 29.03.04 25.03.14 Exercised 18 February 2011 29,354 $47.14 $49.10 29.03.04 28.03.11 Exercised 18 February 2011 39,942 $47.73 $49.10 29.06.04 28.06.11 At 31 December 2011 options over ADSs 253,223 $44.76 28.03.05 23.03.15 market price above option price ADSs 110,987 $40.35 24.03.08 23.03.15 market price at or below option price ADSs 142,236 $48.21 28.03.05 25.03.14 Simon Lowth At 1 January 2011 135,269 2074p 28.03.11 26.03.19 market price above option price 135,269 2074p 28.03.11 26.03.19 market price at or below option price n a n a n a Exercised 9 August 2011 70,138 1882p 2568p 28.03.11 27.03.18 At 31 December 2011 65,131 2280p 27.03.12 26.03.19 market price above option price 65,131 2280p 27.03.12 26.03.19 market price at or below option price n a n a n a 1 Vesting is subject to satisfying the relevant performance conditions set out in each of the relevant share option plans.
Further information on the performance conditions applicable to the SOP is set out in the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan section on page 122.
2 Exercise prices are weighted averages.
3 First and last exercise dates of groups of options, within which period there may be shorter exercise periods.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Directors Remuneration Report 127 Directors Remuneration Report Gains by Directors on exercise of share options The aggregate gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options during the year and the two previous years are set out below.
Gains made by Directors Gains made by the on the exercise of share options highest paid Director Year $ $ 2011 882,089 112,254 2010 260,182 11,454 2009 During 2011, the market price of Ordinary Shares or ADSs was as follows: Ordinary Share ADS market price Range of the Ordinary Share ADS Stock Exchange at 31 December 2011 market price during 2011 London 2975p 2543.5p to 3194p Stockholm 316.0 SEK 269.3 SEK to 328.5 SEK New York $46.29 $40.95 to $52.40 On behalf of the Board A C N Kemp Company Secretary 2 February 2012 128 Directors Remuneration Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
