Directors remuneration report Executive directors remuneration 2011 Executive directors remuneration This section contains detail on executive directors remuneration including Remuneration committee salary, annual bonus and deferred bonus relating to 2011 and the share element for the performance period 2009-2011.
During the year the committee met seven times, and was made up of the following independent non-executive directors: Salary Mr Antony Burgmans chairman from 2011 Annual General Meeting AGM Mr Dudleys current salary of $1,700,000 was unchanged during 2011.
Mr George David As reported in last years remuneration report, Mr Conns and Dr Grotes Mr Ian Davis salaries were increased in April 2011 to 730,000 and $1,442,000 respectively, their first increase since 2008.
Dr DeAnne Julius was chairman of the committee until her retirement at the 2011 AGM.
Mr Svanberg has attended all meetings.
Annual bonus The group chief executive is consulted on matters relating to the other Framework executive directors and senior executives who report to him and on All executive directors were eligible for an overall annual bonus, including matters relating to the performance of the company: neither he nor the deferral, of 150% of salary at target and a maximum of 225% of salary.
chairman of the board participate in decisions on their own remuneration.
Mr Dudleys annual bonus was based entirely on group results and Mr Conns and Dr Grotes based 70% on group results and 30% on their The committees tasks are set out in the board governance principles: respective segment and function.
t 5P EFUFSNJOF PO CFIBMG PG UIF CPBSE UIF UFSNT PG FOHBHFNFOU BOE Measures and targets for the annual bonus were set at the start of remuneration of the group chief executive and the executive directors the year and were derived from the companys annual plan which, in turn, and to report on these to the shareholders.
reected its strategic priorities of reinforcing safety and risk management, t 5P EFUFSNJOF PO CFIBMG PG UIF CPBSE NBUUFST PG QPMJDZ PWFS XIJDI UIF rebuilding trust and reinforcing value creation.
Targets are set so that company has authority regarding the establishment or operation of meeting plan equates to on-target bonus.
the companys pension schemes of which the executive directors are At group level, the safety and risk management component members.
included targets for recordable injury frequency, loss of primary t 5P OPNJOBUF PO CFIBMG PG UIF CPBSE BOZ USVTUFFT PS EJSFDUPST PG containment and implementation of change programmes.
Rebuilding trust corporate trustees of such schemes.
was focused on external reputation as measured by external surveys and t 5P SFWJFX BOE BQQSPWF UIF QPMJDJFT BOE BDUJPOT CFJOH BQQMJFE CZ UIF internal morale as measured by surveys.
Finally, the value component group chief executive in remunerating senior executives other than included measures for underlying replacement cost profit, total cash executive directors to ensure alignment and proportionality.
costs, upstream operating cash and downstream profitability.
t 5P SFDPNNFOE UP UIF CPBSE UIF RVBOUVN BOE TUSVDUVSF PG SFNVOFSBUJPO Mr Conns Rening and Marketing segment similarly included for the chairman of the board.
targets for various safety measures, onstream availability, cost efficiency and profitability.
Dr Grotes functional segment included measures for IST The committee operates with a high level of independence.
The board compliance, succession and divestments.
considers all committee members to be independent see page 121.
They Apart from the specic measures set out, the committee may have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the consider any other results that it deems relevant and apply its judgement committees decisions.
Each member of the remuneration committee is in determining final bonus scores.
subject to annual re-election as a director of the company.
Results Gerrit Aronson, an independent consultant, is the committees Outcomes for the year are summarized in the table below, with a more independent adviser as well as secretary.
He is engaged directly by the detailed explanation following.
committee and not by executive management.
Advice is also received from David Jackson, the company secretary, and from the company 2011 bonus measures and outcomes secretarys ofce, which is independent of executive management and Key measures for 2011 bonus Below target On target Better than reports to the chairman of the board.
target Safety and risk management The committee also appoints external advisers to provide specialist advice Recordable injury frequency and services on particular remuneration matters.
The independence of Loss of primary containment the advice is subject to periodic review.
In 2011, the committee continued to engage Towers Watson as its principal external adviser, primarily for Implementation of change market information.
Towers Watson also provided other remuneration and programmes benets advice to parts of the group.
Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer LLP Retaining and building capability provided legal advice on specic matters to the committee, as well as Rebuilding trust providing some legal advice to the group.
External reputation The committee values its dialogue with major shareholders Internal alignment and morale on remuneration matters.
The committee is accountable to shareholders Restoring value through its annual report on executive directors remuneration.
It will Underlying replacement cost profit consider the outcome of the vote at the AGM on the directors Total cash costs remuneration report and take into account the views of shareholders in its Upstream operating cash future decisions.
Rening and Marketing profitability 142 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Directors remuneration report Directors remuneration report Safety and risk management performance was strong with most targets Results exceeded.
Loss of primary containment showed a 14% reduction on Reecting the impact of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill, the TSR, the number of incidents that occurred in the previous year and process production growth and net income growth measures for the three-year safety related high potential incidents dropped 26% both metrics period 2009-2011 were all below the third place required for vesting.
are important indicators of process safety performance.
Recordable Rening and Marketing profitability was strong and based on a first injury frequency was better than target.
A major change programme place ranking achieved full vesting for that portion.
Based on the agreed related to safety and risk management progressed very well.
A central formula, this resulted in a vesting of 16.67% of the original award.
part of this was the completed implementation of the safety and The committee considered this result was a fair reection of operational risk function as a group-wide organization independent of line overall performance over the period.
The resulting shares and value of the management.
The change programme also included a major upstream vesting is shown in the table on page 149. reorganization, the introduction of a contractor management process, global rollout of a values and behaviours charter, implementation of a new 2011 total remuneration outcomes individual performance and reward framework and completion of a risk The charts below summarize the actual total remuneration outcome of management review.
2011 for each of the executive directors.
Rebuilding trust showed some early signs of improvement but The salary is the amount actually received during the year and with clear work remaining to be done related to the long-term impact the cash bonus reects the portion of total bonus for 2011 that is of the Deepwater Horizon oil spill.
Independent external surveys received in cash.
reect some recovery of trust and reputation in key markets as the The deferred bonus reects that portion of total bonus for 2011 year progressed.
Internal employee alignment and morale remained that is deferred, either on a mandatory or voluntary basis.
The value encouragingly strong through a difficult period for the company.
Employee shown is converted to shares, matched one-for-one and vests after three satisfaction, as measured by survey, was near pre-Deepwater Horizon years contingent on the review of safety and environmental sustainability levels and a new progress index was implemented to track specic over the three years.
employee alignment related to the companys strategic priorities.
Finally the share element portion reects the value of the vesting Rebuilding value measures were at or near target.
Relative to that occurred for the 2009-2011 plan.
These shares now enter a further target, underlying replacement cost profit was around 90% and total cash three-year retention period before they are released to the individual.
Upstream operating cash was some 3% better than target and Rening and Marketing profitability met its plan level.
2011 total remuneration outcomes thousand Rening and Marketing had a strong year overall with record earnings, R W Dudley good safety, and high utilization availability.
Salary Based on these results, the committee assessed group $688 Cash bonus performance to be on-target.
Mr Dudley therefore received a total bonus Deferred bonus before match of 150% of salary including deferral, reecting on-target performance.
Share element vesting Mr Conns total bonus of 165% of salary reected achievements above $1,700 target for the Rening and Marketing segment.
Dr Grotes total bonus of 150% of salary reects on-target results at both group and function level.
Of the total bonuses referred to above, one-third is paid in cash, $1,700 one-third is deferred on a mandatory basis and one-third is paid either in cash or voluntarily deferred at the individuals discretion.
Amounts, as $850 received by the individuals, are shown in the table on page 141.
Deferred bonus One-third of the total bonus awarded to the executive directors is deferred I C Conn into shares on a mandatory basis under the terms of the deferred bonus Salary element.
Their deferred shares are matched on a one-for-one basis Cash bonus and will vest in three years contingent on an assessment of safety and Deferred bonus before match 626 720 environmental sustainability over the three-year deferral period.
Share element vesting Individuals may elect to defer an additional one-third into shares on the same basis as the mandatory deferral.
All three executive directors chose to participate in the voluntary deferral.
Again this is reected in the table on page 141.
All deferred bonuses will be converted to shares based on the 396 average price of BP shares over the three days following the companys 792 announcement of 2011 results 4.91 share, $46.70 ADS.
2009-2011 share element Framework Dr B E Grote Performance shares were awarded to each executive director in early Salary 2009 with vesting after three years dependent on performance relative Cash bonus to measures reecting the companys strategic priorities at the time.
For Deferred bonus before match $1,267 Share element vesting the 2009 plan, vesting was based 50% on total shareholder return TSR $1,427 versus the oil majors, and 50% on a balanced scorecard of underlying performance factors versus the same peers.
The underlying performance factors were production growth, Rening and Marketing profitability, and underlying net income growth.
The peer group included ExxonMobil, Shell, Total, Chevron and ConocoPhillips.
Vesting was set at 100%, 70% $713 and 35% for performance equivalent to first, second, and third rank $1,427 respectively and none for fourth or fifth place.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 143
