Corporate governance Corporate governance t 0WFSTFF $30 T QMBOT GPS FYQFOEJUVSFT BOE JOWFTUNFOUT PO NBKPS Remuneration committee report projects or matters beyond those included within the established claims The report of the remuneration committee is contained in the Directors administration processes.
remuneration report on pages 139 to 151. t 0WFSTFF NBOBHFNFOU TUSBUFHZ BOE BDUJPOT UP SFTUPSF UIF groups reputation in the US.
Committee processes Information and advice The committee receives its information from the leadership of the GCRO and external advisers.
Privileged legal briengs are regularly provided by the group general counsel and chief counsel for the GCRO, who are joined on occasion in committee meetings by other internal and external legal counsel.
BPs internal audit function has conducted reviews of various GCRO activities and processes, and these have been summarized for the committees review.
Primary monitoring of financial risk associated with GCROs activities is undertaken by the audit committee.
Safety risks related to GCROs activities are monitored by the SEEAC.
Training and visits The high frequency of meetings in 2011 has facilitated the committees understanding of the important issues and numerous interdependencies.
Three of these meetings were held in the US and were of extended duration, providing the opportunity for the committee to interact with members of the GCRO leadership team.
Committee activities The committees activities have included the following: t Legal: legal updates from the chief counsel to the GCRO have formed a significant part of the committees agenda, given the breadth and pace of activities.
The committee has overseen the GCROs integrated legal approach, which incorporates all government, civil and criminal investigations, the Multi-District Litigation, the Natural Resource Damage Assessment process, and legal aspects of the claims processes.
The committee has overseen the companys preparation for trial, as well as the settlements entered into with the other working interest owners in the Macondo well and with some sub-contractors working on the development.
The committee has continued to monitor engagement with other responsible parties and contractors.
t Claims: the committee has monitored the status of claims from individuals and businesses administered by the independent Gulf Coast Claims Facility: and the status of claims from government entities, which continue to be administered by BP.
Assessments of potential future claims for provisioning purposes are reviewed by the audit committee.
t Remediation: the committee has received regular updates on the progress of clean-up and remediation activities.
The committee also monitored discussions with Natural Resource Trustees, with whom agreement was reached on early restoration projects.
t GCRO controls: the committee oversaw the continued development of financial controls underpinning the breadth of the GCROs complex tasks.
The audit committee remains the primary forum for the oversight of these controls and associated audits.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 131
