Directors remuneration report Executive directors remuneration 2011 Executive directors remuneration This section contains detail on executive directors remuneration including Remuneration committee salary, annual bonus and deferred bonus relating to 2011 and the share element for the performance period 2009-2011.
During the year the committee met seven times, and was made up of the following independent non-executive directors: Salary Mr Antony Burgmans chairman from 2011 Annual General Meeting AGM Mr Dudleys current salary of $1,700,000 was unchanged during 2011.
Mr George David As reported in last years remuneration report, Mr Conns and Dr Grotes Mr Ian Davis salaries were increased in April 2011 to 730,000 and $1,442,000 respectively, their first increase since 2008.
Dr DeAnne Julius was chairman of the committee until her retirement at the 2011 AGM.
Mr Svanberg has attended all meetings.
Annual bonus The group chief executive is consulted on matters relating to the other Framework executive directors and senior executives who report to him and on All executive directors were eligible for an overall annual bonus, including matters relating to the performance of the company: neither he nor the deferral, of 150% of salary at target and a maximum of 225% of salary.
chairman of the board participate in decisions on their own remuneration.
Mr Dudleys annual bonus was based entirely on group results and Mr Conns and Dr Grotes based 70% on group results and 30% on their The committees tasks are set out in the board governance principles: respective segment and function.
t 5P EFUFSNJOF PO CFIBMG PG UIF CPBSE UIF UFSNT PG FOHBHFNFOU BOE Measures and targets for the annual bonus were set at the start of remuneration of the group chief executive and the executive directors the year and were derived from the companys annual plan which, in turn, and to report on these to the shareholders.
reected its strategic priorities of reinforcing safety and risk management, t 5P EFUFSNJOF PO CFIBMG PG UIF CPBSE NBUUFST PG QPMJDZ PWFS XIJDI UIF rebuilding trust and reinforcing value creation.
Targets are set so that company has authority regarding the establishment or operation of meeting plan equates to on-target bonus.
the companys pension schemes of which the executive directors are At group level, the safety and risk management component members.
included targets for recordable injury frequency, loss of primary t 5P OPNJOBUF PO CFIBMG PG UIF CPBSE BOZ USVTUFFT PS EJSFDUPST PG containment and implementation of change programmes.
Rebuilding trust corporate trustees of such schemes.
was focused on external reputation as measured by external surveys and t 5P SFWJFX BOE BQQSPWF UIF QPMJDJFT BOE BDUJPOT CFJOH BQQMJFE CZ UIF internal morale as measured by surveys.
Finally, the value component group chief executive in remunerating senior executives other than included measures for underlying replacement cost profit, total cash executive directors to ensure alignment and proportionality.
costs, upstream operating cash and downstream profitability.
t 5P SFDPNNFOE UP UIF CPBSE UIF RVBOUVN BOE TUSVDUVSF PG SFNVOFSBUJPO Mr Conns Rening and Marketing segment similarly included for the chairman of the board.
targets for various safety measures, onstream availability, cost efficiency and profitability.
Dr Grotes functional segment included measures for IST The committee operates with a high level of independence.
The board compliance, succession and divestments.
considers all committee members to be independent see page 121.
They Apart from the specic measures set out, the committee may have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the consider any other results that it deems relevant and apply its judgement committees decisions.
Each member of the remuneration committee is in determining final bonus scores.
subject to annual re-election as a director of the company.
Results Gerrit Aronson, an independent consultant, is the committees Outcomes for the year are summarized in the table below, with a more independent adviser as well as secretary.
He is engaged directly by the detailed explanation following.
committee and not by executive management.
Advice is also received from David Jackson, the company secretary, and from the company 2011 bonus measures and outcomes secretarys ofce, which is independent of executive management and Key measures for 2011 bonus Below target On target Better than reports to the chairman of the board.
target Safety and risk management The committee also appoints external advisers to provide specialist advice Recordable injury frequency and services on particular remuneration matters.
The independence of Loss of primary containment the advice is subject to periodic review.
In 2011, the committee continued to engage Towers Watson as its principal external adviser, primarily for Implementation of change market information.
Towers Watson also provided other remuneration and programmes benets advice to parts of the group.
Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer LLP Retaining and building capability provided legal advice on specic matters to the committee, as well as Rebuilding trust providing some legal advice to the group.
External reputation The committee values its dialogue with major shareholders Internal alignment and morale on remuneration matters.
The committee is accountable to shareholders Restoring value through its annual report on executive directors remuneration.
It will Underlying replacement cost profit consider the outcome of the vote at the AGM on the directors Total cash costs remuneration report and take into account the views of shareholders in its Upstream operating cash future decisions.
Rening and Marketing profitability 142 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
