8231 2 Report 2011 107 to 132 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:50 Page 120 REMUNERATION REPORT UNAUDITED INFORMATION Each year the Committee reviews its policy in the light of any changes to the The Remuneration Committee comprises Lord Turnbull, Chairman of the strategy by management.
During 2011 12 the Committee will look at measures Committee, John Gildersleeve and Dido Harding.
The Committees Terms used by the LTIP to ensure that the Company gets best alignment and focus of Reference are available on the Companys website.
The Remuneration Committee took advice during the year from Strategic i Basic salary and benefits Remuneration, Chris Grigg, and Anthony Braine.
The Committee has retained Basic salary and benefits in kind for each Director are reviewed annually Alan Judes as its independent adviser throughout the year via his consultancy, by the Remuneration Committee, taking account of the Directors performance Strategic Remuneration.
A copy of the letter of engagement between the and responsibilities.
Company and Strategic Remuneration is on the Companys website.
Strategic Remuneration also gave advice to the Company on personnel and share plan The Committee considers basic salary levels against two peer groups.
The Committee is satisfied that there is no conflict in Strategic where corporate size and scope characteristics drive duties, basic pay levels Remuneration providing such services to the Company.
and recruitment sources, a peer group of major UK companies across market sectors with a median market capitalisation broadly comparable to British Land STATEMENT OF COMPANYS POLICY ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION is used to establish basic salary levels.
British Land is an industry leader and a FTSE 100 Company.
The Companys goal is to achieve sustained outperformance for shareholders.
The business model For other posts, the Committee will look at pay levels in other organisations such is people-light and asset-heavy it leverages the work, skill and judgement as agents, fund managers or with comparably sized support functions to match of a relatively small staff over a large value of assets.
with roles of comparable speciality, scope and responsibility to those within British Land.
This reflects the people-light and asset-heavy business model.
To accomplish British Lands performance goals the Company targets a high performance, open and meritocratic culture where people are motivated Basic salaries are targeted around the median of the relevant peer group in individually and as a team to outperform competitors, subject to maintenance both cases.
The Company utilises pay surveys from time to time to ensure pay of quality and security.
is correctly positioned against the market.
Appropriate increases are made to base salary to reflect individual merit and remain competitive with the market.
It is important that pay policy reinforces the Companys goals, providing effective incentives for exceptional Company, team and individual performance with ii Annual incentive plan significant upward and downward variability.
The annual incentive plan consists of an amount payable to Directors reflecting Company performance and the individuals contribution during the preceding As well as providing motivation to perform, pay plays an important retention role year.
One third of the annual incentive is paid in fully vested shares subject to and hence needs to be competitive with alternative employment opportunities.
a three-year holding requirement under the Companys Matching Share Plan This is particularly so as British Lands demands on staff are high and there is described below.
a scarcity value on proven performers.
We do recognise, however, that there are circumstances under which key staff members cannot be kept in the Company.
For 2011 12 the On Target award level for the Chief Executive continues to be 90% of salary with a maximum award of 180% of salary.
On Target award It is even more important to have strong alignment of management incentives levels for the other executive Directors are 75% of base salary with a maximum with measures that matter to British Lands shareholders and with shareholder of 150% of salary.
The awards are not contractual and are not pensionable.
These levels are unchanged from previous years.
The policy is to set basic salary and benefits at norms broadly consistent with The Remuneration Committees approach to setting annual incentives is twothe Companys FTSE position with appropriate variance for specialist positions, fold.
Each individuals performance is considered in relation to the goals agreed but to provide Annual Incentive and Long-Term Incentive levels that would for their specific areas of responsibility, such as: move total pay above median towards upper quartile if performance so merits.
The success of purchases and sales: Directors remuneration packages comprise a fixed part consisting of a basic Successful progress on developments: salary and benefits together with an annual incentive, matching share plan Lettings and rent reviews: and long-term incentive plans.
Asset management activities: The total pay position is analysed by looking across each of the different Successful execution of debt financings: elements of pay: basic salary and benefits, annual incentive awards and longterm incentives.
This provides the Committee with a total remuneration view Control over the Groups finances and accounts: rather than just the competitiveness of the individual pay elements and may Management of administrative services and human resources: vary widely to correspond to the need of the role and the performance delivered.
Progress on strengthening the dividend.
In using salary and other remuneration data the Committee is mindful of not unnecessarily ratcheting up the remuneration levels, while properly incentivising The Committee also considers team contributions made by each individual performance and being able to attract and retain the best people.
The Committee to corporate performance, using as external indicators: also has regard to economic factors, remuneration trends and the level Accounting Return total NAV based return plus dividends relative of pay increases throughout the Company when determining Directors pay.
to property majors and relevant indices: Unlevered property capital returns relative to IPD: 120 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Pages 71105 Pages 107131 Pages 133180 Pages 181184 8231 2 Report 2011 107 to 132 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:50 Page 121 Rental growth from reviews and new lettings relative to ERV and sector Company reputation.
The improved external perceptions of the Companys norms: assets and strategy have been recognised by being awarded Property Company of the Year at the 2011 Property Week Awards.
During the year the Operating costs as a percentage of rents and assets against prior year Company received eight other awards.
In an IPSOS MORI Stakeholder poll and property majors.
results included 92% of respondents classing experience of British Land as very favourable or mainly favourable, 87% would speak highly of British Land These factors are then aggregated by the Committee into annual incentive and 100% classed British Land as professional and 71% as world class.
awards for each Director on an individualised, non-formulaic basis, though supported by the objective individual data points to provide a fair Taking into account all these factors, the bonus was in aggregate for the and appropriate award to each individual.
Executive Directors set at 76% of the maximum provided by the scheme 61% in 2009 10.
The performance during the year ended 31 March 2011 was assessed by the Committee using data available at the year-end against the Companys targets.
iii The Matching Share Plan The Committee was pleased to note that during the year the Company The Matching Share Plan is targeted at Executive Committee members and, outperformed on every measure.
The quantitative measures were: by invitation, other key senior contributors to the Company or members of Accounting Return.
The Accounting Return of the Company was well above its Group.
It is intended to incentivise and retain Senior Executives, ensure the median of the property majors and also above the IPD: that such executives are not focused exclusively on short-term performance and, accordingly, increase the alignment of their interests with those of the Unlevered property returns relative to IPD.
Over the financial year the shareholders.
Company delivered returns above that of IPD: Rental income growth.
For lettings, rent reviews and lease renewals the For those individuals who are eligible to participate in the Matching Share Plan, Company delivered outperformance against ERV of 1.8% and rental income one third of their after tax annual incentive or such other after tax proportion growth was ahead of IPD.
In retail some 390 new lettings initiatives as the Committee may agree is delivered in British Land shares.
increased the net effective rent by over 4.5 million: Participants are eligible to receive an award of free shares benchmarked by Net operating costs as a percentage of rent and NAV compared with prior reference to the number of shares equal in value to the gross amount of their year and property majors.
Net operating costs including property outgoings Deferred Annual Incentive on the date such Deferred Annual Incentive was as a proportion of gross rents which were substantially below the nearest declared.
The receipt of that award is subject to i the Annual Incentive competitor.
Operating costs were approximately 0.8% of portfolio value.
Shares being held by the Trustees for a three-year period, ii the participant remaining an employee or officer of a Group company at the end of that time, The qualitative performance measures assessed by the Committee included and iii certain performance conditions being satisfied.
the following: Successful execution of targeted acquisitions and disposals.
The Company The Matching Share Award is divided into two parts.
One part is based on total has delivered some 500 million of acquisitions during the year many with shareholder return the TSR Part.
The other on the growth in the Companys development potential, achieving its desired aims of adding risk through Like-for-Like Growth of rent the LFL Part.
the new development programme and rebalancing the portfolio.
Through lettings of developments and other initiatives the Company has replaced the The combined maximum amount of shares that can be delivered to a participant income gap from the Broadgate sale.
The Company has increased the office pursuant to a Matching Share Award cannot exceed 200% of the number of their weighting and rebalanced the portfolio from the City towards the West End: Notional Annual Incentive Shares for any relevant year.
The Company substantially As regards the TSR Part, if the total shareholder return over the Performance decreased the risk exposure in its standing portfolio to support commitment Period is less than the median of a comparator group of UK property to new developments at the start of the Office cycle, agreeing lettings of companies, no Matching Share Award will vest for participants in relation to 810,000 sq ft and increasing the occupancy rate from 84% to 97%.
If the TSR is equal to the median, a Matching Share Award equal all of the newly completed office developments have been let.
The Company to 35% of each participants number of Notional Annual Incentive Shares vests has a significant programme on seven major developments at 5 Broadgate, in relation to the TSR Part.
For every 1% that the TSR exceeds the median, each Leadenhall, 199 Bishopsgate, Regents Place, Baker Street, Marble Arch participants Matching Share Award in relation to the TSR Part is increased House and Whiteley Village: by an amount equal to 16.25% of that participants number of Notional Annual Quality of people and management renewal.
The Company has made a Incentive Shares, subject to a maximum amount under the TSR Part equal number of senior appointments during the year to strengthen the capability to 100% of that participants number of Notional Annual Incentive Shares.
of the team and has continued to promote women with an increase in female professional staff to 33 from 27.
The Company has introduced an The comparator group of UK property companies currently consists of Great Investment Committee and formed a dedicated investment team.
There Portland Estates PLC, Hammerson PLC, Land Securities Group PLC, Capital have been internal appointments to Head of Retail Asset Management and Shopping Centres Group PLC and Segro PLC.
succession planning for the Finance Director: As regards the LFL Part, if the increase in Like-for-Like Growth of rent of the Company during the Performance Period is less than that of the IPD comparator the Growth Requirement, no Matching Share Award will vest for participants in relation to the LFL Part.
If the increase in LFL is equal to the Growth Requirement, a Matching Share Award equal to 35% of each participants number of Notional Annual Incentive Shares will vest in relation to the LFL Part.
For every 0.5% per annum that the LFL exceeds the Growth Requirement, each participants Matching Share Award in relation to the LFL The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 121
