Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 In respect of this aggregate nominal amount, the Directors confirm their intention to follow the provisions of the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Principles regarding cumulative usage of authorities within a rolling three-year period where the Principles provide that usage in excess of 7.5% should not take place without prior consultation with shareholders.
Allotments made under the authorisation in paragraph B of resolution 19 would be limited to allotments by way of a rights issue only subject to the right of the Board to impose necessary or appropriate limitations to deal with, for example, fractional entitlements and regulatory matters.
The authority will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM after the passing of the resolution or, if earlier, the close of business on 16 August 2013.
Resolution 21 is proposed as a special resolution to renew the authority under section 701 of the Companies Act 2006 which enables the Company to purchase its own shares.
This authority enables the Directors to act quickly, if, having taken account of all major factors such as the effect on earnings and net asset value per share, gearing levels and alternative investment opportunities, such purchases are considered to be in the Companys and shareholders best interest while maintaining an efficient capital structure.
The special resolution gives the Directors authority to purchase up to 10% of the Companys ordinary shares and specifies the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought.
The Companies Act 2006 permits the Company to hold any such repurchased shares in treasury, with a view to possible re-issue at a future date, as an alternative to immediately cancelling them as had previously been required under the relevant legislation.
Accordingly, if the Company purchases any of its shares pursuant to resolution 21, the Company may cancel those shares or hold them in treasury.
Such a decision will be made by the Directors at the time of purchase on the basis of the Companys and shareholders best interests.
As at the date of the notice of meeting, the Company held no shares in treasury.
The total number of options to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding at 1 March 2012 was 1,322,375, which represented 1.30% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at that date.
If the Company were to purchase the maximum number of ordinary shares permitted by this resolution, the options outstanding at 1 March 2012 would represent 1.61% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
Resolution 22 is required to reflect the implementation of the Shareholder Rights Directive which, in the absence of a special resolution to the contrary, increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days.
The Company is currently able to call general meetings other than an AGM on 14 clear days notice and would like to preserve this ability.
The shorter notice period would not be used as a matter of routine, but only where the flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and it is thought to be to the advantage of the shareholders as a whole.
The approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
Timothy J. Kite ACA Company Secretary 1 March 2012 85 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Report of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee At the start of the year, the Remuneration Committee consisted of Simon Neathercoat, Stuart Corbyn, Donald Newell, June fide Moller and Stephen Young under the chairmanship of Robert Farnes.
Donald Newell left the Committee in May 2011 when he retired and Simon Neathercoat stepped down on 31 December 2011.
None of the members who have served during the year had any personal interest in the matters decided by the Committee, or any day-to-day involvement in the running of the business and, therefore, are considered to be independent.
The Committees responsibilities include determining remuneration packages for the executive Directors and selected other senior executives.
It also oversees the operation of the Groups bonus scheme and Performance Share Plan and considers whether the schemes encourage the taking of excessive business risk.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website.
New Bridge Street NBS a trading name of Aon Corporation was retained to provide independent assistance to the Committee regarding the setting of salaries and the operation of the Performance Share Plan and bonus scheme.
In particular, NBS determine entitlements under the bonus scheme and the extent of vesting of the conditional share awards and ensure that the measures used for both schemes are comparable and consistent.
NBS did not provide any other services to the Group during the year.
No Director had any involvement in determining his own remuneration although some of the matters considered by the Committee were discussed with John Burns.
The Company Secretary acted as secretary to the Committee.
Remuneration policy The key aims of the Committees remuneration policy for senior executives are: to ensure that the Company attracts, retains and motivates executives who have the skills and experience necessary to make a significant contribution to the delivery of the Groups objectives: to incentivise key executives by use of a remuneration package that is appropriately competitive with other real estate companies taking into account the experience and importance to the business of the individuals involved, whilst also having broad regard to the level of remuneration in similar sized FTSE 350 companies.
The Committee also takes account of the pay and conditions throughout the Company and noted that the constituent parts of the employees remuneration package which includes both an option and bonus scheme were similar to those of the Directors and that the average pay increase awarded for 2012 was in line with the basic increase made to the Directors: to align, as far as possible, the interests of the senior executives with those of shareholders by providing a significant proportion of the Directors total remuneration potential through a balanced mix of short and long-term performance related elements that are consistent with the Groups business strategy: to ensure that incentive schemes are subject to appropriately stretching performance conditions and designed so as to be consistent with best practice: and to ensure that the Groups remuneration structure does not encourage management to adopt an unacceptable risk profile for the business.
Elements of remuneration package A full review of executive remuneration arrangements was last carried out by NBS during 2007 and a revised remuneration structure applied from 2008.
After four years of operation, the Committee considered whether the structure should be reviewed during 2011 but concluded that as it continued to meet the objectives of the Committee and was broadly in line with best practice, no review was necessary.
The Committee will continue to monitor the need for a formal review of the remuneration strategy through 2012.
The key elements of the structure are outlined below: 86 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 a Base salary and benefits Base salaries for executive Directors are reviewed annually by the Committee with changes being effective from 1 January.
At the review carried out in December 2011, the Committee agreed a basic increase of approximately 3% for 2012 which took into account the excellent results that the management team continued to produce, the competitive nature of the market for top performing executives in the sector and the overall economic climate.
In recognition of the increased experience and importance to the business of recently appointed directors, the Committee again followed its policy of awarding such Directors an extra salary increase in addition to the basic increase.
Accordingly, the Committee awarded an additional 25,000 increase to David Silverman and an additional 10,000 increase to Damian Wisniewski.
These extra increases continue to move these Directors remuneration towards appropriate market benchmarks.
The executive Directors receive a pension contribution worth 20% of base salary to a defined contribution scheme or a salary supplement in lieu of part or all of this contribution.
The principal benefits in kind comprise a company car and medical insurance.
b Annual bonus The annual bonus structure has been unchanged since 2008.
For 2011 the scheme offered a maximum bonus potential for John Burns and Simon Silver of 150% of salary and 125% of salary for the other executive Directors.
Any bonus up to 100% of salary is paid in cash with any excess amount being compulsorily deferred in shares.
Half of these shares are released 12 months after the award and the remainder released 24 months after the award.
These shares will be potentially forfeitable if the executive leaves the Company prior to the share release date.
Three quarters of the bonus is based equally on two annual financial measures, namely net asset value NAV growth which is compared to the total return of properties in the IPD Central London Offices Total Return Index and total return being NAV growth plus dividends which is measured against that of other major real estate companies.
The final 25% is available for the Committee to award at its discretion.
Total return is one of the KPIs used to measure the Groups overall success and its use in calculating a significant part of the Directors bonus ensures an alignment of interest between delivery of the Groups strategy and Directors remuneration.
Provision has been made for a bonus for 2011 of 90% 2010: 87.5% of the maximum potential.
In making this award, the Committee has given due regard to the performance measures mentioned above, the Groups total shareholder return for the year and the other achievements outlined earlier in the report and accounts, in particular the refinancing achieved in the year, the number of planning consents received, the level of lettings and the well-controlled developments.
c Long-term incentives The Groups Performance Share Plan PSP was established in 2004, with a number of changes approved by shareholders in 2008.
The maximum permitted annual award of shares under the plan is 200% of salary with a higher limit of 300% of salary for use in the event of exceptional circumstances such as recruitment.
The Committees policy for 2011, which has been consistent since the scheme was reviewed in 2008, was to limit awards to 175% of salary for John Burns and Simon Silver and 150% of salary for the other Directors.
It is the Committees intention to continue this policy for 2012.
87 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Report of the Remuneration Committee Vesting of awards under the PSP will normally occur to the extent that pre-set performance targets have been satisfied provided that, in usual circumstances, the executive is still employed at the end of the three-year vesting period.
Where an employee retires during the three-year vesting period their award will be adjusted in accordance with the scheme rules.
Performance targets for awards granted in 2011 were as follows: 50% of an award will be determined by the Companys total shareholder return TSR compared to that of the companies listed below: Big Yellow Group plc Land Securities plc British Land plc Quintain Estates and Development plc Capital and Counties plc St Modwen Properties plc Capital & Regional plc Segro plc Capital Shopping Centres Group plc Shaftesbury plc Great Portland Estates plc Workspace Group plc Hammerson plc TSR will be measured over a single three-year performance period from the date of grant and will be calculated by comparing average performance over three months prior to the start and the end of the performance period.
TSR calculations are performed independently for the Committee by NBS.
50% of an award will be determined by the Companys NAV growth compared to the return from properties in the IPD Central London Offices Total Return Index over the performance period.
Performance will be measured over a single three-year period from the start of the financial year in which the award is granted.
Vesting will be on the basis outlined below: TSR performance NAV growth performance Vesting percentage Below median Below median 0% Median Median 25% Upper quartile Out-perform median by 5% p. a.
100% Intermediate performance Intermediate performance Pro-rata between 25% and 100% This mix of measures is felt by the Committee to be appropriate as it rewards executives for achieving above market levels of growth in asset value and above market returns to shareholders, both key measures of performance for the Group.
The Committee will have discretion to reduce the extent of vesting in the event that it considers that performance against the relevant measure of performance whether TSR or NAV growth is inconsistent with underlying financial performance.
Awards will be satisfied by either newly issued shares or shares purchased in the market.
Any use of newly issued shares will be limited to corporate governance compliant dilution limits contained in the plan rules.
Details of outstanding share entitlements under the scheme, along with associated performance conditions, are set out on page 91 in table 2.
The following diagram illustrates the balance between fixed and variable pay achieved by both the remuneration structure for John Burns and Simon Silver and that for the rest of the executives at both target and maximum levels of performance.
The target figures reflect the Committees intention that, on average, the LTIP will deliver 60% of the maximum potential and the bonus scheme 50% of potential.
Clawback provisions are being introduced to both the bonus scheme and the Performance Share Plan which will operate in certain cases of misstatement or misconduct.
88 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Target 33 7 25 35 Maximum 5 34 39 22 Target 37 7 23 33 Maximum 25 5 32 38 % 0 20 40 60 80 100 Salary Pension Bonus LTIP Shareholding guideline In line with best practice, the Company has a share ownership guideline for executive Directors requiring them to retain at least half of any share awards vesting from 1 January 2009 as shares after paying any tax due on the shares until they have a shareholding worth at least 100% of their salary 200% of salary for the CEO.
David Silverman and Damian Wisniewski, who have both recently joined the Board, have yet to reach the guideline.
Service contracts The service contracts of John Burns and Simon Silver are dated 20 May 1997 whilst those of Nigel George and Paul Williams are dated 31 March 1999 and that of David Silverman 2 January 2008.
These contracts have no stated termination date but require 12 months notice of termination by the Company or six months notice by the executive.
They include a provision whereby the Company will pay, by way of liquidated damages, a cash amount equivalent to 12 months salary, benefits in kind and a pension contribution or salary supplement of at least 20% of basic salary.
No defined contractual entitlement to compensation arises from a change of control of the Company.
Damian Wisniewskis service contract is dated 2 February 2010.
In addition to terms similar to those of the other Directors, his contract includes certain post termination restrictions and a mitigation clause.
Under this mitigation clause, instead of paying the liquidated damages provision outlined above, the Company can, at its discretion, alternatively make monthly payments throughout the notice period until the executive obtains an alternative employment at which point except in the event of the Company giving notice following a change of control monthly payments cease or are reduced depending upon the value of remuneration arising from the alternative role.
If this clause is used by the Company, monthly payments would comprise one-twelfth of the total of his annual basic salary, annual pension contribution, annual value of benefits in kind and 20% of his maximum bonus potential.
Chairman and non-executive Directors The remuneration for the Chairman is set by the full Board.
The remuneration for nonexecutive Directors, which consists of fees for their services in connection with Board and Board committee meetings and, where relevant, for additional services such as chairing a Board committee, is also set by the whole Board.
As part of the recruitment process, the remuneration of the non-executive Directors will be reviewed during 2012 to ensure that the fees are at an appropriate level.
Neither the Chairman nor non-executive Directors are eligible for pension scheme membership and do not participate in the Companys bonus or equity-based incentive schemes although the Chairman has a number of unexercised options granted under the historic LMS Executive Share Option Scheme, details of which are given in table 4 on page 94.
The non-executive Directors do not have service contracts and are appointed for three year terms which expire as follows: Stuart Corbyn, 23 May 2012: June fide Moller, 31 January 2013: Stephen Young, 9 July 2013: Simon Neathercoat, 28 February 2014: John Ivey, 12 December 2014: and Robert Farnes, 31 December 2014.
Mr Rayne has a letter of appointment, which runs for three years, expiring on 31 January 2013.
In addition to his fee as Chairman, it provides for a car, driver and secretary, together with a contribution to his office running costs.
His letter of appointment also contains provisions relating to payment in lieu of notice, which are similar to those for the executive Directors.
Damian Wisniewski and Stephen Young joined the Board in February 2010 and August 2010 respectively.
John Burns served as a non-executive Director of Berendsen plc until 24 September 2010 and received fees of 30,000 in that year.
In accordance with the Committees policy, the fees were retained by Mr Burns.
The weighted average exercise price of awards that either vested or lapsed in 2011 was nil 2010: nil.
The weighted average market price at the date of vesting in 2011 was 18.20 2010: 13.81.
91 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Report of the Remuneration Committee For all awards granted under the PSP: half of the shares vest based on TSR performance relative to a comparator group of companies: and half of the shares vest based on NAV performance compared to properties in the IPD Central London Offices Total Return Index.
The Committee has discretion to reduce the extent of vesting in the event that it feels that performance against either measure of performance is inconsistent with underlying financial performance.
The TSR comparator group for awards granted up to 2007 comprises the constituents, as at the date of grant, of the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Index.
For subsequent awards a defined comparator group of real estate companies has been used.
The comparator group for 2012 is likely to be the same as for 2011, which is set out earlier in this report.
25% of awards subject to the TSR target vest for median performance over the three-year performance period, increasing to full vesting for upper quartile performance.
If the Groups NAV performance matches that of the median performing property in the Index over the three-year performance period, 25% of awards subject to the NAV target vest.
Vesting increases on a sliding scale to full vesting for matching the return from the upper quartile performing property in the Index awards up to 2007 or for outperforming the median performing property by 5% per annum subsequent awards.
The performance criteria in respect of the 2008 award were measured on 5 June 2011 and showed a vesting percentage of 50%.
The balance of the awards lapsed.
As required by the scheme rules, before allowing any vesting, the Committee considered whether the Groups TSR and NAV performance reflected its underlying financial performance.
Having considered a range of key financial indicators, including profits, the Committee concluded that this was the case.
Share option schemes Details of the options held by Directors and employees under the Executive Share Option Scheme at 31 December 2011 are given in table 3 below.
Disclosure relating to the Employee Share Option Plan in which the Directors do not participate is given in note 13.
93 Governance Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2011 Report of the Remuneration Committee Table 3 continued 31 December 31 December 1 January 2011 2010 2010 Number of shares: Exercisable 18,250 18,250 218,000 Non-exercisable 14,250 Weighted average exercise price of share options: Exercisable 12.51 12.51 6.40 Non-exercisable 13.63 Weighted average remaining contracted life of share options: Exercisable 4.01 years 5.01 years 2.78 years Non-exercisable 6.44 years The exercise of options granted under the 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme is subject to a three-year performance criteria.
This states that a years options can only be exercised once the growth of the Groups net asset value per share over a subsequent three-year period exceeds the increase of the IPD Central London Office Capital Growth Index over the same period by 6% or more.
All outstanding options have met this criterion.
Following the acquisition of LMS, options that had already vested under the LMS Executive Share Option Scheme were converted to options over Derwent London shares.
Details of these options, all of which are exercisable, are given in table 4 below: Table 4 Exercise price R. A. Expiry date Rayne 9.54 05 11 11 225,401 7.54 29 08 13 65,615 9.92 01 09 14 50,274 12.03 28 06 15 41,456 Outstanding at 1 January 2010 382,746 Options exercised during 2010 Market price at Exercise price date of exercise 9.54 13.20 225,401 Outstanding at 31 December 2010 157,345 No options were granted, exercised or lapsed in 2011 Outstanding at 31 December 2011 157,345 The weighted average exercise price of options exercised during 2011 was nil 2010: 9.54 and the weighted average market price at the date of exercise nil 2010: 13.20.
In respect of the options outstanding at 31 December 2011 in table 4 the weighted average exercise price is 9.48 2010: 9.48 and the weighted average remaining contracted life is 2.5 years 2010: 3.5 years.
The market price of the 5p ordinary shares at 31 December 2011 was 15.60 2010: 15.61.
During the year, they traded in a range between 14.00 and 18.80 2010: 12.08 and 16.05.
