REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Committees Terms of Reference were updated INTRODUCTION during the year with reference to the Code and the best This report has been prepared in accordance with the practice guidelines published by the Institute of Companies Act 2006 and the Directors Remuneration Chartered Secretaries and Administrators and are Regulations 2002 and meets the relevant requirements available on the Companys website at of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority www.
and the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Committee seeks external advice where necessary The Regulations require the auditors to report to the to assist them in the undertaking of their responsibilities.
Companys shareholders on the auditable part of the Accordingly, AON Hewitt was appointed as independent Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether in external advisor to the Committee during the year.
The their opinion that part of the report has been properly Committee approved fees of up to 30,000 to AON prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Hewitt for remuneration advice, excluding VAT.
AON as amended by the Regulations.
The report has Hewitt provided no other services to the Company therefore been divided into separate sections for during the year and the Committee remains satisfied unaudited and audited information and, as required by that their advice is both independent and objective.
The the Regulations, an ordinary resolution to approve the Committee may also seek internal support from the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting Executive Directors and the Company Secretary where on 11 June 2012. necessary, all of whom may attend the Committee UNAUDITED REPORT meetings by invitation but are not present for any discussions that relate directly to their own a Committee Membership remuneration.
During the year the committee comprised R R Cotton Chairman, R S Mully and J D Hambro.
The Joint Chief c Committee Focus Executives regularly attend meetings by invitation The principal area of focus for the Committee during the except for matters relating to their own remuneration.
course of 2011 was a full review of Executive Director The Committee meets regularly and no less than twice a remuneration, more details of which can be found later year to consider and establish or recommend to the in this report.
Board, Company policy and the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
Over the past year there have been Other areas of focus: a number of additional ad hoc meetings and direct Approval of the 2010 Directors Remuneration consultations with shareholders.
Report and review of the final outcome of AGM voting for the report: b Remit of the Committee The role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine Review achievement of annual bonus scheme and recommend to the Board the specific pay and performance measures against target: benefits packages for the Executive Directors and also to recommend and monitor the structure and level of Agreeing the design of and targets for the 2012 pay and benefits for certain senior management posts annual bonus scheme: below Board level.
In addition, the Committee also Review of Committee terms of reference and administers the Companys long-term incentive plan and performance during the year: and share option scheme.
Consideration of the implementation of a Performance Share Plan.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 93 REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE To reflect the fact that 2012 is a transitional year, it is d 2011 Executive Director Remuneration Review intended that two awards, each worth 75% of salary, As reported in the 2010 Annual Report, a full will be granted to participants in the current year, one independent review of the remuneration packages of the with a two-year performance period and one with a Executive Directors was undertaken in 2011 with the three-year performance period.
It is intended that assistance of AON Hewitt.
All proposals were consulted awards worth 75% of salary will be granted in 2013 upon with the Companys largest shareholders.
All to the Joint Chief Executives with a three-year elements of the Executive Directors remuneration were performance period.
Vesting of awards will be frozen at 2010 levels whilst the review was undertaken.
A summary of the new arrangements are as follows: Awards will be subject to relative performance i Base Salaries targets based on Total Shareholder Return and Net Asset Value plus dividends performance.
The peer Following the review the base salaries of the Joint group will be the UK REITs.
Chief Executives, M L Jones and I R Watson were increased to 375,000 per annum for 2012 from Full details of the Performance Share Plan are 300,000 which had been unchanged since January available in the Notice of Meeting for the forthcoming 2010.
The Finance Director, R P Lowes was Annual General Meeting.
awarded a salary increase from 175,000 per annum to 243,750 per annum.
Due to the 2010 v Founder LTIP remuneration freeze, R P Lowes salary had not previously been increased to take account of his The scheme is to be continued for the period 2013- promotion to Board Director.
In both cases, the 2015 on the same basis as currently operated with increased salaries remain below the peer group.
25% of any Net Asset Value growth generated over the period above a 10% p. a. growth hurdle to be ii Annual Bonus paid out to M Jones and I Watson.
The potential maximum reward pool remains at 25% of outThe maximum potential bonus for 2012 will remain at performance of the growth target as described 100% of salary but, subject to the introduction of the below, split equally between the Joint Chief Performance Share Plan PSP, detailed below, the Executives.
maximum bonus for the Joint Chief Executives will be reduced to 75% of salary in 2013.
The maximum e Remuneration Policy potential bonus for the Finance Director in 2012 has In determining an appropriate remuneration policy the been set at 75% of salary.
Committees objective is to support the business iii Pensions strategy of the Company and to promote shareholder value creation whilst ensuring it is able to attract, retain R P Lowes pension contribution will be increased and motivate experienced and high-calibre individuals, from 8% per annum to 16% per annum in 2012.
The who are committed to achieving consistently high Joint Chief Executives pension contributions will performance in its sector.
It is the Committees remain unchanged at 16%.
responsibility to ensure that the Companys Executive Directors and senior management are fairly and iv Performance Share Plan responsibly rewarded for their individual contributions to It is proposed that a Performance Share Plan PSP the Companys overall performance.
In determining the be introduced at the 2012 AGM with a maximum policy, the Committee takes into account, for annual award of shares worth 150% of salary to the benchmarking purposes, the remuneration packages of Executive Directors and the senior management Executive Directors and senior management in other team.
In view of the Joint Chief Executives comparable quoted companies as well as the Groups participation in the Founder LTIP, their maximum overall financial performance and taking into account the potential award will be capped at 75% of salary per pay and employment conditions of the Groups annum.
HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 94 REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is ii Annual performance-related bonus determined by the Board as a whole and within limits set The Executive Directors are entitled to a out in the Articles of Association with consideration performance-related bonus each year based on being given to the commitment and responsibilities of criteria set annually by the Committee to reward the relevant role and by reference to independent excellent financial performance and the achievement surveys of fees paid to Non-Executive Directors of of strategic objectives that would meet the comparable companies.
expectations of investors as at the beginning of the The Companys policy is that a substantial proportion of year.
the remuneration of the Executive Directors should be The 2011 bonus award performance measures were performance-related and the Committee is committed to measured against the following targets: principles of accountability and transparency to ensure that remuneration arrangements demonstrate a clear link Financial Targets up to 25% of award each between performance and reward.
As described below, Reduction in net voids of up to 10% the Joint Chief Executives had the potential in 2011 to Increase in EPRA EPS of up to 30%, allowing earn annual bonus payments of up to 100% of their for the timing of the investment of equity raised basic salary together with the benefits of participation in during the year the Founder LTIP.
The Finance Director had the potential to earn an annual bonus payment of up to 50% of his Both financial targets were achieved in full.
Corporate Targets up to 25% of award f Remuneration of Executive Directors expansion of capital base: The key elements of the 2011 remuneration package for completion of a significant acquisition: and Executive Directors are: enhancing the senior managers roles to improve operational infrastructure.
Fixed pay benefits - basic annual salary and All corporate targets were achieved in full.
benefits, pension contributions and health insurance cover: Discretionary Element up to 25% of award Variable annual pay cash and or share based bonus payments: and Awarded at 20% relating in part to the Companys performance against the FTSE All Variable long term pay share based long-term Share REIT Index.
In 2012 the Board has set new targets for the Executive Directors are not entitled to accept Executive Directors in line with the Groups KPIs and appointments outside the Company without the prior corporate goals.
The bonus criteria include four written consent of the Board, such consent not to be elements: unreasonably withheld.
Financial Targets up to 25% : The remuneration packages for the Executive Directors 10% Normalised Income Profit EPS to be include the following elements: at or above 4.3p i Basic salary and benefits 15% Normalised Total Profit EPS from 4.3p to 5p pro-rata to achieve full award.
Basic salaries for Executive Directors and the senior Occupancy Target up to 25% : management team are reviewed by the Committee, Net occupancy to be increased.
A net normally annually, or otherwise on promotion having improvement of 27,500 square metres to regard to competitive market practice and also to 55,000 square metres is the target range with Group and individual performance.
Current benefits pro-rata award between the lower and upper include a company car allowance, medical insurance figures.
and life assurance cover and permanent health insurance cover.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 95 REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Annual performance-related bonus continued Corporate Targets up to 25% : iv Share Options These relate to achieving acquisition targets, At the absolute discretion of the Board, the producing a liability strategy and securing a Executive Directors excluding the Joint Chief reduction in third-party letting fees.
Executives may be invited to participate in such Discretionary element up to 25% : share option schemes as the Company may operate Based on overall performance.
and upon such terms as the Board may from time to time determine subject to and in accordance with iii Founder Long-Term Incentive Plan the rules of such schemes.
Currently only R P Lowes As part of the founder arrangements established at holds executive share options, granted to him before IPO in 2005, the Joint Chief Executives are entitled he became a Director, details of which are provided to a bonus share award dependant on Company on page 99.
The bonus payable will depend on the v Pensions Companys NAV growth per share exceeding a compound growth rate of 10% per annum Target The Company makes contributions equivalent to NAV in a three year period.
For the purposes of the 16% of their basic salaries to the self-administered incentive scheme NAV is taken to be the fully diluted pension fund of the M L Jones and I R Watson.
To the extent that NAV per Company made a contribution equivalent to 8% of ordinary share including dividends and other returns the basic salary to the self-administered pension to shareholders exceeds Target NAV per share, fund of R P Lowes in 2011.
12.5% of such excess multiplied by the number of ordinary shares in issue will be payable to each of g Performance graph the Joint Chief Executives as a bonus.
This bonus In response to the UK Real Estate Investment Trust scheme will be repeated to reward performance in REIT legislation, with effect from 1 December 2009 each subsequent three-year period commencing on FTSE Group reclassified the Real Estate Sector into the 1 January 2013, with the relevant dates for FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment Trusts Index and determining the figures to calculate the bonus the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Investment & Services altering to accurately reflect each three-year period.
Hansteen converted to a REIT with effect from 6 Any amount payable under the Long-Term Incentive October 2009.
The following graph compares Plan is to be satisfied in full by ordinary shares of the Hansteens total shareholder return TSR to a composite Company to any relevant Joint Chief Executive.
The of the two new FTSE Real Estate indices.
TSR measures price per share to be used when determining the share price growth, with dividends deemed to be number of shares which the Joint Chief Executives reinvested on the ex-dividend date.
Prior to 6 October are entitled to pursuant to the Long-Term Incentive 2009, the index used for comparison is the FTSE AllPlan shall be the average mid-market quotation for Share Real Estate Investment & Services Index which such shares on the Main Market for the first 20 up until that point Hansteen would have been a dealing days immediately following the end of the constituent member of.
From 6 October 2009, the index relevant period being the period ended 31 used for comparison is the FTSE All-Share Real Estate December 2012 and thereafter each subsequent Investment Trusts Index, to reflect Hansteens three-year period commencing on 1 January 2013. conversion into a REIT with effect from that date.
These No LTIP awards have been made since flotation in indices have been chosen by the committee as they are 2005 and none are expected in the current three year considered the most appropriate benchmarks against period.
In order for an award to be made in respect which to assess the relative performance of the of the period to December 2012, NAV would need to Company for this purpose.
The graph is based on increase by 25% in the current year.
underlying data provided by Thomson Reuters Datastream.
HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 96 REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE basic salary and other contractual entitlements over the h Directors contracts immediately preceding 12 month period and shall be It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors subject to deductions for income tax and national should have contracts with an indefinite term providing insurance contributions as appropriate.
for a maximum of one years notice.
However, it may be necessary occasionally to offer longer notice periods to The Non-Executive Directors each have specific terms new Directors.
of engagement and do not have service contracts with the Company.
In accordance with the Code all the The service contracts of M L Jones and I R Watson are Directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election both dated 22 November 2005 and the service contract at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
of R P Lowes is dated 18 October 2010.
The Directors contracts continue until terminated by not less than 12 The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors, including months written notice.
In the event of termination by the the Chairman, is determined by the Board as a whole.
Company, the Directors contracts provide for compensation in lieu of notice of an amount equal to the ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 97 REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AUDITED INFORMATION a Aggregate Directors remuneration 2011 2010 000 000 Emoluments 1,522 1,260 Money purchase pension contributions 110 99 Total 1,632 1,359 b Directors emoluments Performance Basic Car related Benefits 2011 2010 salary allowance bonus in kind Fees Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors M L Jones 300 30 285 4 - 619 600 I R Watson 300 30 285 8 - 623 604 R P Lowes 175 18 83 4 - 280 56 Non-Executive Directors J D Hambro - - - - 75 75 75 S T Gee - - - - 45 45 45 R S Mully - - - - 40 40 40 R R Cotton - - - - 40 40 9 H J M Price - - - - 40 40 9 Total 775 78 653 16 240 1,762 1,438 Appointed on 18 October 2010 Benefits in kind represent the deemed monetary value of d Directors pension entitlements the health care and life insurance provided by the Three Directors are members of money purchase Group.
The Group made contributions of The fees of Mr S T Gee were paid to Wallace Clifton 48,000 2010: 48,000 to the self-administered Limited.
pension fund of Mr M L Jones, contributions of 48,000 2010: 48,000 to the self-administered pension fund of c Long-Term Incentive Plan Mr I R Watson and 14,000 2010: 2,900 to the selfadministered fund pension fund of Mr R P Lowes.
The Committee reviewed the potential liability of the Group to payments which would fall due under the e Directors share options current three-year long-term incentive plan which ends on 31 December 2012.
Projections for the Group were The 2005 Share Option Scheme is open to certain senior reviewed using the existing internal budgets and the employees of the Group.
In the case of options granted proposed investment programme.
Using assumptions of within three months of admission of shares to trading on current interest rates, current exchange rates and AIM, options are exercisable at the price at which shares current property yields, liability under the scheme is were placed in connection with the float, being 1 per estimated to be nil 2010: nil.
No grants have been share.
All options granted after this date are exercisable made to Directors during the year.
at a price equal to the average quoted market price of HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 98 REPORT OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE the ordinary shares of Hansteen Holdings PLC on the Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include date of grant.
The options have a three year vesting any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary period that is not subject to performance conditions.
If shares in the Company granted to or held by the the options remain unexercised after a period of 10 Directors.
Details of options for Directors who served years from the date of grant, the options expire.
Options during the year are as follows: are normally forfeited if the employee leaves the Group before the options vest.
In accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment the fair value of equity-settled share-based payments to employees is determined at the date of grant and is expensed on a straight-line basis over the vesting period based on the Groups estimate of options that will eventually vest.
Fair value is calculated using a Binomial pricing model.
The highest and lowest market prices during the year were 89.5p and 68p, respectively.
As restated see note 34 This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 27 March 2012 and signed on its behalf by R R Cotton 27 March 2012 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 99 FINANCIAL CALENDAR Preliminary Announcement 28 March 2012 Ex Dividend Date 25 April 2012 Record Date 27 April 2012 Posting Dividend 22 May 2012 Dividend Payable 23 May 2012 Annual General Meeting 11 June 2012 HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 100 Front cover photographs Sefton United Kingdom Braunschweig Germany Houten The Netherlands This report is printed on FSC mixed source material under certificate number SA-C001798.
Paper from well managed forests and other responsible sources.
Designed and produced by Artlines Media Ltd www.
co. uk HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2011 HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 6th Floor, Clarendon House 12 Clifford Street London W1S 2LL t 44 0 20 7408 7000 f 44 0 20 7408 7001 www.
