Letter from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Land Securities Group PLC 5 Strand London WC2N 5AF Dear shareholder, As a Board we are focused on creating shareholder value over the longer term and ensuring that the Companys remuneration policy is aligned with shareholders interests.
Our remuneration report explains how we seek to achieve this, in a transparent way.
Last year, I outlined changes to the vesting conditions for grants under our Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
Our motivation for making the changes was to ensure that the criteria for vesting were challenging, measurable against objective benchmarks and aligned with shareholder interests.
As a result, vesting will occur only where the Groups performance is at least equal to the Total Shareholder Return of a comparator group of large property companies or the Investment Property Databank benchmarks.
No vesting will occur purely as a result of general increases in the value of property or shares in listed companies and full vesting will only occur following a material outperformance of both benchmarks.
This underlines our view that exceptional rewards are only paid for exceptional performance.
Performance against LTIP grants is measured over a three year period.
In addition to providing information on the partial vesting of grants made in 2008, our report includes an interim update on the Groups performance against awards made in 2009 and 2010.
The Committee oversaw a complete review by the Group of the remuneration for all employees.
During the course of the review, management consulted with employees and introduced changes that more closely aligned their remuneration with the business targets of the Group.
The Committee was very pleased with the outcome of the review, which was implemented during the course of the year.
More details on the work of the Committee follows in our report.
David Rough Chairman, Remuneration Committee 76 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 Report of the Directors Q&A What is the Remuneration Committees strategy in terms of remuneration What increases are proposed for Executive Directors salaries for the coming for Directors?
year and how do these compare to last year?
Our pay and rewards are designed to attract the best people to the The Committee has awarded Executive Directors pay increases business and incentivise them to produce superior returns for shareholders.
averaging 3.1%, with the amounts shown in Table 57.
Pay increases We set stretching targets and believe we should reward people for achieving awarded across the rest of the Group for the coming year average 2.7%.
This is why a substantial part of our Executive This compares with the previous year, where average increases of 2.0% Directors rewards comprises performance-related pay, with incentives were awarded to Executive Directors as against 2.4% for the rest of the to exceed industry benchmarks and to deliver Total Shareholder Return Group.
In the year prior to that, no salary increase was awarded to TSR outperformance in comparison to our peer group.
Pay increases take effect from 1 July 2011.
How is remuneration aligned to shareholder interests?
Table 57 The Remuneration Committees objective is to align individual reward From 000 Current 1 July 2011 with the Groups performance both in the short and long term.
The F W Salway 655 665 remuneration package we offer our Executive Directors seeks to do this M F Greenslade 425 435 in the following way: R J Akers 380 400 1.
Basic salaries reecting an individuals on-going performance and R M Noel 408 425 contribution to the business.
Annual bonuses tailored to reward high performance against key objectives and superior relative performance of the Group compared What was on the agenda at meetings of the Remuneration Committee against property industry benchmarks.
Long-Term Incentive Plan rewards for Executive Directors aligned During the course of the year, the Remuneration Committee considered with our long-term business objectives and value created for a number of matters which included a review of: shareholders.
research compiled by the Groups external benefit consultants 4.
25% of any bonus awarded in relation to achievement against the benchmarking Executive Director and senior managers salaries Groups key business priorities will be deferred into the Companys against those paid to executive directors and senior managers at shares for three years.
50% of any award made in relation to other companies within both the Real Estate and Utilities sectors exceptional outperformance against property industry benchmarks and other listed companies with similar market capitalisations is deferred into the Companys shares for two years.
Deferral operates salaries of Executive Directors and senior managers, together with as a strong retention tool.
overall levels of salary increases across the Group 5.
Within five years of joining the Board, all Executive Directors must achievement against key business targets under the annual own shares with a value of at least one and a half times their basic bonus scheme salary and, in the case of the Chief Executive, twice his basic salary.
achievement against the performance conditions for the Long-term Incentive and Matching Share Plans More details on how these forms of incentive are structured and how proposed share incentive awards to Executive Directors and they were applied to remuneration in the year under review are set out senior managers in the following sections of this report.
Directors compliance with Share Ownership Guidelines pension arrangements across the Group in the light of legislative changes.
How much did we pay our Executive Directors in 2010 11?
000 Table 56 How much did you pay the Chairman and Non-executive Directors?
Annual bonus We pay our Chairman a fee of 300,000 and each Non-executive Annual bonus deferred into Director a base fee of 60,000.
These fees were set in autumn 2009 1 Salary paid in cash shares and were not increased during the year under review.
Non-executive F W Salway 653 617 140 Directors are paid further amounts for specic duties and M F Greenslade 422 237 79 2 R J Akers 378 330 85 responsibilities, such as chairing a Board Committee, but are not R M Noel 406 345 82 paid additional fees for attending Board Committee meetings.
Annual bonuses comprise both a cash element and an element which will be deferred into the Companys Table 58 summarises what we paid our Non-executive shares for a period of three years.
R J Akers is potentially entitled to an additional bonus of 90% of salary for the 2010 11 financial year as the performance of the Retail Portfolio exceeded the relevant IPD benchmark in absolute terms by 2.9%.
If the performance criteria for the financial year 2011 12 is also met, half of the payment would become due in cash in June 2012, with the balance deferred into the Companys shares for a period of two years.
How much did we pay our Non-executive Directors in 2010 11?
000 Table 58 Salary How much did Executive Directors receive in terms of salaries and bonuses A J Carnwath 300 this year?
D Rough 83 The salaries for Executive Directors are set out in Table 56.
Table 56 S A R Rose 60 also shows the amounts of their bonuses paid in cash and deferred B A Lerenius 60 into shares.
K OByrne 77 An explanation of the basis for the award of these bonuses C Bland 60 appears in the Remuneration policies section.
Land Securities Annual Report 2011 77 Remuneration policies Code of Conduct and has no other connection with the Land Securities In this section Group.
The Company intends to conduct a benchmarking review of its 1 7 Compliance p78 Principles and policy on annual remuneration and benefit consultancy work during the coming year.
2 Members of the Committee bonuses in 2010 11 p78 The Chief Executive and Human Resources Director were 8 p78 Principles and policy on invited to attend meetings of the Committee but no Director was 3 Responsibilities and remit p78 long-term incentives in 2010 11 involved in any decision relating to his or her own remuneration.
As set 4 Advisers p78 p80 out in the Corporate governance section of this report, the Committees 5 Remuneration policy and 9 Savings-Related Share Option performance was reviewed by the Chairman of the Board, with the benchmarking p78 Scheme p81 assistance of the Company Secretary, having been reviewed externally 6 Components of Directors by Independent Audit Limited in the previous year.
remuneration in 2010 11 p78 5 Remuneration policy and benchmarking 1 Compliance The Companys remuneration policy seeks to provide remuneration to This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee the attract, retain, and motivate high quality management, recognising that Committee in accordance with the 2008 Combined Code, the UK the Group operates in a competitive market for talent.
Code on Corporate Governance, the Companies Act 2006, the Listing The Committee aims to pay salaries at around mid-market Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the Large and Medium levels, with bonuses and share awards for superior performance against Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008. the Companys business targets.
Accordingly, a substantial proportion In accordance with these Regulations, this report has been approved of the Executive Directors remuneration is delivered through by the Board and will be submitted to shareholders for consideration performance-related pay, with incentives to outperform industry at the Annual General Meeting, to be held on 21 July 2011. performance benchmarks.
 LLP has audited Tables 66, 67, 68, 69 Remuneration packages for Executive Directors are and 70 and associated footnotes.
benchmarked by the Committee using research prepared by HNBS.
The research is carried out by creating two comparator groups.
The first 2 Members of the Committee is a group of large Real Estate and Utilities companies which have a The Committee was chaired by David Rough.
The other members high xed asset value relative to their market capitalisation and are of the Committee were Alison Carnwath Chairman of the Board considered good comparators and the second is companies with a who was an independent Non-executive Director at the time of her similar market capitalisation to the Company.
appointment as Chairman and independent Non-executive Directors, The Committee also has oversight for pay awards and policy Sir Stuart Rose and Bo Lerenius.
The membership of the Committee across the Group, with particular focus on the remuneration of senior was unchanged throughout the year.
Following the decision of managers, whose pay is also the subject of benchmarking research Bo Lerenius to step down from the Board at the Companys AGM prepared by HNBS.
The Committee ensures, where appropriate, that in July, another independent Non-executive Director, Simon Palley, the types of incentives offered to senior managers are similar to those was appointed to join the Committee with effect from 10 May 2011. offered to Executive Directors, with similar performance and vesting criteria.
More details of pay for senior managers is set out on p83.
3 Responsibilities and remit The Committee complies with the recommendations contained in 6 Components of Directors remuneration in 2010 11 both the 2008 Combined Code and the 2010 UK Code on Corporate In the year under review, Executive Directors remuneration comprised: Governance.
The scope of its responsibilities includes, to: Fixed pay, including basic salary, together with pension allowances determine and recommend to the Board an overall strategy for and benets in kind: and the remuneration of the Chairman, Executive Directors and Variable pay, comprising: senior managers annual bonus opportunities determine and recommend to the Board the individual remuneration participation in a share-based Long-Term Incentive Plan.
packages for Executive Directors and senior managers oversee any significant changes to employee bene ts, What was the balance of xed versus variable pay?
% Chart 59 including pensions Target 100 approve the design of and targets for performance-related Maximum incentive schemes 100 oversee the operation of all incentive schemes, including the award Basic salary excluding pension contributions and bene ts of incentives, and to determine whether performance criteria have Performance-related bonus been met.
Value of shares vesting You can see the Committees terms of reference at www.
com 7 Principles and policy on annual bonuses in 2010 11 4 Advisers The bonus arrangements for Executive Directors comprise three elements, The Companys Human Resources Director provided information which are explained in detail below.
In essence, the first element is based on and advice to the Committee throughout the year.
The Committee the achievement of key business targets, with a maximum award of 100% has appointed and received advice from Hewitt New Bridge Street, of basic salary.
The second is a discretionary bonus paying up to 50% of a brand of AON Hewitt Limited, HNBS and also made use of various basic salary and designed to reward an exceptional achievement or the published surveys to help determine appropriate remuneration levels.
establishment or successful execution of a key initiative.
The third element HNBS has voluntarily signed up to the Remuneration Consultants rewards an outstanding total return performance relative to key IPD 78 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 Report of the Directors Directors remuneration report benchmarks with the award of up to 200% of basic salary.
The first two 30% of basic salary and are made on the basis of an exceptional single elements are subject to an overall aggregate cap of 130% of basic salary, achievement or outstanding all round performance.
with the overall amount capped at 300% of basic salary.
Additional bonus opportunity: up to 200% of salary Performance against key business targets: up to 100% of salary This part of Executive Directors annual bonus opportunity is intended Directors may receive a bonus of up to 100% of salary, based on their to reward exceptional performance and value creation for shareholders.
performance against key business targets set at the beginning of the year.
The performance targets that apply are set out in Table 64.
Any award The Committee calibrates the targets so that the achievement of a will be made as a result of material outperformance of the industry maximum payout under this part of the bonus arrangements would performance benchmark, not as a result of a general increase in the value represent performance in excess of the Group budget and individual of property or the shares in listed companies in general.
25% of any bonus awarded under this heading is automatically Total Property Return TPR was chosen as a key performance deferred into the Companys shares, on the basis set out below, measure for the investment portfolio element of the business because and receives a Matching Award under the terms of the Companys it is used both internally and externally within the property sector as Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The purpose of the additional bonus is to encourage Executive Discretionary bonus for exceptional achievement: up to 50% of salary Directors to strive for material outperformance every year.
The Executive Directors have also been eligible to participate in a Committee designed the bonus targets that applied to this element of the discretionary bonus pool.
If they are selected to participate by the Executive Directors bonus opportunity so that the performance targets Committee, the award will usually be in the range of 5-30% of salary, are above that required for other bonus opportunities.
To provide some though in exceptional circumstances can be up to 50% of basic salary.
context as to the challenging nature of the performance targets, the Following feedback from shareholders during the year, the TPR conditions are based on more than 10 years of historic data and Committee has set criteria for the discretionary element of this bonus require TPR performance to fall broadly within the top 30th percentile award.
With effect from the year under review, discretionary bonuses of each relevant Investment Property Databank IPD performance will be awarded by the Committee only where there has been benchmark if any additional bonus is to be earned.
Any payout for exceptional achievement in a specic area or the establishment or beating the IPD benchmark by more than 2% is conditional upon the successful execution of a strategic initiative.
The maximum award relative performance in the following year exceeding the IPD from this element of the bonus pool is 500,000, in aggregate, for benchmark or delivering outperformance over the two years of at least all Executive Directors.
Discretionary bonuses awarded to Executive 1% per annum.
Accordingly, the Committees assessment for any award Directors this year totalled 371,500 with awards of 30% of salary under this category will include a forward-looking measure so that no for Francis Salway, 25% for Robert Noel and 20% for Richard Akers.
bonus payments will be made until the subsequent years outturn for The awards were in recognition of their success in setting and executing TPR performance becomes available.
a strategy to create early mover advantage on development activity A owchart showing how any payments under the additional across the Group.
bonus opportunity will be calculated is shown at Chart 60.
50% of any The Company operates a separate discretionary bonus pool award will be deferred into the Companys shares for two years, which open to all employees other than Executive Directors.
The aggregate means that vesting takes place three years from the year to which the amount of the pool is 1m, with awards normally made to no more than bonus relates.
The awards are usually not more than Additional Bonus Opportunity Chart 60 No additional No bonus payable Additional bonus payable 50% in cash 50% in shares deferred for Does TPR exceed two years IPD benchmark TPR exceeds in Year 1 by 2% IPD benchmark or more?
in Year 2 Annual average TPR Await Year 2 performance relative Yes No additional outcome to IPD benchmark over bonus payable two year period is less than 1% per annum TPR is below IPD benchmark in Year 2 Annual average TPR Additional bonus performance relative payable 50% in to IPD benchmark over cash 50% in shares two year period is at deferred for two least 1% per annum years Calculated by reference to the relative performance in Year 1 using the same criteria range of IPD 2.0% to 4.0%.
Land Securities Annual Report 2011 79 Directors remuneration report As the performance of the Retail Portfolio in the 2010 11 financial year Executive Directors may increase the number of shares committed to a exceeded the relevant IPD sector benchmark by 2.9%, Richard Akers maximum of 50% of salary calculated on a pre-tax basis by purchasing is also potentially entitled to an additional bonus of 90% of salary half shares in the market out of taxed income.
Any shares purchased will payable in cash and half in deferred shares subject to the performance attract a Matching Award of shares on a two for one basis so that the criteria for the subsequent years performance also being met.
If the maximum Matching Award is equivalent to 100% of salary.
The performance of the Retail Portfolio in the 2011 12 financial year calculation of Matching Awards is made on a pre-tax basis so, assuming satisfies the subsequent years performance criteria, payment of the a personal tax rate of 50%, a purchase of 25 shares out of net income will additional bonus would then become due in June 2012.
For this reason, be grossed up to 50 shares and attract a Matching Award of 100 shares, and on account of its conditionality, it is not shown in Table 66. subject to the achievement of the relevant vesting conditions.
Bonus awards, including those relating to the additional bonus opportunity described above, for the financial year ended 31 March Pre-June 2009 LTIP and Matching Share Awards 2011 are set out in Table 66.
Awards of LTIP Performance Shares and Matching Shares are subject to the same performance conditions measured over three years by the Deferred Shares Committee.
For LTIP and Matching Share awards granted in 2008, Where part of a bonus is deferred into the Companys shares, those half of any award will vest based on achieving increases in Normalised shares are held within the Companys Employee benefit Trust and Adjusted Diluted Earnings Per Share NADEPS.
The other half will are automatically transferred to Directors on the second or third vest dependent on the Groups TPR equalling or exceeding the IPD anniversary of the grant date, depending on the nature of the award, weighted indices that reect the sector mix of Land Securities provided that they remain employed by the Company on that date, investment portfolio.
The target range for vesting is: or otherwise meet other criteria set out in the rules of the Deferred Bonus Scheme approved by shareholders in 2009.
NADEPS The proceeds of any dividends accruing on the deferred shares Growth of RPI plus 3% per annum 12.5% of the award vests: are used to purchase shares through participation in the Companys Growth of RPI plus 5% per annum 50% of the award vests: scrip dividend facility, with those additional shares transferred to the Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
TPR 8 Principles and policy on long-term incentives in 2010 11 Performance equal to the sector weighted IPD index 12.5% Executive Directors participate in the Long-term Incentive Plan LTIP of the award vests: approved by shareholders in 2005.
The LTIP replaced the existing Performance equal to the sector weighted IPD index 1% per share option scheme and performance share matching plan that were annum 50% of the initial award vests: approved in 2002.
There is no re-testing in relation to LTIPs for Straight-line vesting occurs between these points.
Executive Directors, so that if the targets are not met on first testing, the awards lapse.
For awards granted in 2008 and measured at 31 March 2011, the Groups performance against the NADEPS criteria was below LTIP Performance Shares the minimum required for vesting and so the proportion of the In the year under review, each Executive Director received a conditional award attributable to that measure did not vest.
The Groups TPR award of shares of up to 100% of salary, see Table 67, which was the performance exceeded the IPD benchmark by 0.4% over the period.
maximum in terms of the Committees current grant policy.
As a result, 27.5% of the share award will vest.
LTIP Matching Shares In addition, Matching Share Awards are available to Executive Directors on the basis of their investment in the Companys shares, see Table 67.
25% of any bonus awarded to an Executive Director in relation to his performance against key business targets is automatically deferred into the Companys shares on a pre-tax basis and attracts a Matching Award.
The Matching Award consists of an award of two shares for every one share committed in this way.
80 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 Report of the Directors Directors remuneration report Post-June 2009 LTIP and Matching Share Awards The Committee may amend the list of comparator companies in the For awards made in June 2009 onwards, the NADEPS performance Sector Index, and relative weightings, if circumstances make this condition was replaced by a TSR measure, which is described below.
necessary for example, as a result of takeovers or mergers of comparator The Committee continues to use the TPR measure as it rewards companies or significant changes in the composition of the Group.
returns from property superior to those of the market and is not inated At 31 March 2009, the list of comparator companies comprised: by any general increase in the value of property or the shares of The British Land Company PLC, Hammerson plc, Capital Shopping listed companies.
Centres Group PLC, Segro plc, Derwent London plc, Great Portland The TSR measure has been adopted by the Committee as it Estates plc, F & C Commercial Property Trust Limited, Shaftesbury aligns the interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders PLC, Daejan Holdings PLC, Helical Bar plc, Liberty International by targeting outperformance of the Companys peer group.
PLC and Big Yellow Group PLC.
At 31 March 2010, the list of Half of the vesting criteria is based on Land Securities three comparator companies was adjusted to reect changes in the year TSR performance share price increase plus reinvested dividends composition of the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index to remove Liberty compared against the TSR performance of a comparator group of International PLC and add Hansteen Holdings PLC, UK Commercial property companies within the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index, weighted Property Trust Limited, Grainger plc, St Modwen Properties Plc, on the basis of their market capitalisation at the beginning of the the UNITE Group plc.
performance period and re-set at the beginning of each year within the For awards granted in 2009, performance against the TPR three year measurement period.
If Land Securities TSR performance and TSR criteria over the two years to 31 March 2011 would, is below this index, this proportion of the LTIP grant will lapse in full.
if sustained over the three year period, result in 96.5% of the shares If Land Securities matches the index, 30% of this proportion i. e. 15% vesting.
For awards granted in 2010, performance over the one year of the overall grant will vest.
Full vesting will occur if Land Securities period to 31 March 2011 would, if sustained over the second and third TSR beats the index by 4% per annum or more, with straight-line years of the period, result in 74.6% of shares vesting.
vesting in between these points.
Chart 61 shows the vesting range.
The maximum number of shares which could potentially vest as a result of historic long-term incentive awards and the number of TSR Performance Condition % of overall LTIP grant vesting Chart 61 shares which vest in the financial year are shown in Table 67.
The vesting criteria for LTIP and Matching Share awards to senior managers are the same as set out above.
50% 9 Savings-Related Share Option Scheme Executive Directors are invited to participate in the Companys Savings-Related Share Option Scheme, in which all members of staff 15% are invited to participate.
On joining, participants make an election for the scheme to mature on either the 3rd, 5th or 7th anniversary of 0% 4% them joining and may contribute up to 250 per month.
On maturity, % p. a. above weighted index of comparator companies participants are eligible to purchase newly allotted shares from the Company at a discount of approximately 20% to the market price of the shares at the commencement of the participant joining the scheme or receive the cash with any accrued interest.
Land Securities Annual Report 2011 81 Payments to Directors 2010 11 3 Share options In this section, we explain the pay of our Executive The Company has historically operated share option arrangements for Directors for the year under review Executive Directors, with vesting subject to performance testing.
New awards ceased to be made to Executive Directors following the adoption 1 6 Directors emoluments p82 Directors shareholdings p83 of the LTIP in 2005-2006.
2 Pensions p82 7 Shareholding guidelines for The Committee determined that the performance criteria had 3 Share options p82 Directors p83 been met for grants made over the period 2000 to 2004 and as a result 4 Fees paid to the Chairman and 8 Dilution effect of the Groups the executive share options granted during that period that have not Non-executive Directors p82 share incentive schemes p83 lapsed, are exercisable in full.
Directors options over ordinary shares 5 Key features of the Executive 9 Pay of senior managers below are shown in Table 70.
Directors service agreements Board level p83 p82 4 Fees paid to the Chairman and Non-executive Directors The annual fees of the Chairman of the Board and Non-executive 1 Directors emoluments Directors are determined by the Board, having regard to independent Table [12] sets out Directors emoluments for the financial year ended advice.
The Board also takes into account the time commitments of 31 March 2011.
The basis of disclosure is on an accruals basis for all the Non-executive Directors, which are reviewed annually as part elements of Directors remuneration, with the exception of share of the Board appraisal process.
During the year, no increases to the awards, which are disclosed as remuneration in the year in which they Chairmans fee of 300,000 or to the base Non-executive Directors vest.
Share awards include awards made under the Deferred bonus fee of 60,000 were awarded.
No additional fees are payable for share, LTIP and LTIP Matching Shares schemes and Conditional attendance at Board or Committee meetings or for membership of share awards.
Board Committees, but additional fees outlined below are payable Robert Noel joined the Board as an Executive Director and in respect of specic responsibilities: Managing Director of the London Portfolio on 1 January 2010.
Upon joining the Company he was granted an award of shares which broadly Chair of Audit Committee 17,500 matched the long-term incentive awards at his previous employer in Chair of Remuneration Committee 12,500 terms of the timing of vesting of share awards.
In relation to quantum Senior Independent Director 10,000 it was agreed that these awards would not be subject to performance conditions but the value would be scaled back to reect assumptions Neither the Chairman nor the other Non-executive Directors receive in relation to the likelihood of vesting.
any pension benets from the Company, nor do they participate in any 34,000 shares of Robert Noels award vested in 2010, with bonus or incentive schemes.
Non-executive Directors are appointed additional awards of 46,000 and 80,000 shares due to vest in 2011 and under letters of appointment which provide for an initial term of service 2012, respectively.
Were Robert Noel to leave the employment of the of three years.
The dates of the current letters of appointment of the Company prior to vesting, he would forfeit the balance of the award.
Non-executive Directors are shown in Table 62.
The appointment of a Non-executive Director can be 2 Pensions terminated, by either party, upon one months notice and the The Company operates a money purchase pension scheme which was appointment of the Chairman on three months notice.
introduced for all staff joining the Group from 1 January 1999.
Prior to the introduction of the money purchase arrangement the Company When were the Executive and Non-executive Directors provided pension benets on a dened benefit basis.
Table 62 Following a review of pension provision in light of a series of Name Date of appointment Date of contract legislative changes, it was decided that Executive Directors would F W Salway 2 April 2001 31 May 2001 continue to be entitled to receive a pension allowance, or cash, M F Greenslade 1 September 2005 1 September 2005 equivalent to 25% of their base salary.
R J Akers 17 May 2005 17 May 2005 Richard Akers participates in a dened benefit pension scheme R M Noel 1 January 2010 17 September 2009 which was open to property management and administration staff until D Rough 2 April 2002 29 April 2004 31 December 1998.
This scheme is designed to provide a pension of S A R Rose 21 May 2003 29 April 2004 1 60th of Pensionable Salary for each year of pensionable service at B A Lerenius 1 June 2004 6 May 2004 normal retirement age.
The benets provided to Richard Akers are A J Carnwath 1 September 2004 13 November 2008 based on a Pensionable Salary which is subject to a cap, based on C Bland 1 April 2008 9 April 2009 the former statutory earnings cap.
With effect from 1 April 2006, K OByrne 1 April 2008 9 April 2008 C Bartram 1 August 2009 21 July 2009 the dened benefit pension scheme has moved to future accrual on a S Palley 1 August 2010 29 July 2010 CARE Career Average Revalued Earnings basis, on either a 1 80th Date of appointment to the Board of Land Securities Group PLC or its predecessor company, Land Securities PLC.
accrual or a 1 60th accrual subject to employee contributions.
Richard Akers has chosen to accrue benets on a 1 60th basis with employee contributions of 5% of basic salary.
Where the amount of the Companys deemed contribution is less than 25% of Richard Akers base salary, the balance is paid to him in the form of a pension allowance or in cash.
82 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 Report of the Directors Directors remuneration report 5 Key features of the Executive Directors service agreements Committee agreed that Martin Greenslade and Richard Akers had met The Committees policy on service agreements for Executive Directors the revised guidelines.
In May 2011, the Committee agreed that Robert is that they should provide for 12 months rolling notice of termination Noel had also met the guidelines.
As a result, the unexpired term and the notice periods In addition, Non-executive Directors are required to own shares both from the Company and from each Executive Director are with a value equal to their annual fees within three years of the date of 12 months.
The dates of appointment and the dates of the service their appointment.
The Committee has determined that all Nonagreements of the Executive Directors are set out in Table 62. executive Directors complied with this requirement following a review The contracts contain a provision that if an Executive Director in May 2011. is given notice to terminate his employment by the Company, he will be The Committee monitors the Directors progress against the considered for a bonus in the usual way and at the usual time following guidelines as at 31 March of every year.
the relevant bonus year subject to a minimum bonus amount of 10% of basic salary pro-rated to reect the number of months of the bonus year 8 Dilution effect of the Groups share incentive schemes prior to the service of notice of termination.
Any proposals for the early Awards granted under the 2005 Long-Term Incentive Plan, which termination of the service agreements of Executive Directors or senior covers LTIP and Matching Share awards, Deferred Share awards and managers are considered by the Committee.
the 2005 Executive Share Option Plan, which covers employees below The service agreements of the Executive Directors provide for Board and senior management level, are met through the funding of phased payments of amounts payable on termination, in order to mitigate an Employee benefit Trust administered by an external trustee which amounts potentially payable by the Company.
Entitlement to bonus, acquires shares in the market.
The Employee benefit Trust held 287,988 LTIP, Deferred Shares, redundancy and outplacement payments are shares at 31 March 2011. considered by the Committee and are dependent on the circumstances The exercise of share options under the Groups Savings-Related of leaving and the rules of the relevant bonus and incentive schemes.
Share Option Scheme, which is open to all employees who have The Company does not make any arrangements that guarantee pensions completed six months service with the Group, is satisfied by the allotment with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
At 31 March 2011, the total number of shares The Chairman and the other Non-executive Directors do not which could be allotted under this scheme was 633,040 shares, which have service agreements with the Company.
represented less than 0.082% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Board approval is required before any external appointment 9 may be accepted by an Executive Director.
Any fees earned in relation Pay of senior managers below Board level to outside appointments are retained by the Executive Director.
Francis The Group currently employs 18 senior managers in positions below Salway received 30,417 in respect of his non-executive directorship Board level.
None of these senior managers receives a salary or total of Next plc.
None of the other Executive Directors received fees for remuneration package which is higher than those paid to the Executive external appointments.
Directors and the structure of their remuneration package, including bonuses, is broadly consistent with that of Executive Directors.
6 Directors shareholdings The senior managers generally have a bonus potential of up to 80% The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company as at of annual salary determined by a range of performance indicators.
In addition, they are eligible to participate in the discretionary bonus There have been no changes in the shareholdings of the pool of up to 50% of salary.
Six of the senior managers, who are Directors between the end of the financial year and 17 May 2011, save responsible for the areas which impact the most signicantly on the that Alison Carnwath, Martin Greenslade and Simon Palley acquired results of the Group, are also eligible to participate in the additional 1,230: 940 and 158 shares respectively under the Companys Scrip bonus opportunity for the delivery of exceptional financial returns, Dividend Plan.
as described above in this report, but at up to a maximum of 80% of No Director had any other interests in contracts or securities annual salary.
During the year under review, bonuses for this group of the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings during the year.
of employees ranged from 56% to 105% of basic salary, with an average bonus of 76% of salary.
7 Shareholding guidelines for Directors The Committee believes that it is important for a significant investment Performance graphs to be made by each Executive Director in the Companys shares so that As required by legislation covering the Directors remuneration report, each Executive Directors interest in the growth and performance of Chart 63 illustrates the performance of the Company measured by the Company is closely aligned with the interests of our shareholders.
Total Shareholder Return share price growth plus dividends paid The Committee has, therefore, established share ownership guidelines against a broad equity market index over a period of five years.
As the for the Companys Executive Directors.
Company is a constituent of the FTSE All Share Real Estate sector, These guidelines require the Chief Executive to own shares with this index is considered to be the most appropriate benchmark for the a value equal to twice his base salary and for other Executive Directors purposes of the graph.
An additional line to illustrate the Companys to own shares with a value equal to 1.5 times their base salary.
performance compared with the FTSE 100 index over the previous five An Executive Director must normally satisfy the guidelines within five years of the Company is also included.
years of his date of appointment in order to qualify for future awards of long-term incentives.
In determining their compliance with these requirements, Executive Directors are entitled to include unvested share awards made to them without performance conditions.
In May 2007, the Committee determined that Francis Salway had met the revised share ownership guidelines and in May 2010 the Land Securities Annual Report 2011 83 Tables In this section 1 5 Historical TSR performance p84 LTIP and Matching Shares awarded 2 Criteria for Directors 2010 11 and those vested this year p86 6 bonuses p84 Directors interests in shares 3 Targets for the Directors p86 7 additional bonus opportunities Dened benefit pension scheme p84 p87 8 4 Directors emoluments p85 Directors options over ordinary shares p87 1 Historical TSR performance A hypothetical 100 holding over five years Chart 63 160 140 125 119 120 109 104 115 109 100 88 72 80 85 59 60 51 56 32 40 48 29 20 0 March 06 March 07 March 08 March 09 March 10 March 11 Land Securities Group PLC FTSE 350 Real Estate Index FTSE 100 Index Note: Comparisons to indices based on 30 trading day average values.
Table 64 2 Criteria for Directors 2010 11 bonuses F W Salway Group profit Property investment performance Net investment targets Development lettings M F Greenslade Group profit Performance of Group support functions Restructuring of debt facilities IT operations R J Akers Group profit Property investment performance Net investment targets Development lettings R M Noel Group profit Property investment performance Planning Applications Development lettings Table 65 3 Targets for the Directors additional bonus opportunities Additional Executive Directors Performance measures and range bonus 1 Managing Director of the Retail Portfolio 2%4% outperformance of the relevant Retail business total property return TPR Benchmark 0%200% 1 Managing Director of the London Portfolio 2%4% outperformance of the relevant London business total property return TPR Benchmark 0%200% Group Finance Director Aggregated performance of London and Retail businesses relative to the above measure 0%200% Chief Executive Aggregated performance of London and Retail businesses relative to the above measure 0%200% 1.
The relevant sector benchmarks are provided by IPD and relate to ungeared total property return reecting the increase in the value of all assets plus income streams arising from those assets in the year.
IPD benchmarks are generally acknowledged as the industry standard.
Benets consist of the provision of a company car or car allowance, allowance in lieu of pension, private medical insurance and life assurance premiums.
During the year, F W Salway, R J Akers and R M Noel received allowances in lieu of pension of 40,626, 15,345 and 101,500 respectively.
Deferred bonus shares represent the value of shares which vested under the Deferred Bonus Plan.
R J Akers is potentially entitled to an additional bonus of 90% of salary for the 2010 11 financial year as the performance of the Retail Portfolio exceeded the relevant IPD benchmark by 2.9%, in absolute terms.
No pension contributions were made by the Group for R M Noel who received an allowance in lieu of pension as detailed in note 2 above.
R M Noel was awarded 160,000 Conditional shares on his appointment to the Board.
34,000 shares vested at nil consideration in June 2010 and 46,000 and 80,000 are due to vest in June 2011 and June 2012 respectively.
M R Hussey received 505,339 under an agreement for compensation for loss of ofce during 2009 10 with a further 141,277 due in 2010 11 subject to mitigation.
The final payment of 47,092 was cancelled under these provisions and he received a total of 94,185 during April and May 2010.
The amounts paid to M R Hussey are the only compensation for loss of ofce paid by the Group.
Pensions of 66,224 2010: 65,118 resulting from unfunded historic benefit obligations were paid to former Directors or their dependants.
As adjusted for the Rights Issue in March 2009.
86 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 Report of the Directors Directors remuneration report 7 Dened benefit pension scheme audited Table 69 Transfer value Increase in Increase in of increase Increase in accrued accrued in accrued Transfer value Transfer value transfer Accrued benets benets benets of accrued of accrued value net benefit at excluding including excluding benets at benets at of Directors 31 March 2011 ination ination ination 1 April 2010 31 March 2011 contributions R J Akers 32,896 2,140 3,065 36,562 488,508 540,417 45,729 Ination, as measured by the change in the Consumer Price Index CPI between September 2009 and September 2010, was 3.1% over this period.
The Increase in transfer value net of Directors contributions differs from the Transfer value of increase in accrued benefit in that it reects changes in the transfer value assumptions and market conditions over the year less the Directors own contributions to the pension scheme.
The transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with the 2008 transfer value regulations.
During the year the transfer value assumptions were changed to reect the change from the Retail Prices Index to the Consumer Price Index as the measure for determining minimum statutory deferred pension increases.
The transfer values of the accrued entitlement in respect of qualifying service represents the value of assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the liability in respect of the Directors pension benets that they earned in respect of qualifying service.
They do not represent sums payable to individual Directors and, therefore, cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
Vesting of awards is dependent on the Companys growth in normalised adjusted EPS exceeding the growth in RPI by 2.5% per year.
Vesting of awards is dependent on the Companys growth in normalised adjusted EPS exceeding the growth in RPI by at least 2.5% per year.
2003 Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
Not subject to performance conditions because it is available to all staff and HM Revenue & Customs rules do not permit performance conditions to be set out for this type of scheme.
The total number of options over ordinary shares held by F W Salway, R J Akers and M F Greenslade at 31 March 2010 was 47,793, 37,047 and 1,193 respectively.
The total number of options over ordinary shares held by all Directors at 31 March 2011 was 86,033.
The range of the closing middle market prices for Land Securities Group PLCs shares during the year was 545p to 773p.
The closing middle market price on 31 March 2011 was 733.50p.
Land Securities Annual Report 2011 87 Report of the Directors Additional disclosures Share capital Going concern At the Companys last Annual General Meeting, held on 22 July 2010, The Directors have included a statement on their adoption of the going shareholders authorised the Company to make market purchases of concern basis for the preparation of the Groups financial statements ordinary shares representing up to 10% of its issued share capital at that within the Corporate Governance Report.
time and to allot shares within certain limits permitted by shareholders and the Companies Act, with such authorities expiring at the 2011 Voting rights Annual General Meeting.
No shares were repurchased in the year to Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote.
However, following repurchases in earlier periods, the information on the voting and other rights of shareholders are set out Company currently holds 5,896,000 ordinary shares in treasury.
New in the Companys Articles of Association and in the explanatory notes shares were allotted during the year only in relation to employee share that accompany the Notice of the Annual General Meeting which are awards and the Companys scrip dividend facility.
Resolutions to renew available on the Companys website at www.
these authorities will be proposed at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting Substantial shareholders Accompanying this report is the Notice of the Annual General Meeting At 17 May 2011 the interests in issued share capital which had been which sets out the resolutions for the meeting, together with an notied to the Company under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules explanation of them.
DTR 5 of the Financial Services Authority are shown below.
Shareholders owning over 3% of the Companys shares Table 71 By order of the Board Number of shares % Adrian fide Souza BlackRock Inc 46,105,410 5.92 Norges Bank 36,471,084 4.68 Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Legal & General Investment Management 32,489,041 4.17 Peel Holdings Plc 31,941,156 4.10 APG Algemene Pensioen Groep 29,939,405 3.85 Directors indemnities On 5 May 2006, the Company agreed to indemnify each Director against any liability incurred in relation to acts or omissions arising in the course of their ofce.
The indemnity applies only to the extent permitted by law.
A copy of the deed of indemnity is available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce and at the Annual General Meeting.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information that has not been brought to the attention of the Companys auditors.
Each Director has taken all reasonable steps to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that such information was provided to the auditors.
A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Provisions on change of control There are a number of agreements which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company.
None of these are considered significant.
The Companys share schemes contain provisions which take effect in the event of a change of control, but do not entitle participants to a greater interest in the shares of the Company than created by the initial grant or award under the relevant scheme.
Payment policy The Groups policy is to pay invoices in accordance with their terms.
The Company has no trade creditors as at 31 March 2011.
The Groups creditor payment days at 31 March 2011 represented 25 days purchases.
