SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 remuneration report Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy Jill Little Chairman The objective of the Groups remuneration policy is to have a Gordon McQueen simple, transparent remuneration structure aligned with the Oliver Marriott Groups long term business strategy.
Hilary Riva The Group aims to provide a remuneration package which will All Committee members are independent non-executive Directors.
secure and retain high calibre executive Directors and management The Committees composition did not change during the year.
with the skills, experience and motivation necessary to manage the business of the Group and maximise shareholder value on a In addition to its regular work, the Committee during the year sustainable basis.
In determining the components of total reviewed and recommended to the Board the employment terms of remuneration, the Committee seeks to incentivise Directors and the new appointees to the roles of Deputy Chairman, Chief other staff, placing emphasis on rewards for performance and Executive and Finance Director: and reviewed the Groups LTIP delivery of shareholder value and recognises that underperformance conditions and annual bonus objectives and targets.
performance should not be rewarded.
Terms of reference The performance related elements of annual bonus and long The Committees terms of reference which are available on the term incentives can constitute a substantial proportion of the Groups website encompass: total remuneration if the challenging targets set by the Committee are met.
Reviewing the Groups remuneration framework and policy: Determining within this framework the specific remuneration There were no changes to the Groups remuneration policy during packages for the Chairman, executive Directors and Company the year.
Secretary: The components of executive Directors remuneration are Monitoring the remuneration of staff: set out below: Reviewing share plans: Designing and setting targets for the annual bonus scheme: and Component Policy Reviewing pension and other benefit arrangements.
Base Base salary is aligned with comparable companies in The Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman may at the invitation salary the real estate sector and similar sized FTSE 250 compaof the Committee Chairman attend meetings.
The Groups remuneration advisers provide sector Directors do not attend.
No Director has any involvement in and market data for the Committee to consider.
decisions regarding their own remuneration.
Base salaries are reviewed annually on 1 December.
Activities during the year Pension A contribution equivalent to 25% of base salary paid into provision a personal pension plan to fund retirement benefits for The Committee met eight times three scheduled and five additional all executive Directors other than the Deputy Chairman.
meetings during the year to deal with the following matters: Annual An annual bonus may be awarded to recognise excepbonus tional performance.
The Committee sets stretching perStanding matters Additional matters sonal and corporate performance targets which include the Groups KPIs, aligning performance with strategy.
Determine pay and benefits Agree terms of An annual bonus may be taken wholly or partly in for the executive Directors and employment of the shares or cash up to a maximum of 125% of salary.
If Company Secretary and review Deputy Chairman, taken in cash, the amount is reduced by 20% in order the pay and benefits of other Chief Executive and to encourage participation in the Groups equity.
employees Finance Director Determine the structure of the In-depth review of Where all or part of an annual bonus is taken in shares, annual bonus scheme including LTIP performance those shares are held for a minimum of three years in performance objectives for the conditions to ensure a Deferred Annual Share Bonus scheme.
Dividend executive Directors, the Company that they remain equivalents are paid at the end of the holding period.
Secretary and staff for the year relevant and An annual bonus is not pensionable.
ahead competitive Long term The Groups LTIP seeks to incentivise employees to Determine bonus payments In-depth review of incentives deliver sustained improvement in financial perforfor the executive Directors and annual bonus scheme mance and shareholder returns, aligning the interests Company Secretary for the year and performance of employees with shareholders over the longer term.
under review objectives It involves annual awards of nil cost options up to a Determine the LTIP awards Offer of options in normal maximum limit of 150% of salary.
for the year ahead both the Sharesave in Currently, two separate performance conditions are performance conditions and June 2011 applied for the vesting of awards, each measured over quantum a three year performance period.
The conditions are Ratify the LTIP vesting subject set out in detail below and relate to annualised NAV to the attainment of the growth in excess of RPI growth over the performance performance criteria set by period and annualised TSR of the Companys shares in the Committee excess of TSR of the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
Appointment of advisers for Other These include a car or car allowance, life insurance, annual salary review benefits health insurance and long term disability insurance.
Review Chairmans fees An individual may elect to receive elements of their pension contribution or bi-annually benefits by way of additional salary.
The cash equivalent is reduced by any Review the remuneration report resultant taxation liability borne by the Group.
48 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 remuneration report The Committee considers the salaries of all employees within Remuneration the Group when setting salary levels of the executive Directors.
Set out below is a detailed explanation of the components of The same remuneration principles are applied across the Group executive Directors remuneration.
Tables 1 to 3 contain the and all employees are eligible to participate in the Groups details of pay entitlements for Directors during the year.
annual bonus scheme and LTIP.
Base salary New Bridge Street an Aon Hewitt Company has provided external independent advice to the Committee during the year.
The revised salaries of Jonathan Lane and Brian Bickell are set It is appointed by the Committee and only provides advice to the out below for their roles from 1 October 2011, when Brian Bickell Group in respect of the Directors and Company Secretarys became Chief Executive and Jonathan Lane became Deputy remuneration.
Jonathan Lane remains an executive Director on a part time basis contracted to work two days a week.
Terms of employment 000 000 The executive Directors are employed under service contracts 1.10.2011 1.12.2010 which may be terminated by either party giving not less than B Bickell as Chief Executive 430 as Finance Director 300 twelve months notice.
In the case of Jonathan Lane and Brian J S Lane as Deputy Chairman 175 as Chief Executive 430 Bickell, a maximum of twelve months salary and benefits would not pensionable: other benefits continue be payable by the Group in the event of termination without notice although the Board would seek to reduce the amount Salaries for the other executive Directors were revised with payable by enforcing a Directors duty to mitigate his loss.
In the effect from 1 December 2011 to reflect the performance of the case of Simon Quayle and Thomas Welton, their contracts can Group and the individuals, and cost of living increases.
be terminated by the Group paying a sum equal to their basic 000 000 annual salaries.
The Group has no other financial obligations in 1.12.2011 1.12.2010 Increase the event of early termination of an executive Directors contract.
S J Quayle 305 290 5% Upon his appointment as Chief Executive, Brian Bickell entered T J C Welton 305 285 7% into a new service contact effective from 1 October 2011 on C P A Ward 250 - - substantially the same terms as his existing contract.
His notice provisions described above continue to apply to his Finance Director designate joining in January 2012 new contract.
Upon his appointment as Deputy Chairman, Salaries of other employees were also reviewed with effect from Jonathan Lanes existing contract was varied by letter to reflect 1 December 2011, with increases of at least 4%.
His notice The chart below illustrates the balance of fixed and variable provisions remain the same.
Details of Christopher Wards terms pay which comprises the executive Directors remuneration on of employment are found on page 51. an aggregate basis: Executive Directors are permitted to accept external appointments with the prior approval of the Board where there Components of Directors remuneration is no adverse impact on their role with the Group.
Any fees arising from such appointments may be retained by the n Salary n Bonus n Long Term Incentive Plan n Benefits executive Director where the appointment is unrelated to the Groups business.
Jonathan Lane received and retained fees in 2011 the year ended 30 September 2011 in respect of his directorship of a private company unconnected with the Groups business totalling 4,250 2010: 4,250.
The other executive Directors did 2010 not hold any paid external appointments during the year.
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% The Group has a policy which requires executive Directors to The relative proportions for share options has been calculated using the fair build up and maintain a minimum shareholding in the value per award and the expected percentage of options that will vest at the Company equivalent to one years salary.
Newly appointed respective year ends.
executive Directors will be expected to accumulate a shareholding to this value over a period of five years from the date of their appointment.
At 30 September 2011 the market value of executive Directors actual shareholdings was between nine and twelve times their annual salary at that date.
The terms of appointment of non-executive Directors are documented in letters of appointment and the standard letter is set out on the website.
They have a one month notice period and their appointment would terminate without compensation if not re-elected at the Annual General Meeting.
49 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 remuneration report Annual Bonus Scheme Long Term Incentive Plan The Group operates an Annual Bonus Scheme under which All employees are eligible to participate in the plan.
Conditional executive Directors and employees may be awarded a bonus awards in the form of nil cost options are granted to employees based on the achievement of a range of challenging personal at the discretion of the Committee.
Awards to employees are and corporate performance targets.
limited to a maximum value of 150% of salary per annum in normal circumstances.
Within this limit the maximum These are set by the Committee at the beginning of each year percentage of salary will vary according to the employees and assessed at the year end in light of actual performance.
The position in the Group and in particular to the extent to which targets are consistent with the Groups overall strategy and key they are capable of influencing corporate performance of the business objective of long term growth of rental income and net Group.
In exceptional circumstances an award of up to 200% of asset value with focus on the attainment of key management salary may be made.
They relate to those operational and financial aspects of managing the Groups portfolio which are Each award is subject to performance conditions set by the considered to be critical to maximising and realising its income Committee each year applying over a three year performance and capital value potential.
In setting these robust targets and period.
There are two separate performance conditions for the assessing actual performance, factors which the Committee vesting of awards, independent of each other and each takes into account include the Groups financial and nonapplying to one half of the shares awarded.
The Committee financial KPIs and its success in achieving its corporate considers that the performance conditions provide a balanced responsibility objectives including: assessment of the long term performance of the Group, with NAV focusing on improvements in asset performance and TSR The extent to which rental levels are achieved in excess of the rewarding superior returns to shareholders.
The conditions market rental values assessed by the Groups external valuers apply to the awards made in previous and current financial at their last valuation a Group KPI : years as the Committee believes the conditions are still The ability of management to maximise the occupation of its appropriate to the Group.
properties and, where vacancies arise, minimise the time that properties are vacant and not producing income a Group KPI : and Annualised NAV growth less annualised RPI growth, over Corporate responsibility performance against targets set at the the performance period % of relevant awards vesting beginning of the year.
Less than 3% pa 0% An explanation of the Groups KPIs is contained within the Business Review.
Total shareholder return and growth in net 3% pa 30% asset value are the performance measures which are used in Between 3% pa and 7% pa Pro-rata on a straight line basis the LTIP and are therefore not used as measures for the Annual between 30% and 100% Bonus Scheme.
7% pa or more 100% Other than in exceptional circumstances, the maximum annual bonus is limited to 125% of salary.
The Committee is satisfied that the bonus limit is not excessive.
Participants may elect to receive Annualised TSR of the a bonus in shares or cash.
To encourage investment in the Companys shares less Groups equity, the value of the bonus is reduced by 20% for that annualised TSR of the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index % of relevant awards vesting part taken in cash rather than shares.
Less than 0% pa 0% Where a participant elects to take part or all of their annual bonus in shares, awards are granted under the Deferred 0% pa 20% Annual Share Bonus Scheme, which allows participants to Between 0% pa and 5.5% pa Pro-rata on a straight line basis exercise their award after a minimum period of three years between 20% and 100% and no later than seven years following the date of the award.
The value of dividends receivable on the shares accrue and is 5.5% pa or more 100% paid on exercise.
This award is not subject to any further performance conditions as it relates to the deferred element of a bonus which has already been earned.
Annual bonuses are not pensionable and are not contractual.
50 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 remuneration report Performance against these criteria is illustrated below for grants Non-executive Directors fees in 2007 and 2008 which have vested during the financial year or Fees payable to non-executive Directors are determined by are about to vest.
The awards made in 2008 for the performance the Board with the non-executive Directors taking no part in the period 1 October 2008 to 30 September 2011 will vest on 16 discussion.
Fees are within limits set by the Articles of December 2011.
New Bridge Street prepare the TSR calculation Association and are intended to reflect time commitment and and verify the NAV calculations for the Committee.
responsibilities of individual non-executive Directors roles.
They are set at broadly median levels to ensure individuals of n TSR % of award - Maximum 50% the necessary calibre and experience are recruited and 100 n NAV % of award - Maximum 50% retained.
Fees are reviewed every two years with market data 80 provided by New Bridge Street.
26.7% 60 Basic fees were reviewed in November 2011 and will remain at 40 current levels for non-executive Directors.
With effect from 1 50% 50% December 2011, a fee for the Chairmanship of a Committee of 20 7,500 for non-executive Directors, other than the Chairman, has 0 been introduced.
Performance period 10.2007 - 9.2010 10.2008 - 9.2011 The fees payable to the Chairman are set by the Committee and ratified by the Board with the Chairman taking no part in the Sharesave discussion regarding his fees.
The Group operates an HM Revenue & Customs approved Fees with effect from 1 December 2011 are as follows: Sharesave scheme for all employees.
The scheme rules had Fees Committee Total Fees been in operation for ten years and were due to expire in 2011.
1.12.2011 Chair Fee Fee 1.12.2010 The extension of the rules for a further ten years was approved 000 000 000 000 at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
P J Manser 115 - 115 100 Employees have the option to save up to 250 per month for J R K Emly 50 - 50 50 three or five years.
At the end of the savings period, employees J C Little 50 8 58 50 may use their savings plus a tax free bonus to acquire shares in W G McQueen 50 8 58 50 the Group at the market price prevailing shortly before they O J D Marriott 50 - 50 50 H S Riva 50 - 50 50 commenced saving.
A further offer of savings contracts to all employees to buy shares in the Group at a 20% discount to the market price prevailing shortly before the date of grant was Appointment of Finance Director made during the year.
All executive Directors participated Christopher Ward will join the Board in January 2012 as Finance in the scheme again this year.
Director and be proposed for election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Clawback He will be employed on an annual salary of 250,000 and will be The Committee has introduced a clawback provision for entitled to a package of benefits identical to other full time executive Directors under the Annual Bonus Scheme and the executive Directors.
It is expected that on joining the Group, he LTIP for material misstatement of the financial statements or will be granted nil cost options under the Groups LTIP.
Any such gross misconduct which will apply to awards from December offer of LTIPs will be in line with those granted to the other 2011 onwards.
He will be employed on a service contact with a notice period of six months for the first twelve months of the contract and thereafter on twelve months notice.
The contract contains a clause, identical to that contained in Jonathan Lane and Brian Bickells contracts, of Directors duty to mitigate loss.
51 %vesting SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 remuneration report Total shareholder return The graphs below show the TSR for the Company compared with the FTSE 350 Super Sector Real Estate Index of which the Company is a constituent.
The Committee uses this index as one measure of performance for awards of shares under the LTIP, it considers this is an appropriate benchmark against which the relative performance of the Company should be compared for the purposes of considering executive Directors remuneration.
The graphs below show relative TSR performance over the last five and ten financial years.
Total shareholder return - 5 years Shaftesbury FTSE 350 Super Sector Real Estate Index 200 150 100 50 0 at 30 September 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 This graph shows the value, by 30.9.
2011, of 100 invested in Shaftesbury PLC on 30.9.
2006 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Super Sector Real Estate Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
source: Thomson Reuters Total shareholder return - 10 years Shaftesbury FTSE 350 Super Sector Real Estate Index 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 at 30 September 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 This graph shows the value, by 30.9.
2001 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 350 Super Sector Real Estate Index.
source: Thomson Reuters The Board considers that the Group has complied throughout the year with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code in relation to Directors remuneration.
A resolution to approve this Report will be proposed at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
This equates to an effective bonus rate of 112.5% for Jonathan Lane 2010: 56.25% and 81.25% for the other executive Directors 2010: 56.25%.
Benefits comprise car benefit or car allowance, permanent health insurance, life insurance and health insurance.
They may be taken in kind or in cash.
Pension contribution may also be taken in cash.
This is disclosed as a cash benefit.
53 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 remuneration report Table 2 Share options audited Number of Number of shares held shares held under award at under award Exercise Exercise 1.10.2010 Awarded Exercised Lapsed at 30.9.
There have been no changes in options outstanding in the period from 1 October 2011 to 28 November 2011.
The Committee does not anticipate any changes to the terms of the Schemes under which existing options have been granted.
The mid-market price of the shares at 30 September 2011 was 4.68 and during the year then ended was quoted in the range 4.36 to 5.40.
Share price when options were granted on 8 December 2010 was 4.32 and on 8 July 2011 was 5.22.
Under the terms of the 2001 Discretionary Share Option Scheme, performance was measured in terms of growth in unadjusted net asset value per Ordinary share prior to distributions compared with that of a peer group of listed real estate companies.
Performance conditions were applied to options with vesting after three years.
No options have been granted since 2004 and all the options granted under the Scheme have now either vested or lapsed.
Participants have seven years from the date of vesting in which to exercise options.
54 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 remuneration report Gains made by Directors on the exercise of share Table 3 Share entitlement under Deferred Annual options during the year Share Bonus Scheme and held in the employee benefit trust audited Gain on exercise 2011 2010 Directors hold entitlements to shares in respect of that part of 000 000 awards granted under the Deferred Annual Share Bonus J S Lane 900 127 Scheme where Directors have elected to take their annual B Bickell 528 97 bonus by way of shares rather than cash.
At 30 September 2011 S J Quayle 455 93 and at 28 November 2011, the trustee of the Shaftesbury PLC T J C Welton 438 86 Employee Benefit Trust held a total of 89,605 shares in respect of 2,321 403 awards granted but not delivered to Directors as set out below and employees.
Directors exercised certain share options during the year and, in each case, sold sufficient shares to meet the subscription cost Each award of shares may be delivered to an individual for a where appropriate, their personal taxation and national consideration of 1 at any time between three and seven years insurance liabilities arising on the exercise and retained the after the date of grant of an award.
No long term performance remainder.
The gains stated above are the gross proceeds of conditions apply to these awards as the awards have been the exercise before deduction of tax and national insurance made after annual performance targets relating to the annual after deducting the cost of exercising the option where relevant.
bonus have already been met.
The value of these awards has The share prices on the dates of exercise are set out below.
already been disclosed as part of the bonus figure in the remuneration table of the year to which the bonus related.
Scheme under Closing mid which exercises Entitlement Entitlement Date of exercise market share price occurred to Ordinary to Ordinary 21 December 2010 4.47 LTIP shares at Awarded in Delivered shares at 2 June 2011 5.29 2001 Scheme Date of award 1.10.2010 year in year 30.9.
Share price on the date of grant was 4.50.
Awards in 2008 were subject to a two year holding period.
No Director elected for shares under this scheme in 2009.
On behalf of the Board Jill Little Remuneration Committee Chairman 30 November 2011 55
