Governance Directors Remuneration Report introduction On the following pages we set out the Remuneration Report for 2011.
The report comprises the following five sections: Introduction and background Remuneration Committee overview Remuneration policy and philosophy Components of remuneration Non-Executive Directors: and Detailed audited information.
This report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 to the Accounting Regulations under the Companies Act 2006.
The report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the principles relating to the Directors remuneration in the Combined Code.
As required by the Act, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be put to shareholders for approval.
The Act requires the auditors to report to the Companys members on certain parts of the Directors remuneration report and to state whether in their opinion those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Accounting Regulations.
The Report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
informAtion not suBJect to Audit introduction And BAcKGround Following the 2011 Annual General Meeting, the Company actively engaged with shareholders and the Voting Advisory Agencies to better understand the concerns on the 2010 Directors Remuneration Report.
The following concerns were highlighted in the 2010 Directors Remuneration Report and the following actions have been taken: Concern Action Option Award to Finance Director It is now Company Policy that the 2005 Share Option Scheme, which was established when the Company was listed on AIM, is used solely as a recruitment tool and to reward significant promotions, including to Executive Director.
Overall Company dilution limit at 12% A significant proportion of options and warrants were issued historically to incentivise Directors and Contractors who are no longer with the Company.
Whilst the Companys goal is to reduce the dilution limit over time to 10%, in fact the awards held by the Companys Directors in relation to Afrens equity schemes account for only 3% of total shares in issue.
Significant increase in CEO and COO base salaries Following the move from AIM to the Main Board in 2008, we benchmarked base salaries to the relevant Main Board and Industry peer groups with reference to a number of third-party remuneration surveys.
Base salaries for 2012 have been frozen at 2011 levels.
Greater disclosure required on Annual Bonus We have in the 2011 Directors, Remuneration Report highlighted and reported on the Key Performance Indicators which are used in determining the Annual Bonus.
Performance Share Plan should include an additional We have included an additional non-TSR related performance metric to determine the level of payout.
performance metricto TSR Independence of Remuneration Committee Chairman John St. John will step down from the Remuneration Committee in favour of the Senior Non-Executive Director, Toby Hayward.
In addition, Patrick Obath will join the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
During these meetings, we also took the opportunity to provide greater context to Afrens remuneration philosophy.
Since the Company was listed on AIM in2005, it has grown over a relatively short period of time into one of the leading Main Board listed upstream oil and gas companies.
At 31 December 2011, the Company employed 272 employees, operating in 12 countries and across a portfolio of 29 licences and assets.
This represents exceptional growth over a very short period of time, utilising highly specialised skill set.
This growth has been accompanied by a significant increase in our 2P and 2C reserves base to 995 mmboe from a standing start.
These achievements have resulted in the market capitalisation of the Company increasing from US$13 million at IPO to US$2,100 million by March 2012.
This growth has only been possible through the recruitment of specialised and exceptional operational, technical and financial human talent.
The scarcity of such human talent is compounded by the fact that we operate in some of the most insecure and politically unstable oil and gas provinces in the world.
The Company continues toaggressively recruit across its operations, in particular in Nigeria, Cte dIvoire, the Kurdistan region of Iraq, Kenya, Madagascar, Tanzania, in addition to continuing to grow its management and technical offices in London and Houston.
The competition for such human talent continues to intensify given the significant focus on Africa and the Middle East by the Majors, African National Oil Companies, Asian National Oil Companies, private equity groups and US independent oil companies.
Our relative peer group for compensation purposes is therefore increasingly evolving and the peer group are in the main not quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
In order to sustain this growth trajectory, it is therefore essential that we offer packages which include the potential for competitive incentive payments.
Our policy is to position the salaries of senior executives at competitive levels using a range of third-party benchmarks.
Given the Companys growth, and following the move from AIM to the Main Board, salaries were identified as being significantly behind the target position and so we have been progressively reducing the gap.
Base salaries have, however, been frozen in 2012.
Afren plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Remuneration Report continued We recognise that these are sensitive issues, but we have acted in a manner which we believe is in the long-term interests of the Company and importantly itsshareholders.
With this in mind, the Remuneration Committee and Board of Directors firmly believe in the linkage of the remuneration of Executive Directors with the needs of shareholders through a policy which recognises and rewards long-term shareholder value added and sets an appropriate balance between fixed and performance-related incentives.
As set out in the preceding sections of this Annual Report, Afrens corporate objectives are designed to continue to drive long-term growth and deliver sustained value for shareholders.
The Companys remuneration policy is strongly linked to performance against corporate objectives using a scorecard of Key Performance Indicators KPIs.
It is therefore important that the Companys remuneration policy is one that can incentivise, motivate and retain key employees, as well as attracting new personnel of a calibre able to sustain the Companys growth rate for both existing and new projects and countries.
Details of Afrens remuneration policy are set out below.
The following key elements of Afrens approach to Directors remuneration during 2011 and looking forward to 2012 are: Base annual salaries have been frozen for 2012: Annual bonus awards take account of both business and individual performance: Participation in the Groups Performance Share Plan.
No Director was granted share options under the 2005 Share Option Scheme in 2011.
Going forward, it is not intended to award share options under the Share Option Scheme except in exceptional circumstances and only then to recruit or retain senior staff: furthermore, ifshare options are awarded in the future they will be subject to performance criteria: and Payment of the First Oil Reward to all staff, including Directors, involved in the Ebok project.
The First Oil Reward was put in place at the time of Field Development Plan submission by Afren and its partner Oriental, to reward exceptional performance and a successful fast track appraisal and development ofthe Ebok project.
Thecosts of the First Oil Reward have been funded by the Ebok project.
Following the successful appraisal drilling in December 2009, after which Afren quadrupled gross 2P reserves to 105.6 mmboe, the Company fast-tracked thedevelopment with First Oil achieved in record time in March 2011 less than two and a half years.
Comparable development lead times for offshore Nigeria are shown in the table below: development lead time of offshore nigeria fields with fso fPso since 1965 Number of fields 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1 0 0-3 4-6 7-9 10 Development lead time in years Source: Deloitte PetroView This value creation from achieving First Oil at Ebok has occurred over the full cycle of appraisal, resulting in a significant increase in reserves, through development, production and ultimately cash flow generation.
The First Oil Reward recognises the efforts and successes of all staff involved since appraisal anddevelopment began in 2008, and was an integral part of our remuneration strategy for the year.
74 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance remunerAtion committee composition The members of the Remuneration Committee are Mr John St. John Chairman, Mr Peter Bingham and Mr Ennio Sganzerla.
At the time of the Companys nextAnnual General Meeting, Mr John St. John will step down from the Remuneration Committee and he will be replaced as Chairman by Mr Toby Hayward.
In addition, Mr Patrick Obath will join the Remuneration Committee.
All, including Mr Hayward and Mr Obath, are Non-Executive Directors.
role and responsibilities The Remuneration Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference which are available in the Corporate Governance section of the Companys website.
These include: setting and managing a remuneration strategy which will attract, motivate and retain a top quality executive team ensuring outstanding levels ofachievement: determining the terms of employment and remuneration for the Chief Executive, Executive Directors and the Executive Team and ensuring that they reflect their individual performance and achievement of Company objectives: setting and maintaining performance parameters which incorporate mechanisms to encourage consistent and sustainable levels of Company performance including growth, shareholder value, risk management and profitability: and approval of the design and targets of share incentive plans requiring shareholder approval.
No Director plays a part in any discussion about his or her own remuneration.
Executive Directors are entitled to accept appointments outside the Company providing that the Chairmans permission is sought and fees in excess of 10,000 from all such appointments are accounted for to the Company, except where specific approval is gained from the Board.
The Remuneration Committee met twice during the year for which each member was present.
Although not a member of the Committee, Dr Osman Shahenshah was invited to attend one of the Committee meetings during the year but he was not involved in discussions relating to his own remuneration.
In addition to the scheduled Remuneration Committee meetings, the members of the Remuneration Committee have worked extensively with the management of the Company during the year to meet with shareholders and with voting advisory bodies to address the areas of concern raised by the shareholders at the Companys last AGM.
Advisers The Committee obtains advice from various sources in order to ensure it makes informed decisions.
The Committees main advisers are MM&K Limited.
MM&Kprovided services to Afren exclusively in connection with Directors and executives remuneration, save that Higher Talent Limited, a subsidiary ofMM&K, hasassisted the Company to recruit HR and reward professionals.
remunerAtion Policy And PhilosoPhy Afrens philosophy is that remuneration should be fully aligned with the long-term strategic objectives of the business, its risk appetite and its values.
As set out in the preceding sections of this Annual Report, Afrens strategic corporate objectives are long-term growth and increased shareholder value, whilst recognising the interests of all relevant stakeholders.
The policy clearly links equity, bonus and salary awards to individual and Company performance.
Afrens remuneration policy has been designed to attract, retain and motivate key executive talent to produce exceptional performance and add longterm value in a competitive, risky and sometimes hostile environment.
Accordingly, Executive Directors annual salaries are benchmarked against a number ofexecutive salary surveys for FTSE 250 and oil and gas companies, annual bonuses are determined using a scorecard of both corporate and personal KPIs asaguideline, whilst long-term equity incentives are linked directly to shareholder value.
In addition, the Remuneration Committee believes it is an essential element of Afrens remuneration strategy to make rewards to recognise exceptional performance which directly and materially affects the value of the Company.
The First Oil Reward paid to those Directors and employees responsible for the successful development of the Ebok project, achieved through strong operational efficiency and financial discipline and which accelerates Afrens progress towards its core corporate objectives, is an example of this.
The Companys policy is that performance-related remuneration should represent a significant majority of an Executive Directors total package.
In 2011, theamount of annual bonus paid when added to the value of vested PSP awards represented approximately 72% of the total remuneration realised by the Chief Executive.
Forother Executive Directors, on average, performance-related reward represented about 69% of their total realised remuneration.
The pay and employment conditions of other employees in the Group were taken into account when determining Directors remuneration for 2011.
Afren plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Remuneration Report continued The main elements of the remuneration strategy, policy and package for Executive Directors, which is the same as for all Company employees, canbe summarised as follows: Strategy Policy Package To provide a remuneration package that: Base salaries will be competitive Short Term: Helps to attract, retain and motivate in Balance remuneration between shortand Base salary acompetitive and challenging environment long-term rewards to reflect Company and Annual bonus scheme Is aligned to shareholders interests personal KPIs Is competitive in the oil and gas industry Short-term reward in cash Long Term: inAfricaand the Kurdistan region of Iraq Long-term reward in shares Share Option Scheme in exceptional circumstances Encourages exceptional performance Cash awards to reflect exceptional mediumfor new joiners and upon a significant promotion Is fair and transparent tolong-term achievement Performance Share Plan Can be applied consistently across the Group Exceptional Bonus Awards, in line with industry standards, to achieve pre-defined objectives where exceptional results can significantly enhance the prospects of the Company such as the First Oil Reward Benefits: Pension scheme Life cover Family PHI and Dental cover Critical Illness and Income Protection insurance BAse sAlAry Afrens move from AIM to the FTSE 250 resulted in a step change in base salaries to align these with a more relevant peer group, which was implemented in 2010 for 2011.
After taking account of shareholder feedback and the prevailing economic conditions, the Remuneration Committee has decided to freeze 2012 salaries at the 2011 levels.
The Company uses the Deloitte Executive Survey and Deloitte Beyond the Board Survey as well as the Mercer UK Oil and GasExploration and Production Survey in order to benchmark appropriate remuneration levels.
AnnuAl Bonus scheme The Annual Bonus Scheme recognises both the Companys and individual performance.
The relative Company weighting is set at 80% for Directors and isbased onthe Companys Key Performance Indicators, namely: Reserves and resources growth Inorganic reserves growth Production growth Improvement in operational efficiency Maintenance of exceptional EHSS performance In 2011, the Company recorded exceptional performance against the Key Performance Indicators: KPI Performance Reserves and resources growth Growth in 2P reserves of 132% to 185 mmboe and growth of 2C resources of1,349% to 810 mmboe Inorganic growth Acquisition of interests in the Kurdistan region of Iraq at a cost of US$0.68perbbl: completion, through FHN, of a 45% interest in Block OML 26 Production growth Exceeded group exit production target of 50,000 barrels of oil per day Improvement in operational efficiency Normalised operating cost per barrel of US$17.9 boe compared to US$18.1 boe in2010 Maintenance of exceptional EHSS performance Strong improvement in both Lost Time Incident Frequency 0.22 compared to 2.41in 2010 and Total Recordable Incident Rate 1.96 compared to 9.33 in 2010 76 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance 2011 was therefore an exceptional year for Afren, measured against its Key Performance Indicators.
The achievement of First Oil from Ebok, together with the successful drilling of two infill wells at Okoro, has meant the Company has achieved its exit working interest target of 50,000 boepd.
Progress has been made on all of our East African Exploration assets in terms of seismic data acquired and our readiness to drill in 2012.
Significant reserves growth has been achieved both with the acquisition of our interests in Barda Rash and, through FHN, OML 26, as well as organic growth through the development ofourexisting assets.
These successes have been achieved against a background of high standards of EHSS performance and the application of financial discipline which leaves the Company well positioned to capitalise on further growth opportunities going forward.
Further details on the results for each of the above KPIs for 2011 are shown on pages 16 and 17.
Therespective weighting of each of the KPIs used in determining the level of bonus paid is rebased each year toreflect the evolution of Afrens corporate objectives.
In light of the above, the Remuneration Committee determined that the overall achievement for the year had exceeded the targets set such that the maximum bonus of 100% of salary was awarded.
eXcePtionAl Bonus AwArds The Remuneration Committee may make an award to Directors and staff in respect of exceptional achievements over the mediumto long-term and to reward the efforts of those staff and Directors involved, and in doing so generated significant shareholder value.
At the start of the Ebok project it was agreed by Afren and its partner, Oriental, that a First Oil Reward scheme would be put in place to reward the Afren team as Technical Service Provider, subject to exceptional performance criteria being met.
In 2011, the Remuneration Committee resolved to make a First Oil Reward in respect of the exceptional technical performance of the Directors and staff, which resulted in a significant increase in shareholder value through increased reserves from development and through the resulting cash flows from production.
This was transformational for Afren, and was a catalyst enabling the subsequent acquisition of two PSCs in the Kurdistan region of Iraq and other fundraising to take place.
The First Oil Reward recognises the performance ofallDirectors and staff involved in the project since development began in 2008.
The Remuneration Committee considered all the circumstances and on the basis of this exceptional performance decided to reward the staff and Directors involved inthis project a First Oil Reward of US$7 million, of which US$3 million is rewarded to the Directors, and paid in cash.
Because this Reward was funded through the project, thenet cost to Afren is significantly reduced.
Details of payments to individual Directors can be found in the table on page 79.
Benefits in Kind The Executive Directors receive certain benefits in kind, principally private medical insurance, club membership and critical illness cover.
Pension contribution UK-based Executive Directors are members of the Company pension scheme, and are subject to the same scheme rules as all other staff.
The scheme isadefined contribution scheme and the Company contributes 10% of salary subject to the participant contributing at least 5% of their salary.
The US-based Executive Director, Shahid Ullah, receives a Company contribution equal to 10% of his salary and bonus subject to the participant contributing at least 5% ofhis salary and bonus and subject to statutory limits on contributions.
Afren equity schemes The Remuneration Committee believes that the ability of employees to acquire a meaningful equity stake in the Company is an essential element of Afrens overall remuneration policy.
To that end, in 2005 the Company adopted a share option scheme and in 2008 a Performance Share Plan PSP in connection with which options and performance share awards have been granted to a wide range of employees, including Executive Directors.
the 2005 share option scheme The Share Option scheme was adopted before the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange plc.
It is now the Remuneration Committees current policy to grant options under this scheme only in exceptional circumstances for recruitment purposes and for rewarding significant promotions, including to Executive Director.
the 2008 Performance share Plan The Performance Share Plan PSP was introduced in 2008 before the Companys shares were admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange plc.
Under the PSP, eligible employees, including Directors, who have been selected to participate, receive an award of shares in the Company.
Share awards may be made annually and the maximum value of an award for any Director may not exceed 200% of base annual salary, except that the Remuneration Committee may decide toincrease this limit to 300% in exceptional circumstances.
The awards are subject to achieving or exceeding the performance criteria set out for the individuals.
Ordinarily, an award, normally in the form of a conditional share award or a nominal cost share option, vests three years after the award date subject to the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance relative to the TSR of a selected peer group of companies.
An award may vest in full only if Afrens position inthe peer group is at or above the 75th percentile.
30% of an award vests for median performance and nothing vests if Afrens TSR is below the median.
There is prorata vesting for performance between the median and upper quartile.
Afren plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Remuneration Report continued For future awards under the PSP, the Remuneration Committee has included an additional metric to accompany TSR in measuring performance.
The current peer group is as follows: Borders & Southern Petroleum Hardy Oil & Gas Salamander Energy Bowleven Heritage Oil Plc Serica Energy Cairn Energy Ithaca Energy SOCO International Desire Petroleum JKX Oil & Gas Sterling Energy EnQuest Melrose Resources Tullow Oil Falkland Oil and Gas Petroceltic International Valiant Petroleum Gulf Keystone Petroleum Premier Oil Gulfsands Petroleum Rockhopper Exploration The Remuneration Committee will continue to monitor the relevance of the current peer group, taking account of the following factors: The industry within which the Company operates, specifically taking into account the international nature of the Companys business: The UK listing environment the Company is now part of: and The market capitalisation, turnover and number of countries in which the Company operates.
The Remuneration Committee will take into account the Companys underlying financial performance as well as relative TSR performance in determining theextent to which PSP awards should vest.
Details of PSP share awards granted to Directors to date are included on page 81. employee Benefit trust An Employee Benefit Trust was established in 2011 following approval by shareholders but has not been utilised to date and currently holds no shares intheCompany.
directors contrActs It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors should have contracts of an indefinite term providing for a maximum of one years notice.
The Directors have no entitlement to any bonus or other additional payment on severance of their contract.
Each Director would be considered on an individual basis and any payment would be entirely at the Companys discretion.
The details of the Directors contracts are summarised below: Name of Director Date of contract Notice period Osman Shahenshah Chief Executive Officer 27 February 2009 12 months Constantine Ogunbiyi Executive Director 12 June 2008 12 months Shahid Ullah Chief Operating Officer 16 April 2008 6 months Darra Comyn Group Finance Director 16 March 2010 6 months Resigned as a Director of Afren plc on 4 January 2011. chAirmAn And non-eXecutive directors The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of engagement and their remuneration is determined by the Board based on independent surveys offees paid to non-executive directors of similar companies.
The notice period for the Chairman and for all Non-Executive Directors is three months.
The Chairman, inrecognition of his role as both Chairman of a Main Market listed company and ambassador for the Company, is paid a basic fee of 200,000 US$322,000 p. a. Thebasic fee paid to each other Non-Executive Director is between 51,000 US$82,000 and 60,000 US$97,000 p. a. and the senior Non-Executive Director receives 70,000 US$113,000 p. a.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the share option scheme, although the awards from 2008 and earlier remain inplace, and are not eligible to join the Companys pension scheme.
78 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance totAl shAreholder returns tsr Five year return index as at 31 December 2011 400 Afren Rebased to 1 January 2006 Peer Group 350 E&Y Index Constituents Source: Bloomberg 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Jan-06 Nov-06 Sep-07 Jun-08 Apr-09 Feb-10 Dec-10 Dec-11 The graph shows the relative performance of Afren plc against the Peer Group Average and the Ernst & Young Oil & Gas Index since 1 January 2006.
Theselected indices give the most appropriate benchmark for other similar-sized oil and gas companies and the Peer Group is used by the Company for the performance criterion for its Performance Share Plan awards.
The Peer Group is as set out on page 78 under the description of the 2008 Performance Share Plan.
Egbert Imomohs fee includes fees and other allowances received for work carried out with related entities and an allowance for the costs incurred working from home, totalling US$86,000 for the year 2010: US$81,000.
Three of the Executive Directors were members of the Companys defined contribution scheme during 2011 2010: three.
Afren plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Remuneration Report continued directors equity interests share options Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held bytheDirectors.
There have been no variations to the terms and conditions or performance criteria for the share options during the financial year.
In relation to the grant of share options, John St. John and Peter Bingham were appointed Non-Executive Directors and awarded share options whilst the Company was AIM listed on the basis that their experience and support to the executive team in relation to technical and financial expertise would, and will continue, toaddsignificant value to the business.
Whilst they retain options granted when the Company was AIM listed, no additional share options have been granted to any Non-Executive Director following admission to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority and the Share Option Scheme Rules have been amended toprohibit the grant of share options to Non-Executive Directors.
80 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance The options granted on 28 June 2005, 28 March 2007, 25 April 2008 and those granted to Peter Bingham on 21 June 2007 have no performance criteria attached tothem.
Those granted to John St. John on 21 June 2007 only vest if a closing share price for the Company of over 1.00 has been achieved forathree-month period.
The options granted on 30 May 2006 will only vest if the share price has increased by 40% over the market price at date of grantforaperiod of ten days.
The options granted on 23 January 2009 and 30 December 2009 will only vest if the share price has increased by 40% over the market price at date of grant foraperiod of three months.
Details of options exercised by Executive Directors during the year are shown in the table above.
Or date of resignation, if earlier.
mArKet Price of ordinAry shAres In connection with the information provided above on Directors equity interests, the closing market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2011 was 85.7p andthe range during the year was 73.6p to 171.2p.
APProvAl This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 27 March 2012 and signed on its behalf by: mr John st. John Chairman, Remuneration Committee 27 March 2012 Afren plc 81 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
