Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors remuneration report 83 Directors remuneration report Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Directors remuneration report for the year ended 30 June 2011 and highlight some of the key work of the remuneration committee during the financial year.
We are committed to aligning executive remuneration with the creation of long term shareholder value.
We believe that the majority of remuneration should be performance-related.
We look carefully at risk management in an effort to safeguard the companys and shareholders long-term interests.
We regularly assess executive remuneration arrangements against these objectives.
During financial year 2011, we addressed three main issues: A comprehensive analysis of the performance measures for the companys Performance Share Plan PSP to enhance alignment between reward and our medium-term strategic goals.
This resulted in the introduction of two new financial measures, organic net sales and organic operating margin improvement, to complement relative total shareholder return TSR.
The remuneration committee believes that the three equally-weighted measures that will apply to awards beginning in September 2011 will focus senior management even more strongly on the performance drivers that we expect will deliver the companys growth ambitions and drive long term shareholder value creation.
More details on the outcome of this review are described later in this report under the section Remuneration review during the year ended 30 June 2011.
Increased and more stretching performance targets have been introduced for the adjusted earnings per share EPS measure under the Senior Executive Share Option Plan SESOP for awards being made in September 2011.
A review of UK pension policy in light of recent changes to UK pension legislation, the impact of which has meant that the personal tax liability for long-serving executives could be substantially more than the value of the benefit accruing under their existing pension arrangements.
In the course of this review, the remuneration committee has sought to take steps that protect the companys ability to attract and retain key talent in the business while maintaining cost neutrality.
The remuneration committee also reviewed base salaries for executives and senior management taking into account comparable companies, individual performance, and pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the company and concluded that it was appropriate to make modest increases following a pay freeze in the preceding fiscal year.
The companys financial performance during financial year 2011, as reported in the Business review, has delivered sustained positive results in terms of volume growth, price mix, gross margin expansion and cash flow and has resulted in performance ahead of target for the short term incentive plan measures.
The remuneration committee is, therefore, satisfied that the financial year 2011 annual bonus outcomes for the executive directors described in the Remuneration summary appropriately reflect these results and the value delivered for shareholders.
Meanwhile, the performance shares that were due to vest in September 2010 lapsed in full upon failing the required TSR performance condition, and the awards due to vest in October 2011 will similarly lapse.
This in part reflects the ongoing impact of recent currency volatility on the outcome for TSR measured in a common currency of US dollars on a local currency basis returns for shareholder were above median against this group.
By comparison, the companys consistent and strong TSR performance relative to the FTSE 100 can be seen in the performance graph on page 97.
SESOP options for the corresponding periods vested in full in September 2010 upon exceeding the maximum adjusted EPS performance condition relative to the retail price index, while options will partially vest in October 2011 upon achieving compound annual growth in adjusted EPS of 7.6%, equivalent to a total of 24.5% growth over three years.
The remuneration committee believes this level of return is appropriate given Diageos ongoing delivery of growth while facing the challenges and opportunities characterised by the mixed performance of the global economy.
The following report provides further details about the reviews undertaken during the year ended 30 June 2011 and the reward outcomes for performance in that financial year.
The remuneration committee has enjoyed full and constructive dialogue with shareholders during the financial year, the outputs of which have positively influenced the committees approach to the review of the PSP.
We look forward to receiving your support at the AGM in October 2011.
Lord Hollick of Notting Hill Independent non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee Diageo Annual Report 2011 84 Governance Long term incentive plans Remuneration summary for the year ended During the year ended 30 June 2011, the executive directors 30 June 2011 received option grants and were awarded performance shares in the range of 300% to 375% of their salaries.
No award was made Base salary to NC Rose in light of his retirement.
The vesting of these awards With effect from 1 October 2010, the base salary for the chief is subject to the achievement of stretching relative and absolute executive officer was increased by 2% to 1,178,100.
Prior to this, performance conditions over a three-year period.
the last salary increase for the chief executive was in October The performance shares awarded in 2007 failed the required 2008.
The chief financial officer was appointed to the board on performance condition with Diageos total shareholder return 1October 2010 on a base salary of 575,000.
She has not received TSR ranking below the median of the TSR peer group of 14 other a salary increase since her appointment.
companies when measured on a common currency basis increased to 15 other companies from 2008 onwards with the Governance Summary of salary reviews for executive directors addition to the peer group of Kraft Foods.
Consequently, the 81 Board of directors and award lapsed in full in September 2010.
In addition, the TSR target Percentage increase in year ended 30 June 2011 2010 executive committee for awards granted in October 2008 was not met and these D Mahlan appointed 1 October 2010 0% 83 awards are due to lapse in October 2011.
Directors NC Rose retired from the board on Share options granted in 2007 vested in full in September remuneration 14October 2010 0% 0% 2010 upon exceeding the required performance condition of report PS Walsh 2% 0% adjusted EPS growth of RPI plus 15 percentage points.
For share 99 Corporate options granted in 2008, the adjusted measure exceeded target Annual incentive plan governance report at threshold and the options will partially vest in October2011.
In the year ended 30 June 2011, 80% of the short term incentive 108 plan for executive directors was based on stretching financial Directors report Summary of long term incentive awards vesting performance targets for net sales, profit and free cash flow for executive directors measures, and 20% on individual business objectives related to the delivery of ambitious strategic and operational targets.
Percentage vesting in year ended 30 June 2011 2010 Net sales performance was ahead of target, while performance Performance shares 0% 0% for profit before exceptional items and tax was strongly ahead Share options 100% 100% of target, and the company again delivered strong free cash flow results, substantially exceeding target.
The remuneration Shareholding requirements committee also assessed performance against the individual The executive directors are required to hold a minimum business objectives and concluded that there had been above shareholding in order to participate fully in the long term target performance against the operational and strategic goals incentive plans.
The status of that requirement as at 30 June 2011 set.
The remuneration committee determined that awards for D Mahlan and PS Walsh is shown below.
Under the companys under the annual incentive plan equivalent to 160% of salary as shareholding requirement policy, D Mahlan has five years in at 30June 2011 for the chief executive and chief financial officer which to build up her shareholding to meet and maintain her were appropriate given the performance delivered in the year.
The award for the former chief financial officer was pro-rated to D Mahlan PS Walsh reflect service during the year and was equivalent to 77% of salary Value of shareholdings 000 984 7,841 at retirement.
Minimum shareholding requirement as % of salary 250% 300% Summary of short term incentive awards as a percentage Actual shareholding as % of salary 228% 669% of base salary for executive directors This information is based on the share interests disclosed in the Percentage award earned for year ended 30 June 2011 2010 table Share and other interests in this report, base salary earned D Mahlan appointed 1 October 2010 160% in the year ended 30 June 2011, and an average share price for the NC Rose retired from the board on same period of 1175 pence.
14October 2010 77% 173% PS Walsh 160% 171% Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors remuneration report 85 Pensions Governance During the year, the executive directors, PS Walsh and NC Rose, participated in the UK Diageo Pension Scheme the UK Scheme, The remuneration committee which is a final salary pension scheme.
With effect from The committees principal responsibilities are: 31December 2010, NC Rose took early retirement from the making recommendations to the board on remuneration company at the age of 53: his pension benefit was subject to policy as applied to the executive directors and the executive actuarial reduction in line with the rules of the UK Scheme and committee: was not augmented.
Following the change to pension tax relief setting, reviewing and approving individual remuneration legislation, Mr Walsh opted out of future pension accrual as at arrangements for the chairman, executive directors and 31March 2011 and began to draw his pension on reaching age executive committee members including terms and 56 May 2011.
This is in accordance with the companys general conditions of employment: policy of flexible pension access whereby an individual, over determining arrangements in relation to termination of the age of 55, may request to draw his retirement benefits whilst employment of each executive director and other designated continuing in employment.
All impacted individuals have this senior executives: and option.
Mr Walshs pension benefit was subject to actuarial making recommendations to the board concerning the reduction in line with the rules of the UK Scheme and was not introduction of any new share incentive plans which require augmented.
Savings in the future service pension cost, as a result approval by shareholders.
of no longer providing Mr Walsh with any further pension provision or supplement in lieu of pension, will more than offset The remuneration committee consists of Diageos non-executive the cost of giving him flexible pension access.
No cash directors, all of whom are independent pursuant to the UK supplement will be payable and no other element of Corporate Governance Code: PB Bruzelius, LM Danon, Lord remuneration will be increased in lieu of further pension accrual.
Davies appointed 1 October 2010, BD Holden, Lord Hollick, At 30 June 2011, NC Rose was receiving an annual pension PGScott, HT Stitzer and PA Walker.
Lord Hollick is chairman of of 334,000 and PS Walsh was receiving an annual pension the remuneration committee.
The chairman of the board and of 558,000. the chief executive may, by invitation, attend remuneration D Mahlan does not participate in the UK scheme but committee meetings except when their own remuneration instead receives a cash supplement of 40% of base pay in lieu is discussed.
The remuneration committee met seven times during the In the event of death whilst in employment, a lump sum year to consider, and approve, amongst other things: of four times base salary will be paid to the beneficiaries of the the structure of the annual incentive plan and awards, executive directors.
share-based grants and vesting for executive directors and the executive committee: Chairman and non-executive directors remuneration approach to salary reviews for the executive directors and for the year ended 30 June 2011 executive committee: During the year, the annual fee payable to the chairman was the performance measures used in the companys long term increased to 500,000 per annum a 25% increase.
This is the first incentive plans: increase to have been applied to the chairmans fee since his a review of UK pension policy in light of pension legislation appointment in July 2008.
The remuneration committee changes: and reviewed the chairmans fee in the context of market practice, the directors remuneration report for the year ended time commitment and the chairmans level of experience and 30June2011.
performance, and determined that this increase was appropriate.
The next review of fees is anticipated to take place in December Further information on meetings held and director attendance is 2012 with any changes expected to take effect on 1 January 2013. disclosed in the corporate governance report.
The remuneration During the year, the base fee for non-executive directors committees terms of reference are available at www.
com was increased by 4% to 78,000 per annum.
No increase was and on request from the company secretary.
applied to fees for the committee chairmen or senior independent director.
The next review of fees is anticipated to take place in December 2011 with any changes expected to take effect on 1 January 2012.
Diageo Annual Report 2011 86 Governance Advice Executive remuneration philosophy During the year ended 30 June 2011, the remuneration and principles committee appointed the following independent consultants: Deloitte LLP who provided advice on remuneration best Alignment with strategy practice and senior executive remuneration.
Deloitte LLP also The remuneration structures and performance measures used provided a range of non-related tax, corporate finance and are designed to align with business strategy as follows: consulting services during the year.
Fixed elements of remuneration are determined by reference Kepler Associates who reviewed and confirmed the TSR of to the median of the market to ensure competitiveness with Diageo and the peer group companies for the award under peers while controlling fixed costs.
the September 2007 TSR plan for which the performance A significant proportion of total remuneration for the cycle ended on 30 June 2010, provided periodic performance executive directors is linked to individual and business updates on all outstanding performance cycles and reviewed Governance performance so that remuneration will increase or decrease the TSR comparator group and TSR calibration for future 81 in line with performance.
The fixed versus variable pay mix is Board of directors and awards.
They also supported a review of the method of illustrated below.
executive committee calculating TSR under the Performance Share Plan as part of Variable elements of remuneration are dependent upon the 83 the incentive plan review.
They provided no other services achievement of performance measures that are identified as Directors to Diageo during the year.
remuneration key sustainable growth drivers for the business and that are report aligned with the creation of shareholder value.
Additional remuneration survey data published by Aon Hewitt 99 Full participation in incentives is conditional upon building Corporate Associates, Towers Watson,  LLP and up a significant personal shareholding in Diageo to ensure governance report Equilar were presented to the remuneration committee during alignment with shareholder interests.
Directors report Diageos human resources director and director of Pay for performance performance and reward were also invited by the remuneration The board of directors sets stretching performance targets for committee to provide their views and advice.
The human the business and its leaders.
To achieve these targets and deliver resources director is not present when his own remuneration performance requires exceptional business management and isdiscussed.
This approach to target setting reflects the aspirational performance environment that Diageo wishes to create.
The annual incentive plan aims to reward the delivery of short term financial and individual business performance goals with commensurate levels of remuneration.
Long term incentive plans aim to reward long term sustained performance and create alignment with the delivery of value for shareholders.
Under both sets of plans, if the demanding targets are achieved, high levels of reward may be earned.
All incentives are capped in order that inappropriate business risk-taking is neither encouraged nor rewarded.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors remuneration report 87 Risk management The remuneration committee considers the management of risk to be important to the process of designing and implementing sustainable remuneration structures and to setting appropriate performance targets for incentive plans.
The members of the remuneration committee also constitute the membership of the audit committee, thus ensuring full oversight of any risk factors that may be relevant to remuneration arrangements and target setting specifically.
Before agreeing bonus payments and approving the vesting under long-term incentive plans, the remuneration committee, in conjunction with the audit committee, considers the underlying performance of the business during the relevant period to ensure that the level of reward is appropriate and aligned with shareholder interests.
The plans in which Diageos executive directors and senior management participate are designed to reflect the principles detailed below: What Why How Performance-related It influences and supports Short and long term incentives conditional upon compensation performance and the creation of achieving stretching performance targets.
Rewarding sustainable It is at the heart of Diageos A balanced mix of absolute and relative performance performance corporate strategy and is vital measures for short and long term incentives that to meeting investors goals.
reflect sustainable profit and underlying financial performance.
Shareholding requirements that align the interests of senior executives with those of shareholders and that are a condition of full participation in share award and share option plans.
Measuring performance over It aligns with the time cycle over Long term incentives that comprise a combination of three years which management decisions share option grants and share awards in each year and are reflected in the creation of vary with three-year EPS, and, for awards made from value in this business.
September 2011, TSR, organic net sales and organic operating margin performance respectively.
Providing a balanced mix It enables focus on long term Base salary, benefits, pension, short term cash incentives of remuneration value creation while avoiding and long term equity incentives.
Providing a competitive total It helps Diageo attract and retain Reward levels considered against the total remuneration remuneration opportunity the best global talent.
packages paid in the top 30 companies in the FTSE 100 by market capitalisation, excluding those in the financial services sector.
Total remuneration positioned between the median and upper quartile of this group, reflecting the size, complexity and global scope of Diageos business.
Simplicity and transparency It allows targets to be motivating Targets that are within a sphere of direct influence and demonstrably linked to and that align with the companys short and long company performance.
1 Executive directors Fixed and variable remuneration remuneration mix The balance between fixed and variable elements of remuneration 1 Fixed base salary 31% changes with performance.
Based on expected values, the mix 2 Variable short term 31% between fixed and variable remuneration for executive directors is that 3 Variable long term 38% for 100 of remuneration earned, 31 will be fixed remuneration and 69 will be performance-related remuneration, excluding pensions and other benefits.
This mix is illustrated in the following chart.
The variable 2 element may be higher or lower depending on the performance of 3 thebusiness.
Diageo Annual Report 2011 88 Governance Remuneration review during 2011 During the year ended 30 June 2011, the remuneration committee undertook a review of the performance tests for the Performance Share Plan PSP with a view to broadening the success factors against which management is incentivised and measured to enhance the alignment between reward and the companys medium-term strategic goals.
This has coincided with the boards review of the companys strategic priorities for the next few years enabling the remuneration committee to apply performance measures to future awards that are expected to fully support the delivery of the companys growth ambitions and the long term creation of shareholder value, and at the same time ensure the plan design is sustainable for the medium to long term.
With effect from awards made in September 2011, the following changes to the performance measures will apply: From To Why Governance 100% based on relative total One-third based on relative total To focus on key enablers to achieving 81 shareholder return over three years shareholder return over three years.
the companys growth ambitions Board of directors and while maintaining alignment with executive committee One-third based on compound shareholders interests.
83 annual growth in organic net sales over To give participants greater line of sight Directors three years.
to the performance outcomes required remuneration report to deliver rewards.
One-third based on total organic 99 Corporate operating margin improvement over governance report three years.
108 Directors report Vesting schedule and targets Beginning with awards made in September 2011, the initial award will be apportioned equally across the three different measures and the performance outcome for each will be assessed independently of the other measures.
However, an underpin will be established by the remuneration committee requiring minimum acceptable performance in organic net sales and organic operating margin before any of the award is released under either of these two measures at the end of the three-year performance period.
Under the plan, 25% of the award will be released for achieving threshold performance, up to a maximum of 100% for achieving the upper targets set by the remuneration committee.
Reckitt Benckiser has been added to the TSR peer group taking the total number of companies in the group to 17 including Diageo.
The remuneration committee decided to include Reckitt Benckiser as it is one of the companies against which shareholders benchmark Diageos performance.
Given the increase in the size of the comparator group and to incentivise superior performance against peer companies, the vesting schedule has been re-calibrated.
Under the TSR measure, threshold will be set at the median of the peer group 9th out of 17 companies, including Diageo, with maximum vesting occurring for achieving 3rd position or above in the peer group changed from second in the peer group of 16 companies.
The remuneration committee also determined that it would be reasonable to reduce the existing averaging period for the calculation of TSR from 12 to six months at this time.
This is considered appropriate for a company of Diageos size and relative share price stability.
For organic net sales and organic operating margin, the remuneration committee proposes to set performance targets that are in line with the companys medium-term strategic objectives.
The remuneration committee recognises that shareholders typically prefer to have sight of targets at the start of the performance period but, given commercial sensitivities, the committee does not consider it appropriate to disclose specific targets for organic net sales and organic operating margin at the time of grant.
However, the company will disclose how vesting outcomes relate to performance at the end of the three-year performance period in the relevant directors remuneration report.
In addition, the remuneration committee will monitor performance throughout the performance period in order to be satisfied that the eventual outcome fairly reflects achievement against the targets as originally intended, and the creation of shareholder value over the relevant period.
The remuneration committee will review the vesting outcome of an award to ensure that it fairly reflects the companys actual underlying performance and may adjust vesting levels if it considers it appropriate.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors remuneration report 89 Summary of current remuneration policy for executive directors A breakdown of the reward programmes in which Diageos executive directors participate, the remuneration strategy that they support and the policy governing their execution is detailed in the table below: What Why How Base salary Reflects the value of the Reviewed annually with changes usually taking effect from 1 October.
individual, their skills and Benchmarked against the top 30 companies in the FTSE 100 by market experience, and capitalisation excluding those in the financial services sector.
Generally positioned at the median of the relevant market or, in exceptional circumstances, positioned above median if justified by the requirement to recruit or retain key executives.
Annual Incentivises year on year Targets set by reference to the annual operating plan.
incentive plan delivery of short term Level of award determined by Diageos overall financial performance.
Annual incentive plan awards based 80% on financial measures net sales, profit and cash flow and 20% on specific individual business objectives related to Provides focus on key business strategy and operational targets.
financial metrics Up to 100% of salary earned for on target performance with a maximum of including profit growth 200% of salary payable for outstanding performance.
Share options Incentivises three-year A discretionary annual grant of market price share options subject to a SESOP 2008 earnings growth above performance test based on absolute annual compound growth in adjusted EPS a minimum threshold.
Stretching growth targets set annually by the remuneration committee.
Provides focus on Maximum annual grant of 375% of salary.
increasing Diageos share Threshold vesting level of 30% October 2008 awards and 25% September price over the medium to 2009 awards onwards, with pro rata vesting up to 100% maximum.
Performance Incentivises three-year A discretionary annual award of shares subject to a three-year performance test.
share awards total shareholder return Maximum annual award of 375% of salary.
PSP 2008 relative to a selected peer Threshold vesting of 25% up to a maximum of 100%.
group of companies and Notional dividends accrue on awards, delivered as shares or cash at the the achievement of discretion of the remuneration committee.
organic net sales and organic operating margin Performance conditions for awards made up to September 2010: targets that support the Based on TSR performance against a peer group of companies.
delivery of the companys Threshold vesting for median TSR performance 8th position, up to 100% medium-term growth vesting for achieving 2nd or above in the peer group.
Performance conditions for awards made from September 2011: Provides focus on Based on three equally weighted measures: TSR performance against a peer delivering superior group of companies, organic net sales growth compound annual growth and returns to shareholders.
total organic operating margin improvement.
Threshold vesting for median TSR performance 9th position, up to 100% vesting equivalent to 33.3% of the total award for achieving 3rd or above in the peer group.
Organic net sales and organic operating margin targets set annually by the remuneration committee for each new award.
Pension Provides competitive Accrual rate of 1 30 of pensionable pay.
Bonus and other benefits excluded from pensionable pay.
Maximum pension is restricted to 2 3 of final remuneration minus retained benefits.
Subject to company consent, no actuarial reduction applied upon early retirement from age 57.
Members contributions of 6% of pensionable pay.
Subject to election, up to 12 April 2011, benefits in excess of the lifetime allowance provided through unfunded non-registered arrangement.
The company operates a policy of flexible pension access which allows individuals over the age of 55 to draw their pension early while remaining in employment.
This policy enables the ongoing retention of high-calibre individuals.
Cash Provides competitive Percentage of base pay.
supplement in alternative to pension Bonus and other benefits excluded from calculation of cash supplement.
provision Diageo Annual Report 2011 90 Governance Base salary against a set of individual business objectives IBO that were The summary table on the previous page sets out the policy on relevant to their specific area of accountability.
These were determined with reference to a set of collective business priorities base salary for the executive directors.
Base salaries are generally determined with reference to the median of the relevant market that support the long term growth and sustainability of the for each role taking into account the experience and performance business.
Net sales results were ahead of target and profit and of the individual, the level and structure of remuneration for other cash flow targets were significantly exceeded.
The remuneration committee assessed the performance of the chief executive and employees and the external environment.
The table Summary of salary reviews for executive directors both the current and retired chief financial officers against their in the section Remuneration summary for the year ended specific IBOs and concluded that the objectives were exceeded.
30June 2011 at the beginning of this report shows the salary The overall level of performance achieved resulted in an annual incentive plan award equating to 160% of base salary for both increases that have been applied to the executive directors in the years ended 30 June 2011 and 30 June 2010. the chief executive and the chief financial officer.
The pro-rated Governance After the year-end, the remuneration committee reviewed award for the former chief financial officer was equivalent to 81 Board of directors and base salaries for senior management and agreed new salaries 77% of base salary.
The actual awards received by the executive executive committee directors are shown in this report in the table Directors which will apply from 1 October 2011.
The remuneration 83 committee reviewed salaries for this population in the context of remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2011.
Directors the importance of each role in delivering the companys strategy, remuneration the performance of the individual, and market positioning.
Long term incentive plans LTIPs report Current long term incentives are a combination of share options The remuneration committee also considered the pay and 99 Corporate employment conditions of the general employee population under the SESOP and performance share awards under the PSP governance report with a view to determining increases for senior management that and are designed to incentivise executive directors and senior 108 are broadly aligned with the increases for other employees.
managers to strive for long term sustainable performance.
Directors report These awards are made on an annual basis with the level With effect from 1 October 2011, the base salary for the chief executive officer will increase by 4.5%, to 1,231,000. of award considered each year in light of individual and business Indetermining this salary, the remuneration committee performance.
Awards made under both sets of plans are subject considered the importance of the chief executive officer to the to performance conditions normally measured over a three-year period.
The regular review of the performance measures and the delivery of the companys key strategic goals and long term shareholder value creation, as well as his level of experience and vesting schedule used in each plan are designed to ensure that performance.
The remuneration committee also considered this the LTIPs continue to support business objectives and are in line increase in the context of an overall full-year budget increase of with current best practice.
All of Diageos share plans operate within the Association of British Insurers dilution guidelines for 3.5% for general staff and a collective agreement of 5.1% for negotiated groups in the UK.
The remuneration committee share-based remuneration.
additionally took into account historic increases for the chief executive of 0% and 2% in 2009 and 2010, respectively.
On the Senior executive share option plan 2008 SESOP 2008 Options granted under the SESOP 2008 are subject to a basis of these considerations, the remuneration committee concluded that this salary level was appropriate.
performance condition based on compound annual growth in The chief financial officer was appointed to the board on adjusted EPS over a three-year period, with growth targets set by 1October 2010.
On her appointment, the chief financial officers the companys remuneration committee for each grant.
For the purpose of the SESOP, an underlying measure of EPS is used to salary was initially set at below typical market levels for comparable roles reflecting her level of experience at the time.
Insetting this ensure that items such as exceptional items and movements in initial salary level, the remuneration committees intention was to exchange rates are excluded from year on year comparisons of allow scope for future increases to both recognise performance performance.
Options will only vest when stretching adjusted EPS targets are achieved.
Vesting is on a pro rata basis currently and bring her closer in line with the market with increasing experience.
The remuneration committee has awarded an ranging from a threshold level of 25% to a maximum level of increase that recognises her strong performance since 100%.
The remuneration committee reviewed the targets for appointment and that also provides progression towards 2011 SESOP awards and decided to increase their stretch to ensure that they remain aligned with long-term shareholder a market-competitive package in line with the companys policy on base salary positioning: with effect from 1 October 2011, value creation.
the base salary for the chief financial officer will increase by 8.7%, to 625,000.
Annual incentive plan The annual incentive plan is designed to incentivise year on year delivery of short term performance goals that are determined by pre-set stretching targets and measures agreed by the remuneration committee with reference to the annual operating plan.
The remuneration committee determines the level of performance achieved based on Diageos overall financial performance at the financial year end.
The business results for the year ended 30 June 2011 are described in the Business review.
The targets for the year ended 30 June 2011 were a combination of measures including net sales, profit before exceptional items and tax and free cash flow.
These measures focus on key drivers of Diageos growth strategy while supporting sustainability and the underlying financial health of the company.
The executive directors were also measured Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors remuneration report 91 The adjusted EPS growth targets for the current outstanding Senior executive share option plan 1999 SESOP 1999 awards are set out below: The last grant of options made under the expired SESOP 1999 vested in September 2010.
These options were subject to Award Award Award Award satisfying a performance condition based on adjusted EPS 2011 2010 2009 2008 growth relative to RPI over a three-year period.
The vesting % % % % schedule that applied is shown in the table below: Compound % option annual growth grant Threshold 6 3 3 6 Adjusted EPS growth relative to RPI released RPI 15% 100% Max 10 7 7 10 Equivalent RPI 12% 50% total over Less than RPI 12% 0% threeyears Threshold 19 9 9 19 Under both the 1999 and 2008 plans, the remuneration Max 33 23 23 33 committee has discretion to extend the option exercise period Percentage of from 12 to 18 months for share options awarded to qualifying award vesting leavers.
The remuneration committee did not exercise this Threshold 25 25 25 30 discretion during the year ended 30 June 2011.
Max 100 100 100 100 Performance share plan PSP 2008 The maximum annual grant under the plan is 375% of base salary.
Under this plan, participants are granted a discretionary, However, the remuneration committee has the discretion to conditional right to receive shares.
All conditional rights awarded grant awards in excess of the maximum limit in exceptional vest after a three-year period subject to the achievement of circumstances.
As discussed in the 2010 Directors The following chart shows the performance targets, Remuneration Report, and as described in the section minimum and maximum vesting percentages for awards made Remuneration review during 2011, the remuneration in 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011.
It also shows the compound annual committee undertook a review during the year ended growth performance for adjusted EPS for the performance years 30 June 2011 of the performance tests for the PSP with a view ended 30 June 2009, 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2011.
On the to broadening the success factors against which management basis of this performance, the 2008 award, which is due to vest is incentivised and measured to enhance strategic alignment in October 2011, has met the performance condition and with the companys medium-term strategic goals.
The outcome consequently, the shares under award will vest at 58% of the of this review has resulted in the introduction of two new initialaward.
measures to the performance condition for awards made from September 2011 onwards.
Adjusted EPS compound annual growth % For outstanding awards made up to and including September 2010, the primary performance test is a comparison 13.0 of Diageos three-year TSR the percentage growth in Diageos 12.0 11.0 share price assuming all dividends and capital distributions are 10.0 100% vest 100% vest reinvested with the TSR of a peer group of international drinks 9.0 and consumer goods companies.
TSR calculations are converted 8.0 to a common currency US dollars.
The second performance test 7.0 100% vest 100% vest requires that there has been an underlying improvement in 6.0 Diageos three-year financial performance, typically measured 30% vest 25% vest 5.0 by an adjusted EPS measure, for the remuneration committee 4.0 to recommend the release of awards.
3.0 For awards made from September 2011 onwards, the 25% vest 25% vest 2.0 primary performance test will be split equally between three 7.6% CAGR 1.0 performance measures TSR, as defined above, growth in 9.3% CAGR 12.9% CAGR 0.0 organic net sales on a compound annual basis and total organic 2008 2011 2009 2012 2010 2013 2011 2014 operating margin improvement.
For any of the award apportioned to the TSR condition to be released, there must be EPS Target Growth range an improvement in the underlying performance of the company.
Compound annual growth rate to date In addition, the remuneration committee will require a minimum level of performance in both organic net sales and organic Annual adjusted EPS performance operating margin before any of the award apportioned to these Adjusted EPS measures can be released.
For organic net sales and organic Year ending growth operating margin, 25% of the award will be released for achieving 30 June 2009 4.1% threshold performance up to a maximum of 100% for achieving 30 June 2010 5.9% the upper targets.
The vesting schedule for the portion of the 30 June 2011 12.9% award subject to the TSR measure is shown in the table below.
The company will disclose how vesting outcomes relate to performance at the end of the three-year performance period in the relevant directors remuneration report.
The remuneration committee will review the vesting outcome of an award to ensure that it fairly reflects the companys actual underlying Diageo Annual Report 2011 92 Governance performance and may adjust vesting levels if it considers performance conditions had been met and, if the remuneration itappropriate.
committee determines, the time elapsed since the initial award The remuneration committee has considered the strategic or grant respectively.
goals for the company over the next 3-5 years and the role of the chief executive officer in the delivery of shareholder value.
In light All employee share plans of this the committee proposes to enable vesting of PSPs granted The executive directors are eligible to participate in the to the chief executive officer from 2011 to be based entirely on UK HM Revenue & Customs approved share incentive and the delivery of that performance.
Accordingly awards will be sharesave plans that Diageo operates on the same terms capable of vesting in full at the end of the performance period, as for all eligible employees.
if performance goals are delivered in full, without providing time pro-rating to the point of retirement.
Such consideration Share ownership would be at the sole discretion of the remuneration committee, Senior executives are currently required to build up significant Governance taking into account all the circumstances it considers relevant holdings of shares in Diageo from their own resources over a 81 Board of directors and at the time.
Full participation in the share option and executive committee Notional dividends accrue on awards and are paid out either share award plans is conditional upon meeting this requirement.
83 in cash or shares in accordance with the vesting schedule shown This policy reflects Diageos belief that its most senior leaders Directors in the table below.
The maximum annual award under the plan is should also be shareholders.
The chief executive and chief remuneration 375% of salary.
However, the remuneration committee has financial officer are required to hold company shares equivalent report discretion to grant awards in excess of this maximum in to 300% and 250% of their base salary, respectively.
The current 99 Corporate exceptional circumstances.
status of their shareholding requirement is shown in the governance report shareholding table in the remuneration summary at the 108 Total shareholder return plan TSR 1998 beginning of this report.
Directors report The final award of performance shares made under the expired TSR plan lapsed in full in September 2010 upon failing to meet the Pension provision performance condition based on TSR performance relative to the NC Rose and PS Walsh are members of the UK Scheme.
D Mahlan selected peer group as described above.
is not a member of the UK Scheme and instead receives a cash supplement in lieu of pension provision equivalent to 40% of Vesting schedule and TSR peer group for the PSP base pay.
During the year, NCRose and PS Walsh accrued pension From 2011 From 2008 rights at the rate of one-thirtieth of pensionable pay, until the awards awards point that they stopped accruing further pension as at TSR ranking % vesting % vesting 31 December 2010 and 31 March 2011, respectively.
Bonus 1st 100% 100% payments and other benefits are not included in pensionable 2nd 100% 100% pay.
The pension at normal retirement age may not exceed 3rd 100% 95% two-thirds of final remuneration minus retained benefits.
Subject 4th 95% 75% to the consent of the company, no actuarial reduction is currently applied upon early retirement on or after the age of 57.
Under the 5th 75% 65% rules of the UK Scheme, pensions in payment are increased each 6th 65% 55% year in line with increases in the RPI, subject to a maximum of 5% 7th 55% 45% per year and a minimum of 3% per year.
The minimum of 3% per 8th 45% 25% year only applies to pension earned up to 31 March 2011.
9th 25% 0% On death in service, a lump sum of four times pensionable 10th or below 0% 0% pay becomes payable, together with a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members prospective pension.
Upon death a TSR peer group after retirement, a spouses pension of two-thirds of the AB InBev Kraft Foods members pension before commutation is payable.
Accordingly, Brown-Forman Nestl D Mahlan will receive a lump sum of four times base pay and Carlsberg PepsiCo PS Walsh will receive a lump sum of four times pensionable Coca-Cola Pernod Ricard pay in the event of death whilst employed byDiageo.
Colgate-Palmolive Procter & Gamble Groupe Danone Reckitt Benckiser 2011 onwards NC Rose and PS Walsh made employee contributions of 6% Heineken SABMiller of pensionable pay during the year until they stopped accruing HJ Heinz Unilever benefits and began to draw their pension benefit under early retirement and flexible pension access, respectively.
Note As a result of changes introduced by the UK Finance Act a A s part of the plan review undertaken during the year, the TSR peer group was reviewed and the remuneration committee determined that it would 2004 affecting the taxation of pensions from 6 April 2006, be appropriate to add Reckitt Benckiser to the peer group from the NCRose and PS Walsh were offered the option of having benefits companys reserve list of peer group companies, such that the three-year in excess of their lifetime allowance provided by an unfunded TSR performance for awards made from September 2011 onwards would non-registered arrangement.
Both opted to have part of their be measured on the basis of a peer group of 17 companies, including Diageo.
The TSR measurement for outstanding awards made up to benefits provided from this unfunded arrangement, if and including September 2010 is based on a peer group of 16 companies, appropriate.
Total pension benefits remain subject to the including Diageo.
HMRevenue & Customs limits that were in force on 5 April 2006.
As a result of the remuneration committees review of Long term incentive plans and change of control pension provision in the light of changes in the UK pension In the event of a change of control and at the remuneration taxation legislation applicable from 1 April 2011, the option of committees discretion, outstanding PSP awards would be the unfunded non-registered arrangement was removed and released and outstanding share options would become no further benefits can build up in this arrangement.
In addition, exercisable based on the extent to which the relevant members directly impacted by the pension taxation legislation Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors remuneration report 93 changes have been given the option to either remain in the UK Chairman and non-executive directors Scheme and pay the additional tax or opt out and receive a cash policy, terms, conditions and fees supplement in lieu of future pension accrual.
Diageos policy on chairmans and non-executive directors fees Service contracts is as follows: The fees should be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain The executive directors have rolling service contracts which world-class talent.
provide for six months notice by the director or 12 months Fee practice should be consistent with recognised best notice by the company and contain non-compete obligations.
practice standards for such positions.
In the event of early termination by the company without cause, The chairman and non-executive directors should not the agreements provide for a termination payment to be paid participate in any of the companys incentive plans.
in respect of that part of the notice period not provided to the Part of the chairmans fees should be used for the purchase director by the company to PS Walsh equivalent to 12 months of Diageo shares.
base salary for the notice period and an equal amount in respect Fees for non-executive directors should be within the limits of all benefits, and to D Mahlan equivalent to 12 months base set by the shareholders from time to time, currently salary for the notice period and the cost to the company of 1,000,000, as approved by shareholders at the October 2005 providing contractual benefits excluding incentive plans.
The limit excludes remuneration Any such payments would be subject to tax and other statutory paid for special services performed by directors.
The remuneration committee may exercise its discretion to require half of the termination payment to be paid The chairman of the board, Dr FB Humer, commenced his in monthly instalments and, upon the executive commencing appointment on 1 July 2008.
Dr FB Humer has a letter of new employment, to be subject to mitigation.
If the board appointment for an initial five-year term from 1 July 2008.
It is determines that the executive has failed to perform his or her terminable on six months notice by either party or, if terminated duties competently, the remuneration committee may exercise by the company, by payment of six months fees in lieu of notice.
its discretion to reduce the termination payment on the grounds The chairmans fee is normally reviewed every two years of poor performance.
PS Walshs service contract with the and any changes would normally take effect from 1 January.
D Mahlans service contract Asrecommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code, any with the company is dated 1 July 2010. changes to this fee have to be approved by the remuneration committee.
The last scheduled review of fees was undertaken External appointments in December 2010.
At this time, fees were reviewed in the light of market practice in large UK companies and anticipated Executive directors may accept external appointments as workload, tasks and potential liabilities.
As a result of this review, non-executive directors of other companies and retain any the annual fee payable to Dr FB Humer was increased to 500,000 related fees paid to them, subject to the specific approval of the a25% increase.
In line with Diageos policy, a proportion of the board in each case.
chairmans annual fee is used for the monthly purchase of Diageo During the year ended 30 June 2011, PS Walsh served as a ordinary shares, which have to be retained until the chairman non-executive director of Unilever PLC and FedEx Corporation retires from the company or ceases to be a director for any other and retained the fees paid to him for his services.
The next review of the chairmans fee is anticipated to 2011, PS Walsh was also appointed as lead non-executive director take place in December 2012 with any changes expected to take and deputy chair on the board of the Department of Energy and effect on 1 January 2013.
PS Walsh has committed to donating All non-executive directors have letters of appointment.
all fees that he receives for this directorship to a charitable Asummary of their terms and conditions of appointment is educational trust.
The total amounts of such fees paid in the year available at www.
ended 30 June 2011 are set out in the table below.
DMahlan did The fees paid to non-executive directors are reviewed not hold any external appointments during the year ended annually with any changes normally taking effect from 1 January.
The last scheduled review of fees was undertaken in December 2010.
At this time, fees were benchmarked against market PS Walsh practice in large UK companies and reviewed in light of 000 anticipated workload, tasks and potential liabilities.
As a result a Unilever PLC 77 of this review, the base fee paid to non-executive directors a FedEx Corporation 65 was increased by 4% to 78,000 per annum.
The next review DECC 7 of the non-executive director fees is anticipated to take place 149 in December 2011 with any changes expected to take effect on 1January 2012.
Note January January a F ees paid in currencies other than sterling are converted using average Per annum fees effective from 2011 2010 exchange rates for the year ended 30 June 2011.
Base fee 78,000 75,000 Senior non-executive director 20,000 20,000 In line with the FedEx Corporation policy for outside directors, Chairman of audit committee 25,000 25,000 PSWalsh is eligible to be granted share options.
During the year Chairman of remuneration committee 15,000 15,000 ended 30 June 2011, he was granted 4,600 options at an option price of $84.41.
He exercised 4,000 FedEx options during the year, The emoluments received by the non-executive directors in which were granted at an option price of $35.88 and sold at an the year ended 30 June 2011 are shown in the table Directors average price of $95.78.
remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2011.
Diageo Annual Report 2011 94 Governance Directors remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2011 2011 2010 Annual Share Cash in Base incentive incentive lieu of Other b c salary plan plan pension benefits Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Emoluments Chairman fees a Dr FB Humer 450 9 459 406 Executive directors D Mahlan appointed 1 October 2010 431 690 3 172 57 1,353 Governance NC Rose retired from the board on 81 14 October 2010 194 518 3 17 732 1,872 Board of directors and executive committee PS Walsh 1,172 1,884 3 49 75 3,183 3,178 83 1,797 3,092 9 221 149 5,268 5,050 Directors Non-executive directors fees remuneration report PB Bruzelius 76 1 77 76 99 LM Danon 76 1 77 76 Corporate governance report Lord Davies appointed 1 October 2010 64 1 65 108 BD Holden 76 1 77 63 Directors report Lord Hollick 111 1 112 111 PG Scott 101 1 102 101 HT Stitzer 76 1 77 76 PA Walker 76 1 77 76 Former non-executive directors fees M Lilja retired 14 October 2009 21 656 8 664 600 Total 2,903 3,092 9 221 166 6,391 6,056 Notes a 180,000 of Dr FB Humers remuneration in the year ended 30 June 2011 was used for the monthly purchase of Diageo ordinary shares, which must be retained until he retires from the company or ceases to be a director for any other reason.
b D Mahlan does not participate in the companys pension scheme and instead receives a monthly cash supplement equivalent to 40% of base pay.
For the month of April 2011 between opting out of future pension accrual and beginning to draw his pension under the companys general policy of flexible pension access, as described in the Remuneration Summary for the year ended 30 June 2011 section of this report, PS Walsh received a cash supplement in lieu of pension provision equivalent to 50% of base pay.
c Other benefits may include company car and driver, fuel, product allowance, financial counselling and medical insurance.
Long term incentive plans Payments and gains In the year ended 30 June 2011, the executive directors received payments and made gains under long term incentive plans as follows: 2011 2010 Executive share September option 2007 exercises TSR award Total Total 000 000 000 000 Executive directors a D Mahlan appointed 1 October 2010 215 215 NC Rose retired from the board on 14 October 2010 984 PS Walsh 1,225 1,225 2,859 Total 1,440 1,440 3,843 Notes a D Mahlan exercised options that were awarded in the form of American Depository Shares ADS and the gain value was converted from US dollars into sterling using the exchange rate on the date of exercise.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors remuneration report 95 Directors share options over ordinary shares The following table shows the number of options held under all executive share option plans and savings-related schemes for the directors who held office during the year.
The compound annual growth in Diageos EPS over the three years ended 30 June 2011 met the performance condition and 58% of these options will become exercisable in October 2011. b As at 1 October 2010 for D Mahlan.
c As at 14 October 2010 for NC Rose.
These awards were subject to pro-rating after the executive retired from the company to reflect time worked between the date of grant and the date of cessation of employment.
The pro-rated balance will only vest to the extent that the performance condition is met at the end of the performance period.
d Options granted under the Diageo Executive Share Option Plan prior to the executives appointment to the board.
e US options were granted over ADSs at dollar prices one ADS is equivalent to four ordinary shares : the option holdings and prices in the table are stated as ordinary share equivalents in pence.
f Options granted under the UK savings-related share option scheme.
The mid-market price for ordinary shares at 30 June 2011 was 1273 pence 2010 1060 pence: 15 August 2011 1189 pence.
The highest mid-market price during the year was 1300 pence and the lowest mid-market price was 1032 pence.
Diageo Annual Report 2011 96 Governance Directors interests in PSP and TSR plan awards The following table shows the directors interests in the PSP and the TSR plan.
Details of executive share options are shown separately above.
In accordance with the plan rules, the number of shares awarded is determined based on the average of the daily closing price for the preceding financial year.
Of this number of shares initially awarded, 25% under the PSP and 35% under the TSR plan would be released for achieving position eight in the peer group.
No shares would be released for achievement of position nine or below.
b This number reflects the maximum number of shares that could be awarded based on the vesting schedule.
Under the PSP, the maximum would be 100% of the target award.
Under the TSR plan, this would be 150% of the number of shares initially awarded.
The entire amount of these shares would only be released for achieving position one or two in the peer group.
c The three-year performance period for the September 2007 TSR plan award ended on 30 June 2010.
The number of shares released in September 2010 was 0% of the initial award.
This was based on a relative TSR ranking of position 14 in the peer group at the end of the performance period.
Kepler Associates independently verified the TSR increase and ranking.
d The price on 20 September 2010, the release date.
The market price was 1069 pence when the award was made on 18 September 2007. e The directors interests at 15 August 2011 were the same as at 30 June 2011. f As at 14 October 2010 for NC Rose.
g As at 1 October 2010 for D Mahlan.
h The three-year performance period for the October 2008 PSP award ended on 30 June 2011.
The number of shares that will be released in October 2011 is 0% of the initial award.
This was based on a relative TSR ranking of position 12 in the peer group at the end of the performance period.
i The market price on 20 September 2010 was 1091 pence.
j D Mahlan also has outstanding interests in the Discretionary Incentive Plan of 10,432 ordinary shares which are due to vest in full in September 2011. k US share awards were granted in ADS one ADS is equivalent to four ordinary shares : the share holdings in the table are stated as ordinary share equivalents.
Executive directors pension benefits The accrued pension figures at 30 June 2010 shown in the following table represent the annual pension to which the chief executive officer, PS Walsh, and the former chief financial officer, NC Rose, would have been entitled at normal retirement age.
As both are now in receipt of their pension, the pension figures at 30 June 2011 represent the annual pension they are currently receiving.
The transfer values of the pensions calculated at 30 June 2010 and 30 June 2011 are also shown.
The transfer value is broadly the cost to Diageo if it had to provide the equivalent pension benefit.
The transfer values shown in the following table have been calculated on a basis set by the Trustee of the UK Scheme.
The current chief financial officer, D Mahlan, does not participate in the final salary pension scheme, but receives a cash supplement in lieu of pension provision equivalent to 40% of base pay.
The cash in lieu supplement received between the date of DMahlans appointment to the board on 1 October 2010 up to 30 June 2011, was 172,500.
PS Walsh also received a cash supplement in lieu of pension provision between 1 April 2011 and 30 April 2011, relating to the period from when he ceased accruing further pension to the time when he commenced drawing his pension under the companys policy of flexible pension access: the amount received was 49,088.
Pensionable Accrued Additional Accrued Transfer Change in Transfer Age at service at pension at pension pension at value at transfer value at 30 June 30 June 30 June accrued in 30 June 30 June value during 30 June a a b c c 2011 2010 2010 the year 2011 2010 the year 2011 Years Years 000 pa 000 pa 000 pa 000 000 000 NC Rose 53 18.6 396 62 334 7,310 2,581 9,891 PS Walsh 56 28.5 670 112 558 13,481 2,315 15,796 Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Directors remuneration report 97 Notes a Whilst both NC Rose and PS Walsh accrued pension in the year as a result of additional months of pensionable service, this was offset by the early retirement reduction factors applied to the pension in accordance with the Rules of the UK Scheme and the fact that both directors commuted part of their pension for a tax free cash lump sum.
b Part of the pension NC Rose receives is provided from the unfunded non-registered arrangement.
As at 30 June 2011, the percentage of pension provided from this arrangement was 84% 2010 79%.
PS Walsh does not receive any pension from this arrangement.
In addition NC Rose received a tax free payment of 223,777 in respect of his benefits from the funded non-registered retirement benefits scheme.
c The change in the transfer values during the year attributable to additional pensionable service and pay rises was an increase of 203,000 for NC Rose and 593,000 for PS Walsh.
The change in the transfer values during the year as a result of both directors starting to receive their pension was an increase of 1,726,000 for NC Rose and an increase of 747,000 for PS Walsh.
These increases reflect the change in the calculation method used when a member retires and the impact of the early retirement terms offered under the UK Scheme.
These increases have been offset by the pension payments received to date and the fact both directors commuted part of their pension for a tax free cash lump sum resulting in a lower residual pension.
The remainder of the change in the transfer values was mainly attributable to changes in market conditions and interest earned on the transfer value and changes in index-linked gilt markets over the year.
d During the year, NC Rose made pension contributions of 20,190 2010 40,380 and PS Walsh made pension contributions of 52,668 2010 69,300.
Share and other interests The beneficial interests of the directors in office at 30 June 2011 in the ordinary shares of the company are shown in the table below.
b At 30 June 2011, there were 9,014,858 shares 30 June 2010 2,030,340: 15 August 2011 8,847,978 held by trusts to satisfy grants made under Diageo incentive plans and savings-related share option schemes.
PS Walsh is among the potential beneficiaries of these trusts and is deemed to have an interest in all these shares.
c D Mahlan and BD Holden have share interests in ADS one ADS is equivalent to four ordinary shares : the share interests in the table are stated as ordinary share equivalents.
Performance graph The graph below shows the total shareholder return for Diageo and the FTSE 100 Index since 30 June 2006.
The FTSE 100 Index reflects the 100 largest UK quoted companies by market capitalisation and has been chosen because it is a widely recognised performance benchmark for large UK companies.
Total shareholder return value of hypothetical 100 holding based on spot share prices 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 June 06 June 07 June 08 June 09 June 10 June 11 Source: Bloomberg FTSE 100 Notes: TSR based on end of year prices.
FTSE 100 dividends based Diageo on the average 12 month dividend yield of constituents.
Diageo Annual Report 2011 98 Governance Other than disclosed in this report, no director had any interest, Additional information beneficial or non-beneficial, in the share capital of the company.
Save as disclosed above, no director has or has had any interest in Emoluments and share interests of senior management any transaction which is or was unusual in its nature, or which is or The total emoluments for the year ended 30 June 2011 of the was significant to the business of the group and which was executive directors, the executive committee members and the effected by any member of the group during the financial year, or company secretary together, the senior management of Diageo which having been effected during an earlier financial year, comprising base salary, annual incentive plan, share incentive remains in any respect outstanding or unperformed.
There have plan, termination payments and other benefits were 21,636,952 been no material transactions during the last three years to which 2010 21,116,825.
The termination payments included in the any director or officer, or 3% or greater shareholder, or any relative total emoluments will be paid in September 2011 to two or spouse thereof, was a party.
There is no significant outstanding executive committee members and are made with respect to indebtedness to the company from any directors Governance pay in lieu of notice and compensation for loss of office.
A portion or officer or 3% or greater shareholder.
81 Board of directors and of the termination payments may be subject to mitigation.
executive committee The aggregate amount of gains made by the senior Statutory and audit requirements 83 management from the exercise of share options and from the This report was approved by the board of directors, on 23 August Directors vesting of awards during the year was 3,695,724.
In addition, 2011 and was signed on its behalf by Lord Hollick of Notting Hill remuneration they were granted 2,039,657 options under the SESOP during the who is senior non-executive director and chairman of the report year at a weighted average share price of 1081 pence, exercisable remuneration committee.
As required by the Companies Act 99 Corporate by 2020.
They were also initially awarded 1,895,294 shares under 2006, a resolution to approve the directors remuneration report governance report the PSP in September 2010, which will vest in three years subject will be proposed at the AGM and will be subject to an advisory 108 to the performance tests described above.
Five members of the shareholder vote.
Directors report executive committee were also awarded an exceptional grant of The board has followed and complied with the requirements 212,487 deferred shares under the Discretionary Incentive Plan of the Companies Act 2006 with reference to Schedules 5 and 8 of DIP in September 2010 and March 2011.
There are performance the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts conditions attached to the release of these awards and they will and Reports Regulations 2008 and section D of the UK Corporate vest, subject to achievement of the performance conditions, in Governance Code in preparing this report and in designing two equal instalments in the 3rd and 4th year after grant.
performance-related remuneration for senior executives.
KPMG Audit Plc has audited the report to the extent required Senior management options over ordinary shares by the Regulations, being the sections headed Directors At 15 August 2011, the senior management had an aggregate remuneration for the year ended 30 June 2011, Long term beneficial interest in 2,027,262 ordinary shares in the company incentive plans, Directors share options over ordinary shares, and in the following options over ordinary shares in the company: Directors interests in PSP and TSR plan awards and Executive directors pension benefits.
In addition, the following sections form Weighted part of the audited financial statements: Share and other interests average and Key management personnel related party transactions.
exercise Number price Terms defined in this remuneration report are used of options in pence Option period solely herein.
D Mahlan 419,888 1029 Sep 08 Sep 20 PS Walsh 2,651,457 944 Oct 05 Sep 20 Definitions Other 7,270,403 1038 Oct 04 Sep 19 AGM annual general meeting of shareholders.
Adjusted EPS for the purpose of the SESOP, an underlying 10,341,748 measure of EPS is used, calculated as reported EPS adjusted to exclude exceptional items and the impact of changes in Other members of the executive committee and the company secretary.
exchange rates, to apply a tax rate before exceptional items for each year and to exclude the impacts of IAS 19, 21 and 39 from Key management personnel related party transactions net finance charges.
Key management personnel of the group comprises the Normal retirement age for pension purposes this is age 62. executive and non-executive directors, the members of the Organic net sales growth for the purpose of the PSP, the executive committee and the company secretary.
As previously growth in the groups sales net of excise duties and calculated disclosed, Lord Hollick, PS Walsh, NC Rose and G Williams have informed the company that they have purchased seasonal on a constant currency basis excluding the impact of acquisitions, in the year in which they arise, and disposals.
developments at Gleneagles from a subsidiary of the company, Organic operating margin improvement for the purpose of Gleneagles Resort Developments Limited.
The transactions were the PSP, the movement in the groups organic operating profit, priced on the same basis as all the external seasonal development transactions and were at arms length.
The values calculated on a constant currency basis excluding the impact of exceptional items, acquisitions, in the year in which they arise, of the transactions at the date of purchase were as follows: Lord and disposals, divided by organic net sales.
Hollick 25,000, PS Walsh 43,000, NC Rose 11,600 and RPI the retail prices index is a UK government index that GWilliams 19,400.
Each director continued to hold these seasonal developments at 30 June 2011. measures changes in cost of living.
TSR for the purpose of the PSP, total shareholder return is Diageo plc has granted rolling indemnities to the directors the percentage growth in Diageos share price assuming all and the company secretary, uncapped in amount, in relation to dividends and capital distributions are reinvested.
certain losses and liabilities which they may incur in the course of acting as directors or company secretary as applicable of Diageo plc or of one or more of its subsidiaries.
These indemnities continue to be in place at 30 June 2011.
