Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 32 | Report on Directors remuneration for the 52 week period ended 30 December 2011 This report sets out the remuneration policy operated by the Group in respect of the Executive Directors, together with disclosures on all Directors remuneration.
The auditors are required to report on the auditable part of this report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Board has reviewed the Groups compliance with the 2010 Combined Code the Code on remuneration related matters and has followed the Code in the preparation of the report of the Remuneration Committee.
It is the opinion of the Board that the Group complied with all remuneration related aspects of the Code during the period.
Unaudited information The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing policy on remuneration for Executive Directors and senior management and for determining specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors.
Alan McWalter chairs the Remuneration Committee, having assumed the Chairmanship from Bill Forrester, who remains on the Committee, on 27 September 2011.
Its other members are the independent NonExecutive Directors: James Newman and Ishbel Macpherson.
At the end of March 2012, Bill Forrester and James Newman will retire from the Board and hence the Remuneration Committee.
They will be replaced on the Committee by the two new NonExecutive Directors, Jane Ashcroft and Martin Pexton.
The Code requires that a Group of the size of Dignity plc has a Remuneration Committee comprising a minimum of three nonexecutives.
The Remuneration Committee members have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in matters to be decided, no potential conflicts of interests arising from cross directorships and no daytoday involvement in running the business.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive attend the Remuneration Committee by invitation or when required and the Company Secretary, who is also the Corporate Services Director, attends meetings when required as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
No Executive Director takes part in discussions relating to their own remuneration and benefits.
The Remuneration Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference.
A copy of the terms of reference is available for inspection on the Groups investor website www.
The Committee met five times during 2011.
At those meetings basic salaries of Executive Directors and senior managers were reviewed, the targets and quantum of annual performance related bonuses for Directors were also agreed, as were options granted under the Groups Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
The meetings also approved the payment of the 2010 performance related bonus and dealt with the vesting of the shares awarded under the LTIP scheme in 2008.
A further meeting was also held on 1 March 2012 to approve the payment of the performance related bonus for 2011, and the 2012 LTIP awards.
In 2008, the Committee retained the external benefit consultants, Hewitt New Bridge Street, to complete a review of the Executive Directors remuneration.
In discussions with the Committee, and in consultation with Hewitt New Bridge Street, it was decided that a Comparator Group would be defined consisting of all companies in the Consumer Goods and Consumer Services Sector of the FTSE 250 filtered to exclude companies deriving more than 50 per cent of their turnover from overseas or having a market capitalisation in excess of 1.4 billion at that time.
This gave a group of 32 companies with an average market capitalisation of 628 million at November 2008 as the Comparator Group.
At that date Dignity had a market capitalisation of 473 million and an enterprise value including net debt of 710 million.
The bottom half of the FTSE 250 was also used as a reference point for the benchmarking process.
The Committee continue to believe that the use of this Comparator Group is the most appropriate way of reviewing and setting Executive Directors salaries.
Remuneration policy The objective of the remuneration policy is to provide remuneration packages to each Executive Director that will: Align rewards with the interests of shareholders: Motivate and encourage superior performance: Allow the Group to retain the talent needed to execute its business strategy: Enable the Group to be competitive when recruiting appropriately skilled and experienced management: and Ensure that the overall package for each director is linked to strategic objectives.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this policy will retain and develop further the Groups entrepreneurial culture, whilst also focusing executive remuneration on performance which the Committee believes will best serve shareholders interests.
It is therefore the aim of the Remuneration Committee to encourage and reward superior performance by Executive Directors with that performance being based on strong financial performance and returns to shareholders.
This is achieved by weighting the overall remuneration package towards achievement of that performance.
Only 31 per cent of each Executive Directors total potential remuneration package ignoring benefits and pension contributions is accounted for by basic salary, assuming a full annual bonus is achieved and a maximum conditional award under the LTIP is made and then that LTIP vests in full.
