Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 52 REmunERaTIOn REPORT FOR THE yEaR EnDED 31 OCTObER 2011 unaudited remuneration committee This Committee deals with all aspects of remuneration of the Executive Directors and is also responsible for recommending andmonitoring the level and structure of senior management remuneration and setting the Chairmans fees.
Its members are currently Sir David Brown Committee Chairman, Mr p Ruffles, SirMark Wrightson and Mr C Brinsmead.
Sir David Brown succeeded Mr Ruffles as Chairman of the Committee on 15September 2011.
The Chairman, the Managing Director and the Group hR Director areinvited to attend the Committee meetings but do not participate indecisions regarding their own remuneration.
These attendees were present when the Committee considered matters relating to the Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 October 2011.
TheCommittee met four times during the year.
assistance to the committee SIR DavID bROWn COMMITTEE ChAIRMAN Mercer human Resource Consulting, Monks and vicki Sanderson, theGroup hR Director, have provided advice to the Committee onsalaries and benefits for the Executive Directors and senior Remuneration Committee members management.
Mercer human Resource Consulting and Monks Sir David brown Committee Chairman haveno other connection with the Company.
mr P Ruffles remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee seeks to establish remuneration Sir mark Wrightson packages that will attract, retain and motivate high-quality directors.
mr C brinsmead Salary and benefit packages for Executive Directors are linked to both individual and business performance and are designed to ensure that the Group is managed in the interests of shareholders.
In assessing remuneration, the Committee reviews the remuneration of directors in businesses with global operations comparable to those of the Group.
The Committee has access to salary surveys of major consultants.
It also takes into account the pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
salary Salaries and benefits are established by reference to those prevailing in the employment market generally for executives of comparable experience and skills and take into account the level of responsibility and achievement of the individual.
Broadly, the Committee seeks to pitch base salary at the median level for comparable positions.
The bonus and the Long-Term Incentive plan are then used to ensure that, when performance merits, total annual earnings are in the upper quartile for comparable positions.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 53 The Committee spends considerable time on setting objectives and looks to ensure they are suitably demanding and aligned with the objectives of the Group SIR DavID bROWn COMMITTEE ChAIRMAN annual bonus plan over three years exceeds the percentage increase in the fTSE Mid Executive Directors participate in an annual performance related 250 Total Return Index the Index over the same period plus 8 bonus scheme and for the year under review the bonus potentially per cent.
12.5 per cent of the shares are allocated if the increase payable ranged between 0 per cent and 100 per cent of base salary.
inTSR is no less than that of the Index.
Below this, no shares are The bonus comprised a figure of up to 50 per cent of base salary allocated under this provision.
Between these two points, allocation calculated by reference to the achievement of Group profit and cash occurs on a straight-line basis.
In addition, if an Executive Director achieves his personal objectives a multiplier is applied to this figure.
The amount ii 50 per cent of the award shares are allocated if the percentage of the multiplier is dependent on the level of achievement and the growth in the Groups earnings per share EpS over three years maximum that can be earned under this element of the bonus exceeds the percentage increase in the Retail price Index RpI scheme is 50 per cent of base salary.
over the same period plus 25 per cent.
12.5 per cent of the shares are allocated if the increase in EpS is no less than that of the RpI The Committee spends considerable time on setting objectives plus 6 per cent.
Below this, no shares are allocated under this andlooks to ensure they are suitably demanding and aligned with provision.
Between these two points, allocation occurs on a theobjectives of the Group.
It also concentrates on ensuring that straight-line basis.
personal objectives are specific and measurable.
At the end of the year, the Committee carefully reviews performance and consults for awards made prior to 2006 basic EpS was used for this withthe Managing Director regarding the performance of the other performance condition.
for awards made in 2006 and 2007 Executive Directors.
for the year ended 31 October 2011, the Executive Directors earned The graph below shows the Groups performance, measured by TSR, bonuses in the range of 21 to 29 per cent of salary.
No part of these compared with the performance of the fTSE Mid 250 Total Return bonuses was deferred.
Index for the period 1 November 2006 to 31 October 2011. shareholding requirement FIvE yEaR TOTaL SHaREHOLDER RETuRn PERFORmanCE The Executive Directors are required to build and maintain a holdingofat least 40,000 Domino shares.
Shares held in trust under 300 the Long-Term Incentive plan 1997 are not counted towards this requirement.
Each Executive Director holds more than 40,000 shares.
250 200 long-term incentive Plans Long-Term Incentive Plan 1997 150 Under this plan, which expired in March 2007, the Remuneration Committee made conditional awards of shares annually to all the 100 Executive Directors and certain senior managers.
There was no 50 maximum award value stated in the plan but in practice a limit was adopted of 60 per cent of the individuals base salary.
The deferred 0 element of the award referred to below was included in this maximum.
Oct 06 Oct 07 Oct 08 Oct 09 Oct 10 Oct 11 The Committee set objective performance conditions for each award.
FIVE YEAR PERIOD FROM 1 NOVEMBER 2006 TO 31 OCTOBER 2011 After three years the shares comprised in the conditional award are DOMINO PRINTING SCIENCES PIC allocated if, and to the extent that, the performance conditions were FTSE MID 250 TOTAL RETURN INDEX met.
The performance conditions for the awards of shares to the Executive Directors that have been made under the plan were Any shares allocated to participants are held in trust for a further asfollows: three years.
During this period, additional awards are made annually based on the number of shares allocated, giving a possible maximum i 50 per cent of the award shares are allocated to a participant if the addition of 72 per cent of the original award.
This deferred element percentage increase in the Groups total shareholder return TSR was included in assessing the value of the original conditional award.
TSR % from 1 November 2006 Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 54 REmunERaTIOn REPORT FOR THE yEaR EnDED 31 OCTObER 2011 COnTInuED Long-Term Incentive Plan 2008 Participants in the Long-Term Incentive Plan schemes This plan was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Awards are made annually to the Executive Directors and certain Meeting on 19 March 2008. senior managers who are in a position to influence significantly the performance of the Group.
Under the terms of the plan the Remuneration Committee may grant awards to the Executive Directors and employees of the Company or In determining the size of Long-Term Incentive plan awards, the other Group companies.
Unless the Committee otherwise decides, Remuneration Committee takes into account the extent to which the the aggregate value of the shares awarded in each year will not participant is in a position to influence the performance of the Group exceed an amount equal to the recipients annual basic salary.
and the need to provide effective and competitive incentives.
All costs of the Long-Term Incentive plan are borne by Domino printing The awards will be subject to performance conditions to be met over Sciences plc and recharged to appropriate operating companies.
a performance period of three years or more.
At the end of the performance period the awards will vest to the extent the assessment of performance measures performance conditions have been satisfied.
The EpS performance measures are assessed by reference to the RpI published by the Office for National Statistics.
The performance conditions for each grant of awards will be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
for the awards made The TSR for the comparator group and for Domino is taken from the in 2008 and subsequent years the performance period is three years Return Index produced by Datastream.
and the performance conditions are as follows: Selection of performance measures EpS performance condition The performance measures were selected because they are simple 12.5 per cent of award shares will vest if the increase in the Groups and transparent and align the interest of participants with those of underlying EpS over the performance period is no less than the shareholders.
fTSE 250 indices were selected because they were increase in RpI over the same period plus 12 per cent.
If the increase considered the most appropriate for a company of Dominos size in the Groups underlying EpS is less than this figure no shares will andsector.
vest under the EpS performance condition.
executive and save as you earn saye share fifty per cent of award shares will vest if the increase in the Groups optionschemes underlying EpS over the performance period exceeds the increase The Company has operated Executive share option schemes since inRpI over the same period by 30 per cent or more.
Executive share options are currently granted to subsidiary general managers and other senior managers.
Executive share option Between these two points, the proportion of the award that will vest grants have not been made to directors since the introduction of a will increase on a straight-line basis from 12.5 per cent to 50 per cent.
long-term incentive plan in 1997 and no Executive Directors now hold Executive share options.
for the purposes of measuring underlying EpS, the underlying EpS figure reported in the audited results of the Group for the last The exercise of executive options granted prior to 2004 is conditional complete financial year ending before the start of the performance on EpS growth over a three year period exceeding the level of growth period and the last complete financial year ending before the end of in the RpI over the same period, plus 6 per cent.
for executive options the performance period will be used.
granted after 2003 the exercise of the options is conditional on EpS growth exceeding the level of growth in the RpI plus 9 per cent.
for TSR performance condition options granted before 2005, basic EpS was used for the performance A comparator group will be used consisting of trading companies which condition.
for options granted in 2005, and subsequent years, underlying have been in the fTSE 250 throughout the performance period.
Achievement of EpS performance conditions is assessed by reference to earnings per share as reported in the Groups audited 12.5 per cent of award shares will vest if the increase in the Groups results and the RpI published by the Office for National Statistics.
TSR over the performance period places it in the median position inthe comparator group.
If the Groups position in the comparator All Uk-based employees including Executive Directors are entitled to group is less than the median no shares will vest under this condition.
participate in the SAyE scheme.
This is not subject to any performance conditions.
Since this is a standard, hMRC approved scheme open fifty per cent of award shares will vest if the increase in the Groups toall employees it was not considered appropriate to include TSR over the performance period places it in the top quartile of the suchconditions.
Pensions Between these two points, the proportion of the award that Executive Directors are members of a defined contribution wouldvest will increase on a straight-line basis from 12.5 per cent schemethat is available to all Domino Uk employees.
commencing 1 November 2010, the Company contribution was 25.5 per cent and the Executive Directors contribution was 4.5 per cent.
for the purpose of measuring increases in TSR, the average of theGroups closing mid-market share price over the three months preceding the start of the performance period and preceding the endof the performance period will be used.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 55 In response to the changes to pension allowances which took non-executive directors effectinApril this year, the Company has introduced a supplementary Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by the full Board, pension plan.
participants in this plan may choose to limit the annual although individual directors do not participate in the determination pension contribution made by the Company on their behalf so that oftheir own fees.
It is the Boards policy that Non-Executive Directors the total amount of their annual contributions to the Company should not participate in any of the Groups bonus, share option or scheme is restricted to the amount of the annual pension allowance.
other incentive schemes and should not have contracts of service.
Any amounts that would have been paid by the Company as a TheBoard seeks to set the fees at the level paid for comparable roles.
pension contribution in the absence of this limitation are paid to the No additional fees are paid for committee membership.
participants who have pension savings at or close Executive Directors are entitled to receive six months notice of the to the lifetime pension allowance may choose to stop contributions to termination of their appointment.
the Company scheme and receive the amounts that would otherwise have been made by the Company as a cash payment.
Income tax and remuneration throughout the group National Insurance will be deducted from cash payments made under The Group seeks to establish remuneration packages that will attract, this supplementary plan.
The payments will also be reduced by the retain and motivate high-quality employees.
amount of the Companys additional employers National Insurance cost arising in respect of the payments.
Salary and benefit packages are linked to both individual and business performance.
All employees participate in bonus schemes, which, Nigel Bond and Andrew herbert joined the supplementary pension together with salary reviews linked to business performance, enable plan with effect from 6 April 2011. all employees to share in the success of the Group.
Performance related elements share incentive Plan siP The payment of basic salary and benefits comprising pension, The Company operates a hMRC approved SIp to enable employees healthinsurance and the provision of a car or car allowance are not to invest in the Companys shares in a tax efficient way.
This plan is performance related.
payments under the annual bonus scheme and open to all Uk-based employees.
awards under the Long-Term Incentive plan are performance related.
audited service contracts further information It is the Companys policy to enter into open-ended service contracts Note 6 to the accounts on pages 79 to 82, which constitutes part of with Executive Directors that are terminable by notice not exceeding this report, gives details of the remuneration of each of the directors one year.
and details of interests in the Companys option schemes and Long-Term Incentive plan.
All the Executive Directors have open-ended service contracts thatare terminable by the Company on 12 months notice and by Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors.
theDirector on six months notice.
The Company reserves the rightto pay salary in lieu of notice.
The service contracts are dated 7November 2008.
The service contracts provide for predetermined compensation to be payable on termination following a change in control.
If the Company terminates a Directors service contract within two years of a change in control or a Director terminates the contract within six months of SIR DavID bROWn ChAIRMAN Of ThE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE a change in control, the Director is entitled to a payment equal to 12 December 2011 oneyears salary and benefits and compensation for loss of bonus.
Compensation for loss of bonus accruing during the year in which termination occurs is calculated at the highest bonus rate payable for that financial year pro rated for the period served in that financial year.
In addition, the Director is entitled to a payment calculated using the average of the bonus percentages awarded to him under the bonus scheme over the three years prior to the termination date, applied to the Directors base salary as at the termination date.
Payments on termination The Committees approach to payments on termination is to considerthe specific circumstances of the case including the reasons for termination, the Companys contractual obligations and the rules of the relevant share schemes.
To the extent practicable, the Committee would seek to apply mitigation.
FInanCIaL STaTEmEnTS 58 Directors Responsibilities Statement 59 Independent Auditors Report 60 Consolidated Income Statement 61 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 62 Consolidated Balance Sheet 63 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 64 Consolidated Cash flow Statement 65 parent Company Balance Sheet 66 parent Company Statement of Changes inEquity 67 parent Company Cash flow Statement 68 Notes to the Accounts 108 Investor Information 109 Advisers
