w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. c co o.. u uk k | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. i ie e | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. d fide e Report on Directors remuneration 2.
The introduction of a new long-term incentive plan for which Dear Shareholder shareholder approval is being sought at our 2012 AGM.
Full As described in the Operating and Financial Review, the FY 2011 details are set out in the accompanying Notice of AGM.
results illustrate the ability of our business to continue growing despite the tough economic conditions in the United Kingdom and 3.
Alignment of the second part of the new Chief Executives Ireland.
The increase in profitability achieved in FY 2011 recruitment incentive with the targets set in respect of the new demonstrates the strength of our business model and brand, the long-term incentive plan to ensure the executive management strong and effective leadership of our management team, the talents team are working towards common objectives.
of our franchisees and the commitment of both corporate and 4.
Clawback arrangements which will be introduced into 2012 franchisee staff.
In light of Executive Directors achievements during the year, the The above changes are considered necessary by the Committee to Remuneration Committee the Committee considers the ensure that its policy continues to enable recruitment, retention remuneration paid to the Executive Directors to fairly reflect their and motivation of the quality of executives required to continue to performance during the year.
As a result of reaching the target set successfully deliver sustainable growth in our business and further for annual growth in adjusted PBT, the annual bonus entitlement create returns for shareholders.
The key pillar of our reward for the Executive Directors was 60% of salary.
Despite this philosophy, competitive rewards only for growing the Companys entitlement to 60% of salary, the Executive Directors informed the share price and delivering above market annual rates of EPS Committee they wished to see the actual bonuses paid reduced by growth, remain at the heart of the above revisions.
In addition, 25% i. e. from 60% to 45% in light of reduced bonus awards made given that a substantial proportion of the total package is weighted to employees across the Group.
towards long-term performance and share retention, the Committee With regard to the Companys longer-term performance, reflecting is comfortable that the amended remuneration policy does not the Companys successful implementation of its growth strategy, the inadvertently encourage undue risk taking.
2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan awards measuring performance The Committee looks forward to your support at the 2012 AGM.
from 29 December 2008 to 25 December 2011 will vest at 100% as a result of delivering annualised adjusted EPS growth of 22.7% John Hodson over the performance period, which significantly exceeded the LTIP Independent Non-Executive Director and chairman of the performance targets set.
Remuneration Committee To ensure that our remuneration policy continues to support the Companys growth strategy in the current economic environment, and reflecting the feedback received from our shareholders following our 2011 AGM, the Committee has recently undertaken a review of its remuneration policy.
The key conclusion of the review was that the current policy of providing at or below median base salaries and an upper quartile incentive opportunity for delivery of superior performance remains appropriate.
However, a number of modifications are proposed to the current structure.
In summary, these include: Adjusted profit bef ore tax means profit before tax and before operating and non operating exceptional items and before any trading results relating to Germany.
Adjustments to base salary levels to ensure that they remain Adjusted profit before tax means profit before tax and before operating and appropriate as a result of i the promotion of Lance Batchelor non-operating exceptional items.
to the role of Chief Executive and ii the Companys stated Adjusted earnings per share means diluted earnings per share before operating and non operating exceptional items and before any trading results relating to the remuneration policy of setting an upper quartile total German business.
remuneration opportunity from an at or below median Adjusted earnings per share means diluted earnings per share before operating base salary.
and non operating exceptional items.
48 48 Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 O Ove ver rv vi ie ew w O Op pe er ra at ti in ng a g an nd fi d fin na an nc ci ia al r l re ev vi ie ew w D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t Co Cor rp po or rat ate e g go ov five er rna nan nc ce e Report on Directors remuneration Fi Fin nan anc ci ia al ls s Report on Director D sir r eem ctou rn ser rep atio orn t Introduction reviewed and approved with a number of modifications This report sets out the Companys policy on Directors remuneration policy for Executive Directors and senior remuneration for the forthcoming year, and, so far as practicable, management for FY 2012, including the annual performance bonus for subsequent years, as well as information on remuneration paid and a new long-term incentive plan with appropriate performance to Directors in the financial year to 25 December 2011. measures: undertook a review of all share plan performance measures for The report complies with the requirements of The Large and awards made in 2011 and considered the performance targets to Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports be applied to the 2012 share plan awards: Regulations 2008 the Regulations and has been prepared in line with the recommendations of the Code and the UKLA Listing Rules.
undertook a review of Executive Directors and senior managers The Regulations require the Companys auditors to report on the base salaries and benefits in conjunction with advisers : Audited Information in the report and to state that this section has reviewed and decided upon an alternative long term incentive been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
For this scheme, for approval at the forthcoming AGM: and reason, the report is divided into audited and unaudited information.
This report has been prepared by the Committee and confirmed that the proposed FY 2012 remuneration policy is not has been approved by the Board and will be put to shareholders for anticipated to inadvertently encourage any undue risk taking.
Advice provided to the Committee Part I: Unaudited Information During the year, the Committee has consulted: The Remuneration Committee The role of the Committee The Chairman of the Company on issues where his experience and The Committee is responsible for determining policy on remuneration knowledge have been of benefit to its discussions and he attends for Executive Directors and senior managers.
The Committee is, the meetings from time to time by invitation.
within this policy, responsible for determining on behalf of the Board The Chief Executive Officer has also been consulted on proposals the remuneration packages of individual Executive Directors concerning the remuneration of senior management and likewise including the Chairman of the Company and for approving the he attends the meetings from time to time by invitation.
design and operation of all share-based incentive schemes for Executive Directors and senior managers.
The terms of reference of The General Counsel & Company Secretary who acts as secretary the Committee are available for inspection on our website.
New Bridge Street NBS, who acted as independent external Remuneration Committee members: adviser to the Committee during the year and who assisted on the John Hodson Chairman review of the remuneration policy and the production of salary Michael Shallow benchmarking data.
Peter Klauber until 30 September 2011 Lance Batchelor until 27 June 2011 BDO LLP BDO who were consulted but not formally appointed Syl Saller from 23 November 2011 as advisers to the Committee during the year on alternative long The Committees activities during 2011 term incentive plans.
The Committee met four times during the year and considered a NBS has no other connection with the Group and nor does its number of key issues.
In particular it: ultimate parent, Aon Corporation.
BDO also provide a broad range of tax, share scheme and advisory services to the Group.
reviewed and approved all new LTIP awards by the trustees of the EBT to the Executive Directors and senior management: reviewed the Committees terms of reference: approved the FY 2010 Directors Remuneration report and reviewed the final outcome of AGM voting for the report: Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 49 49 w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. c co o.. u uk k | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. i ie e | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. d fide e The conclusion of the review was that a new long-term incentive Executive Director remuneration the policy plan should be put to shareholders in 2012 that, as in previous The Committee believes the principles of accountability and years, will continue to reward executives for growing the Companys transparency are essential and therefore that the remuneration share price i. e. through structuring 2012 awards as market value arrangements must evidence a clear link between reward and options with vesting subject to the delivery of challenging achievement.
The Committees remuneration policy has, at its long-term adjusted EPS growth targets.
While in principle this core, the following objectives: structure is similar to the current LTIP, a number of modifications to the approach taken in prior years are to be made to the current plan to set total remuneration at a level sufficient to attract, retain design to ensure that 2012 incentive policy is clear, transparent and and motivate Executive Directors and senior employees of the motivational for participants and consistent with current growth highest calibre, whilst controlling cost: expectations for the Company.
Full details of the new plan are to weight a significant proportion of remuneration towards included in the Notice of AGM.
variable pay with at or below median base salary vis--vis Aligning reward to strategic priorities comparable benchmarks and above market incentive The Board sets stretching performance targets for both the business opportunity linked to the delivery of superior performance: and its senior managers.
In designing an appropriate and to have demanding short and long term performance targets sustainable incentive structure for the Executive Directors and that are specific, measurable and fully aligned with the senior management, the Committee endeavours to set challenging Companys business objectives to provide strong linkage performance criteria that are aligned with the Groups current between remuneration and performance: strategy for the business as described earlier in this Annual Report and the enhancement of shareholder value.
It also seeks to to create a strong alignment between the interests of senior strike an appropriate balance between short and long-term managers and the delivery of value to shareholders: and performance and encourages Executive Directors to build a to avoid creating excessive risks in the achievement of meaningful share ownership through operating share ownership performance targets.
guidelines and a share retention policy for vested shares.
The Committee believes that it continues to take into account the principles of sound risk management when setting pay.
Regular It is intended that this policy, which has applied throughout the liaison takes place between the Remuneration and Audit reporting year, will, following its review and re-affirmation by the Committees as appropriate as part of an effective remuneration risk Committee, continue to apply for 2012 albeit with a long-term assessment process.
The Committee has to ensure that the Company incentive opportunity to be provided through a new plan as is able to attract and retain senior managers of the highest quality, described in the Notice of AGM.
The remuneration policy was individuals who can not only deliver the required financial results reviewed during the year against the objectives set out above and but also appropriately manage risk and behave in an ethical the recommendations included in the Code.
In line with the Association of British Insurers ABI took into account relevant institutional investor and shareholder Guidelines on Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee representative bodies best practice guidelines, together with ensures that the incentive structure for Executive Directors and feedback received from these parties following the publication of senior management will not raise environmental, social or the last Directors Remuneration report.
governance ESG risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible New Long-Term Incentive Plan the 2012 Long-Term Incentive behaviour.
More generally, with regard to the overall remuneration Plan, 2012 LTIP structure, there is no restriction on the Committee which prevents it The current long-term incentive plan is considered by the from taking into account corporate governance on ESG matters and Committee to have has served the Company well with clear it takes due account of issues of general operational risk when alignment achieved between delivery of the Companys growth structuring incentives.
The Committee also takes due account of strategy and rewarding executives.
remuneration structures elsewhere in the Group and to the current economic climate when setting pay for the Executive Directors for Continued use of the current plan for 2012 was reviewed by the example, consideration is given to the overall salary increase Committee in light of the current strategic objectives of the budget and the incentive structures that operate across the Group.
Company, the granting of exceptional awards in 2011 see section on Long Term Incentive Plan on page 54, the 2011 UK Finance Bill and general market practice.
50 50 Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 O Ove ver rv vi ie ew w O Op pe er ra at ti in ng a g an nd fi d fin na an nc ci ia al r l re ev vi ie ew w D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t Co Cor rp po or rat ate e g go ov five er rna nan nc ce e Report on Directors remuneration Fi Fin nan anc ci ia al ls s Report on Director D sir r eem ctou rn ser rep atio orn t Overview of remuneration framework for senior management, including Executive Directors Elements of Objective how this supports remuneration the strategy Opportunity Summary details Base salary Provide threshold level of remuneration 2011 Reviewed annually from 1 January, external set with due consideration given to: Former CEO 420,000 benchmarking undertaken as appropriate relevant benchmarks Deputy CEO 350,000 reflecting size and nature of role, individuals other elements of pay CFO 245,000 performance, increases awarded to other 2012 employees, economic climate, market conditions Takes account of experience and New CEO 430,000 and Company performance personal contribution to Group strategy CFO 265,000 Annual Incentivises year on year delivery of 2011 & 2012 Award subject to achievement against a challenging performance short term performance goals CEO 150% of salary sliding scale of adjusted Group PBT 2011 and bonus consistent with medium to long term 60% for on-target PBT 2012 targets.
strategic goals of the business.
Aligned performance No element of compulsory deferred shares.
to shareholder interests through annual Other Executive financial performance as well as Directors 125% of Clawback provisions will apply from 2012 onwards.
delivery of overall business strategy salary 60% for on-target performance Long Term Incentivises long term value creation 2011 Historic LTIP awards were subject to challenging Incentive Plan and alignment with shareholder Former CEO 600% of adjusted EPS and PBT targets and a 5 year LTIP interests.
As the primary long term salary exceptional performance target.
Since 2008, the LTIP was incentive, aids retention of senior award subject to a challenging range of adjusted EPS management CFO 600% of salary performance targets Average annual compound EPS exceptional award growth of RPI 9 to 12%, with straight-line vesting Targets set are motivating and 2012 2012 LTIP between 25% and 100% and a 3 year performance demonstrably linked to Company Details are included in period.
Awards are discretionary and participation performance.
Provides focus on Notice of AGM.
increasing the Companys share price over the medium to longer term Requirement to hold one third of the award in Company shares for minimum period of 2 years post vesting.
2012 LTIP A new LTIP is proposed for 2012 onwards.
The awards will have a 3 year vesting period and be subject to revised but challenging adjusted EPS performance targets.
Full details of the new plan are set out in the Notice of AGM.
Pension Provide a market competitive 15% of salary Cash allowance paid as a percentage of salary.
retirement benefit contribution Lance To facilitate the recruitment of Lance 2011 The performance target for the award granted in Batchelor Batchelor A market value option 2011 was as for the 2011 LTIP awards.
Recruitment over 1,000,000 shares Incentive implemented using provision The performance target for the award to be Incentive 2012 9.4.
2 2 of the Listing Rules granted in 2012 will be as for the awards to be A Market value option granted under the 2012 LTIP as set out in Notice over 1,000,000 shares of AGM but a five year performance period will operate.
The award will be tested against the performance criteria at the end of year five with 75% vesting immediately and 25% vesting after a further year, subject to continued employment.
Other benefits Provide market competitive benefits Not applicable Benefits include private medical insurance, life insurance and use of a Company vehicle or cash equivalent Share Require Executive Directors to build Not applicable Executive Directors have historically been required ownership and maintain a significant shareholding to hold shares equivalent to 100% of salary within guidelines a maximum of 5 years from taking office.
The Supports alignment with shareholder Notice of AGM will contain details of how the LTIP interests retention requirements will work in conjunction with increased share ownership guidelines.
Adjusted profit before tax means profit before tax and before operating and non-operating exceptional items and before any trading results relating to the German business.
Adjusted profit bef ore tax means profit before tax and before operating and non-operating exceptional items.
Adjusted earning s per share means diluted earnings per share before operating and non-operating exceptional items and before any trading results relating to the German business.
Adjusted earnings per share means diluted earnings per share before operating and non-operating exceptional items Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 51 51 w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. c co o.. u uk k | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. i ie e | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. d fide e The extent to which the performance conditions that apply to the The following charts show the total remuneration package for performance related elements of the remuneration framework are Executive Directors split between pay at risk and fixed pay for on met is assessed by the Committee, following sign off of the audited target and maximum performance in FY2011.
This process ensures that incentive 1.
In calculating on target performance, the annual performance payments are made following independently audited results being bonus is valued at 60% of salary with LTIP awards assumed to known.
Remuneration received in respect of each of these elements vest at the threshold of 25% of the total award with, for the by the Executive Directors is shown on pages 57 and 59. purposes of illustration, share price growth assumed at 9% per The Committee considers the above remuneration framework, when annum above RPI.
taken as a whole, ensures there is an appropriate balance between 2.
Maximum performance assumes maximum annual bonus reward for short term success and long term growth.
awards payable with full vesting under the LTIP with, for the Balance between fixed and variable pay purposes of illustration, share price growth is assumed at 12% Based on the remuneration structure that applied in 2011, for per annum above RPI.
achievement of target levels of performance, significantly more than Pay and Conditions across the Group 40% of total remuneration will be delivered from business We do take the pay and conditions across the Group into account performance related elements of the remuneration structure.
when setting the remuneration of the senior management, including Therefore remuneration will increase or decrease in line with Executive Directors.
This can be illustrated by the following: performance.
For performance above target levels, a higher proportion of total remuneration will be delivered via performance As a Group, we ensure that all employees are paid by reference to related pay.
The performance conditions for each variable element the market rate for their roles: are normally the same for each Executive Director.
Business KPIs are cascaded down through the organisation: The variable elements of remuneration are dependent upon the Bonus schemes operate across the Group and are all  of performance measures that are identified as based: important sustainable growth drivers for the business and that are aligned with the creation of shareholder value.
The balance Share option plans are open to all employees in the UK and achieved in the packages is significantly more performance related Germany and SAYE schemes are open to all UK employees: and than that operated in comparatively sized leisure companies and A range of other benefits are available to all employees.
FTSE All-Share companies of a comparative size more generally, particularly at high levels of performance.
1 On target : Chris Moore Lance Batchelor Lee Ginsberg 7% 8% 11% 20% 24% 25% 34% 42% 40% 24% 25% 38% 2 Maximum : Chris Moore Lance Batchelor Lee Ginsberg 3% 3% 5% 15% 12% 22% 17% 26% 18% Pay at risk: Annual bonus Pay at risk: LTIP Fixed pay: Salary Pension and benefits 54% 70% 55% 1 In calculating on target performance, the annual performance bonus is valued at 60% of salary with LTIP awards assumed to vest at the threshold of 25% of the total award with, for the purposes of illustration, share price growth assumed at 9% per annum above RPI.
2 Maximum per formance assumes maximum annual bonus awards payable with full vesting under the LTIP, for the purposes of illustration, share price growth is assumed at 12% per annum above RPI.
52 52 Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 O Ove ver rv vi ie ew w O Op pe er ra at ti in ng a g an nd fi d fin na an nc ci ia al r l re ev vi ie ew w D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t Co Cor rp po or rat ate e g go ov five er rna nan nc ce e Report on Directors remuneration Fi Fin nan anc ci ia al ls s Report on Director D sir r eem ctou rn ser rep atio orn t In relation to Executive Directors and senior executives, the Chairmans fee Committee determines base salaries by reference to individual The fee for the Chairman reflects the level of responsibility and performance and market rates for similar positions in broadly commitment to the role and is determined by the Remuneration comparable companies.
In 2011, the fee payable to Stephen Hemsley was 191,000 and following a review of Non-Executive Fixed Remuneration Director fees which takes place every two years, the fee payable in Executive Directors salary 2012 will increase by 2% to 195,000.
This increase is consistent In setting the base salary of each Executive Director, the Committee with the salary increase budget operated for the Group as a whole.
considers salary levels in comparably sized companies, individual performance and experience, any change in the size and nature of Non-Executive Directors fees the role and the salary budget for the Group as a whole.
With regard Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee with additional fees for to benchmarking Executive Directors remuneration for the purposes chairing of the Committee and the Audit Committee.
No additional of setting pay for the 2012 financial year, similar sized companies fee is paid for chairing the Nominations Committee.
The Senior were considered from the FTSE Travel & Leisure Sector and from Independent Director is also paid a fee given the additional across all FTSE sectors more generally.
This approach was similar to responsibility and time commitment required of this position.
that taken in prior years with the 2012 salary levels set being, on The fees are determined and approved by the Board on the average, around the average lower quartile benchmark considered recommendation of the Executive Directors.
Since 2009, the fees for each position.
have comprised a 38,000 base fee with an additional fee of 7,000 payable for chairmanship of the Committee and the Audit The salary levels of the current Executive Directors for 2012 are Committee and an additional fee of 5,000 for the position of as follows: Senior Independent Director.
Following the above mentioned review Chief Executive Lance Batchelor : 430,000 that took place in December 2011, with effect from 1 January 2012, Chief Financial Officer Lee Ginsberg : 265,000 the base fee has increased by 2% to 39,000.
With regard to Lance Batchelors salary, this reflects the salary of The Companys policy on Chairmans and Non-Executive Directors the former Chief Executive with a cost of living increase awarded fees can be summarised as follows: that, at around 2%, is consistent with the salary increase budget set the Chairman and Non-Executives should not participate in any of for the Group as a whole.
The Committee was comfortable with the the Companys incentive schemes: increase on the basis that i the salary is commensurate with the responsibilities of the role ii the market positioning achieved by the fees should be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain first the revised salary is consistent with the Companys remuneration class Non-Executives: and policy and iii the individuals performance in post which has the fees are reviewed every two years in light of other companies resulted in a seamless transition of leadership responsibilities from of a similar size, anticipated work load and responsibilities.
As disclosed in last years Directors Remuneration report, Lance Batchelor received a base salary of Colin Halpern, the Non-Executive Vice Chairman, is seconded to the 350,000 from his date of appointment as Deputy Chief Executive Company from HS Real LLC under the terms of a management until his promotion to Chief Executive.
agreement originally entered into in 1999.
Colin Halpern has played an integral part for 19 years in building our business and continues The salary increase awarded to the Chief Financial Officer for 2012, to provide regular advice and assistance to the Executive Directors, at around 8%, ensures that his salary is set at around the average of and as an international ambassador for the Company was closely the lower quartile market data considered by the Committee.
involved in securing the acquisition opportunity for Germany.
As Maintaining a lower quartile base salary position is considered the disclosed in previous years, the management fees are reviewed threshold salary positioning for a Chief Financial Officer in a annually.
The figure for 2011 was agreed and equated to 260,000, company of Dominos size, particularly in light of his continued including expenses.
Following the review of fees noted above, the strong performance in post.
Variable Remuneration Annual Performance Bonus APB short term incentive The APB provides a focus on the delivery of the stretching financial targets that are set following consideration of the Companys annual operating plan by the Committee each year and there is a threshold performance below which no award is paid.
In 2011, bonus awards were based solely on achieving and exceeding challenging adjusted PBT growth targets.
The table below summarises the structure of the 2011 APB and the awards receivable for performance in 2011.
95% of 100% of 102.5% of 110% of Actual bonus Executive Director target target target target achieved Chris Moore % salary payable 20% 60% 100% 150% 60% Lance Batchelor pro-rated % salary payable 20% 60% 100% 125% 60% Lee Ginsberg % salary payable 20% 60% 100% 125% 60% Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 53 53 w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. c co o.. u uk k | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. i ie e | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. d fide e Actual APB awards made to Executive Directors for 2011 are shown Performance Conditions for awards in 2011 on page 57.
The achievement of adjusted PBT growth above the The performance targets that applied to awards granted in 2011, target set led to a payout entitlement for the Executive Directors of as per the awards granted since 2008, required the following 60% of salary with the Deputy Chief Executives bonus payable challenging adjusted EPS growth condition to be met over based on his pro-rated salary based on the part of the year he three years: served as an Executive Director.
The actual profit delivered during Average annual compound EPS growth Level of Vesting the year under review was, for the third year running, a record Less than RPI 9% 0% result for the Company and a strong result given it was delivered RPI 9% 25% against a background of continuing difficult economic conditions.
RPI 12% or better 100% Despite this entitlement to 60% of salary, the Executive Directors Between RPI 9% and RPI 12% Straight-line vesting between informed the Committee they wished to see the actual bonuses paid 25% and 100% reduced by 25% i. e. from 60% to 45% in light of reduced bonus awards made to employees across the Group.
For the avoidance of doubt, this condition is only tested at the end of three years with the award lapsing if the condition is not met at With regard to the 2012 bonus structure, there is no change to the that time.
EPS is a key internal long term measure of financial maximum bonus opportunity or plan structure so that the Executive performance used by the Board and accordingly it has been used as Directors will again have to significantly surpass the adjusted PBT the sole measure of long-term performance in the Companys target figure for 2012, which itself again represents a significant long-term incentive plans to date.
In each year, the Committee has stretch on the record adjusted PBT figure achieved in 2011, for a reviewed the adjusted EPS growth conditions prior to making maximum bonus to become payable.
The Committee considers the any awards and has retained the same range of targets since 2009.
2012 bonus structure to be extremely challenging.
The Committee considered the above targets to be challenging in Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP respect of awards granted in 2011 given awards have been granted Since 2009, the Executive Directors and senior management have off a base adjusted EPS figure 16.75p for the financial year been eligible, at the discretion of the trustees of the EBT that holds ending 26 December 2010 that itself represented a record for shares for the purpose of operating the Companys share plans, to the Company.
be awarded an interest in the growth in value of a specific sub-fund of the EBT reversionary interests, represented by the increase in Under the terms of its awards, the Committee retains discretion to value of the Companys shares.
The economic impact of the test adjusted EPS on a consistent basis should any relevant events arrangement from a participants perspective is such that, subject take place during the performance period that it considers to result to achieving the LTIP performance targets, the increase in value of in the original performance target becoming any more or less the said sub-fund may be settled on vesting, in the form of shares.
challenging in light of the event in question.
This type of plan has been designed to incentivise Executive As disclosed in prior years, awards granted prior to 2009 were Directors and senior managers to strive for long term sustainable granted under a similar LTIP structure but with performance performance.
Awards have typically been made on an annual basis conditions tested over a five year period.
with the level of award considered for each year.
Recruitment Incentive: Lance Batchelor The key features of this current version of LTIP are as follows: As disclosed in last years Directors Remuneration report, in order to facilitate the recruitment of Lance Batchelor, a special Maximum Award Limit recruitment incentive the Recruitment Incentive was agreed with An individuals award is limited to an interest in the growth in value Lance Batchelor that became effective on his commencing executive of a sub-fund of the EBT to 300% of salary in any financial year employment on 27 June 2011.
The Recruitment Incentive took into 600% of salary in exceptional circumstances such as recruitment account the incentives that were forfeited from his former employer or retention.
on joining the Company along with the Committees objective of Granting awards at up to a value of 300% of salary in normal fully incentivising him to work towards delivery of the Boards circumstances has, since 2008, been considered appropriate by the mid-term strategic vision.
Committee to ensure that the total remuneration package is The Recruitment Incentive included two parts i the grant of a competitive and the Company is to be able to continue to recruit, market value option over 1,000,000 shares the First Award that retain and motivate senior executives of the necessary calibre.
In took place on 9 August 2011 and a ii a further market value option 2011, however, as disclosed in last years Directors Remuneration to be granted over 1,000,000 shares as soon as practicable report, it was considered appropriate to grant an exceptional award following his appointment as Chief Executive the Second Award.
It under the LTIP at 600% of salary to provide a clear incentive to was initially anticipated that the Recruitment Incentive would be deliver the Companys mid-term strategic vision and to recognise granted using a similar structure to the Companys current LTIP i. e. the need to retain a highly regarded management team given the a growth award over assets held in a sub-fund of the Companys Companys continued growth relative to the market which had also EBT on appointment but this structure was replaced by a more resulted in normal awards at 300% of salary falling below the simplified conventional market value option which has the same Companys stated policy of delivering an upper quartile long-term economic benefit to the recipient.
incentive opportunity given the Companys policy of setting below median market base salary levels.
54 54 Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 O Ove ver rv vi ie ew w O Op pe er ra at ti in ng a g an nd fi d fin na an nc ci ia al r l re ev vi ie ew w D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t Co Cor rp po or rat ate e g go ov five er rna nan nc ce e Report on Directors remuneration Fi Fin nan anc ci ia al ls s Report on Director D sir r eem ctou rn ser rep atio orn t As agreed on appointment, the exercise price of the First Award was Clawback set at 386.8p, being the market value of an Ordinary Share on 27 In light of recommendations in the ABI Guidelines and the Code, June 2011, the date of his appointment.
The exercise price of his the Committee has considered the merits of introducing a clawback Second Award will be set at 398 pence, reflecting the date at which provision in incentive plans in relation to future awards only.
The Committee has decided that clawback provisions should be introduced under the APB and LTIP from March 2012.
Full details The performance targets to apply to the First and Second Awards of the way in which the provisions will work is set out in the Notice were anticipated being the same targets that would apply to the of AGM.
Companys LTIP awards but with the First Award being subject to a three year performance period and the Second Award being subject Other share option plans to a five year performance period.
With regard to the Second Award Each eligible employee with at least 6 months service, including the award will be tested against the performance criteria at the end each Executive Director, has the opportunity to participate in the of year five with 75% vesting immediately and 25% vesting after a HMRC approved savings-related share option scheme Sharesave further year subject to continued employment.
Participants can save a fixed sum of up to 250 a month for three years and may use the sum generated by their The performance targets applying to the First Award are as per savings contracts to exercise options to acquire shares which are those described above for the LTIP Awards granted in 2011.
The usually granted at a 20% discount to market price.
Further details performance targets to apply to his Second Award are intended to on this share plan are provided in Note 33 to the financial be as per those described below in the Notice of AGM for LTIP statements.
Performance targets do not apply to Sharesave.
awards to be granted in the current financial year.
This approach ensures that the entire senior management team are motivated to Executive Directors are not eligible to participate in the CSOP achieve consistent annual growth rates.
currently in place for other employees within the Company.
In addition to the above, the Committee are proposing an increase Share-based awards and dilution in the shareholding requirement for Executive Directors as We ensure that the aggregate of all share-based awards does not described in the Notice of AGM.
Furthermore, given the quantum exceed the guidelines laid down by the ABI.
These guidelines of the aggregate awards to be granted, it is currently intended provide that outstanding awards granted to employees over new that Lance Bachelor will not be granted a long term incentive issue shares under the Companys employee share schemes when award in 2013. aggregated to new shares issued in relation to exercised historic share awards should not exceed 10% of the Companys issued share As required under the relevant legislation, the other key features capital in any 10 year rolling period.
Shares issued or to be issued of the Recruitment Incentive are as follows: under awards or options granted before the Company was admitted The Recruitment Incentive is non-pensionable and nonto trading on AIM in 1999 are excluded from this limit.
transferable other than on death.
Pension provision If Lance Batchelor ceases employment with the Group the The Committee reviews the pensions arrangements for the Executive Recruitment Incentive will lapse, unless he leaves in certain Directors to ensure the benefits provided are consistent with those good leaver situations where the Recruitment Incentive will provided by other similar companies and take account of changes in vest on cessation.
The Company does not offer a defined benefit pension scheme.
Instead, it makes contributions to an approved The Recruitment Incentive will vest on a takeover of the Company.
pension scheme of the Executive Directors choice.
In 2011, the The Recruitment Incentive will not ordinarily vest on an internal Company contribution to each Executive Director was 15% of basic reorganisation but will instead be exchanged for an equivalent salary to the pension plan of their choice.
award over shares in the new holding company.
Save as set out above, there are no other pension arrangements for The Recruitment Incentive will not confer any shareholder the Executive Directors.
rights upon Lance Batchelor unless and until either part of it is exercised.
Executive Directors outside appointments We recognise that Executive Directors may be invited to become In the event of any variation of the Companys share capital, non-executive directors in other companies and that these the number of shares subject to the Recruitment Incentive and appointments can enhance their knowledge and experience to the the exercise price s may be adjusted in such manner as the benefit of the Company.
Subject to pre-agreed conditions, and with Committee determines to be fair and reasonable.
prior approval of the Board, each Executive Director is permitted to New Long-Term Incentive Plan the 2012 Long-Term Incentive accept one appointment as a non-executive director in another Plan, 2012 LTIP listed company.
The Executive Director is permitted to retain any As noted previously, continued use of the current LTIP for 2012 fees paid for such service.
However, none of the Executive Directors was reviewed by the Committee in light of the current strategic currently hold a directorship of another listed company.
objectives of the Company, the granting of exceptional awards in 2011, the 2011 UK Finance Bill and general market practice.
The conclusion of the review was that a new long-term incentive plan should be put to shareholders in 2012 at the AGM.
The 2012 LTIP will provide a more conventional approach to granting awards than the current LTIP which enabled the award of an interest in the growth of a specific sub-fund of the EBT a reversionary interest.
Full details of the 2012 LTIP will be set out in the Notice of AGM.
Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 55 55 w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. c co o.. u uk k | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. i ie e | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. d fide e Executive Director Effective date of contract Service Agreements It is the Companys policy for the notice periods of Executive Chris Moore 1 January 2008 as Chief Executive Directors to normally be of 12 months or less.
The Executive Lance Batchelor 27 June 2011 as Deputy Chief Executive Directors current contracts provide for rolling 12 month periods, Lee Ginsberg 1 November 2004 as Chief Financial Officer terminable by the Company giving one years notice, or by the Executive Director giving six months notice.
The contracts include Chris Moore did not receive any payments on ceasing to be an provisions on non-competition and non-solicitation.
If an Executive Executive Director on 26 December 2011.
Directors employment is terminated other than pursuant to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors policy and terms notice provisions in the service agreement or by reason of Unless otherwise determined by the Board, Non-Executive Directors resignation or unacceptable performance or conduct, for any are appointed for terms of three years with a maximum term of nine unexpired notice period, the Company will pay a sum calculated on years.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the basis of basic salary and any accrued annual bonus entitlement the Company but their terms are set out in letters of appointment.
for the period of the year served to the date of termination taking There is no provision for termination payments and the appointments into account bonus payments in the previous three financial years, are terminable on one months notice by either party.
For the purposes of clarity, there is no payment in lieu of any unearned bonus on termination.
There would With effect from the 2011 AGM, all Directors wishing to continue be no special payments made after a change in control.
retire voluntarily and submit themselves for re-election by the shareholders every year.
Date of initial Commencement date Expiry date of Non-Executive Director appointment to Board of current term current term Colin Halpern 15 November 1999 Rolling Annual N A Nigel Wray 15 November 1999 8 May 2011 8 May 2014 John Hodson 14 February 2005 14 February 2011 14 February 2014 Michael Shallow 1 January 2006 1 January 2012 1 January 2015 Syl Saller 20 September 2011 20 September 2011 20 September 2014 Helen Keays 20 September 2011 20 September 2011 20 September 2014 Total Shareholder Return Total Shareholder Return Source: Thomson Reuters The following graph illustrates the performance of the Company measured by total shareholder return TSR for the five years to 25 350 December 2011 against the TSR performance of the AIM Index and 300 the FTSE 250 Index over the same period.
TSR is the product of the share price plus reinvested dividends.
As required by The Large and 250 Medium-sized Companies and Groups Account and Reports 200 Regulations 2008, the Companys TSR performance is required to be shown against a recognised share index.
The AIM index has been 150 selected for this comparison because up until admission to the 100 Official List on 19 May 2008, this was the index in which the Companys shares were quoted and it provides a broad based 50 comparator group of retail and non retail companies.
The FTSE 250 0 31 Dec 06 30 Dec 07 28 Dec 08 27 Dec 09 26 Dec 10 25 Dec 11 Index excluding investment trusts has been selected for this comparison because this is the index in which the Companys shares Dominos Pizza UK & Irl plc FTSE 250 Excl.
Inv Trusts FTSE AIM have been quoted since admission to the Official List.
TSR provides a useful, widely used benchmark to illustrate the Companys This graph shows the value, by 25 December 2011, of 100 invested performance over the last five years.
in Dominos Pizza uk & irl plc on 31 December 2006 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE AIM Index and the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
56 56 Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 O Ove ver rv vi ie ew w O Op pe er ra at ti in ng a g an nd fi d fin na an nc ci ia al r l re ev vi ie ew w D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t Co Cor rp po or rat ate e g go ov five er rna nan nc ce e Report on Directors remuneration Fi Fin nan anc ci ia al ls s Report on Director D sir r eem ctou rn ser rep atio orn t Part II: Audited information Supplementary information on Directors remuneration Directors remuneration Total Total 1 Salary or fees Bonus Benefits 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended ended ended 25 December 25 December 25 December 25 December 26 December 2011 2011 2011 2011 2010 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Christopher Moore 420 189 21 630 809 Lee Ginsberg 245 110 33 388 550 4 Lance Batchelor 169 78 9 256 Non-Executive Directors Stephen Hemsley Chairman 191 5 196 276 2 Colin Halpern 260 31 291 291 3 Nigel Wray 38 38 38 John Hodson 45 45 45 Michael Shallow 50 50 50 4 Lance Batchelor until 26 June 2011 20 20 17 Dianne Thompson resigned 30 March 2010 - 12 Syl Saller appointed 20 September 2011 11 11 Helen Keays appointed 30 September 2011 11 11 Peter Klauber retired 30 September 2011 31 31 38 Total 1,491 377 99 1,967 2,126 1 The value of benefits relates primarily to the provision of a company car or equivalent allowance.
2 Colin Halpern is not remunerated by the Company.
A management fee of 260,000 2010: 260,000 was paid to HS Real Company LLC in respect of his services.
A further benefit of 31,000 2010: 31,000 relating to life insurance premiums was paid to HS Real Company LLC during the year.
3 Nigel Wray was not directly remunerated by the Company.
A management fee of 38,000 2010: 38,000 was paid to Brendon Street Investments Limited, a company of which Nigel Wray is a director and has a controlling interest, in respect of his services.
4 Lance Batchelor was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 13 July 2010.
He became an Executive Director on 27 June 2011 Pension contributions Pension Pension contributions contributions 52 weeks ended 52 weeks ended 25 December 26 December 2011 2010 000 000 Lee Ginsberg 37 34 Christopher Moore 61 47 Lance Batchelor 17 Total 115 81 Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 57 57 w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. c co o.. u uk k | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. i ie e | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. d fide e Reversionary interests The following is a summary of the awards made to Directors under the LTIP: At At 26 December Vested during Awards made 25 December 2010 the year during the year 2011 No.
Chris Moore retired as Chief Executive on 26 December 2011 and, as such, was eligible to be treated as a good leaver under the terms of the LTIP.
In a good leaver event, awards vest, subject to performance, at their normal vesting date.
Chris Moore remains a director of a subsidiary company in the Group to assist with a number of strategic initiatives agreed with the Board.
In fulfilling his role he will not receive remuneration nor will the treatment of his outstanding LTIP awards be any more favourable than the good leaver provisions in the LTIP.
Share Options The following is a summary of the awards made to Directors under the Recruitment Incentive market value share option : Options held Options Options Exercise price Dates at 26 December granted during exercised for options exercisable Dates 2010 the year during the year granted from exercisable to Lance Batchelor 1,000,000 386.8p 28 July 2014 27 July 2021 58 58 Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 O Ove ver rv vi ie ew w O Op pe er ra at ti in ng a g an nd fi d fin na an nc ci ia al r l re ev vi ie ew w D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t Co Cor rp po or rat ate e g go ov five er rna nan nc ce e Report on Directors remuneration Fi Fin nan anc ci ia al ls s Report on Director D sir r eem ctou rn ser rep atio orn t The following is a summary of the performance criteria and vesting conditions relating to the reversionary interests granted to the Directors: 2 1 Initial price Adjusted EPS Adjusted PBT per share required for required for on grant vesting vesting 4 Potential vesting period Pence Pence 22 February 2008 22 February 2011 February 2013 212.00 16.40 37,000,000 2 June 2009 2 June 2012 206.25 Footnote 3 N A 17 February 2010 17 February 2013 327.00 Footnote 3 N A 9 August 2011 9 August 2014 437.10 Footnote 3 N A 1 Adjusted PBT means profit before tax and before operating and non-operating exceptional items and before any trading results relating to the German business.
2 Adjusted EPS means diluted earnings per share before operating and non-operating exceptional items and before any trading results relating to the German business.
3 Performance condition is achievement of annual compound growth in adjusted EPS at between RPI plus 9% and RPI plus 12% or more to get 100% of award.
4 Absent a person being declared a Good Leaver, a Relevant Transaction occurring or the early attainment of the Performance Condition each as defined in the LTIP Deed of Appointment.
The performance conditions for the reversionary interests granted during 2009 as represented by 641,697 Ordinary shares have been met but will not be capable of vesting until June 2012.
Based on the year end share price of 398p, the increase in value of the reversionary interests will be met on vesting by 309,160 Company shares and these have been included in the diluted earnings per share see note 12.
The vesting of the interests will be met with Company shares as follows: Eligible to Value at Eligible to Value at vest during 25 December vest during 26 December 2012 2011 2011 2010 No.
share price Stephen Hemsley 987,978 5,424,000 Christopher Moore 183,604 730,742 773,443 4,246,200 Lee Ginsberg 125,556 499,712 460,383 2,527,500 The market price of the Companys shares on 25 December 2011 was 398p per share and the high and low share prices during the year were 586p and 377p respectively.
Directors interests in share options Interests of the Executive Directors in the 2009 Sharesave Scheme.
There have been no movements during the year.
Interests at 26 December 2010 and Exercise 25 December price Expected date for which 2011 pence exercisable Stephen Hemsley 6,682 135.81p February July 2012 Christopher Moore 6,682 135.81p February July 2012 Lee Ginsberg 6,682 135.81p February July 2012 On behalf of the Board John Hodson Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 15 February 2012 Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 59 59
