Exillon Energy remuneration report REMUNERATION REPORT Introduction This report sets out information about the requirements of the Financial Services Authoritys remuneration of company Directors and the listing rules.
part ii of this report has been audited work of the remuneration committee for the by  llp in accordance year ended 31 December 2011.
This report has with the regulations.
"been prepared in accordance with Schedule 8 of the large and Medium-sized companies As required by the regulations, this report will and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at our 2008 the ""Regulations"" in line with the relevant forthcoming annual general meeting."
Part 1 Unaudited Information Remuneration Committee The members of the remuneration committee is to determine and agree with the Board the are Stuard Detmer Chairman, Ezio Bracco and framework or broad policy for the remuneration of Anne Belvze, all of whom are independent nonthe Groups Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, Executive Directors.
the company Secretary and such other members of senior management as it is designated to consider.
Terms of reference have been approved for the The remuneration of the non-Executive Directors is a remuneration committee and its primary duty matter for the chairman and the Executive Directors.
The main responsibilities of the committee are to: Assess and set compensation levels for Executive Directors and senior managers.
review Executive Directors and senior managers share and other incentive plans prior to award.
review compensation levels for Executive Directors and senior managers at least annually.
Make recommendations to the Board on matters relating to the remuneration and terms of employment of company Directors and on proposals for granting share awards pursuant to any share awards plan in operation from time to time.
The chairman of the Board, the chief Executive committee are available on our website, Officer and external advisers may be invited to www.
attend meetings of the remuneration committee but do not take part in the decision making.
Attendance at meetings of the remuneration committee by individual members is detailed in the The terms of reference of the remuneration corporate governance report on page 31.
21 remuneration report Advisers The remuneration committee has not, to date, appointed any advisers to assist it in formulating our remuneration policy given the scale of our business and the need to observe russian market practices.
Remuneration Policy our remuneration policy seeks to enable us to remuneration of senior executives consists of attract, motivate and retain talented executives to basic salary, share awards and benefits in kind help drive the future growth and performance of without cash bonuses.
Salary levels are necessarily the business.
influenced by market forces, most significantly at the time of recruitment, and by the need to aim for parity of compensation of employees with comparable responsibilities.
The remuneration policy seeks: To align executive and shareholder interests.
To use share awards to retain employees as well as to conserve cash for use in fulfilling our business plan.
To provide competitive rewards assessed against the relevant market to attract, motivate and retain talented executives.
in determining our remuneration policy, the remuneration committee takes into account the particular business context in which we operate, the geography of our operations, the relevant talent market for each executive and best practice guidelines set by institutional shareholder bodies.
"Employee Share Plan As outlined below, an Employee Share plan is right to acquire ordinary Shares for no payment, in place for granting awards of shares ""Awards"" that will vest subject to, and to the extent that, to eligible employees including Executive performance criteria determined at the time of Directors."
The Employee Share Plan specifies grant have been satisfied Conditional Share that the remuneration committee will determine Awards.
No payment will be required for the those eligible employees to whom Awards are grant of a conditional Share Award.
"participants to be granted ""Participants"", and the number of will have no voting rights or rights to receive ordinary Shares comprised in each Award."
Awards dividends in respect of the conditional Share may be in the form of restricted shares, being Awards before such awards vest.
"ordinary Shares transferred to the participant on grant subject to restrictions which will lapse at During the year, restricted Share Awards were made the end of the vesting period, provided that the for a total of 3,022,024 shares, and one conditional Participant is still a Company employee ""Restricted Share Award was made for 115,377 shares."
No payment will be required for the grant of a restricted Share Award or for the 2,668,684 of the restricted Shares were awarded transfer of shares comprising the restricted Share to new employees as part of their recruitment, Award.
The participants will not be entitled to vote including the Award of 2,422,664 shares to Mark using the Ordinary Shares subject to the Restricted Martin.
Share Awards until after the end of the vesting period although the participants will be entitled The members of the remuneration committee to receive company dividends in respect of those concluded that the share award was necessary to ordinary Shares prior to the date of vesting.
recruit Mark Martin and to induce him to transfer to Moscow in order to take up the leadership Alternatively, awards may be in the form of position at a challenging time.
conditional share awards, being a conditional 22 Exillon Energy remuneration report 353,340 shares were the subject of Awards to However, under the special circumstances of employees in connection with new assignments Russian market conditions and the difficulty of and location changes including the Award of recruiting qualified personnel, the Committee 230,330 shares to Alessandro Manghi.
concluded that no combination of possible performance conditions were able to satisfy the Alessandro Manghi served as a company Director dual purposes of setting robust targets for the since shortly after we were formed in 2008, but employees concerned while at the same time received no remuneration until after our ipo.
in providing them with a meaningful incentive.
recognition of this and as part of a management in arriving at this conclusion, the committee reorganisation where he resigned and accepted a members were mindful of the fact that, since consulting position in order to make way for our December 2009, a total of 747,349 shares new cEo he received 230,330 restricted shares awarded to employees without performance and 115,377 conditional shares.
His restricted conditions have been forfeited by them upon shares vested early in January 2012 but are subject leaving the company.
There is no advantage to to a lock-up arrangement which prevents them us in using conditional Share Awards when even from being sold before the original vesting date shares without performance conditions do not on 8 July 2014.
The Conditional Share Award of assure the retention of employees.
of the nine 115,377 shares is subject to non-market conditions individuals who were awarded Admission Shares relating to the satisfactory performance of his at the time of the IPO, five did not complete duties, the award being intended to ensure that we their three-year vesting period.
one individual have continued access to his services for the 3-year resigned in order to pursue separate business vesting period.
interests, and four terminated their employments, while working in the challenging conditions After the year end there was a corporate of northern russia or west Siberia, in order to reorganisation where two employees were made be closer to their families.
This resulted in 123,010 shares vesting exception of the conditional Share Award made prematurely and a further 123,010 shares being to Alessandro Manghi, no use has been made of subject to forfeiture.
The members of the remuneration committee Shares subject to Restricted Share Awards that are devoted considerable time and attention during forfeited by employees remain in the Employee 2011 to the possible use of conditional Share Benefit Trust and are available to be subject to new Awards as opposed to restricted Shares Awards.
Timing of Grant of Awards The remuneration committee may grant Awards at at such other time as the remuneration committee any time during the period of six weeks following considers that exceptional circumstances exist the announcement of our results for any period, or which justify an Award of shares.
Performance Measures restricted Share Awards will be granted on the basis of the remuneration committees determination of the eligible employees performance over the previous year.
Vesting and Lapse of Awards A restricted Share Award will vest on the third attached to the Ordinary Shares subject to the anniversary of the date of grant, provided that the restricted Share Award will lapse.
The ordinary participant is still a company employee on the date Shares comprised in any restricted Share Award of vesting.
on vesting, the employment restriction which does not vest will be forfeited.
23 remuneration report Employee Benefit Trust Share awards under the Employee Share plan under the Employee Share plan.
on listing the are delivered through the Exillon Energy plc Trustees subscribed for 3,765,624 Company Employee Benefit Trust.
The Trust is administered shares.
by the Trustees, Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, for the benefit of employees.
The Trustees have the Details of Awards of Shares to Directors from the power to acquire ordinary shares for the purpose Employee Benefit Trust are shown in Part 2, Audited of satisfying awards that we may grant in future information.
Admission Share Awards on Admission to the london Stock Exchange in The employees will not be entitled to vote the December 2009, nine employees including one Admission Shares until after the end of the retention then Director, Alessandro Manghi, were awarded period but will be entitled to receive dividends Ordinary Shares in the Company subject to certain paid by the company in respect of the Admission conditions.
The aggregate number of shares awarded Shares.
Alessandro Manghi received 138,826 to employees on Admission the Admission ordinary Shares as Admission Shares.
Five holders Shares constituted 1% of our share capital as of Admission Shares left the company prior to of the date of Admission.
The Admission Shares completing the three-year vesting period and forfeit are subject to restrictions on sale and a forfeiture their shares.
"Admission shares that are forfeited are provision for a period of three years after grant the transferred to the Trustee of the Employee Benefit ""Retention Period""."
An employee will forfeit his or Trust and are available to be awarded in the form her Admission Shares in the event that his or her of restricted Share Awards or conditional Share employment terminates during the retention period, Awards.
other than by reason of death, injury, disability, redundancy, the sale of the business or company In January 2012, Alessandro Manghis Admission in which the employee is employed, or such other shares vested but will remain subject to a lockcircumstances as the remuneration committee up arrangement for the remainder of the original considers appropriate at its discretion.
Annual Bonus There is no current annual bonus structure for Executive Directors, but the remuneration committee may determine a structure in due course which it deems to be appropriate for the business.
Such a structure may be developed in conjunction with the modification of the Employee Share Plan.
Service Agreements, Notice Periods and Termination Payments The Service Agreements for the Executive the employment of an Executive Director by Directors are for no fixed term and may under exercising its right to pay in lieu of notice, the normal circumstances be terminated by the company is required to make a payment equal to company giving three months notice and the the aggregate of basic salary and the cost to the Executive Directors twelve months notice, Company of providing other contractual benefits at any time.
The company reserves the right for the unexpired portion of the duration of any and discretion to pay an Executive Director entitlement to notice.
At present, the company in lieu of notice.
if the company terminates has one Executive Director.
24 Exillon Energy remuneration report The key terms of the Executive Directors service agreements are as follows: Salary, current Date of resignation or at time of name position contract notice period Date termination p. a. chief Twelve months from the Mark Executive 8 July employee: three months Martin Officer 2011 from the employer n a US$825,000 Twelve months from the Maksat Executive 10 December employee: three months 27April 1 Arip chairman 2009 from the employer 2011 US$300,000 chief Twelve months from the Alessandro Executive 10 December employee: three months 8 July 2 Manghi Officer 2009 from the employer 2011 US$290,000 Mr. Arip assisted the remuneration committee in its decision regarding the remuneration of Mr. Martin.
1 After this date, Mr. Arip remained as a consultant to the group.
2 After this date, Mr. Manghi remained as a consultant to the group.
Benefits-in-Kind Under his service agreement, Mr. Martin is Under their service agreements, Mr. Arip and Mr. entitled to medical, travel and related insurance Manghi were entitled to medical, travel and related and accommodation allowances in connection insurance and accommodation allowances in with work activities in accordance with our connection with work activities in accordance with company policy on expenses.
As part of a cost our company policy on expenses.
reduction programme he has agreed not to draw an accommodation allowance for housing in Moscow.
Pensions We do not have a pension scheme that is open to all employees.
Social contributions are withheld from employees of Exillon Tp and Exillon WS and are payable directly to local state funds.
none of the Directors is entitled to pension provision at the companys expense.
Non-Executive Directors The remuneration of the non-Executive Directors do they accrue any pension entitlement.
We do including the Chairman consists of fees that not have service contracts with the non-Executive are paid monthly in arrears.
The chairman and Directors: however, we have letters of appointment non-Executive Directors do not participate in any with each non-Executive Director.
long-term incentive or annual bonus schemes, nor 25 remuneration report Non-Executive Directors Letters of Appointment We have signed letters of appointment with David Board nor the Director concerned may give less Herbert, Anne Belvze, Ezio Bracco and Stuard than three months notice of termination of the Detmer.
Although they were each appointed for an appointment.
initial period of three years, they submit themselves to annual re-election in accordance with the The non-Executive Directors fees have been set at provisions of the UK corporate governance code.
a level to reflect the time commitment and level of Their appointments will be renewed on a yearly involvement that they are required to make in the basis, subject to our re-electing them in a general activities of the Board and its committees.
Unless otherwise determined neither the The key terms of the non-Executive Directors letters of appointment are as follows: Date of Director Appointment notice period Duration of term Fees p. a. David Herbert 27 April 2011 3 months 3 years US$200,000 Anne Belvze 17 november 2009 3 months 3 years 60,000 Ezio Bracco 17 november 2009 3 months 3 years 60,000 Stuard Detmer 17 november 2009 3 months 3 years 60,000 Mr. Arip assisted the remuneration committee in its decision regarding the remuneration of Mr. Herbert.
The fees of Anne Belvze, Ezio Bracco and Stuard Detmer were increased from 50,000 to 60,000 with effect from 1 May 2011 due to greater demands on their time and attendance at more meetings than contemplated by their letters of Appointment.
External Appointments it is the Boards policy to allow Executive Directors received in respect of external directorships during to accept directorships of other quoted companies the period under review.
provided that they have obtained the consent of the company chairman.
Any such directorships must The Directors biographical details are set out on be formally notified to the Board.
Performance Review 26 Exillon Energy remuneration report Part 2 Audited Information Directors remuneration for the period 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2011 Salary, Annual Bonus and other benefits US$000 Salary Fees Benefits-in-Kind Total 2011 Total 2010 current Directors: David Herbert 135,558 - 135,558 - Mark Martin 396,976 15,750 412,726 Anne Belvze 91,208 - 91,208 77,146 Ezio Bracco 91,208 - 91,208 77,146 L. Stuard Detmer 91,208 - 91,208 77,146 Former Directors: Maksat Arip 95,833 102,094 197,927 834,308 Alessandro Manghi 150,457 1,485 151,942 291,574 Total 1,052,449 119,329 1,171,777 1,357,320 For accommodation in Moscow and Dubai Awards of shares to Directors from the Employee Benefit Trust Market price Number Type Earliest per share on Director Award Date of Shares of award vesting date date of award Mark Martin 25 August 2011 2,422,664 restricted 25 August 2014 4.50 Alessandro Manghi 8 July 2011 230,330 restricted 8 July 2014 4.52 Alessandro Manghi 8 July 2011 115,377 conditional 8 July 2014 4.52 Shares vested in January 2012 but remain subject to a lock-up arrangement until 8 July 2014.
27 remuneration report Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares The interests of Directors in the ordinary share capital of the company during the year were as follows: 1 January 2011or date of 31 December 2011 or date of Note appointment if later resignation if earlier David Herbert 1 - 12,046 Mark Martin 2 - 2,422,664 restricted shares Anne Belvze - - Ezio Bracco - - Stuard Detmer 3 - 10,000 Maksat Arip former director 4 69,036,454 48,723,454 Alessandro Manghi 138,826 584,533 former director 5 restricted shares restricted and conditional shares notes 1.
Shares purchased at market value on 15 June 2011.
Shares purchased at market value on 16 June 2011.
4. ceased to be a Director on 27 April 2011.
20,313,000 ordinary shares were sold through a share placement organised by the company in March 2011.
Following the share placement in March 2011, Mr. Arip retained a beneficial interest of 30.2% in the Companys outstanding issued share capital.
Ceased to be a Director on 8 July 2011.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 25 April 2012.
Signed on behalf of the Board.
l. Stuard Detmer chairman of the remuneration committee 28
