Fidessa group plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors remuneration report Introduction This report by the Remuneration Committee has been approved by the Board for submission to shareholders in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and the reporting requirements of The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations.
Consistent with previous years, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial statements will be presented for approval.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to the Companys members on the auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether in their opinion that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with s421 of the Companies Act 2006 together with the Regulations.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Unaudited information Remuneration Committee The Committee comprises Ron Mackintosh, Philip Hardaker and Elizabeth Lake, all independent non-executive directors, the Chairman of the Committee being Ron Mackintosh.
None of the members of the Committee has any personal financial interest other than possibly as shareholders, conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships, or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee is responsible for determining the remuneration, other benefits and terms of employment, including performance-related bonus schemes and oversight of share incentive plans, for the Chairman, executive directors and senior management.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation process during the year and the conclusion was that the Committee was functioning effectively.
Its terms of reference are available at www.
During the year the Committee met to discuss topics including: the bonus payments in respect of 2010 performance: the extent of vesting of the 2008 awards under the Share Bonus Plan: the vesting of options from the 2006 grant under the Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan: the levels of remuneration and the remuneration structure for the executive directors and senior management team: and the design and implementation of the new share incentive plans approved at the Annual General Meeting on 6th May 2011.
During the year, the Committee took independent advice from New Bridge Street NBS.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and has signed up to its Code of Conduct.
NBS provided advice on general remuneration matters and assisted with the implementation of the new share plans.
NBS does not provide any other services to the Company.
The Chairman and executive directors may attend committee meetings by invitation.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Remuneration philosophy The Groups remuneration philosophy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the executive directors and senior management should be performance-related, so that management is clearly focused on the financial performance of the Group.
Remuneration has comprised a relatively lower base salary and a higher bonus than Fidessa group plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report continued comparative companies.
The Committee is focused on the issue of balancing risk and reward.
The remuneration philosophy requires long-term as well as short-term measurement for delivery, so as to avoid excessive short-term risk taking and to encourage consistent performance over multiple years.
The Committee continually reviews the bonus and share incentive plans to ensure they support the business strategy and do not reward inappropriate risk taking either in the shortor long-term.
Part of this review ensures that the performance metrics, levels of awards and eligible participants remain appropriate.
The Committee considers how each element of the overall remuneration may negatively or positively influence an employees attitude towards excessive caution or risk.
The Committee considers corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues ESG issues when setting the remuneration of executive directors.
It has endeavoured to ensure that the incentive structure for senior management is appropriate in that it does not raise ESG issues or risks by motivating excessive risk taking or other irresponsible behaviour and does not provide for reward in the event of failure both at Board level and senior management level.
The Committee determines the remuneration of the Chairman and executive directors.
The Committee also recommends and monitors the quantum and structure of remuneration for other members of senior management.
The Committee reviews the performance of the individual concerned and takes account of comparative market data from other companies in the IT sector and other quoted companies with a similar market capitalisation.
The Committee believes that the executive directors and senior managers should be rewarded fairly and competitively according to their performance and at a similar level to directors and senior managers in comparable companies at a level that will attract, motivate and retain individuals of an appropriate calibre to deliver value to shareholders.
This approach has been demonstrated to be successful when viewed in relation to the Groups overall performance.
The package of the executive directors and senior managers is reviewed on a regular basis and will generally contain the following elements: a base salary, performance-related bonus payments, limited other benefits and share-based incentives.
The aim is that these elements combine to provide a balance over the short, medium and longer term for rewarding successful performance.
The Group has an experienced and highly skilled workforce, operating across a number of geographical territories.
Salaries are set locally to meet these needs.
In the year staff numbers increased by 10% and over the last three years have increased by 26%.
In deciding on the levels of remuneration for directors and senior managers, the comparative pay and employment conditions of these employees across the Group are taken into account.
In particular, the Committee takes into account the level of salary increases across the workforce when deciding upon any increases in remuneration for the directors and senior management.
The Groups remuneration policy is aligned with Group strategy in that it is important to the Group to deliver value and good growth for shareholders whilst managing the extent of risk.
For this reason as stated below, executive directors salaries have been set at reasonable but below mid-market levels so that long-term incentive plans and bonuses, focused on performance, close the gap and constitute a large percentage of the remuneration package.
Targets under long-term incentive plans have accordingly been based on growth in earnings per share, growth in total shareholder return and on other business development goals.
Fidessa group plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Element of package Strategic purpose Base salary To provide a reasonable level of basic pay in accordance with an individuals experience, knowledge and performance in the role.
Benefits To provide the executive with basic and cost effective benefits.
Annual bonus To provide an incentive payable on the achievement of short-term measurable financial targets linked to the Groups overall performance.
The use of operating profit is linked to the Groups strategic objective for controlled growth through the development of further new products and services.
Long-term incentive plans To incentivise and reward for long-term, sustained financial performance of the Group and the shareholder value this creates.
The primary targets have been based on sustained growth in earnings per share and total shareholder return.
The Group competes for its talent pool with financial institutions which have been altering the ratio of fixed to variable pay over the last few years.
Cognisant of the competitive landscape and following feedback from shareholders representative bodies plus recent experience when recruiting senior managers, the Committee intends reviewing the balance between salaries and bonuses in 2012.
This may lead to the structure of remuneration packages being more closely aligned to those in other companies in the IT sector and other quoted companies with a similar market capitalisation so that salaries form a larger proportion of the overall remuneration package than has historically been the case.
If such a change is made, the expectation is that long-term incentive plans and bonuses that are performance focused will still form a substantial percentage of the remuneration package.
Basic salary Each executive directors basic salary is set at a below mid-market level.
It is reviewed annually taking into consideration the fact that it needs to be at a reasonable level so as to be compatible with the bonus and is based on business and individual performance, achievement of objectives, comparative salaries and periodic reviews from the Companys remuneration advisers.
During 2011 the Committee took into account the market conditions and pay conditions elsewhere in the Group and, in seeking to ensure that remuneration policies remained appropriate, directors salaries for 2011 were increased.
This salary rise of 7.5% should be considered in the context that it is the first increase since 2008, since when the Group has continued to deliver strong financial performance and growth in employee numbers and market capitalisation.
Despite the increase both salaries remain significantly below lower quartile level.
It should also be noted the executive directors do not participate in any Group pension arrangements and only receive a limited benefits provision.
When making these salary increases the Committee was mindful of the potential impact on other areas of the remuneration package, particularly the annual bonus.
However, given the stretching performance which would be required to meet the maximum limits of the bonus, the Committee considered the increases remained appropriate and did not unduly affect the balance of remuneration.
Bonus The focus of remuneration for executive directors is rewarding for successful performance.
The first element of this is the annual bonus.
Fidessa group plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report continued Chris Aspinwall is entitled to a cash bonus based on the Groups operating profit as monitored by the Operating Board excluding any items that the Committee considers to be exceptional or inappropriate.
The terms of the bonus are reviewed if there is a material acquisition in any period and it is subject to an upper limit of four times base salary.
This year it was calculated, as in previous years, using a flat percentage of the adjusted operating profit of the Group for the year.
This flat percentage is reviewed each year and counterbalances the below mid-market base salary he earns and ensures that his short-term pay is competitive but only if the Group achieves a reasonable level of profit in the year.
Andy Malpass is entitled to a cash bonus but, in order to maintain his independence as Finance Director, it is not linked directly to the Groups operating profit but is instead related to his performance against a series of financial and management objectives and is also subject to the discretion of the Committee.
His bonus is capped at not more than 150% of base salary.
This year the objectives included cash management, financial reporting targets and further evolution of the internal information systems.
Share-based incentives Share-based incentives are believed to be an important form of overall compensation when judiciously combined with other forms of remuneration.
Share-based incentives are also key in aligning directors remuneration with the interests of shareholders.
The share incentive plans that the directors participate in reward them for consistent performance in the mediumand long-term.
The details of these plans are provided further down in this Directors Remuneration Report.
No share-based incentive awards were made to the executive directors in 2011 whilst the share plans approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in May 2011 were being implemented.
The Committee expects to resume the award of share-based incentive awards in 2012.
Other benefits Benefits are very limited as the Committee strongly believes in focusing directors remuneration on types of remuneration that can be aligned with the interests of shareholders.
Benefits provided include the provision of medical insurance and life assurance.
Directors do not participate in the Group defined contribution pension scheme nor do they receive any other pension provision.
Minimum shareholding guideline The guidelines have been structured to encourage executive directors to acquire and maintain a meaningful shareholding in the Company.
For Chris Aspinwall this is a minimum value equal to 200% of salary and for Andy Malpass this is a minimum value equal to 150% of salary.
Their shareholdings have been greater than the guideline throughout 2011.
Service contracts The contracts of service for Chris Aspinwall and Andy Malpass are for an indefinite term providing for 12 months notice by either party.
These contracts were entered into on 2nd June 1997 and amended on 3rd October 2003.
In the event of termination the director is eligible to salary, applicable bonus and benefits during the notice period and payable in equal monthly instalments subject to the director using reasonable endeavours to obtain suitable alternative employment.
The reason for the inclusion of bonus payments in the severance payment is that the Committee believes that it would be inequitable to pay only salary and benefits to a director in the event of termination as a good leaver as salary and benefits constitute a reasonably small percentage of total annual remuneration of the directors.
This is due to the below mid-market level base salary payable to the directors.
However, the level of bonus that would be payable in such situations is at the discretion of the Committee and would be based on the historic performance of the director during the portion of the bonus calculation period in which he had held office.
Fidessa group plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The contract of service for John Hamer was entered into on 2nd June 1997 and is for an indefinite term providing for six months notice by either party.
Philip Hardaker signed a new letter of appointment during 2011 for a further term of three years, subject to termination by either party on one months notice.
Ron Mackintosh signed a new letter of appointment during 2010 for a further term of three years, subject to termination by either party on one months notice.
Elizabeth Lake signed a new letter of appointment during 2011 providing for a further term of three years, subject to termination by either party on one months notice.
The executive directors do not hold any external non-executive positions.
Non-executive fees The Board determines the non-executive directors fees.
The non-executive directors are not involved in decisions about their own remuneration.
The Chairman and non-executive directors are not eligible for performance-related remuneration or participation in share-based incentives.
The Chairmans fees were reviewed during the year and an increase to 145,000 was approved, being the first increase since 2008.
The increase in part reflects the growth in size of the Group in terms of revenue, profit, market capitalisation and number of employees.
A review of non-executive directors fees was also conducted during the year with the result being a base fee of 39,000 per annum for membership of the Board and then a further 2,000 for membership of each of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee receive a further 6,000 each for the additional responsibility entailed in these roles.
Interests in contracts During the year no director had any interest in any contract of significance with the Company or its subsidiary undertakings other than the directors deeds of indemnity with the Company.
Total shareholder return performance graph The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 require the presentation of a performance graph of total shareholder return compared to a broad equity market index for a period of five years.
The total shareholder return is the share price plus dividends re-invested on the ex-dividend date over the period of the graph.
The Board believes that the techMARK All-Share Index, of which Fidessa group plc is a constituent, provides the best benchmark for comparison.
The Company share price and the techMARK All-Share Index are both set to 100 at the start of the five year period.
Total shareholder 250 return performance 200 150 100 50 Fidessa 0 techMARK All-Share Jan 07 July 07 Jan 08 July 08 Jan 09 July 09 Jan 10 July 10 Jan 11 July 11 Dec 11 Source: Fidessa Fidessa group plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report continued Audited information Directors remuneration Details of the remuneration of the directors are set out below: Base fees & salaries Benets Bonus Total Year ended 31st December 2011 000 000 000 000 Chairman John Hamer 145 1 146 Executive Chris Aspinwall 215 1 704 920 Andy Malpass 215 1 245 461 Non-executive Ron Mackintosh 49 49 Philip Hardaker 49 49 Elizabeth Lake 43 43 Total 716 3 949 1,668 Base fees & salaries Benets Bonus Total Year ended 31st December 2010 000 000 000 000 Chairman John Hamer 135 1 136 Executive Chris Aspinwall 200 1 653 854 Andy Malpass 200 1 230 431 Non-executive Ron Mackintosh 45 45 Philip Hardaker 45 45 Elizabeth Lake 40 40 Total 665 3 883 1,551 Fidessa group plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors interests The interests of the directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company, all of which were beneficial, were as follows: 31st December 31st December 2011 2010 Number Number John Hamer 51,513 15,579 Chris Aspinwall 92,153 38,680 Andy Malpass 81,552 56,545 Ron Mackintosh 6,000 10,000 Philip Hardaker 2,000 2,000 Elizabeth Lake Between 31st December 2011 and the date of this report the interests of John Hamer, Chris Aspinwall and Andy Malpass have each increased by eight shares as a result of a regular monthly purchase by the Fidessa group plc Share Incentive Plan.
Share incentives The Company has share incentive plans whereby employees of the Group are granted awards over ordinary shares in the Company subject to the vesting of their awards in accordance with the terms of each plan.
The Performance Share Plan PSP, Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP and Monthly Share Purchase Plan MSPP were approved by shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Each plan was approved by 99% of the votes cast and no votes were withheld.
No awards were made from these plans during 2011.
These new plans replaced the Company Share Option Plan 2006 CSOP, Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan EGRIP and Share Bonus Plan SBP.
No awards were made in 2011 from the replaced plans.
The total permitted dilution across the PSP, DABP and MSPP is 10% in the ten years commencing 6th May 2011 and 7% in the first five years of operation.
In addition, the potential dilution from awards granted in a calendar year cannot exceed 1.6% of the issued ordinary shares of the Company.
No awards have been made from these plans up to 31st December 2011 so there has been no dilution incurred under the plans to that date.
The total permitted dilution under the CSOP was 8% during the life of the plan.
No further awards will be made from the CSOP and at 31st December 2011 the maximum potential dilution from the plan is 3.9%.
At 31st December 2011 the outstanding share options under the CSOP represented 3.1% of the issued share capital.
The total permitted dilution under the EGRIP was 6% during the life of the plan.
No further awards will be made from the EGRIP and at 31st December 2011 the maximum potential dilution from the plan is 5.1%.
At 31st December 2011 the outstanding share options under the EGRIP represented 3.7% of the issued share capital.
The SBP only involved market purchase shares and therefore did not incur any dilution.
No further awards will be made from the SBP.
Fidessa group plc 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report continued The directors were not granted any share options under the CSOP.
In respect of the 2008 SBP awards, the performance conditions were not fully satisfied and therefore 93.75% of the matching shares vested.
There were four elements to the vesting of the award as follows: i.
The earnings per share element: this was satisfied in full and accordingly 25% of the award vested.
The business development element: this was satisfied in full and accordingly 25% of the award vested.
Continued employment element: this was satisfied and 25% of the award vested.
Total shareholder return element: this condition was only partially satisfied, due in part to market volatility during the measurement period, and the proportion of matching shares was 18.75%.
It is too early to estimate the potential vesting of other grants made under the SBP.
The first award under the EGRIP was in March 2006 and this vested in March 2011.
As at 31st December 2011 it is expected that the 2007 awards under the EGRIP will fail to vest.
It is too early to estimate the potential vesting of other grants made under the EGRIP.
Fidessa group plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Share plans approved at the 2011 Annual General Meeting Performance Share Plan PSP This is structured as an annual grant of conditional shares with a zero exercise price.
The vesting period is four years from the date of grant.
The awards vest based on the satisfaction of an earnings per share growth performance condition, which requires the cumulative four year adjusted basic earnings per share to be greater than the equivalent total achieved by applying the annual growth rates in the table below to the base earnings per share year preceding date of grant.
At the lower threshold, 25% of an award vests with a straight-line scale to 100% vesting at the higher threshold.
Compound annual growth in EPS % of award vesting Less than 8% 0% 8% 25% Between 8% and 15% Between 25% and 100% Greater than 15% 100% The awards have to be called for by an employee normally within three years of vesting thereby giving a maximum seven years life from grant.
The shares will be satisfied through a mixture of new issue and market purchases.
A claw-back provision applies to the plan for reasons of financial misstatement.
The duration of the plan is 10 years from approval at the 2011 Annual General Meeting with a review taking place after five years.
Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP Under this plan, participants receive a proportion of their annual bonus in the form of deferred shares instead of cash.
The shares vest to the employee after three years subject to continued employment with the Group through the period.
Monthly Share Purchase Plan MSPP The MSPP follows principles similar to the UK tax approved Share Incentive Plan SIP and applies to the majority of employees across multiple countries.
The SIP continues to operate and the matching element of the SIP will apply from 2012.
The MSPP operates alongside the SIP in the UK with the MSPP being used for any higher levels of monthly purchase.
Employees including executive directors are able to purchase up to a set value of shares each month into a trust.
Trust purchases of shares take place once a month and after three years an equal number of matching free shares are applied so long as there is continued employment throughout.
There are no other performance criteria attached to any of the matching shares.
Previous share plans Company Performance Related Share Option Plan This plan was introduced in 1997 and the last grant was made in 2005.
The vesting of the market price share options granted under this plan was conditional on continued employment of three and four years after the grant of the option.
Fidessa group plc 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report continued Company Share Option Plan 2006 CSOP This plan was introduced in 2006 and the last grant was made in 2010.
Market price share options granted under this plan are subject to a performance condition that requires the cumulative four year adjusted diluted earnings per share to be greater than the equivalent total achieved by applying an annual growth rate of 5% to the adjusted diluted earnings per share for the year preceding grant.
Share Bonus Plan SBP The plan was introduced in 2003 and the last award under it was made in 2010.
An award provided that, should a participant purchase ordinary shares in the Company up to the value of their award, then they had the opportunity to receive a share bonus comprising free matching shares subject to certain performance conditions being satisfied.
The maximum number of free matching shares was equal to the number of shares purchased by the participant.
There were four performance conditions, each providing for up to 25% of the bonus to vest: the Company achieving compound annual growth in earnings per share over three years in excess of rates between RPI plus 3% and RPI plus 6% results in between 6.25% and 25% of the bonus vesting: the Company achieving an objective business development target as set for each award results in between 6.25% and 25% of the bonus vesting: the Company achieving compound annual growth in total shareholder return over three years in excess of rates between 3% and 9% results in between 6.25% and 25% of the bonus vesting: and the continued employment within the Group until the third anniversary of the date on which the participant purchased the shares relating to a particular award results in 25% of the bonus vesting.
This is an overriding performance condition and must be satisfied in order for any of the other performance conditions to be satisfied.
Exceptional Growth Rate Incentive Plan EGRIP The plan was introduced in 2006 and the last award under it was made in 2010.
An EGRIP award represented a right to acquire shares in the Company at nominal value subject to the performance conditions being satisfied.
The first performance condition required the average Company share price plus dividends reinvested over the five year period commencing on the award date to be greater than the average derived if the share price were to increase on a uniform basis of 20% per annum compound growth over the same five year period.
The starting share price was the average share price plus dividends reinvested for the 12 months prior to the award date.
The second performance condition required the Companys cumulative adjusted diluted earnings per share over the five years commencing with the award year to be greater than the equivalent total achieved over a five year period by applying a growth rate of 10% per annum to the adjusted diluted earnings per share achieved in the year prior to the award.
The third performance condition required the Companys annualised total shareholder return over the five year period commencing on the award date to be greater than the annualised equivalent achieved by the FTSE techMARK All-Share Index, during the same five year period, plus 5%.
Approval This report was approved by the Board on 10th February 2012 and signed on its behalf by Ron Mackintosh Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
