Genus plc Annual Report 2011 48 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report Letter to Shareholders from the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 5 September 2011 Dear Shareholder As highlighted in the Business Review, the year ended 30 June 2011 has been one in which Genus has continued to make substantial progress.
The increase in profitability achieved during the year, and progress delivered in further establishing operational capabilities in a number of our key long-term strategic markets, demonstrates the strength of our business model and, in particular, the effective leadership skills of our management team.
In light of executive managements achievements during the year, the Remuneration Committee considers the remuneration paid to our executive management team to reflect fairly their performance during the year.
The annual bonus paid out towards the maximum level reflecting an increase in profit before tax of 19%, reduction in net debt of 15% and the substantial progress achieved in relation to delivering the Groups strategic objectives that are described in the Business Review section of this Annual Report.
The 2008 Performance Share Plan award vested at 91% of the total award as a result of annualised growth in adjusted EPS of 12% over the three year performance period, that was towards the maximum vesting criteria attached to the award.
Given economic circumstances over the past three years, this was considered to be an exceptional result delivered by the executive management team.
The Remuneration Report that follows sets out the remuneration policy that will operate during the current year and includes details of the remuneration package of our new Chief Executive, Karim Bitar.
The Committee believes that the policy achieves its overriding objective of enabling the recruitment, retention and motivation of an executive management team capable of taking the business forward through its next phase of development.
In addition, given that a substantial proportion of the total package is linked to appropriately challenging performance conditions, includes clawback provisions for annual incentive pay in the event of misstatement of Group results and has a substantial weighting towards long-term performance, the Committee is comfortable that the current arrangements do not inadvertently encourage undue risk taking and that its policy motivates behaviours that are in the long-term interests of the Company and its shareholders.
As a result, the Committee looks forward to your support of our remuneration policy at the 2011 AGM.
Yours sincerely Nigel Turner Senior Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 49 Introduction This report has been prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 Companies Act and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The report also describes how the Board has applied the principles relating to Directors remuneration in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In accordance with the regulations, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 10 November 2011.
The Companies Act requires the auditors to report to the Companys members on certain parts of the Directors Remuneration Report and to state whether in their opinion those parts of the report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Accounting Regulations.
The report has therefore been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Unaudited Information Remuneration Committee The Company has established a Remuneration Committee the Committee which is constituted in accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board, within agreed terms of reference, on an overall remuneration package for the Executive Directors, the Chief Operating Officers of the Company and the Group Company Secretary & General Counsel.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website at www.
The Committee comprises independent Non-Executive Directors Nigel Turner Chairman, Mike Buzzacott and Barry Furr, and also the Companys Non-Executive Chairman, Bob Lawson, who was considered by the Board to be independent at the time of his appointment to the Board.
John Hawkins, the former Company Chairman, also served on the Committee during the year.
None of the Committee members has any personal financial interest other than as shareholders, conflicts of interests arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board and no Director plays a part in any discussion about his own remuneration.
During the year to 30 June 2011 the Committee met five times and the following matters were covered: review of the market competitiveness of the remuneration policy and the remuneration arrangements for the Executive Directors and the Chief Operating Officers of the Company: review of the salary levels for the Executive Directors and the Chief Operating Officers of the Company: agreement of the terms of the Executive Annual Bonus Plan and of the individual bonuses payable in the light of the Groups and individuals performance: agreement of the individual long-term share incentive awards under the Companys 2004 Performance Share Plan and 2004 Executive Share Option Plan: review of the performance measures and targets to apply to these awards: approval of the vesting levels of long-term share incentive awards: approval of the Directors Remuneration Report for the financial year ending 30 June 2010: review of the current investor guidelines on executive remuneration: and remuneration arrangements for the new Chief Executive.
In determining the Directors remuneration for the year, the Committee consulted the Chief Executive about its proposals.
The Committee also appointed Aon Hewitt Limited operating through the brand Hewitt New Bridge Street to provide benchmarking advice on the remuneration packages applicable to the Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors and the Chief Operating Officers of the Company.
Aon Hewitt Limited did not provide other services to the Company during the year.
Remuneration Policy The Companys executive and senior management remuneration packages are designed to attract, motivate and retain individuals of the high calibre required to maintain the Groups position as a market leader and to reward them for enhancing value to shareholders.
Genus plc Annual Report 2011 50 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued The performance measurement of the Executive Directors and key members of senior management and the determination of their annual remuneration packages are undertaken by the Committee.
The main principles are to: ensure that salaries are set at a market competitive level given the calibre and experience of each individual and after taking due account of salary levels in appropriate external comparators: support a high performance culture and align long-term rewards with shareholders interests: maintain an appropriate balance of fixed and performance related pay that rewards for the delivery of the Companys short, medium and longer-term objectives: to have short, medium and long-term performance targets that are specific, measurable and fully aligned with the Companys business objectives: and ensure that the overall package reflects market practice and takes into account levels of remuneration elsewhere in the Group.
The Companys policy is that a substantial proportion of the remuneration of the Executive Directors and senior management should be based on corporate and individual performance related targets that are challenging and support the Companys strategy and objectives.
The policy is intended to create a strong link between business performance and reward and to generate value to shareholders, employees and the Company.
Remuneration policy is reviewed regularly and the Committee is satisfied that the current policy does not encourage undue risk taking e. g. due to the range of performance metrics used in the annual bonus plan, the operation of clawback provisions and the proportion of total remuneration that is linked to long-term performance.
In setting the Executive Directors remuneration the Committee took into account the pay and employment conditions applicable across the Group in the reported period and no increases were made in the period to 30 June 2011 to Directors base salary compared against the prior year.
The following table provides a summary of the key elements of the Companys remuneration package: Element Purpose Operation Salary To provide competitive fixed Reviewed annually.
Benchmarked against relevant remuneration that will attract and market comparators as appropriate reflecting the retain key employees and reflect their size and nature of the role, individual performance, experience and position in the Company.
increases awarded to other employees, Company performance and broader economic conditions.
Annual bonus Incentivises achievement of annual Maximum bonus potential is normally set at 100% objectives which support the short-term of basic salary.
performance goals of the Company.
Bonus awards are subject to achievement against challenging profit, net debt reduction and personal objectives.
During the year under review, exceptionally, the maximum bonus was increased to 150% of basic salary with the additional bonus subject to challenging strategic targets and deferral of any additional bonus earned for a period of one year.
Payments under the annual bonus plan are subject to a clawback in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys financial results.
Long-term share incentives Performance share plan incentivises Annual awards are normally made under the plan executives to achieve superior returns to equal to 100% of basic salary to the Executive shareholders over a three year period, to Directors and other senior management and are retain key individuals and align interests based on the achievement of EPS targets over a with shareholders.
Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 51 Balance Between Fixed and Variable Pay Based on the remuneration structure that will apply in the Companys 2011 12 financial year, for achievement of target levels of performance, more than 40% of total remuneration will be delivered from business performance related elements of our remuneration structure.
Should the maximum performance targets be achieved, this proportion increases to over 60%.
The variable elements of remuneration are linked to the key financial and strategic measures of performance that are used internally to monitor the performance of the business and, in turn, are considered to underpin value creation for shareholders.
The following charts show the total remuneration packages for the new Chief Executive Karim Bitar and the Group Finance Director split between fixed pay and pay at risk at both target and maximum levels of performance.
For the new Chief Executive, the charts consider the Performance Share Plan award described on page 55 but exclude other transitional arrangements that were adopted in relation to facilitating his recruitment which are described on pages 54 and 55.
Fixed and Variable Pay: New Chief Executive Karim Bitar Fixed and Variable Pay: Group Finance Director John Worby at Target and Maximum Performance Levels at Target and Maximum Performance Levels 100% 100% 90% 90% 80% 80% 70% 70% Performance Share Plan Performance Share Plan 60% 60% Annual Bonus Annual Bonus 50% 50% Pension Pension 40% 40% Base Salary Base Salary 30% 30% 20% 20% 10% 10% 0% 0% Target Maximum Target Maximum Assumptions: Assumptions: Target: annual bonus award of 50% of salary plus 50% of Performance Share Plan Target: annual bonus award of 50% of salary plus 50% of Performance Share Plan award vests.
Maximum: maximum bonus award plus full vesting under the performance Share Plan Maximum: maximum bonus award plus full vesting under the performance Share Plan award taken at its face value as at the date of grant.
award taken at its face value as at the date of grant.
Base Salary The Executive Directors basic salary is reviewed by the Committee prior to the beginning of each financial year, taking into account individual and corporate performance, an assessment of comparator companies, wider economic conditions and levels of increases applicable to other employees in the Company.
The current salary levels of the Executive Directors with effect from 1 July 2011 are as follows: Richard Wood: 450,000 no increase John Worby: 300,000 increased from 275,000 In setting a revised salary level for John Worby, the Committee was mindful of the need to retain a highly regarded Group Finance Director at an important time in the development of the Company that has also included a number of changes in the Groups leadership team.
With regard to the specific level of salary that was set, this took due account of salary levels in international companies of comparable size, and complexity, and more particularly, the experience, calibre and performance in post of the individual.
With regard to the recent appointment of Karim Bitar, who will replace Richard Wood as Chief Executive from 30 September 2011, his salary has been set at 500,000 with this level of salary considered appropriate to recruit a high calibre candidate with the relevant skills and experience considered necessary to lead Genus through its next phase of development.
Genus plc Annual Report 2011 52 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual Bonus The Committee establishes the objectives that must be met for each financial year if a cash bonus is to be paid.
The maximum bonus and the proportion paid for on-target performance are considered in the light of market practice for companies of a similar size and industry sector.
Bonus potential is normally set at a maximum of 100% of basic salary dependent on stretching targets relating to profit, net debt reduction and challenging personal objectives.
A maximum of 60% of the bonus opportunity is normally based on corporate performance as measured by profit before tax, 20% of the bonus opportunity is normally based on the achievement of net debt targets and the remaining 20% of the bonus opportunity is normally based on the achievement of personal objectives.
50% of salary is normally payable for on-target performance.
For the year ended 30 June 2011 the Committee determined that 86% of the profit before tax performance measure included in the annual bonus plan had been achieved following growth of 19% in profit before tax on the prior years result which was towards the top end of the range of targets set and that 100% of the net debt targets had been achieved based on a 15% reduction in net debt which exceeded the maximum target set and 100% of the short-term personal objectives had been met.
This resulted in bonuses becoming payable at 91% of salary.
As disclosed in last years Directors Remuneration Report, exceptionally, an additional bonus opportunity of up to 50% of salary was available in respect of the year under review.
This additional bonus opportunity was considered appropriate as a result of a number of key strategic objectives being identified by the Board as crucial to the long-term development of the Company.
Accordingly, the Committee set an additional bonus opportunity for the year under review to provide a clear separate incentive to motivate the Executive Directors to make substantial progress in respect of these objectives.
With regard to the Chief Executive, his strategic objectives included assisting the Board in relation to succession planning with regard to his own position and in key roles in the Companys emerging markets : the strategic development of the Company with the specific targets relating to the achievements described in the Business Review section of this Annual Report : people development targets and the growth of shareholder value.
The Group Finance Directors strategic objectives included the strategic development of the Company as noted for the Chief Executive above, see the Business Review section of this Annual Report : targeted financial and management reporting system improvements: people development targets and more effective investor relations.
The Committee determined that the Executive Directors each achieved their specific targets in full.
Payments under this exceptional criteria shall be deferred for a period of one year save in the case of Richard Wood due to his retirement on 30 September 2011.
With regard to the bonus arrangements operating during the current year, the maximum annual bonus available under the plan will revert to 100% of salary for each Executive Director and the normal bonus structure described above will apply in respect of Karim Bitar and John Worby.
Given Richard Wood is to retire on 30 September 2011, a bonus structure will apply that reflects the period of the current financial year during which he will serve as Chief Executive, with a maximum bonus payable of 100,000.
Share Awards & Share Options Long-term share awards are granted under the Genus plc 2004 Performance Share Plan the Plan.
Under the Plan, incentives can take the form of conditional share awards or nil cost options with vesting determined based on achievement against challenging growth in adjusted earnings per share performance normally tested over a three year period.
With regard to the awards granted to Executive Directors since 15 October 2008, including those granted during the year under review, the performance targets that must be satisfied for vesting are shown in the table below: Per annum growth in adjusted EPS % of award vesting Per annum growth in adjusted EPS % of award vesting RPI 4% Nil RPI 7% 70% RPI 4% 40% RPI 8% 80% RPI 5% 50% RPI 9% 90% RPI 6% 60% RPI 10% 100% Growth in adjusted EPS over the three year performance period will be computed based on a simple average annual growth rate.
A linear scale will be applied when performance falls between the bands.
Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 53 For grants of share awards made on and prior to 15 October 2008 the following performance conditions apply: Per annum growth in adjusted EPS % of award vesting Per annum growth in adjusted EPS % of award vesting RPI 3% Nil RPI 6% 70% RPI 3% 40% RPI 7% 80% RPI 4% 50% RPI 8% 90% RPI 5% 60% RPI 9% 100% Growth in adjusted EPS over the three year performance period will be computed based on a simple average annual growth rate.
Prior to the vesting of any grant, the Remuneration Committee reviews the basis of calculation of growth in adjusted EPS to satisfy itself that the performance conditions have been met.
The Committee uses audited adjusted EPS as the basis for determining any vesting.
With regard to the awards that are anticipated being granted in the current financial year, the Group Finance Director will receive an award over shares with a market value of 100% of salary with the new Chief Executive, reflecting what was agreed at the time of his appointment, receiving an award over shares with a market value of 125% of salary see page 54.
The Committee has determined that the performance targets applying to the 2011 awards to the new Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director will be toughened relative to those applying to awards granted in prior years.
The level of performance required for full vesting is being increased at the same time as reducing the proportion of awards vesting at the threshold performance level which will fall from 40% of an award to 30% of an award.
The full range of revised targets are shown in the table below: Per annum growth in adjusted EPS % of award vesting Per annum growth in adjusted EPS % of award vesting RPI 4% Nil RPI 7% 60% RPI 4% 30% RPI 8% 70% RPI 5% 40% RPI 9% 80% RPI 6% 50% RPI 10% 90% RPI 11% 100% Growth in adjusted EPS over the three year performance period will be computed based on a simple average annual growth rate.
Details of awards made to Directors are shown in the table of Directors interests on page 57 and details of the performance criteria for the Companys share award and share option schemes are also included in note 29 to the Financial Statements.
Executive Share Option Plan Under the Companys 2004 Executive Share Option Plan, grants are made to incentivise middle management Executive Directors and senior management do not participate in this plan and the vesting of options is also conditional on achievement of growth in adjusted earnings per share exceeding RPI 5% over a three year period.
It is the Companys policy to phase the granting of share options rather than to award them in a single large block to any individual.
Benefits-in-Kind The Executive Directors receive certain benefits-in-kind, principally a car or car allowance, life assurance and private medical insurance.
In lieu of Company pension contributions, the Company has agreed to pay Richard Wood and John Worby a taxable pension allowance of 15% and 12% of basic salary per annum respectively.
Reflecting what was agreed in facilitating his appointment, Karim Bitar, will receive a taxable pension allowance of 25% of salary, a car allowance, life assurance and private medical insurance.
Genus plc Annual Report 2011 54 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Contracts Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and the terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are set out below.
Director Contract Date Expiry Date Notice Period Months Executives Richard Wood 8 November 1996 30 September 2011 12 Karim Bitar 24 May 2011 n a 12 from Company 6 from Executive John Worby 25 February 2009 n a 12 from Company 6 from Executive Non-Executives Bob Lawson 11 November 2010 10 November 2013 1 Nigel Turner 16 January 2011 15 January 2014 1 Mike Buzzacott 7 May 2009 6 May 2012 1 Barry Furr 1 December 2006 30 November 2012 1 Note: John Hawkins was Non-Executive Chairman for the period 1 July 2010 to 11 November 2010.
It is the Companys policy for the notice periods of Executive Directors normally to be of twelve months or less.
The Executive Directors contracts do not include liquidated damages clauses that provide for a predetermined level of compensation in the event of termination.
In the event of termination, the Committees policy is that payments on termination should reflect the circumstances that prevail at that time, also taking account of Directors duty to mitigate.
There are no enhanced provisions in the event of a change of control.
Executive Directors contracts of service which include details of remuneration will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 November 2011.
All Non-Executive Directors have specific terms of engagement and their remuneration is determined by the Board having regard to the time devoted to the Companys affairs.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any of the Companys incentive schemes or pension schemes.
Their appointment is for a fixed term of three years and is subject to one months notice of termination being given by either the Company or the Non-Executive Director and to annual re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The current total fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors are as follows: Chairman: 140,000 Other Non-Executive Directors: 47,000 The fee payable to the Chairman was benchmarked against companies of similar size and complexity with the assistance of Hewitt New Bridge Street and is considered appropriate by the Committee to recruit a high calibre candidate with the relevant skills and experience considered necessary to chair Genus through its next phase of development.
The fees payable to the other Non-Executive Directors have also been reviewed taking into account practice in companies of a comparable size, internationality and complexity and, more particularly, the anticipated time commitment of the roles as the Company moves forward.
The revised total fees payable have been set at 47,000 from 1 July 2011 inclusive of the fees payable for chairmanship of the relevant Board Committees described in the Corporate Governance Report for each Non-Executive Director.
Recruitment of Karim Bitar In order to facilitate the recruitment of Karim Bitar, who was appointed as a Director of the Company from 1 September 2011 and shall become Chief Executive with effect from 30 September 2011, the Committee agreed to compensate him for the forfeiture of outstanding incentive awards with his former employer on joining Genus.
In determining the level and form of compensation, the Committee took into account the extent to which the performance conditions applying to the relevant incentives had been met or were likely to be met mindful of the Committees duty not to pay more than was necessary to secure his recruitment.
Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 55 Accordingly, the award granted to Karim Bitar in 2011 by his former employer will be replaced with the Performance Share Plan award described below.
This award, being performance-related, is subject to consistent terms with the award to be granted to the Group Finance Director in relation to the current financial year and is the sole performance-related share award that Karim Bitar will receive in 2011.
The quantum of the award was set broadly to reflect the expected value of the award forfeited.
The other outstanding awards granted to Karim Bitar in 2009 and 2010 by his former employer were assessed by the Committee to determine the extent to which there was significant value in the awards each of which was subject to a two year performance period running from the financial year immediately prior to the year in which the award was granted and a further one year holding period.
As a result of this assessment, the Committee considered it appropriate to replace the outstanding awards with a restricted stock award to compensate for the value being forfeited on leaving employment.
The restricted stock award will be granted with a vesting profile to mirror that of the awards granted by his previous employer.
The award is subject to continued employment to the relevant vesting dates otherwise the relevant portion of the award will lapse.
The final element of compensation provided was in respect of his anticipated loss of annual bonus entitlement for the part year served prior to leaving his former employer.
Again this payment was based on the Committees assessment of the likely value forgone to the date of leaving and will be the subject of a cash payment in the Companys September payroll.
In summary, the compensation agreed with Karim Bitar to facilitate his recruitment was as follows: 1.
An award of shares under the Performance Share Plan over shares worth 125% of salary subject to the rules of the Plan and the performance targets set out on page 53 of the Directors Remuneration Report: 2.
A restricted stock award granted using provision 9.4.
2 2 of the Listing Rules over 77,259 shares.
Of this award, 36,685 shares vest on 31 January 2012 with 40,574 vesting on 31 January 2013 with each part of the award subject to continued employment: and 3.
A cash payment to be made in September 2011 of 163,000 subject to being employed at the payment date.
In relation to the above, it was also agreed that Karim Bitar would retain at least half of the after tax number of shares comprising his restricted share award following vesting until such time as a shareholding in the Company of 100% of salary is achieved.
As required under the relevant legislation, the other key features of the restricted stock award described above are as follows: The award will be granted at the time of the award of shares under the Performance Share Plan: The award is non-pensionable and non-transferable other than on death : If Karim Bitar ceases employment with the Group before any part of the award vests the relevant part of the award will lapse, unless he leaves in certain good leaver situations where the award will vest on cessation: The award will vest in full on a change of control of the Company.
The award may also vest early in the event of a demerger, special dividend or other similar event which, in the Committees opinion, materially affects the price of the Companys shares.
The award will not, unless the Committee decides otherwise, vest on an internal reorganisation but will instead be exchanged for an equivalent award over shares in the new holding company: In addition to the shares vesting under the award, the award will provide for a payment in cash and or shares of an amount equivalent to the dividends that would have been paid on those shares over the vesting period: The award will not confer any shareholder rights on Karim Bitar unless and until it vests: In the event of any variation of the Companys share capital, a demerger, a special dividend or other similar event which materially affects the price of the Companys shares, the award may be adjusted in such manner as the Committee sees fit: and The terms of the award may be amended in such manner as the Committee may determine, provided that amendments to Karim Bitars benefit may only be made with the prior consent of shareholders.
Genus plc Annual Report 2011 56 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Performance Graph The following graph shows the Companys performance, measured by total shareholder return, compared with the performance of the FTSE 250 Index, also measured by total shareholder return.
The FTSE 250 Index was selected as it represents a broad equity market in which the Company is a constituent member.
Total Shareholder Return Source: Thomson Reuters 300 Genus 250 FTSE250 Index 200 150 100 50 0 30 Jun 06 30 Jun 07 30 Jun 08 30 Jun 09 30 Jun 10 30 Jun 11 This graph shows the value, by 30 June 2011 of 100 invested in Genus plc on 30 June 2006 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index on the same date.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
Audited Information Aggregate Directors Remuneration The total amounts for Directors remuneration were as follows: 2011 2010 000 000 Emoluments 997 970 Bonus schemes 1,025 472 2,022 1,442 Gains on exercise of share options and awards 1,191 742 Total 3,213 2,184 Directors Emoluments Salary Total Total and fees Bonus Benefits 2011 2010 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Richard Wood 450 636 74 1,160 812 John Worby 275 389 46 710 505 Non-Executive Directors John Hawkins 63 63 125 Bob Lawson 89 89 Nigel Turner 40 40 40 Mike Buzzacott 40 40 40 Barry Furr 40 40 40 Total 997 1,025 120 2,142 1,562 As set out in the policy section above, performance against the profit before tax, net debt and personal targets resulted in an annual bonus of 91% of salary becoming payable to Executive Directors for the year ended 30 June 2011.
In addition, the challenging strategic targets were met in full resulting in a further 50% of salary becoming payable.
The amounts payable in relation to the strategic targets will be deferred: i for one year for John Worby with the expected payment being made in September 2012 : and ii to the date of retirement for Richard Wood 30 September 2011.
John Hawkins was Non-Executive Chairman for the period 1 July 2010 to 11 November 2010.
Bob Lawson was appointed as Non-Executive Chairman with effect from 11 November 2010.
No additional compensation is payable in respect for Richard Woods retirement from the Board.
Value Company Business Corporate Financial Overview Review Governance Statements Genus plc Annual Report 2011 57 Outside Appointments The Company recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that this can help broaden the skills and experience of a Director.
Upon appointment as the Group Finance Director of the Company in February 2009, John Worby was permitted to retain his existing non-executive directorships of Cranswick plc and Smiths News plc and John Worby has been permitted to retain the associated remuneration of 83,867 in the period.
Directors Share Awards and Share Options The Directors at 30 June 2011 had the following beneficial interests in share awards and share options: Richard Wood Market Price at At 30 June 2011 At 30 June 2010 Grant Vesting Period Grant Date No.
Following testing of the performance targets applying to 1 and 2 above based on the Companys audited results the Committee determined the proportion of each award eligible to vest at the awards normal vesting date.
With regard to 1 above, the Remuneration Committee declared a vesting percentage of 100% in relation to the Companys earnings per share performance leading to the vesting of 154,639 ordinary shares in the Company in September 2010.
Actual adjusted EPS growth over the performance period was 11.3% above RPI on an annualised basis which exceeded the maximum annual performance level required under the condition and thus triggered full vesting.
All of these shares were sold at a price of 770 pence per share in September 2010 by Richard Wood.
Under 2 above the Remuneration Committee tested the condition as in 1 above and declared a vesting percentage of 91%.
Actual adjusted EPS growth over the performance period was 9.1% above RPI on an annualised basis and thus fell between the minimum and maximum performance levels and resulted in partial vesting.
Due to the retirement of Richard Wood on 30 September 2011, in line with the rules of the Plan, it is currently anticipated that he will be treated as a good leaver in respect of his share awards under 2, 3 and 4 above and these awards will vest early.
Such early vesting is subject to a pro rata reduction to reflect Richard Woods length of service compared with the performance period of the relevant share awards and is subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions attaching to the relevant share awards as stated in the Plan.
Accordingly under 3 a vesting percentage of 77% shall apply as to two-thirds of the grant and that under 4 a vesting percentage of 100% shall apply as to one-third of the grant.
This level of vesting relates to annual adjusted EPS performance over the relevant performance period of 7.7% and 17.8% which resulted in partial and full vesting respectively.
John Worby At 30 June 2011 At 30 June 2010 Grant Vesting Period Share Price at Grant No.
1 3 March 2009 to 2 March 2012 635.67p 86,523 86,523 2 15 September 2009 to 14 September 2012 654.5p 42,017 42,017 3 10 September 2010 to 9 September 2013 729.83p 37,680 Total 166,220 128,540 Genus plc Annual Report 2011 58 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report continued Employee Benefit Trust The Company has established an Employee Benefit Trust to be the custodian of any shares purchased in respect of the 2004 Performance Share Plan on behalf of the Executive Directors and certain senior management.
As at 30 June 2011, 122,134 ordinary shares in the Company were held by the trust.
Company Share Price The market price of the Companys shares on 30 June 2011 was 1,030 pence and the low and high share prices during the financial year were 705 pence and 1,046 pence respectively.
Approval This report was approved by the Remuneration Committee and signed on its behalf by: Nigel Turner Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 5 September 2011
