BC In this section Remuneration report The Remuneration Committee page 57 Executive Directors page 57 Chairman and non-executive Directors page 61 Shareholding requirement page 62 Directors remuneration ?
page 63 Future policy page 67 The remuneration report for 2011 sets out the remuneration policy for Directors and how it has been applied, including disclosures on directors remuneration required by law.
During the year, the Committee carried out a comprehensive review of the policy and structure of remuneration for executive Directors and as a result we are proposing to make a number of changes to the executive Director remuneration framework beginning with the 2012 financial year.
These changes, some of which are subject to shareholder approval, are summarised at the end of this report and described in the 2012 AGM circular.
The proposed changes aim to improve the alignment of the remuneration framework with the interests of shareholders and our strategic objectives, in particular the delivery of long term sustainable earnings growth.
Key features are: although the structure of the reward is changing, the overall quantum will remain broadly unchanged: an element of the short term variable remuneration scheme up to 10% of basic salary for the 2012 financial year will be assessed against strategic measures to align better our reward structure with key strategic priorities.
In addition, deferred amounts of bonus earned will be subject to clawback in the event of a material individual or corporate failure: and subject to shareholder approval, we will make awards under a new incentive plan, the Sustainable Earnings Plan SEP, which will replace awards under the current Long Term Incentive Plan and Executive Share Option Scheme.
Under the SEP, the time horizon of awards is being extended to five years to reflect better the longer term nature of our business.
The key principle behind the SEP is to encourage and reward earnings performance which is sustained over the long term, in line with our growth strategy and our stated objective of creating long term shareholder value.
Throughout 2011, the Committee continued to apply the current remuneration policy prudently with a strong alignment to the interests of shareholders.
Details are given in the following pages.
On behalf of the Board Richard Parry-Jones Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 27 February 2012.
BD GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Committee also receives advice from the Company Secretary on The Remuneration Committee governance matters: input from the Chief Executive on the remuneration Composition of other executive Directors and of the Company Secretary: and input The Committee comprises the following independent non-executive from the Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director on the Directors: remuneration of senior executives immediately below Board level.
Name Remuneration Committee position Activities Richard Parry-Jones Chairman The Committee met on eight occasions in 2011: members attendance Tufan Erginbilgic Member from 9 May 2011 at meetings is set out in the table on page 48.
Shonaid Jemmett-Page Member The key matters that were considered by the Committee during the year John Sheldrick Member were as follows: Michael Turner Member awards under the Groups long term incentive arrangements for 2011 The secretary to the Committee is Judith Felton, Company Secretary.
and the outturn of awards made in 2009 to senior executives below Board level: During the year and by invitation of the Committee, Roy Brown, Chairman, has attended meetings together with the following members payments under the short term variable remuneration scheme for of the senior management team: Sir Kevin Smith, Chief Executive: Nigel 2010 and proposals for 2011 awards: Stein, Chief Executive Designate: and Douglas McIldowie, Group Human salary review proposals for executive Directors, the Company Resources Director.
No person was present during discussions relating Secretary and senior executives immediately below Board level: to their own individual remuneration.
In addition, representatives from New Bridge Street NBS and Deloitte LLP Deloitte, the Committees external advisers review of trends in remuneration practices, independent advisers, attended meetings as necessary.
benchmarking and governance: Role UK Government consultative documents relating to executive The principal role of the Remuneration Committee is to determine Directors remuneration: and make recommendations to the Board on the Groups policy for a review of the Directors' remuneration and severance policies: the remuneration of the executive Directors of GKN plc.
Within the framework of the agreed policy, which is reviewed annually by the approval of the 2010 remuneration report: and Committee and the Board, the Committee has responsibility for: a detailed review of remuneration strategy for executive Directors determining the detailed terms of service of the executive Directors and senior executives.
and the Company Secretary, including basic salary, incentives and benefits, and the terms upon which their service may be terminated: Executive Directors determining the fees of the Chairman: and The Companys remuneration strategy is aligned with its business strategy, summarised on page 10, and is currently delivered through recommending to the Chief Executive and monitoring the level and the policy set out below.
Changes to the policy, which will apply from structure of remuneration of the most senior executives immediately the 2012 financial year, are summarised at the end of this report.
The short term variable remuneration scheme supports the operational The Committees authority and responsibilities are set out in written performance of the business by measuring against key business terms of reference which are available on our website at www.
fundamentals of profit, margin, operating cash flow and net debt, The terms of reference were reviewed during 2011 to ensure they all of which underpin the Groups strategic objectives: the long term continue to reflect accurately the Committees remit.
incentives reward executives for the Companys performance measured by growth in earnings and total shareholder return relative to companies Advice provided to the Committee in the FTSE 350 Index: in setting performance targets under both short During 2011, the Committee received independent advice from NBS and long term incentives, the Committee ensures through regular on remuneration and incentive arrangements for executive Directors monitoring that, whilst stretching, the targets are both realistic and and senior executives below Board level.
Following a tender exercise, achievable without taking inappropriate business risks: and in the Committee appointed Deloitte to provide advice and input to determining salary levels, the Committee ensures that there is the Committees review of remuneration strategy.
The nature and a strong link between pay and performance.
quantum of other services provided by NBS and Deloitte was taken into account in confirming their appointment to ensure that no conflict Remuneration policy of interest would arise in relation to the services they provide to the GKNs remuneration policy for executive Directors is designed to attract, Remuneration Committee.
retain and motivate executives of the high calibre required to ensure that the Group is managed successfully to the benefit of shareholders.
Aon Hewitt the parent company of NBS provided advice to the Company in relation to a UK pension fide-risking project in 2011.
It also To achieve this, a competitive package of incentives and rewards linked to performance is provided.
provides ongoing administration services relating to US employee healthcare benefits and ongoing actuarial services relating to German In setting remuneration levels, the Committee takes into consideration the retirement benefits.
Deloitte provides ongoing tax support to GKN remuneration practices found in other multinational companies based in employees on international assignment, advice on other taxation the UK and also ensures that the remuneration arrangements for executive matters including transfer pricing and, in 2011, assistance with an Directors are compatible with those for executives throughout the Group.
It also considers the most recent pay awards in the Group generally when reviewing the basic salaries of the executive Directors.
BE Remuneration report Continued Summary of key elements of executive Directors' remuneration for 2011 Element of remuneration Purpose Policy Basis of delivery Basic salary Provide the basis for a To maintain salaries Reviewed annually by the Committee market competitive package within a competitive with any increase usually effective from to recruit and retain talent.
In its review, the Committee Recognise skills, experience relevant employment considers external benchmark data and responsibility.
and takes into account individual Reward individual performance, Group profitability, performance.
prevailing market conditions and recent pay awards in the Group generally.
Performance of executive Directors is reviewed to ensure that payment of salaries in accordance with the stated policy is entirely justified.
Short term variable Drive and reward the Annual awards based Stretching targets are set each year remuneration achievement of short term on annual performance reflecting business priorities which financial targets and the against key financial underpin Group strategy and align with delivery of key objectives objectives.
relevant to GKNs long term Targets, whilst Maximum payment opportunity is 110% strategic objectives.
stretching, do not of basic salary.
Deferred proportion encourage inappropriate Payments are determined by the of award, delivered business risks to Committee after year end, based in shares, provides a be taken.
Percentage of payment Amount awarded above 65% of basic deferred and awarded salary is paid in deferred shares to be in shares.
Structure of plan is reviewed annually.
Longer term incentives Drive and reward the Annual awards over a The LTIP is based on EPS growth achievement of longer term three year measurement and the ESOS is based on relative objectives aligned closely period under the LTIP TSR performance.
Combined maximum potential annual Retain key executives Targets, whilst share award under both plans is 250% over a longer term stretching, do of basic salary.
not encourage The Remuneration Committee must also inappropriate business be satisfied that the underlying financial risks to be taken.
performance of the Group justifies the vesting of shares.
A personal shareholding requirement must be satisfied before shares can vest see page 62.
Retirement and other benefits Help recruit and retain.
To provide market Retirement benefits are provided by Ensure adequate income competitive means of an allowance which can be in retirement.
delivered in cash or as payment to a defined contribution retirement plan.
In circumstances where there are historical contractual commitments, benefits in part are provided through membership of the GKN Group Pension Scheme.
Salary is supplemented with normal benefits available to senior managers including car allowance and healthcare arrangements.
For changes to future policy see pages 67 and 68.. BF GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 On the basis of the expected value of long term incentives and Details of the amounts invested in respect of the STVRS payments for achievement of on target performance for the purposes of the short the 2010 and 2011 financial years are set out in footnote a to the first term variable remuneration scheme, the total annual remuneration table on page 63. excluding pension benefits of each executive Director under the The Remuneration Committee has discretion to alter targets to reflect Groups remuneration policy is weighted between performance-related changed circumstances such as material changes in accounting and non performance-related elements, valued as at the time of award standards or changes in the structure of the Group.
Payments to of long term incentives, at around 60% and 40% respectively.
executive Directors are based upon a percentage of basic salary The Committee believes that these proportions represent an received during the year and do not form part of pensionable earnings.
appropriate balance between certainty of income and incentive-based Long term incentive arrangements remuneration linked to the achievement of GKNs operational and The long term incentive arrangements currently comprise the GKN Long strategic objectives.
Term Incentive Plan which targets Earnings per Share EPS growth Basic salary and the GKN Executive Share Option Scheme which is based on Total Salaries of executive Directors are reviewed annually by the Committee Shareholder Return TSR.
taking into account individual performance, Group profitability, The combined maximum potential annual award under the GKN Long prevailing market conditions, recent pay awards in the Group Term Incentive Plan and the GKN Executive Share Option Scheme is generally and external benchmark data on remuneration.
In line with the Groups budgeted average salary increase for all Under both plans the number of shares that vest depends on the management staff, the executive Directors received an annual salary Groups performance against the relevant targets during the three years increase of 3% with effect from 1 July 2011.
Marcus Bryson and Andrew commencing on 1 January in the year of award and on satisfaction of a Reynolds Smith each received further increases of 4% with effect from personal shareholding requirement see page 62.
In addition, before 1 October 2011 reflecting the increased responsibilities assumed by any shares become eligible for release or exercise, the Remuneration them on that date.
On his appointment as Chief Executive on 1 January Committee must be satisfied that this is justified by the underlying 2012, Nigel Steins salary was increased from 515,000 to 725,000.
These financial performance of the Group over the measurement period.
There increases were designed to bring the salary of each executive Director to is no provision for the retesting of awards.
The maximum number of a level which is in a competitive market range for their respective roles.
shares that could vest upon satisfaction of the relevant performance With effect from 1 January 2012 the basic annual salaries payable to condition in respect of each executive Director is set out in the tables executive Directors are: on pages 64 and 65.
Neither the GKN Long Term Incentive Plan nor the GKN Executive Share Salary Director Option Scheme contains provisions for the automatic release of awards in respect of which the measurement period has not ended on a change Nigel Stein 725,000 of control of GKN plc.
Marcus Bryson 450,000 Andrew Reynolds Smith 450,000 GKN Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP William Seeger 422,300 Each executive Director may be awarded annually a right to receive GKN shares up to a maximum value of 150% of basic salary.
The The average basic salary of the nine executives in the most senior Remuneration Committee decides the level of awards in each year.
executive grade below Board level whose remuneration is monitored The number of shares awarded is calculated by reference to the average by the Remuneration Committee was 264,400 as at 31 December 2011 of the daily closing prices of a GKN share during the preceding year.
all non-sterling amounts have been translated into sterling at the year Vesting levels for awards made in 2011 under the rules of the LTIP are end exchange rate for this purpose.
as follows: Performance-related short term variable remuneration scheme STVRS a For the 2011 financial year, stretching targets related to a combination of Compound annual EPS growth Vesting level Group and, where appropriate, individual portfolio profit, margin and 12% or more 100% cash flow performance and Group net debt were applied.
Achievement 6% 30% of on target performance would result in payments of approximately Less than 6% 0 55% of an executive Directors salary and bonuses were capped at 110% Between 6% and 12% Straight line basis of salary.
a Normalised for tax, and excluding exceptional items, other net financing charges Details of the targets applied and payments made in respect of the 2011 and volatile IFRS charges or credits see note 10 to the financial statements.
STVRS are set out in the second table on page 63.
Following vesting, awards are not released to the Director for at least STVRS payments in excess of 65% of base salary made to executive one further year other than in the specific circumstances set out in the Directors and some 80 senior executives below Board level are rules of the LTIP.
Dividends are treated as having accrued from the compulsorily deferred and invested in GKN shares under the Groups beginning of the third year of the measurement period on any shares Deferred Bonus Plan.
Shares will normally be released after a two year that vest and the equivalent cash amount paid to the Director on release deferral period during which time any dividends earned are accrued of such shares.
and an equivalent cash amount paid on release of the shares.
Release The table on the following page sets out, in respect of each LTIP award of such shares is not subject to any further performance conditions: made within the last five years, the percentage which has vested and however in certain circumstances, such as resignation during the the percentage of each outstanding award that would have vested had deferral period, the shares may lapse.
the measurement period ended on 31 December 2011: Governance.
C Remuneration report Continued LTIP ESOS Percentage vested on maturity Percentage vested on maturity or indicative vesting percentage or indicative vesting percentage based on performance as at based on performance as at Year of award Performance condition @ December ?
Year of award Performance condition @ December ?
2007 TSR 0 ended on 31 December 2009 2007 TSR 0 ended on 31 December 2009 2008 No award N A 2008 No award N A 2009 EPS 100% ended on 31 December 2011 2009 TSR 100% ended on 31 December 2011 2010 EPS 100% performance after 24 months 2010 TSR 100% performance after 24 months 2011 EPS 100% performance after 12 months 2011 TSR 52% performance after 12 months 2009 awards: Retirement benefits performance targets were set by the Remuneration Committee Retirement benefits take the form of a supplementary allowance, and took into account the impact of the severe recessionary expressed as a percentage of basic salary, which may be delivered conditions on the Groups earnings and market expectations of by means of either a cash payment or as a payment to a defined earnings performance.
They were aligned to the strategic plan contribution retirement plan.
In certain cases, based on historical at the time of award and aimed to incentivise earnings recovery contractual commitments, retirement benefits in part are delivered following the recession: by membership of the executive section of the GKN Group Pension Scheme, which is a defined benefit scheme.
The retirement provisions EPS of 12.4p in 2011 was required for minimum vesting 30% are made in order to assist each executive Director towards securing and 15.5p for maximum vesting 100%.
overall retirement benefits comparable in value with those available 2010 awards: under the pension scheme had it not been for the operation of the performance targets were set by the Remuneration Committee and earnings cap introduced by the Finance Act 1989 some members have took into account the unusually low base 2009 earnings due to specific individual pensionable earnings caps.
They were aligned to the strategic plan at Details of the supplementary allowances paid to executive Directors in the time of award and market expectations of GKNs performance: the year are set out in the first table on page 63.
EPS of 15.3p in 2012 is required for minimum vesting 30% and GKNs defined benefit pension scheme provides executive Directors 18.0p for maximum vesting 100%.
with a pension of up to two-thirds of basic annual salary up to their GKN Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS pensionable earnings cap, from 1 September 2007 calculated on a Each executive Director may be awarded annually an option to acquire a career average basis, on retirement at age 60 after 20 or more years number of GKN shares.
The Remuneration Committee decides the level of service and proportionately less for shorter service or for retirement awards in each year.
Annual award levels are not specifically capped under before pension age.
An employee contribution of 8.6% of salary up to the ESOS, but when combined with awards under the LTIP which are their pensionable earnings cap is required under the scheme.
Details of capped at 150% of basic salary they cannot exceed 250% of basic salary.
defined benefit provisions for executive Directors are set out in the first Options granted under the ESOS are normally exercisable between the table on page 66. third and tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
The exercise price is fixed Following changes in the taxation of pensions introduced by the UK at the market price of a GKN share at the time of grant.
Government from April 2006, for those Directors previously affected by Performance is measured by comparing the TSR from GKN shares the limit on annual pensionable earnings, a notional limit has been with the TSR from shares of companies in a comparator group maintained beyond April 2006 so that, overall, the existing pension comprising the constituents of the FTSE 350 Index at the start of a and salary supplement arrangements are broadly unchanged for some three year measurement period commencing on 1 January in the year members a specific individual pensionable earnings cap has been of award.
The FTSE 350 Index was chosen as the comparator group introduced.
No compensation is offered for any additional tax suffered as it is a broadly based index containing more manufacturing and by the individual in the event that the value of their pension exceeds engineering companies than the FTSE 100 Index.
Further changes in the taxation of pensions from 2011 have resulted in a change in policy which enables executive Vesting levels under the rules of the ESOS are as follows: Directors voluntarily to reduce their pensionable earnings cap so that TSR ranking in comparator group Vesting level the value of their annual accrued pension does not exceed the Annual Allowance of 50,000.
Upper quartile 100% Median level 35% Executive Directors with non-UK service agreements typically receive Below median level 0 pension retirement benefits consistent with local practice.
In particular, Between median and upper quartile Straight line basis in accordance with standard practice in the US, GKN makes a total annual contribution equivalent to 11% of William Seegers basic salary and The TSR data and ranking information is obtained from NBS to ensure any STVRS payment made in the relevant year to his qualified and that the comparative performance is independently verified.
non-qualified defined contribution pension arrangement.
The amount contributed by GKN, as noted above, forms part of the overall pension The following table sets out, in respect of each ESOS award made allowance payable to Mr Seeger of 40% of salary.
within the last five years, the percentage which has vested and the percentage of each outstanding award that would have vested had Benefits in kind the measurement period ended on 31 December 2011: Benefits in kind comprise principally car and healthcare benefits.
The level of benefits provided to executive Directors and other senior management is consistent with that provided by other major companies.. C GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 These benefits do not form part of pensionable earnings.
Details of the Executive Board changes benefits in kind provided to executive Directors in 2011 are set out in the Nigel Stein was appointed Chief Executive Designate on 1 October 2011 first table on page 63. and became Chief Executive on 1 January 2012.
Mr Steins annual salary with effect from the beginning of 2012 is 725,000.
His other contract Due to the complicated interaction between the UK and the US tax terms remained unchanged.
regimes, tax and social security equalisation is applied to William Seegers remuneration.
Additional taxes which arise in excess of the Sir Kevin Smith retired as Chief Executive and from the Board on monthly contribution deducted from Mr Seegers salary are settled by 31 December 2011.
Details of his remuneration in respect of the the Company in order to ensure that he is not disadvantaged by his 2011 financial year are given on pages 63 to 65.
He received no global tax position.
compensation payment on his retirement.
Service agreements External appointments The Boards current policy is that, unless local employment practice The Board recognises the benefit which GKN can obtain if executive requires otherwise, the notice period in executive Directors service Directors of GKN serve as non-executive directors of other companies.
With the exception of William Seeger, the Subject to review in each case, the Boards general policy is that each executive Directors service agreements have no fixed term.
William executive Director may accept one non-executive directorship with Seeger has a US service agreement also terminable on one years another company but not the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company notice which terminates in any event on 31 December 2016 unless from which the Director may retain the fees.
extended by prior agreement with Mr Seeger.
Nigel Stein was a non-executive director of Wolseley plc until 22 March There is no contractual provision for predetermined compensation payable 2011.
He received fees of 15,450 for the period 1 January to 22 March upon early termination of an executive Directors service agreement, other 2011 which he retained.
than in the event of early termination following a change of control of GKN plc.
In the event of such an early termination other than on a change of Chairman and non-executive Directors control the Remuneration Committee would apply the principles of the Remuneration policy severance policy adopted by the Board.
Under this policy, which may be The remuneration policy for the Chairman and the other non-executive varied in individual cases, an immediate lump sum severance payment Directors is to pay fees in line with those paid by other UK listed will be made to the Director equivalent to one years basic salary plus companies of comparable size and complexity.
Such fees may include one years pension contributions.
Consideration would be given to the additional payments to the Senior Independent Director and to inclusion in the severance payment of additional elements relating to the Chairmen of Board Committees to reflect the significant extra short term variable remuneration and major benefits in kind.
However, responsibilities attached to these positions.
such additional elements will not normally be included where the The fees of the non-executive Directors other than the Chairman, severance is as a result of underperformance.
Consideration would also together with any additional fees payable to the Senior Independent be given to making the severance payment in 12 equal instalments which Director and the Chairmen of Board Committees, are determined by will only be paid to the extent that the Director has not been able to the Board upon the recommendation of the Chairman and Chief mitigate his loss by the date of the relevant payment.
Executive and are set at a level that the Board believes will attract In the event of the service agreement coming to an end by mutual individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make a consent, the Remuneration Committee will approve such termination substantial contribution to the Groups affairs.
The fees received by arrangements as are appropriate in the particular circumstances.
the Chairman are determined by the Remuneration Committee.
No Director participates in deliberations concerning his own fee.
Current If, in breach of its terms, termination of a Directors service agreement annual fee levels, which remain unchanged since 2008, are as follows: occurs on less than due notice within 12 months following a change in control of GKN plc, a predetermined amount is payable to the Director Base fee equivalent to one years basic salary, pension contributions, benefits Chairman 300,000 in kind and loss of entitlements under performance-related short term Non-executive Directors 50,000 remuneration arrangements 30% of base salary.
No right to such a payment arises simply by virtue of a change in control.
Additional fees An enhancement to the pension rights of an executive Director upon Senior Independent Director 5,000 early retirement will only be considered in exceptional cases and a full Audit Committee Chairman 11,000 costing would be provided to the Remuneration Committee at the time Remuneration Committee Chairman 10,000 of its deliberations.
In any event, such enhancement would not be considered unless objectives set for the Director had been met or it Neither the Chairman nor the other non-executive Directors participate was otherwise merited in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee.
in the Groups short term variable remuneration or long term incentive arrangements or in its pension scheme, nor do they receive benefits It is also the Boards policy that, at the time of consideration of a proposed in kind.
appointment of an executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will take into account the likely cost of severance in determining the Terms of appointment appropriateness of the proposed terms of appointment.
In accordance The terms of service of the Chairman and other non-executive Directors with the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006, no payment will are contained in letters of appointment.
be made to a Director for loss of office or employment with the Company in excess of the Directors contractual obligations without the prior approval The current policy for non-executive Directors is to serve on the Board of shareholders in general meeting.
for nine years with interim renewals after three and six years, subject to mutual agreement and annual performance reviews.
Appointments may be terminated upon three months notice by either party and there are no provisions for compensation in the event of termination.
Remuneration report Continued Non-executive Board changes Historical TSR performance Roy Brown will retire as Chairman on 3 May 2012 at the conclusion TOTAL ShAREhOLDER RETuRN % of the AGM and will be succeeded by Michael Turner.
He will receive no compensation payment on his retirement.
- On becoming Chairman, Mr Turner will receive fees of 300,000 per annum.
His appointment as Chairman is for an initial period of three years terminable at any time upon 12 months notice by either party.
"""- Tufan Erginbilgic joined the Board as a non-executive Director on 9 May 2011."
"- Shareholding requirement In order to reinforce the alignment of their interests with those of #-"" shareholders generally, all Directors are subject to a shareholding LTIP Comparator requirement."
Details of Directors shareholdings are given in the Group Median TSR second table on page 66.
GKN TSR - ESOS Comparator Executive Directors Group Median TSR Executive Directors are required to establish and maintain an - - -  investment in GKN shares equivalent to at least 100% of their basic % salary.
Under the current policy, the receipt of any shares by a Director from an award made under the LTIP and ESOS is conditional upon the Historic LTIP awards used different comparator groups and for both the shareholding requirement being met on the third anniversary of the LTIP and ESOS the TSR calculation methodology required is different from grant of the award.
For these purposes any vested but unexercised that required by Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies rights under the LTIP will be counted as shares.
and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations.
The chart above illustrates GKNs TSR compared to the median TSR of the Non-executive Directors relevant comparator group under the LTIP and ESOS in respect of the five It is the Boards policy that non-executive Directors will normally be most recently completed measurement periods no measurement period expected to acquire a holding of GKN shares of a value equivalent to ended in December 2010 as no long term incentive awards were made in 30% of one years basic fee within three years of appointment.
For awards made in 2009 onwards, there is no LTIP comparator group as LTIP awards were based on EPS from that date.
Satisfaction of share-based incentive arrangements Awards made under the ESOS and LTIP may be satisfied by the issue of For the measurement periods under the LTIP that ended on 31 December new shares, the transfer of shares held in treasury or by shares held in 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, the comparator group comprised tailored an employee benefit trust EBT.
Awards made under the Deferred peer groups of approximately 40 international automotive and aerospace Bonus Plan are satisfied by shares held in the EBT.
The ESOS comparator groups comprised the FTSE 350 Index constituent companies on 1 January in the first year of the In accordance with the recommendations of the Association of British relevant measurement period.
Insurers, the number of new shares that may be issued to satisfy awards granted under the LTIP and ESOS and any other employee share scheme TOTAL ShAREhOLDER RETuRN is restricted to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company  over any 10 year period.
Further, the number of new shares that may  be issued to satisfy awards granted under the LTIP and ESOS and any  other executive scheme is restricted to 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company over any 10 year period.
At 31 December 2011, the Company had used 1.7% of the share capital available under the 5% in 10 years limit and 1.9% of the share capital available under the 10% in 10 years limit.
"The shares GKN TSR were purchased on the market by the EBT and will be used to satisfy FTSE !"""
Index TSR Source: New Bridge Street awards under the Groups long term incentive arrangements.
The EBT has waived the right to receive dividends paid on these shares.
The chart above is prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
It shows the Companys TSR and that of the FTSE 350 Index, based on an initial investment of 100, over the five-year period to the end of 2011.
The FTSE 350 Index was chosen for this chart as it is a broadly based index which contains more manufacturing and engineering companies than the FTSE 100 Index.
C@ GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors remuneration 2011 With the exception of the dates shown in the first table below and in the first two tables on page 64 and the section headed Share interests on page 66, the information set out on pages 63 to 66 represents the auditable disclosures required by Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 which have been audited by the Companys auditors,  LLP.
The remuneration of the executive Directors who served during the year was as follows: Performance related Supplementary Date of service Basic salary STVRS cash Car allowance Other benefits pension Total ?
An amount of 113,046 2010: 115,593 will be deferred into shares under the Deferred Bonus Plan for Marcus Bryson.
No amounts will be deferred for 2011 and the full amounts will be paid as cash to Andrew Reynolds Smith 2010: 164,000 : William Seeger 2010: 154,629 : Nigel Stein 2010: 187,625 and Sir Kevin Smith 2010: 285,426. b The 2011 STVRS payments agreed by the Remuneration Committee take into account the one-off charge 19 million relating to the Hoeganaes plant closure at Gallatin and, in addition, the Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion to reduce the 2011 STVRS payments made to Sir Kevin Smith, Chief Executive, and Andrew Reynolds Smith, Chief Executive Powder Metallurgy.
c Supplementary pension allowances delivered to executive Directors by means of either a cash payment or as a payment to a defined contribution retirement plan to assist them towards securing retirement benefits.
The pension cost for William Seeger includes GKNs contribution to Mr Seegers US qualified and non-qualified defined contribution pension arrangement.
d Includes the supplementary pension allowances paid to executive Directors in 2010. e Includes an amount of 13,208 in respect of holiday cancellation costs in order to take charge personally of the management of events at Hoeganaes, Gallatin following closure of the plant in May 2011. f Includes a one-off amount of 35,762 relating to a payment made by the Company in connection with a US tax liability for Marcus Bryson incurred during his employment with GKN Aerospace in the US.
g Under the terms of his service agreement, Mr Seegers emoluments are paid semi-monthly in US$, converted at the exchange rate published in the UK Financial Times on the first business day of the relevant month.
Mr Seeger is a US National who relocated to the UK in 2008 in the role of Finance Director.
Mr Seeger had full US Federal and State hypothetical tax withholding through the US payroll in 2011.
As a result of the complicated interaction of the UK and US tax regimes, a payment of 425,188 2010: 387,996 was made by GKN to the UK and US tax authorities on his behalf in order to avoid a period of double taxation.
All subsequent tax refunds resulting from the tax paid by GKN will be refunded to the Company in due course.
The best estimate of the amount which is not expected to be refunded based on information available to date is 167,847 2010: 166,684 : these amounts are not included in the total remuneration shown above.
The 2011 performance-related payments made under the STVRS were triggered by the achievement of a number of Group and, where appropriate, individual portfolio targets relating to profit, margin and cash flow performance and Group net debt.
The maximum amount that an individual could receive and the total payments to executive Directors under the 2011 STVRS before the exercise of discretion referred to in note b above were as follows: Element Target % Maximum % Actual % Profit 20 45 20.0 to 30.4 Margin 20 40 8.0 to 40.0 Cash flow 10 10 0.0 to 10.0 Group net debt 5 15 4.5 55 110 32.5 to 84.9 Governance.
CA Remuneration report Continued The remuneration of the non-executive Directors who served during the year was as follows: Date of current letter Expiry of ?
2010 a Non-executive Director of appointment current term 000 Roy Brown 28.04.09 2012 AGM @ 300 b Tufan Erginbilgic 04.04.11 09.05.14 @?
Shonaid Jemmett-Page 28.04.10 31.05.13 B 29 Richard Parry-Jones 03.02.11 28.02.14 C 57 John Sheldrick 05.01.11 19.12.13 C 61 Michael Turner 24.11.11 03.05.15 BB 53 a In accordance with provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors offer themselves for annual re-election.
Date of leaving Expiry of ?
2010 Former non-executive Directors the Board current term 000 Helmut Mamsch 31.10.10 N A 42 Sir Christopher Meyer 06.05.10 N A 17 Sir Peter Williams 06.05.10 N A 23 BBE 582 Directors aggregate emoluments for 2011 amounted to 5.6 million 2010: 6.4 million.
Long term incentive plans Awards over GKN shares under the LTIP held by the executive Directors who served during the year, together with any movements, are shown below: LTIP Awards held Awards made Awards lapsed Awards held a Date of grant 1 January 2011 during year during year @ December ?
@, BBE a The GKN share price used to calculate the number of shares the subject of the award, under the rules of the LTIP, was 146.70p.
The closing mid-market price of a GKN share on the date of award was 204.70p.
The measurement period relating to these awards ends on 31 December 2013 and the performance condition is described on page 59. b Sir Kevin Smith retired on 31 December 2011.
Under the rules of the LTIP, shares under his 2009 and 2010 awards are eligible for release at the end of the relevant measurement periods subject to satisfaction of the performance criteria.
The number of shares subject to his 2010 award has been reduced by 226,513 shown as lapsed in the table above to reflect his period of service during the performance period.
c During 2011, no awards vested and no shares were released to Directors.
The measurement period for the 2009 awards ended on 31 December 2011 with 100% of the performance condition being met.
The shares will normally be released on the fourth anniversary of the date of award subject to the Directors meeting the personal shareholding requirement.
Dividends are treated as having accrued from 1 January 2011 on the number of shares that are due to vest and a cash equivalent amount will be paid on release of the shares.. CB GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 ESOS Options over GKN shares under the ESOS held by the executive Directors who served during the year, together with any movements, are shown below: Shares Shares under option Options Options Options under option 1 January granted lapsed exercised @ December Exercise Exercisable Exercisable a b b Date of grant 2011 during year during year during year ?
199.58p 01.04.14 31.03.21 1,677,194 200,420, EDD, C A a Adjusted where appropriate to take account of the dilutive effect of the 2009 rights issue.
b Represents the earliest exercise date assuming satisfaction of the relevant performance condition and personal shareholding requirement and latest expiry date of options held by the Director during the year.
The performance condition is described on page 60. c Sir Kevin Smith retired on 31 December 2011.
The number of shares subject to his 2010 award has been reduced by 222,541 shown as lapsed in the table above to reflect his period of service during the performance period.
d During 2011, no options were exercised by Directors.
e The closing mid-market price of a GKN share on 30 December 2011 being the last trading day in 2011 was 183p and the price range during the year was 157p to 245p.
Deferred Bonus Plan Share awards held by the executive Directors under the Deferred Bonus Plan at 31 December 2011 were as follows: Sir Kevin Smith 143,013: Marcus Bryson 57,918: Andrew Reynolds Smith 82,172: William Seeger 77,477: Nigel Stein 94,009.
These represent the amount of bonus earned for the 2010 financial year deferred into shares and were granted on 1 April 2011 after the announcement of the 2010 annual results.
The closing mid-market price of a GKN share on the date of award was 204.7p.
Awards will be released on the second anniversary of the date of grant.
Sir Kevin Smith retired on 31 December 2011 and his shares will be released to him in accordance with the rules of the plan.
CC Remuneration report Continued Retirement benefits The table below sets out the defined benefit provision for those executive Directors whose retirement benefits are delivered in part through the GKN Group Pension Scheme.
Transfer value Transfer value Transfer value at Accrued annual Accrued annual of accrued of accrued @ December ?
pension at pension at annual pension annual pension Change in Increase in of increase in @ December 31 December at @ December at 31 December transfer value annual pension annual pension a a b c c ?
000 000 000 Marcus Bryson D@ 163 A, ?EB 3,401 EEB 2 AC Andrew Reynolds Smith @A 30 BCC 383 E@ 3 AA Nigel Stein D 66, CF 1,275 A B 3 BB a The accrued annual pension includes entitlements earned as an employee prior to becoming a Director as well as for qualifying services after becoming a Director.
b A transfer value represents the present value of accrued benefits.
It does not represent an amount of money which the individual is entitled to receive.
The change in transfer value over the year reflects the additional pension earned and the effect of changes in stock market conditions during the year.
In particular, a reduction in the discount rate assumption and a strengthening of the mortality assumption have resulted in a significant increase in the transfer value, in addition to that arising from the additional benefit accrued.
The method and assumptions used to calculate transfer values from the GKN Group Pension Scheme were last reviewed and adopted by the Trustee in February 2011 in order to meet the requirements of new transfer value legislation which came into effect from that date.
c Increase over the year in accrued pension in excess of inflation to which the Director would have been entitled on leaving service.
Total amounts paid to executive Directors as supplementary cash allowances and or as payments to defined contribution retirement plans are included in the supplementary pension allowance column in the remuneration table on page 63.
For Sir Kevin Smith and William Seeger, such payments comprise their retirement benefits in full.
Share interests The interests of the Directors, and of their connected persons, in GKN shares are set out below: Shareholdings as at @ December 1 January Directors as at 31 December 2011 ?
2011 Executive Directors Sir Kevin Smith, AE, EBC 1,460,928 Marcus Bryson ?
@ 283,123 William Seeger @B, 100,000 Nigel Stein B, @F E 510,398 Chairman Roy Brown E, fide 80,780 Non-executive Directors Tufan Erginbilgic @, Shonaid Jemmett-Page ?, F 7,854 Richard Parry-Jones ?
20,000 Michael Turner C, 160,000 There were no changes in the Directors interests in shares or options between 31 December 2011 and 27 February 2012.
This report, approved by the Board, has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Act, the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and Statutory Instrument 2008 410: The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
Furthermore, the Board has applied the principles of good governance relating to Directors remuneration contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Act requires the auditors to report to the Companys shareholders on the audited information within this report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the report have been prepared in accordance with the Act.
The auditors opinion is set out on page 121 and those aspects of the report which have been subject to audit are clearly marked.
As at 29 February 2012, there were no changes in the interests of the Directors other than in respect of Sir Kevin Smith who exercised the following awards in full: on 28 February 2012 the 2003 ESOS award and 2011 DBP award: and on 29 February 2012 the 2009 LTIP award.. CD GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Future policy and remuneration arrangements Following a comprehensive review by the Remuneration Committee during 2011 of the existing policy and remuneration arrangements for executive Directors, a number of changes are being introduced with effect from the 2012 financial year.
The changes, which are summarised below, aim to improve the alignment of the remuneration framework with the interests of shareholders and with GKNs strategic objectives, in particular the delivery of sustainable earnings growth.
The introduction of the new long term incentive arrangements is subject to shareholders approval at the AGM in May 2012.
Overall remuneration package GKNs policy for executive Directors is to maintain total compensation within a competitive market range of the relevant employment market, taking into account an individuals experience, responsibility and performance, Group profitability, prevailing market conditions and pay awards in the Group generally.
Whilst the structure of the reward for executive Directors is changing, as described below, the overall quantum will remain unchanged.
Basic salary The intention is to maintain salary increases for executive Directors in line with the wider Group employee population, other than in the event of changes in role and responsibilities.
Short term variable remuneration An element of the Groups short term variable remuneration scheme STVRS will in future be assessed against strategic measures linked to measurable and quantitative targets which support the delivery of GKNs long term strategic agenda.
These will complement the existing financial measures which make up the remainder of the bonus opportunity and which align with the Groups financial KPIs.
The Committee has flexibility to select appropriate strategic measures each year dependent on the specific business needs and strategic goals of the Group.
Payment under this element will be subject to the achievement of a threshold level of financial performance.
For 2012, the strategic measures aim to drive improvements in health and safety performance and levels of stock turn.
Achievement of these measures will result in payments of 10% of salary: the Committee will consider increasing this proportion in future years.
A clawback provision is being introduced on all outstanding deferred share awards made under the Groups Deferred Bonus Plan DBP in the event of a material misstatement or gross misconduct.
Long term incentive arrangements Subject to shareholders approval, the Sustainable Earnings Plan SEP is being introduced to replace the current long term incentive arrangements, i. e. the LTIP which rewards for EPS growth and the ESOS which rewards for GKNs TSR against the FTSE 350.
TSR is no longer considered an appropriate measure of performance due to the difficulties in identifying an appropriate comparator group to GKN with its unique mix of automotive and aerospace businesses: the use of a broad based equity index can produce arbitrary outcomes.
Recognising the fundamental alignment of EPS to GKNs stated growth strategy and the objective of creating long term shareholder value, the performance measure for the SEP is based on EPS growth.
Awards under the SEP will comprise two elements: a Core Award and a Sustainability Award.
Both elements are linked and are granted on the same date.
The whole award i. e. both the Core Award and the Sustainability Award are subject to the achievement of stretching EPS growth targets over the initial three year performance period.
EPS targets for the initial three year performance period will be the same as the present LTIP scheme see page 59.
However, in line with market practice, the proportion of the award that will vest for threshold performance is being reduced to 25% of the award currently the threshold vesting under the LTIP and ESOS is 30% and 35% respectively.
The Sustainability Award is then subject to a further condition that the highest EPS achieved in this three year period is sustained in a further two year period.
In order to ensure that growth is based on quality earnings, which are sustainable over the long term and which will lead to the creation of shareholder value, vesting of awards will be subject to a financial underpin.
This will involve consideration by the Remuneration Committee of the Groups return on capital including its performance relative to the prevailing ROIC target as published in the annual report see page 13, shareholder expectations, new investment performance, and GKNs cost of capital.
The key conclusions from this assessment and the basis for any adjustment to the levels of vesting will be disclosed retrospectively in the remuneration report.
The time horizon of the long term incentive arrangements is being extended to five years to reflect better the long term nature of the Groups business.
The award is subject to stretching EPS growth targets which, if achieved, will result in half of the Core Award being receivable after three years and the remaining half of the Core Award receivable after five years.
The Sustainability Award is only released at the end of five years if the highest EPS attained in the initial three year performance period is sustained.
Further details of the SEP can be found in the 2012 AGM circular.
Retirement benefits Retirement benefits principally take the form of a supplementary allowance expressed as a percentage of basic salary, which may be delivered by means of either a cash payment or as payment to a defined contribution retirement plan.
Under current arrangements the relevant amount is 40% of basic salary.
For future executive Director appointments this will be reduced to 25% of basic salary.
Shareholding requirement Whilst the value of the shareholding requirement will remain unchanged at 100% of salary for all executive Directors, the current, rather complex, rules will be simplified such that until the requirement is met 50% of deferred shares under the DBP and 50% of shares that vest under the SEP must be retained net of tax in both cases.
CE Remuneration report Continued The key elements of the new remuneration framework in respect of short and long term incentive arrangements, and how these have changed from the current arrangements, are summarised in the following table.
Current framework Future framework STVRS 110% of salary maximum Unchanged 110% of salary maximum All financial measures profit, margin, Improved strategic 100% financial measures cash flow and net debt alignment 10% strategic measure s subject to threshold financial performance The Committee intends to review the proportion based on strategic measures annually and intends to increase the proportion in the future Amounts in excess of 65% of salary Unchanged Amounts in excess of 65% of salary deferred deferred for two years for two years No clawback Strengthened Clawback introduced on the deferred element for material misstatement or gross misconduct Long term incentives Two plans: Simplified One plan: ESOS Sustainable Earnings Plan LTIP Typical face value of awards % salary : Unchanged Typical face value of awards % salary : ESOS: c. 80% Sustainable Earnings Plan: 174% LTIP: c. 120% 2011 awards Expected value of awards: c. 90% Expected value of awards: c. 90% Maximum annual face value Reduced Maximum annual face value % of salary : % of salary : Sustainable Earnings Plan: 200% ESOS and LTIP: 250% with maximum LTIP award being no more than 150% Time horizon: Improved strategic Time horizon: ESOS: Three years alignment Sustainable Earnings Plan: Initially LTIP: Three years with additional measured over three years: sustained one year holding period growth is then measured over a further two year period Performance measures: Improved strategic Performance measures: ESOS: TSR vs FTSE 350 alignment Sustainable Earnings Plan: EPS growth LTIP: EPS growth
