overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN 3.4 | Directors remuneration report REMUNERATION COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE Chairman This Remuneration Report has been prepared on behalf of William Macaulay the Board by the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee adopts the principles of good governance as set out in the Other members UK Corporate Governance Code and complies with the ListAnthony Hayward ing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and the relevant Leonhard Fischer schedules of the Companies Act 2006 and the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations in Schedule 8 to the Large and Secretary Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports John Burton Regulations 2008.
These regulations require the Companys auditors to report INTRODUCTION on the Audited Information in the report and to state that this section has been properly prepared in accordance with these I am pleased to present the inaugural remuneration report pubregulations.
As such, the report is divided into audited and unlished for the Company.
One criticism of UK-listed company remuneration reports is that A resolution to approve this report will be put to shareholders they can be too long, too technical and too confusing.
So I hope at the Companys AGM.
that this report represents a reasonable attempt by us to make it short, simple and straight forward.
Membership and experience of the Remuneration Committee We believe that the members of the Committee provide a useful balance of abilities, experience and perspectives to provide OUR PHILOSOPHY the critical analysis required in carrying out our function.
In particular: We have the same philosophy as any other Remuneration ComWilliam Macaulay has had a long career in private equity which mittee, namely to set the companys remuneration policies and has involved exposure to compensation issues many times practices so that they facilitate the attraction, retention and moand in a variety of situations: tivation of the Executive Directors and other senior executives Leonhard Fischer is a career banker who similarly has had conof appropriate high calibre to implement the Groups strategy siderable exposure to issues of pay and incentives: and while aligning the interests of the Executive Directors and exTony Hayward has for many years been a senior employee and ecutives with those of shareholders generally.
This policy underexecutive in the resources industry, most notably as CEO of pins our entire approach to executive remuneration at Glencore.
BP, and therefore brings considerable experience as a senior executive to our deliberations.
One notable aspect of our Executive Directors remuneration is that, with their agreement and reflecting their status as maAll members of the remuneration Committee are considered to jor shareholders, the Executive Directors do not currently parbe independent.
ticipate in our long term incentive arrangements the CEO has also agreed not to participate in our bonus arrangements.
As a Role of the Remuneration Committee result, we are currently able to set overall remuneration for our The terms of reference of the Committee set out its role.
They Executive Directors at lower levels than in comparable compaare available on the Companys website at www.
com nies and for comparable performance.
that the Executive Directors significant personal shareholdings create sufficient alignment of interest with shareholders in the Its principal responsibilities are, on behalf of the Board, to: absence of participation in a long term incentive arrangement.
Set the Companys executive remuneration policy and review If our proposed merger with Xstrata plc proceeds, however, we its ongoing relevance and appropriateness : would need to review our overall remuneration policy.
Fix the individual remuneration packages for the Executive Directors including the scope of pension payments: 2011 was an important first year for the Committee.
We estabDetermine the total individual remuneration package for the lished our overall remuneration framework and, within this conChairman, in consultation with the Chief Executive: text, the remuneration packages for the Executive Directors.
Have responsibility for overseeing schemes of performance We agreed service contracts in line with UK best practice.
We related remuneration including share incentive plans for, and also reviewed performance during the year and determined the determine awards for, the Executive Directors: bonus payment to be made to the CFO.
Ensure that the contractual terms on termination for the Executive Directors are fair and not excessive: and I hope you will find this Remuneration Report clear and informMonitor senior management remuneration.
| Annual Report 2011 | 91 Remuneration Committee activities 2011 External advisers to the Remuneration Committee Following listing, the Committee met twice and considered, During 2011, the Committee appointed the remuneration consulamongst other matters, the following: tancy practice of Deloitte LLP to provide independent advice to Its terms of reference: the Committee.
Deloitte LLP is the Companys retained auditor The regulatory framework that applies to the governance of and also provided other services to the Company during 2011. executive remuneration in the Group: The Committee considers Deloitte to be independent.
The ReThe remuneration policy applicable to the Executive Direcmuneration Committee advisers terms of reference are in actors following the IPO and the specific terms of the Executive cordance with APB Ethical Standard 5 and restrict the provision of Directors remuneration, including consideration of annual certain services in order to maintain auditor independence.
The bonus and long term incentives: scope and value of services to the Company is kept under review.
Senior management remuneration policy, including level and Advice is provided with use of established methodologies and its structure and the future application of share plans: the advisers are not involved in the decision making process.
AdThe appointment of remuneration consultants to advise the visory partners and staff have no involvement in audit, and are not Committee: and involved in the preparation of audited information.
The CommitThe appropriate evaluation methodology for the Committee.
tee also receive advice on legal matters from Linklaters.
The Committee is able to consider corporate performance on HSEC and governance issues when setting remuneration for the EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Executive Directors.
The Committee seeks to ensure that the incentive structure for the Groups senior management does All emoluments to the Directors are paid in UK Pounds Sterling not raise HSEC or governance risks by inadvertently motivating except for pension contributions and insurance benefits proirresponsible behaviour.
vided to the Executive Directors.
As noted in the emoluments table below, these are presented in UK Pounds Sterling.
In addiInternal advisers to the Remuneration Committee tion, as the financial statements are denominated in U. S. Dollars, The Chairman, CEO and CFO are usually invited to attend some we have also provided a total remuneration table on page95 or all of the proceedings of Remuneration Committee meetbelow which presents the total amounts in U. S. Dollars.
They do not participate in any decisions concerning their own remuneration.
In addition, the Committee received advice Remuneration Framework from John Burton, the Company Secretary.
The key elements of the current Executive Directors remuneration framework are shown in the table.
Each component is discussed in more detail on the pages that follow.
Component Purpose Overview Current practice Fixed Base salary Provides market competitive Salaries are positioned within a market Executive Officer: fixed remuneration competitive range for companies of a $ 1,437,080 925,000 similar size and complexity Financial Officer: Reviewed annually with the next review $1,087,520 700,000 due to take place in December 2012 Pension Provides basic retirement Defined contribution scheme for all Swiss Both Executive Directors benefits employees participate Contributions are based on age Annual contribution 15 19% on base salary of up to $ 297,693 CHF278,400 Other Benefits Provides appropriate Provision of standard company Swiss insurance cover benefits insurances Variable Annual bonus Supports delivery of short Award of maximum of 200% of salary The CEO does not currently term operational & strategic participate goals The CFO participates and has been assessed against targets Performance Incentivises the creation of Overall plan limit of 500% of salary Both Executive Directors do Share Plan shareholder value over the Malus clauses apply not currently participate longer-term Deferred Bonus Incentivises the creation of Provides for deferral of annual bonus above Applicable to CFO and Plan shareholder value over the agreed amount senior management longer-term Significant Personal Aligns the interests of No formal shareholding requirements are The CEO has a beneficial Shareholdings executives and shareholders needed given the size of shareholdings ownership of c. 16% The CFO has a beneficial ownership of c. 1% These amounts are set in UK Pounds Sterling and have been converted to U. S. Dollars using the exchange rates stated in the Currency table on page 49.
92 | Annual Report 2011 | overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN The Role of Variable Pay at Glencore Groups significant borrowings.
On this basis, the Committee Throughout the organisation, a significant proportion of the determined that the CFO should be awarded a bonus of 200% remuneration of our senior executive team is based on perforof salary the maximum opportunity for the 2011 financial year.
mance during the year and, through partial deferral, including Mr Kalmin waived half of this award so that the bonus paid was into shares, on shareholder value created over the long term.
These principles have served the Company well over a number of years and remain firmly in place.
Long term incentives As described above, the Executive Directors do not currently Our Executive Directors have significant personal shareholdparticipate in any long term incentive arrangements, reflectings.
They, and the Committee, believe that this currently proing the significant alignment achieved through large personal vides sufficient alignment between their interests and those of shareholdings.
shareholders, regarding long term Company performance and shareholder value.
As a result, the CEO does not currently parThe Committee will keep this under review to ensure it remains ticipate in the annual or long term incentive arrangements and appropriate.
In the event that long term incentive awards are receives just a base salary and pension benefits which are set made to Executive Directors, they would normally be made at a lower level than for comparable companies.
The CFO is eliunder the Glencore Performance Share Plan described below gible to participate in the annual bonus but does not currently and would include stretching performance targets measured participate in any long term incentive arrangements.
over a period of at least three years.
Although this results in a higher proportion of fixed remuneraThe Glencore Performance Share Plan PSP tion as a percentage of total remuneration than would be the The PSP was implemented on Admission.
The table below sets case in comparable companies, the Committee believes this is out the key features of the plan, which the Committee believes appropriate given the current alignment created through the to be aligned with UK best practice.
significant share ownership described above.
Key features Details The Committee also notes that it results in a lower level of overall remuneration for the Executive Directors than would be the case Form of award Conditional shares or nil-cost options in similar companies, which is beneficial to our shareholders.
Individual limits 500% of base salary Aggregate limits The Companys share plans include best Base Salary practice dilution limits: 10% in ten years For 2011, annual base salaries for the Executive Directors were under all share plans and 5% in ten years set at 925,000 and 700,000 for the CEO and CFO respecunder discretionary plans tively, which the Committee considers to be within the market Malus clauses Awards can be reduced or extinguished in the competitive range and appropriate.
event that a participants actions or behaviour results in a material loss, or detriment, to the Company When setting remuneration for our executives, the Committee Change of control Participants may be required or permitted to takes into account market data from listed companies of a simiexchange awards for equivalent awards lar financial size, and pay and conditions in the wider Glencore over shares in the acquiring company: and group to ensure that pay for our most senior employees is conAlternatively, the Committee has discretion sistent with, and aligned to, the rest of the organisation.
to determine that awards vest immediately, subject to time and performance proration.
Salaries will remain unchanged for 2012.
Leaver conditions Awards generally lapse for all except good leavers: For good leavers, awards generally continue Annual bonus and vest on the normal vesting date and The current maximum bonus opportunity for Executive Direcsubject to performance.
The Committee tors is 200% of base salary.
This opportunity is positioned toretains discretion to allow awards to vest on wards the lower end of market practice in UK-listed companies cessation, subject to time and performance of a similar size, which the Committee believes is appropriate at pro-rating: and the current time.
On death awards generally vest in full, unless the Committee decides otherwise.
As described above, the CEO does not currently participate in the annual bonus arrangements.
The CFO does participate The Glencore Deferred Bonus Plan DBP and for the current financial year will be assessed using a comUnder the DBP, all or part of a participants bonus is deferred bination of key criteria aligned to the delivery of our strategy as an award of ordinary shares Bonus Awards which vests at which are within his areas of responsibility.
In respect of 2011, the end of a specified period subject to continued employment the Committee considered the performance of the CFO against and forfeiture for malus events.
No awards have been granted a number of performance criteria including successful comunder this plan to date.
pletion of the Companys IPO, the establishment of reporting processes and investor relations functions suitable for a FTSE 100 company and management and partial refinancing of the | Annual Report 2011 | 93 Shareholding Other benefits The Remuneration Committee believes that a significant shareThe Executive Directors benefit from the same insurance arholding by Executive Directors aligns their long-term economic rangements provided to all its Swiss employees being salary interests with those of our shareholders and demonstrates their loss long term sickness and accident insurance cover.
Total shareholder return relative performance Given the status of our current Executive Directors as major The graph below shows the companys performance, measured shareholders see the Directors share interests table on page98, by total shareholder return, compared with the performance of the Committee considers formal shareholding requirements the FTSE Mining Sector index.
The Company is a constituent of unnecessary at this time.
However, the Committee will keep this this index and it has been chosen as it is the widely recognised under review and may introduce a shareholding requirement if performance comparison for large UK-listed mining companies.
it becomes appropriate to do so in the future.
The time line on the graph starts on 24May 2011, the date of Admission.
In drawing up this graph it has been assumed that Pensions all dividends paid have been reinvested, which the company The Executive Directors participate in the Groups defined conbelieves is a fair method of calculation.
tribution pension scheme which is operated for all staff at its Baar office.
Contributions are paid in CHF and represented amounts equivalent to c. 1519% contributions are age related of gross annual salary up to CHF278,400 for both Executive Directors.
110 100 90 80 70 60 5 11 6 11 7 11 8 11 9 11 10 11 11 11 12 11 FTSE 350 Mining Glencore 94 | Annual Report 2011 | overview | BUSiNeSS review | CorPorATe GoverNANCe | FiNANCiAL STATeMeNTS | AddiTioNAL iNForMATioN Executive Directors Contracts Non-executive directors The table below summarises the key features of the executive Letters of appointment & re-election all non-executive direcdirectors service contracts.
tors have letters of appointment with the Company for an initial period of three years from their date of appointment, subject to reappointment at each AGM.
Provision Service contract terms The Company may terminate each appointment by immediate notice and there are no special arrangements or entitlements Notice period 12 months notice by either party on termination.
Contract date Employment contracts for the CEO and CFO are dated 28April 2011 Policy for determining non-executive directors NED fees the Expiry date Rolling service contract initial remuneration of the NEDs was determined by the Board Termination payment No special arrangements or entitlements prior to the IPO within the limits set by the Articles of Associaon termination tion.
NEDs are only remunerated through fees.
Further details Change in control In the event of a change of control of the Company, the contracts of the Executive are provided below.
In particular, they are not eligible to particiDirectors do not provide for any enhanced pate in any of the Companys share incentive schemes or join payments, nor for any liquidated damages any Company pension scheme.
External appointments Going forward, the Board will review NED remuneration levels The Executive Directors each held external appointments beperiodically to ensure that they remain aligned with those of ing directorships of non-subsidiary companies during 2011. other major listed companies.
These are referred to at the end of their respective biographical summaries on page 81.
The Executive Directors assign to the Group any compensation which they receive from such external Board directorships.
AUDITED SECTION Directors emoluments The emoluments for the Directors for the 2011 financial year were: Total US$ 2 GBP thousand Base salary fees Annual bonus Other benefits Total thousand Executive directors Ivan Glasenberg 925 2 927 1487 Steven Kalmin 700 700 2 1402 2247 1625 700 4 2329 3734 3 Non-Executive Directors Simon Murray 456 456 731 Peter Coates 128 128 205 Leonhard Fischer 92 92 148 Anthony Hayward 113 113 181 William Macaulay 90 90 144 Li Ning 65 65 104 944 944 1513 Total 2 569 700 4 3273 5247 This constitutes the cost to the Company of the provision of the insurance cover referred to under Other Benefits above.
These costs have been borne in Swiss Franc and have been converted to UK Pounds Sterling using the exchange rates stated in the Currency table on page 49.
2 These amounts are paid in a foreign currency and have been converted to U. S. Dollars using the exchange rates stated in the Currency table on page 49.
3 The fees were payable to the Non-Executive Directors from 14April 2011 except for Mr. Murray for whom the date was 28April 2011.
| Annual Report 2011 | 95 Annual fees are paid in accordance with a Non-Executive DirecDIRECTORS PENSION ENTITLEMENTS tors role and responsibilities as follows: Non-Executive Directors have no entitlement in respect of any pension arrangements.
The Executive Directors have never GBP US$ 1 2011 thousand thousand been a member of defined benefit schemes provided by the Group and accordingly they have no accrued entitlements under these schemes.
Directors Chairman 675 1082 For the Executive Directors the following contributions have Senior Independent Director 109 175 been made by the Group in 2011 to the Groups defined conNon-Executive Director 79 127 tribution pension scheme which it operates for its Swiss based Remuneration Committee employees: Chairman 28 45 Member 15 24 GBP US$ Audit Committee 2011 thousand thousand Chairman 35 56 Member 20 32 Ivan Glasenberg 37 59 Nominations Committee Steven Kalmin 29 47 Chairman 23 37 Member 12 19 These payments have been converted to UK Pounds Sterling using HSEC Committee the exchange rates stated in the Currency table on page 49.
2 Chairman 80 128 Member 12 19 Approval 1 Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: These amounts are set in UK Pounds Sterling and have been converted to U. S. Dollars using the exchange rates stated in the Currency table on page 49.
William Macaulay 2 The fee payable to the chair of the HSEC Committee was increased Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from the level initially set to reflect the additional workload requested by the Board during the year which is expected to continue for the foreseeable future.
26March 2012 Aggregate Directors Remuneration The total amounts for Directors remuneration for the 2011 financial year in U. S. Dollars were as follows: US$thousand Emoluments 5247 Share incentive gains and payments 1 Retirement contributions 106 The amounts were paid in UK Pounds Sterling or Swiss Franc as explained above and have been converted to U. S. Dollars using the exchange rates stated in the Currency table on page 49.
DIRECTORS SHARE INTERESTS The Directors who held office at 31December 2011 have the beneficial interests in the issued share capital of the Company shown on page 98.
