DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT enSuring the right balance Dear Shareholder The Remuneration Committees policy is During the year, the Board announced two important changes.
On to attract and retain key individuals who 7 March 2011, Keith Down replaced Nick Swift as Group Finance are focused and encouraged to deliver the Director.
On 1 April 2011, David Brown was appointed as Deputy Group Chief Executive, to succeed Keith Ludeman as Group Chief Groups strategy and objectives within Executive when he retired on 2 July 2011. a framework that is aligned with the In conjunction with these new Board appointments, the long term interests of shareholders Remuneration Committee, assisted by independent remuneration consultants hewitt New Bridge Street, undertook a comprehensive review of the Groups remuneration policy.
The aim was to ensure that the right balance was achieved between recruiting, retaining and motivating high calibre individuals and aligning these factors with maximising long term shareholder value.
In formulating this new policy, the Committee were conscious of the continuing difficult economic conditions and evolving landscape in remuneration developments.
Details of the changes to our incentive arrangements from the next financial year, which the Company has discussed with its major shareholders, can be found in this report.
In summary, these will consist of: an annual discretionary cash bonus with a maximum opportunity of 100% of salary, of which 20% is now based on the achievement of safety and good governance objectives: a new annual discretionary deferred share bonus with a maximum opportunity of 50% of salary, subject to claw-back provisions: and a reduced annual Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP award over shares with a maximum market value at grant of 100% of salary, which vests subject to targets for relative total shareholder return and earnings per share growth.
While the overall effect of these changes is that the full potential of performance-related remuneration is unchanged, the Committee is satisfied that there is now a clearer link between performance and the pay received.
The changes made also more closely reflect our corporate goals and are consistent with market and best practice.
I hope you find this report helpful and informative.
Rupert Pennant-Rea, Chairman of Remuneration Committee 31 August 2011 www.
com 69 Corporate Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED This report has been prepared in accordance with the Policy on the remuneration of executive Directors requirements of Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized It is the responsibility of the Committee to set the remuneration Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations of the Executive Directors.
The Groups overall remuneration 2008 and has been approved by the Remuneration Committee policy, as adopted by the Committee, is to ensure that we the Committee and the Board.
Ernst and young LLP have are paying enough to attract, retain and motivate high calibre audited certain parts of this report.
Where disclosures have been individuals to deliver a performance in the interests of the subject to audit, they are indicated as such.
The auditors opinion Companys shareholders and the overall objectives of the business.
is included in their report on page 81.
To achieve this, the Groups remuneration policy is based The Board supports the principles of good corporate governance on the following key principles which are aligned with the on Directors remuneration and, in preparing this report, the recommendations of the Code on Directors remuneration: Committee has followed the provisions of the UK Corporate providing executives with a remuneration package that Governance Code 2010 the Code.
recognises the performance and experience of the individual An ordinary resolution to receive and approve this report will be concerned and the role fulfilled: proposed at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be held ensuring considerable emphasis is placed on performanceon 27 October 2011. driven compensation where targets are aligned with the Groups strategic objectives and targeted shareholder Remuneration Committee returns: and Composition of the Committee ensuring the framework for remuneration is competitive in the Details of the members, the number of meetings and attendees market in which the Group competes, paying due regard to the in the year and the activities of the Committee are shown on page 68. pay practices of its peer group, to the wider pay market in the FTSE 250 and to other factors specific to the Group and to external advisers to the Committee each Director.
During the year, and following a tendering process, the Committee The Group Chief Executive regularly reports on the pay, incentives appointed hewitt New Bridge Street a trading name of Aon and conditions of senior managers and other employees across hewitt Limited as new independent remuneration advisers to the Group and operating companies.
The Committee takes the Committee.
Neither Aon hewitt Limited nor the wider Aon these into account when determining the remuneration of the Corporation provided any other services to the Company during Executive Directors.
When setting the remuneration of the Executive Directors, Responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee the Committee ensures that the incentive structure does not A summary of the responsibilities of the Committee is shown on raise risks by inadvertently encouraging irresponsible behaviour.
The Committees terms of reference are available on the As well as the annual reported financial statements, the Companys website at www.
com or upon request from Committee also considers the mix between fixed and variable the Group Company Secretary.
The Committee recognises that, for this Groups business, Key Committee activities during the year shareholder value is dependent on factors not all necessarily During the year, the Committee met eight times.
The Chairman appearing within the published financial statements, although their of the Committee also held a number of additional meetings effect on later financial statements could be significant.
Leading with the Companys remuneration advisers.
The Committees key these factors are safety, control of risk and other executive activities, in addition to the routine business as outlined on page actions of a strategic nature that may take several years to affect 68, included: shareholder value.
reviewing the policy for the new Executive Directors, David The Executive Directors are also incentivised to take environmental, social and governance ESG matters seriously Brown and Keith Down, and the structure of the new executive and to consider the long term implications of their decision remuneration and incentive packages: making.
Accordingly, in line with the ABIs Guidelines on consulting the Groups major shareholders and their Responsible Investment Disclosure, the Committee has linked representative bodies on these changes: a proportion of the annual bonus to the achievement of safety appointing new independent advisers to the Committee and good governance objectives.
following a tendering process: and In accordance with the Committees policy, a substantial considering the application of the Committees policy in proportion of the Executive Directors pay is  with the departing Executive Directors, Keith related.
The chart on page 72 shows the balance between fixed and performance related pay at maximum performance levels.
Maximum performance assumes payment of maximum cash During the year, the Committees recommendations were and deferred share bonuses and full vesting of shares under the all accepted unanimously by the Board and implemented Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 70 A summary of the Committees remuneration policy for the 2010 11 and 2011 12 financial years is provided below: Policy for 2010 11 New Policy from 2011 12 Reviewed on 1 April each year Reviewed on 1 April each year Base salary fixed Set by reference to the individuals performance, experience Set by reference to the individuals performance, experience and responsibilities, using comparable mid-market data and responsibilities, using comparable mid-market data for guidance for guidance Pension fixed Market competitive defined benefit pension provision or, David Brown: no pension provision depending on individual circumstances, a cash alternative Keith Down: employer contribution of 13% of base salary Only base salary is pensionable paid to defined contribution pension arrangement Other benefits fixed Car replacement allowance and private medical insurance Private medical insurance only Up to 100% of base salary for maximum performance Up to 100% of base salary for maximum performance Performance-related cash 80% of bonus based on Group financial performance and 80% of bonus based on Group financial performance and bonus variable 20% determined by personal performance 20% determined by safety and good governance objectives Payouts are subject to end of year reviews of quality of earnings and quality of budget No policy Up to 50% of base salary for maximum performance Deferred Share Bonus Plan Profit before tax targets to be disclosed retrospectively variable Awards paid in shares deferred for three years Bonus clawback provisions apply Annual award with a maximum value of up to 150% of Annual award with a maximum value of up to 100% of long Term incentive Plan base salary base salary lTiP variable Awards vest three years after grant to the extent Awards vest three years after grant to the extent performance conditions based on the Groups relative TSR performance conditions are met: performance against two comparator groups are met: 50% compound annual growth in EPS 50% Transport Sector Comparator Group Arriva 40% relative TSR vs FTSE 250 excluding non-business plc, First Group plc, National Express Group plc and specific sectors Stagecoach Group plc 10% long term strategic targets to be disclosed retrospectively 50% FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts The overall effect of these changes is that the maximum potential responsibility and skills in organisations of broadly similar size of performance-related remuneration is unchanged.
however, the and complexity and median salary levels of those comparable actual remuneration for our new Executive Directors is lower than companies within the peer group.
The performance, experience that of their predecessors as follows: and responsibilities of the individual are also taken into account, as are the pay and conditions throughout the Group.
For David Brown, Group Chief Executive 1 April 2011 1 April 2010 a starting salary below that of Keith Ludeman: Base Salary 000 pa 000 pa 1 David Brown 500 reduced benefits through the removal of the car replacement 2 Keith Ludeman 530 513 allowance: and 3 Keith Down 320 reduced pension costs, both in terms of pension and risk, as 4 Nick Swift 310 there is no form of pension provision or replacement cash supplement from the Company.
1 Appointed as Deputy Group Chief Executive on 1 April 2011.
No change to salary following his accession to Group Chief Executive on 3 July 2011.
2 Retired as Group Chief Executive on 2 July 2011.
For Keith Down, Group Finance Director 3 Appointed as Group Finance Director on 7 March 2011.
No change to salary on 1 April 2011. reduced benefits through the removal of the car replacement 4 Resigned as Group Finance Director on 7 March 2011. allowance: and Car replacement allowance reduced pension costs, both in terms of pension and risk, as The Group does not allocate company cars to any employees.
pension provision is for defined contribution benefits, with historically, a car replacement allowance has been provided to contributions from the Company capped.
those employees who would have received a company car as part Base salary of their benefits, or to accomplish their work.
During the year, this The base salary of the Executive Directors is determined by policy changed and car allowances are no longer given to any new the Committee upon appointment and is reviewed in April employees.
This includes the new Executive Directors, neither of each year.
When determining this, the Committee considers the whom receives the additional car replacement allowance provided levels of base salary for similar positions with comparable status, to their predecessors.
com 71 Corporate Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Pension From the 2011 12 financial period, bonus payments will be The Group has traditionally operated an approved defined benefit based on a similar structure, with 80% weighted on actual financial pension scheme.
Nick Swift, the former Group Finance Director, performance against budget.
The remaining 20% previously was a participant during the year.
attributable to personal performance will be reallocated to safety and good governance metrics.
A formal end of year review of the The former Group Chief Executive, Keith Ludeman, opted out of quality of profit and the quality of budget will also be introduced.
The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan in December 2006, but retained a salary link in relation to his accrued benefit which was provided Fixed and performance-related pay at maximum separately through an individual non-registered unfunded pension performance levels arrangement UURBS.
In lieu of future benefits, he received a non-pensionable salary supplement of 15% of base salary.
This salary supplement was not included with base salary for the purposes of calculating performance related cash bonus or LTIP awards.
0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 The new Executive Directors have not been offered membership Percentage of salary of this defined benefit pension arrangement.
The new Group Salary Chief Executive, David Brown, has no specific pension entitlement Cash bonus on top of his salary and does not receive the salary supplement DSBP as given to his predecessor.
he has however elected to invest some of his salary into the defined contribution section of LTIP The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan.
This has no incremental cost to the Company.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan From the 2011 12 financial period, we are introducing a new The new Group Finance Director, Keith Down, is a member of Deferred Share Bonus Plan DSBP for the Executive Directors the defined contribution section of The Go-Ahead Group Pension under which awards worth up to 50% of salary can be earned.
he receives an employer contribution of 13%, which he will not result in any increase in the overall quantum of remuneration supplements by making a 6% contribution from his own salary.
as the introduction of the DSBP will be accompanied by a reduction Performance-related cash bonus in the normal award level under the Long Term Incentive Plan from Each of the Executive Directors has the opportunity to earn a 150% to 100% of salary.
performance-related cash bonus which is capped at a maximum The DSBP is being introduced to enable the Committee to set of 100% of annual base salary.
targets linked to the achievement of important annual strategic For the year ending 2 July 2011, 20% of the total bonus goals which are key to the delivery of longer term value for opportunity was based on personal performance against shareholders.
The introduction of deferred shares will also enable qualitative objectives agreed with each Executive Director at the new Executive Directors to earn a quicker and more direct the beginning of the year and 80% was based on actual financial right to shares in order to promote alignment.
The Groups profit substantially The main features of the new DSBP are: exceeded the budget, triggering a bonus of 80% for financial performance.
The Executive Directors also met their personal for the year commencing 2 July 2011, the targets will relate to the qualitative objectives and so received a bonus of 20%.
achievement of profit before tax targets that are higher than the profit targets set for the annual performance-related cash bonus.
Keith Ludeman worked for the full financial year and was awarded The Committee will also consider the introduction of additional the maximum performance-related cash bonus of 100% of base targets linked to the Groups long term strategic objectives in future salary.
Nick Swift also received the maximum performance-related years.
The nature of these targets and outcomes achieved will be bonus of 100%, reduced to 67% to reflect the fact he left his disclosed in next years Annual Report: office in March 2011 and so did not work for the full financial year.
bonuses will be deferred in shares for a period of three years.
David Brown and Keith Down were also eligible to receive Normal good leaver and change of control provisions will apply a performance-related bonus of 25% and 32% of base salary and there will be a dividend equivalent provision in operation respectively, in accordance with their service periods completed over the deferral period: and the targets set for the Executive Directors in office at the beginning of the year.
In order to create an immediate alignment bonus claw-back will apply during the deferral period: and of interests with shareholders, the bonus this year will be delivered the plan will operate over shares to be bought in the market, in the form of post-tax shares to be held for a minimum period resulting in no shareholder dilution.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 72 Performance conditions for the 2011 12 lTiP awards Percentage of EPS and Compound annual Relative TSR vs FTSE 250 TSR elements vesting growth in EPS excluding certain sectors Long term strategic targets Weighting % of award 50% 40% 10% Less than RPI Below threshold 0% 2% p. a.
Below median Threshold 25% RPI 2% p. a Median To be disclosed retrospectively Between threshold and RPI 2% p. a. to RPI Between median and maximum 25% to 100% 6% p. a. upper quartile Maximum 100% RPI 6% p. a. or more Upper quartile long Term incentive Plan Share incentive Plan Awards under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP consist The Go-Ahead Group Plc Share Incentive Plan SIP is an of nil-cost options to acquire shares, exercisable at the end of hMRC approved plan open to all staff permanently employed by a a three year performance period, subject to the satisfaction of Go-Ahead Group Company and who have completed at least six performance conditions.
For the year ended 2 July 2011, the months continuous service at the date of application.
Participants Executive Directors were eligible to receive awards with a face may contribute up to a maximum of 125 per month or 10% value worth up to 150% of salary.
of pre-tax salary if less which the Trustee of the SIP uses to buy shares on their behalf.
Deductions are made from an employees In light of the introduction of the new Deferred Share Bonus Plan, the maximum award under the LTIP will be reduced from 150% to 100% gross income so no income tax or National Insurance will be payable provided the shares are held in trust for up to five years.
of base salary from the 2011 12 financial period.
The Executive Directors do not currently participate in the SIP.
Awards made before July 2011 have been subject to performance conditions based on the Groups relative Total Shareholder Return Share ownership guidelines TSR performance measured against two comparator groups Shareholder guidelines are in place for the Executive Directors which the Transport Sector Comparator Group comprising Arriva provide for them to build up a personal or spouses shareholding plc, FirstGroup plc, National Express Group plc and Stagecoach equal to one years base salary over a period of five years.
Group plc and a group comprising the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts.
Following the acquisition of Arriva plc on Non-Executive Directors remuneration 31 August 2010, the Transport Sector Comparator group now The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are set by the Chairman comprises only three companies.
Accordingly the previous policy and the Executive Directors following an annual review in April of having a relative TSR versus a transport peer group is no longer each year.
The Committee has therefore reviewed the performance conditions used in the LTIP and believes it is right to introduce 1 April 2011 1 April 2010 Fees 000 pa 000 pa new financial and strategic performance conditions in addition Sir Patrick Brown 150 150 to the continued use of a revised relative TSR comparator group.
The performance conditions for the 2011 12 awards will be as Rupert Pennant-Rea 44 44 shown in the table above.
Andrew Allner 44 44 Katherine Innes Ker 44 The Committee considers that these performance conditions are relevant and challenging, and awards will vest in full only if Katherine Innes Ker was appointed with effect from 9 July 2011. exceptional performance has been achieved.
Earnings Per Share The review seeks to recognise the time commitment, responsibility EPS and TSR measures were chosen as the measures of the and technical skills required to make a valuable contribution to the Groups long term performance and are consistent with the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible to receive pension Groups objective of providing long term returns to shareholders.
entitlements or performance-related remuneration and may not EPS is an important growth measure and driver, and TSR improves participate in share option schemes.
The Committee considers the shareholder alignment.
The EPS targets reflect the fact that over remuneration of the Chairman in his absence.
85% of the Groups revenue is regulated.
No increase in such fees was made following the annual review in April 2011.
This is the second year that no increase has been made to the fees of the Non-Executive Directors.
com 73 Corporate Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The members of the Committee have no personal interests As reported last year, and in accordance with the provisions of the in the matters to be decided by the Committee other than new UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors are required as shareholders, and have no conflicts of interest arising from to submit themselves for re-appointment at each Annual General cross-directorships.
Accordingly all Directors will be offering themselves for re-appointment at the Companys Annual General Meeting to be Directors contracts held on 27 October 2011.
It is the Groups policy to restrict the notice periods for Executive Performance graph Directors to a maximum of 12 months.
In line with this policy, the Executive Directors have service contracts with an undefined The following graph shows a comparison of The Go-Ahead Group term but which provide for the Company giving a notice period plc total cumulative shareholder return against that achieved of 12 months.
The contracts contain a provision, exercisable at by the FTSE 250 Index for the last five financial years to 2 July the discretion of the Company, to pay an amount in lieu of notice 2011.
In assessing the performance of the Groups TSR the on early termination of the contract.
Such payments are limited Board believes the comparator groups it has chosen represent to base salary plus certain benefits but would not automatically an appropriate and fair benchmark upon which to measure the include entitlement to bonus or share awards.
There are no Groups performance for this purpose.
provisions for special pension benefits, such as beneficial early Total shareholder return rebased to 100 retirement terms.
Other than the notice periods specified below, the Executive Directors are not due any contractual compensation 250 payments in the event of early termination of a service contract.
If it becomes necessary to consider early termination of a service 200 contract, the Company will have regard to all the circumstances of the case, including mitigation, when determining any compensation 150 to be paid.
Neither of the Executive Directors holds any 100 external directorships.
There were no termination payments made to Keith Ludeman or 50 Nick Swift upon their respective retirement and resignation from the Company.
There were no incentive payments made to David Brown 0 or Keith Down upon their respective appointments to the Company.
2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Each Non-Executive Director has a letter of appointment Go-Ahead Group FTSE 250 which provides for a notice period of six months.
The terms of This graph shows the value as at 2 July 2011 of 100 invested in The Go-Ahead Group plc on 1 July appointment contain no entitlement to compensation for early 2006 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250.
The other points plotted are the termination.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection values at intervening financial year ends.
at the Companys Registered Office during normal business hours and will also be available for inspection prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
Notice period Notice period Date of from the from the Director service contract Company Director Sir Patrick Brown February 1999 6 months 6 months Rupert Pennant-Rea October 2002 6 months 6 months Andrew Allner October 2008 6 months 6 months 1 Katherine Innes Ker July 2010 6 months 6 months 2 David Brown April 2011 1 year 6 months 3 Keith Down March 2011 1 year 6 months 4 Keith Ludeman December 2006 1 year 6 months 5 Nick Swift July 2007 1 year 6 months 1 Katherine Innes Ker was appointed to the Board on 9 July 2010.
2 David Brown was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2011.
3 Keith Down was appointed to the Board on 7 March 2011.
4 Keith Ludeman retired from the Board on 2 July 2011.
5 Nick Swift resigned from the Board on 7 March 2011.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 74 Audited information emoluments and compensation PerformanceCar related cash replacement Benefits in Total 1 2 Salary Fees bonus allowance kind exc.
2 Private Medical Insurance only for the Executive Directors, their spouses and any children under age 24.
Total salary includes the non-pensionable salary supplement of 77,853 2010: 75,469.
During the financial year, no sums that were chargeable to UK income tax were payable to any Director of the Company by way of an expense allowance in respect of qualifying services.
long Term incentive Plan Awards Awards Awards End of Balance at granted in lapsed in Share price vested in Share price Balance at period when 3 July 2010 year year at date of year at date of 2 July 2011 conditions Award Date No.
This award was based on TSR performance against the two comparator groups, with a minimum requirement that the Group should receive an increase in adjusted EPS over the three year period of not less than the increase in the Retail Prices Index plus 3% per year.
As the minimum EPS requirement had not been met, no shares vested to Keith Ludeman and Nick Swift under the September 2007 award.
October 2008 awards The award granted to Nick Swift in October 2008 lapsed following his resignation on 7 March 2011.
In October 2011, which is three years from the date of grant, the Committee will consider the extent to which the award granted to Keith Ludeman in October 2008 will vest based on the three year performance period commencing with the start of the 2008 9 financial period and ending with the 2010 11 financial period.
This award was made on the basis that only half of the award is linked to comparative TSR against the two comparator groups and the other half is linked to real growth in EPS.
October 2009 and 2010 awards The awards granted to Nick Swift in October 2009 and September 2010 lapsed following his resignation on 7 March 2011.
In October 2012 and September 2013, which is three years from the dates of grant respectively, the Committee will consider the extent to which the awards granted to Keith Ludeman will vest.
The awards eligible to vest at this time have been reduced accordingly to reflect the period over which Keith Ludeman was employed.
These awards will be based on TSR performance against the two comparator groups only, with no EPS performance conditions.
com 75 Corporate Governance DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors share options No share options are held by or have been granted to the Executive Directors during the financial year.
Deferred Share Bonus Plan The Directors included in the table below held awards over ordinary shares of the Company granted under the Deferred Share Bonus Plan.
The awards granted on 17 November 2009 are held in trust on behalf of the beneficiaries for a period of three years.
The Committee resolved that the award granted to Nick Swift would lapse following his resignation on 7 March 2011.
In accordance with the good leaver provisions of the Plan, the award granted to Keith Ludeman vested in full after the year end and following his retirement on 2 July 2011.
Deferred Awards Awards Deferred share awards vested lapsed during Balance at Share Award granted during year the year 2 July 2011 Date of Date No.
vesting Keith Ludeman 17 Nov 09 3,498 3,498 1 Aug 2011 Nick Swift 17 Nov 09 3,498 3,498 Directors pension funds The following disclosures are included to meet the relevant legislative requirements in relation to the Directors final salary pension benefits as shown in the table below: Keith Ludeman Nick Swift 000 pa 000 pa Accrued pension 3 July 2010 204 14 Accrued pension 2 July 2011 213 18 Increase in the accrued pension during the year 9 4 Increase in the accrued pension during the year in excess of inflation 4 Keith Ludeman Nick Swift 000 000 Transfer value of the accrued pension at 3 July 2010 5,021 103 Transfer value of the accrued pension at 2 July 2011 4,400 131 Directors notional contributions during the year 19 Increase in transfer value over the year net of Directors notional contributions 9 Notes 1 At the end of last year, the Government confirmed that statutory increases in payment and in deferment for occupational pension schemes would be linked to the Consumer Price Index CPI for future years.
The Trustee took legal advice on the impact of this change on The Go-Ahead Group Pension Plan the Plan.
This concluded that increases in deferment on pensions in excess of any Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP and increases in payment to GMP benefits after 5 April 1988 will now increase in line with CPI, subject to the appropriate cap.
In light of this legal advice, changes in market conditions and actuarial advice, the Trustee of the Plan reviewed and amended the basis for the calculation of cash equivalent transfer values with effect from 23 March 2011.
The transfer values at the year end have been calculated in accordance with this basis.
2 Mr Swift accrued benefits within the Groups approved final salary pension plan during the financial year.
Mr Ludemans benefits were provided in part through the Groups approved final salary plan and also through an individual unapproved unfunded pension arrangement.
Mr Swift left Pensionable Service on 7 March 2011 and Mr Ludeman began receiving his benefits from both arrangements on 1 April 2010.
3 Whilst an active member of the Plan, Mr Swift participated in the pensions salary sacrifice arrangement operated by the Group during the year.
The notional contributions shown in the table above are those Mr Swift would have paid had he not participated in the salary sacrifice arrangement.
The figures at 2 July 2011 reflect Mr Swifts Pensionable Service to his date of leaving, albeit the transfer value reflects market conditions at the year end.
4 As at 2 July 2011, Mr Ludeman was in receipt of a pension of 188,520 pa from the Plan and 24,890 pa from the unapproved pension arrangement.
The increase in his accrued pension over the year reflects the standard inflationary pension increases that he has received in line with the Plans Rules and his unfunded arrangement.
As Mr Ludeman is in receipt of his pension he is not entitled to a transfer value from the Plan.
Therefore, the transfer values shown in the above table are notional values.
The transfer value at 3 July 2010 included the tax-free cash lump sum that he took at retirement.
This is excluded from the transfer value at 2 July 2011, which is the primary reason for the fall in his transfer value over the year.
5 The new Executive Directors, David Brown and Keith Down, are not members of the final salary section.
For and On Behalf of the Board Rupert Pennant-Rea, Chairman of Remuneration Committee 31 August 2011 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 76
