40 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Remuneration Report I am pleased to introduce the Directors Remuneration Report of Greggs plc.
Iain Ferguson, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee The aim of Greggs remuneration of the Directors Remuneration review of measures and targets policy is to align executive to ensure that executive directors Report and to state whether, in their remuneration with shareholders were not incentivised to take opinion, that part of the report has interests and the long term inappropriate levels of risk.
This report growth of the Company.
The has, therefore, been divided into In addition, each year the Remuneration Committee separate sections for unaudited Committee considers Greggs total will continue to review the and audited information.
remuneration policy in the context remuneration arrangements of market and best practice.
Unaudited information on an ongoing basis to ensure that the structure remains Jonathan Jowett Company The Remuneration Committee appropriate.
"Secretary and General Counsel of the Board the ""Committee"" and Roisin Currie Group People sets the remuneration and terms Introduction Director have supported the of appointment of the executive Committee in their deliberations, directors and the Chairman on This report has been prepared in along with external consultants, behalf of the Board."
accordance with the Directors PWC.
Remuneration Report Regulations The Committee was chaired by 2002 the Regulations.
This General policy on directors Julie Baddeley until 31 December report also meets the relevant remuneration 2011, after which Iain Ferguson requirements of the Listing Rules The Committees policy is to was appointed to that role.
of the Financial Services Authority provide competitive remuneration and the relevant provisions During the course of meetings held packages that will attract, retain of the Companies Act 2006 in the year, items considered by the and motivate individuals with and describes how the Board Committee included: appropriate skills and experience has applied the UK Corporate with the incentive to add the targets in place for the Governance code relating to sustainable long-term growth Performance Share Plan: directors remuneration.
and value that will best serve setting of objectives for the The Regulations require the the interests of the Company, auditors to report to the Companys executive directors ensuring risk its shareholders, its employees members on the auditable part forms a key part of these: and and customers.
Base salaries 41 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 and total packages are set to from this report, which were to performance on risk, governance, reflect the market.
They are environmental and social issues increase the executives salaries in regularly benchmarked by external when setting the remuneration of line with the market, have not been executive directors.
consultants against the median actioned in 2012. level payments made to executives The Committee seeks to structure in similar roles in companies of bonus arrangements that will align comparative size, sector and the interests of executive directors complexity.
This exercise has with those of shareholders.
The been conducted by PWC in 2011, however the recommendations Committee considers corporate Overview of remuneration policy Objective Performance period Basis of delivery Base salary Reflects market levels Reviewed annually Individual performance and based on role and contribution recognised individual skill and to ensure market experience competitiveness Annual Bonus Incentivises achievement Reviewed annually Balanced approach based including Profit Share of annual targets and on stretching financial Maximum earning objectives consistent profit and sales targets opportunity of 90 per cent with the short to medium and personal objectives of salary for all term strategic needs of related to functional KPIs executive directors the business Performance Incentivises long-term Annual award Award subject to a Share Plan value creation combination of demanding TSR and EPS targets Maximum awards Alignment with Three year of 90 per cent of salary for shareholders interests performance period Maximum reward will only Chief Executive and 70 occur for upper quartile Retention incentive per cent of salary for other performance executive directors Pension Provides a market Cost increases in line with Defined contribution competitive level of base salary growth benefits provision with good flexibility while minimising risk to the Company Base salary For 2012 an increase of 2.75 per cent has been applied to the executive directors salaries.
This has been applied in line with the award given to all employees across the business rather than being increased in line with market salary growth.
42 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Remuneration Report - continued Annual Bonus The Committee seeks to structure annual bonus arrangements so as to encourage sustainable growth in the Companys profits and is satisfied that the structure will not raise environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently encouraging irresponsible behaviour.
Each executive director has a personal objective to ensure they monitor and take appropriate action to minimise key business risks.
The Committees policy is that all bonus payments to executive directors should be non-pensionable.
For 2011 the maximum target bonus levels were established on the following basis: Maximum 2011 bonus achievable Financial Target Financial Target Personal Objectives Maximum bonus Profit as % of Sales as % of related to functional achievable as total bonus total bonus KPI as % of total % of basic salary opportunity opportunity bonus opportunity Kennedy McMeikan 90% of salary 60% of bonus 20% of bonus 20% of bonus Richard Hutton 90% of salary 60% of bonus 20% of bonus 20% of bonus Raymond Reynolds 90% of salary 60% of bonus 20% of bonus 20% of bonus Whilst each element could be salary for delivery of the annual The Committee introduced a measured separately, failure to bonus target.
clawback clause in the Bonus exceed the profit level achieved Scheme rules in 2011 as follows: For 2012 the maximum target in 2010 would have resulted in no bonus levels will continue to The Committee reserves the right bonus being earned for either the be established on the basis to clawback any portion of the profit or sales elements in 2011. above, which the Remuneration bonus payment that has been Committee considers to be Against the 2011 annual bonus paid in error should it come to suitably challenging.
targets, a payment of 35 per cent light, at a future date, that there of annual salary has been earned was a material misstatement of Whilst each element can be by Kennedy McMeikan, 35 per measured separately, failure to the operating profit resulting in a cent by Richard Hutton and 35 exceed the profit level achieved in significant over-payment.
per cent by Raymond Reynolds.
2011 will result in no bonus being This compares to 2010 where the earned for either the profit or sales elements in 2012. executives earned 51.0 per cent of 43 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Share based remuneration Performance Share Plan Shareholder approval was obtained in 2009 for the introduction of a Performance Share Plan PSP from 2010.
The introduction of a PSP under which an award of shares is made that is in line with the level awarded under the previous Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, restricted for three years and vesting in full or part subject to the achievement of a combination of EPS growth and TSR targets, has provided a greater focus on achieving key long term business goals and increased shareholder value.
The awards made under the PSP in 2010 and 2011 have the following targets set: EPS TSR Annual compound Proportion of Position relative to Proportion of growth award vesting appropriate group award vesting % opportunity of FTSE 250 Food % opportunity Producers, Retailers & Leisure Companies Failure to vest Less than RPI 3% Nil Below median Nil Threshold RPI 3% 12.5% At median 12.5% Maximum RPI 8% 50% Upper quartile 50% Following advice received from PWC, and given the current economic climate, the Committee is satisfied that these targets are sufficiently challenging to ensure they drive the right behaviours whilst also rewarding performance.
Consequently the Committee has decided that these targets will again be used for the 2012 grant.
The comparator group used in connection with the PSP was established following a comprehensive review, including advice taken from PWC, and now consists of 26 companies who are General Retailers, Food Producers Manufacturers or Leisure Companies and who were considered by the Remuneration Committee to be the most appropriate from the FTSE 250.
Northern Foods and Robert Wiseman Dairies were removed from the list given their delisted status.
The remaining 26 companies are: Brown N Group Dunelm Group Millennium & Copthorne Hotels Carpetright Game Group Mitchells & Butlers Cranswick Greene King Mothercare Dairy Crest Halfords Group Premier Foods Debenhams HMV Group Rank Group Dignity JD Wetherspoon Restaurant Group Dixons Retail Inchcape Sports Direct International Dominos Pizza Kesa Electricals Tate & Lyle Marstons WH Smith These targets and the comparator group will remain in place for the 2012 scheme and will be reviewed by the Committee at the end of 2012, given that the scheme will then have been in place for three years.
44 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Remuneration Report - continued Other share based related Share Option Scheme, will continue to be settled on this incentive schemes open to all employees, including basis.
Details of the performance executive directors.
Any future conditions for options currently LTIP grants of executive share options outstanding are set out in the As previously outlined, from 2010 to executive directors will be section headed Share options a PSP has replaced the previous based upon the need to secure on page 49.
LTIP, and therefore the Committee individuals of appropriate calibre, Whether or not performance will offer no further participation in having regard to prevailing conditions attached to share the LTIP.
In 2011, the LTIP award market conditions at the date of options have been met is tested by of over 180,210 shares made to appointment or to help to align the Committee, which compares Kennedy McMeikan when he joined the interests of executive directors the actual performance of the the Company in 2008, came to with those of shareholders, Company with relevant published maturity.
The performance criterion especially if the PSP is not statistics and, if necessary, obtains set at the time of the award was available to a particular individual, advice from external consultants in not met, and therefore none of or where the Committee considers order to reach its conclusion.
the options awarded have vested.
Consequently, all options granted No performance conditions have The above policies enable the under the LTIP have either been been attached to options granted executive directors to receive exercised or lapsed.
pursuant to the Companys potentially significant benefits in Savings-Related Share Option Executive share option scheme addition to their base salaries, Scheme, which is available to all but only if value has been created There have also been occasional employees.
The principal purpose for shareholders.
The Committee grants to the executive directors of this scheme is to encourage considers that, although the nonof options over shares in the employees at all levels within the performance-related elements Company, pursuant to one Company to participate in, and of the executive directors or more of the share option to understand better, the growth remuneration packages are schemes operated through the in value of the Company and the substantial, the performanceCommittee.
These include both rules of that scheme require that related elements are significant in Inland Revenue-approved and all options granted must be on the terms of providing motivation to unapproved long term share same terms.
the executive directors to improve incentive schemes, designed to Performance criteria in relation to shareholder value.
encourage the executive directors the performance-based annual and other employees to hold Policy on performance cash bonuses payable to the conditions shares in the Company and to executive directors are set by enhance share values.
The performance conditions the Committee each year in attaching to share options granted No such awards were granted to accordance with the general to the executive directors under executive directors in 2011. remuneration policy set out above.
the Companys Senior Executive Details of awards previously made Policy on pensions Share Option Schemes have varied to executive directors under this according to the date of grant.
Until the scheme was closed scheme are given in the audited Such conditions are set by the to further accrual from 1 April section of this report on page 49.
Committee to establish challenging 2008, executive directors earned In accordance with institutional performance objectives linked pension benefits under the Greggs investor guidelines, the total to shareholder return.
Executive 1978 Retirement & Death Benefit number of new shares and shares directors are not eligible to have Scheme, the Companys defined held in treasury over which the executive share options granted benefit scheme.
This scheme, Company may grant options is in the same year as participation which required a contribution of 6.6 limited and the Company has in the PSP.
The Committee per cent of pensionable salaries chosen to allocate a significant intends that if any executive from members, provided for up proportion of the shares available share options are granted in the to two-thirds of final pensionable to the Companys Savingsfuture, performance conditions salary, dependent on length of 45 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 pensionable service.
Since 1 April executive directors to ensure 2008, the Company has paid there are no additional charges contributions to the Companys to the Company.
money purchase defined The executive directors will be contribution pension schemes for able to make this choice on an all executive directors.
Due to the changes in the The remuneration adjustment is annual allowance for tax relief on disclosed on page 48. pensions, effective from 6 April 2011, the Committee has decided Share Retention Guidelines to allow the executive directors The Committee has introduced a degree of flexibility with regard Share Retention Guidelines for to how they receive their pension executive directors.
These are contribution, with the principle effective from 1 January 2011 and that there should be no additional require executive directors to build charge borne by the Company.
up a shareholding of 100 per cent Should the executive directors wish of their respective base salaries in to cap their pension contribution at a five year period, through shares 50,000, in line with the new annual matured and granted via the allowance, they can do so and the PSP and a percentage of bonus balance of this contribution will be payment to be given as shares at paid as a supplement in addition to the discretion of the Committee, their salary on a monthly basis.
or chosen to be taken as shares This supplement will be subject by the executive director.
This will be reviewed by the Committee in to tax and NI.
The employers NI charge will be borne by the March each year.
Number of shares held at the Holding as a percentage of end of the year base salary for year 2011 2010 2011 2010 Kennedy McMeikan 72,425 64,681 80.2% 67.9% Richard Hutton 55,003 35,237 104.7% 63.5% Raymond Reynolds 52,440 52,010 111.9% 105.1% the percentage holding is calculated using the year end share price.
46 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Remuneration Report - continued Policy on Service Contract Directors service contracts An increase in fees of 2.75 per Notice Periods and Payments on cent was awarded to the Chairman Details of the directors service Early Termination and the non-executive directors, contracts or letters of appointment effective from 1 January 2012.
This The Companys policy on the are as follows: was applied in line with the award duration of executive directors Executive Directors given to all employees across the contracts is that: business and did not match the Kennedy McMeikan has a service the Chief Executives service average growth in fees across contract with the Company dated contract is terminable on one the market.
His continuous period years notice served by either the of service with the Company The basic non-executive fees for Company or the director: commenced on 1 June 2008.
2012 are 38,853 per annum, other executive directors including membership of Richard Hutton has a service service contracts are terminable committee s and an additional contract with the Company dated on one years notice served by the 5,775 for Chairmanship of 7 April 2006.
His continuous period Company or by six months notice of service with the Company the Audit or Remuneration served by the director: Committee s and for the Senior commenced on 1 January 1998.
it has been agreed that future Raymond Reynolds has a service executive directors service contract with the Company dated The non-executive directors do contracts will be terminable on one 18 December 2006.
His continuous not have service contracts with the years notice served by either party: period of service with the Company Company.
However, each of them commenced on 1 December 1986. does have a letter of appointment.
non-executive directors These are dated 25 February 2002 are appointed subject to the In addition to their base salaries, for Derek Netherton, 1 December Companys articles of association, each is entitled to participate in the 2003 for Bob Bennett, 1 March which require them to retire and Companys profit sharing scheme to seek election at the first AGM 2005 for Julie Baddeley, 21 available to all employees.
Thereafter, and February 2008 for Roger Whiteside, value of this is then deducted following the introduction of the UK 31 March 2009 for Iain Ferguson from their annual bonus.
They are and 6 December 2011 for Ian Corporate Governance Code in also entitled to additional benefits June 2010, the Board has resolved Durant.
The terms of appointment including membership of the that every director will be subject to of each non-executive director Company pension scheme, the annual re-election by shareholders.
require that they seek re-election use of a motor car, private medical The Nominations Committee on a regular basis in accordance insurance, life assurance and advises the Board as to whether with the articles of association of permanent health insurance.
directors should be nominated for the Company.
The fees payable to Non-Executive Directors re-election: and the non-executive directors cover In order to ensure that no director all normal duties.
In exceptional it seeks mitigation of entitlements is involved in deciding their own circumstances, where significant on termination.
The Company remuneration, the fees payable additional time commitment is does not normally make payments to non-executive directors other required, the Board or a duly beyond its contractual obligations, than the Chairman are set, after authorised committee may including any payment in respect of consultation with the Chairman, award additional fees.
No notice to which a director is entitled.
by a committee of the Board right of compensation exists Non-executive directors are not consisting only of the executive where the office is terminated, entitled to compensation for early directors Kennedy McMeikan, for whatever reason.
termination of their appointments Richard Hutton and Raymond prior to the date on which they Reynolds who periodically seek would next be due to offer advice from external consultants themselves for election or as to the appropriate market rates re-election, or if not re-appointed at applicable.
Such advice was such time.
47 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Performance graph The graph below shows a comparison of the total shareholder return for the Companys shares for each of the last five financial years against the total shareholder return for the companies comprising the FTSE Mid 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts and the FTSE 350 excluding Investment Trusts.
These indices were chosen for this comparison because they include companies of broadly similar size to the Company.
Greggs FTSE 350 excluding investment trusts FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts 48 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Remuneration Report - continued Audited information This information relates to both the Parent Company and the Group.
Directors emoluments and compensation The following tables set out details of the emoluments and compensation received or receivable by each director excluding pension contributions details of which are set out below.
growth in the Retail Price Index over a potential beneficial interest in the If earnings per share growth exceeds the three years.
If earnings per share RPI growth by 3 per cent then half Greggs Employee Benefit Trust.
growth exceeds RPI growth by 3 per of the options will be exercisable, if cent then half of the options will be On each of the grants awarded earnings per share growth exceeds exercisable, if earnings per share under the Senior Executive Share RPI growth by 5 per cent then all of growth exceeds RPI growth by 7 Option Schemes, the exercise of the options will be exercisable and if per cent then all of the options will the options granted was made earnings per share growth exceeds be exercisable and if earnings per conditional upon the growth in the RPI growth by between 3 per cent share growth exceeds RPI growth by Companys basic earnings per share and 5 per cent the number of options between 3 per cent and 7 per cent over a three year period.
On the exercisable is pro-rated on a straightthe number of options exercisable is grant awarded in August 2006 the line basis.
On the grant awarded in pro-rated on a straight-line basis.
exercise of the options granted was April 2009 the exercise of the options made conditional upon the average granted was made conditional upon Options granted under the all annual growth in the Companys the average annual growth in the employee SAYE scheme are not basic earnings per share over the Companys basic earnings per share subject to performance conditions.
three years from grant being greater over the three years from grant being than the average annual growth in the greater than the average annual 50 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Remuneration Report - continued The following table sets out details of the Long Term Incentive Plan and Performance Share Plan share options all of which were granted at nil cost to the executive director concerned and subject to the performance conditions referred to on page 43 held by, or granted to, each director during the year, according to the register of directors interests: Number of options awards Market price of At 2 Granted Exercised Lapsed At 31 each share Market price Date from January during during during December at date of at date of Gain on which Expiry Date of grant 2011 2011 2011 2011 2011 grant exercise exercise exercisable date Scheme Kennedy McMeikan Aug 08 180,210 - - 180,210 - 3.762 - - Aug 11 Aug 18 LTIP Apr 10 82,169 - - - 82,169 4.896 - - Apr 13 Apr 20 PSP Mar 11 - 79,219 - - 79,219 5.190 - - Mar 14 Mar 21 PSP Richard Hutton Mar 08 28,460 - 14,329 14,131 - 4.475 5.190 74,368 Mar 11 Mar 18 LTIP Apr 10 37,173 - - - 37,173 4.896 - - Apr 13 Apr 20 PSP Mar 11 - 35,838 - - 35,838 5.190 - - Mar 14 Mar 21 PSP Raymond Reynolds Mar 08 25,100 - 12,637 12,463 - 4.475 5.190 65,586 Mar 11 Mar 18 LTIP Apr 10 33,169 - - - 33,169 4.896 - - Apr 13 Apr 20 PSP Mar 11 - 31,979 - - 31,979 5.190 - - Mar 14 Mar 21 PSP No non-executive director has any options to acquire shares in the Company.
The mid-market price of ordinary shares in the Company as at 31 December 2011 was 5.060.
The highest and lowest mid-market prices of ordinary shares during the financial year were 5.505 and 4.450 respectively.
Pensions Until the scheme was closed to further accrual from 1 April 2008, Richard Hutton and Raymond Reynolds earned pension benefits under the Greggs 1978 Retirement and Death Benefit Scheme, the Companys defined benefit scheme.
This scheme, which required a contribution of 6.6 per cent of pensionable salary from members, provided for up to two-thirds of final pensionable salary, dependant on length of pensionable service.
From 1 April 2008 all executive directors received contributions into the Companys money purchase defined contribution pension schemes.
No pension benefits were earned or accrued by any non-executive director.
Defined benefit scheme The following table sets out the change in each directors accrued pension in the Companys defined benefit scheme during the year and his accrued benefits in the scheme at the year end: Increase Accrued Accrued in accrued Transfer value annual annual pension Increase pension of increase pension entitlement at in accrued entitlement for in accrued entitlement at age 65 as at pension the year net pension age 65 as at 1 31 December entitlement for of inflation of entitlement for Date service January 2011 2011 the year 5.0% the year Executive Director Date of birth commenced Richard Hutton 3 6 68 1 1 98 18,522 18,522 - - - Raymond Reynolds 4 11 59 1 12 86 69,535 69,535 - - - Note 1: The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year, but excluding any statutory increases which would be due after the year end.
Note 2: The inflation rate of 5.0% shown in the table above is that published by the Secretary of State for Social Security in accordance with Schedule 3 of the Pensions Schemes Act 1993.
51 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Increase in the Cash equivalent cash equivalent Cash equivalent transfer value as at transfer value since transfer value as at 31 December 2011 1 January 2011 1 January 2011 Executive Director Richard Hutton 191,497 225,664 - Raymond Reynolds 901,932 1,107,146 - Note: cash equivalent transfer values have been calculated in accordance with Actuaries Guidance Note GN11 and the increase is stated net of contributions made by the director.
The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual director.
Instead they represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.
Money purchase schemes The Company has paid the contributions set out below to the Companys money purchase defined contribution pension schemes for the benefit of executive directors during this financial year.
Contribution in Contribution in respect of 2011 respect of 2010 Executive Director Kennedy McMeikan 43,210 67,050 Richard Hutton 45,172 33,800 Raymond Reynolds 15,095 32,480 Approval by Shareholders At the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 16 May 2012, a resolution approving this report is to be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
This report was approved by the Board on 14 March 2012.
Signed on behalf of the Board Iain Ferguson Director Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 14 March 2012
