Allied Gold Mining PLC December 31, 2011 REMUNERATION REPORT The Remuneration report is set out under the following main headings A.
Principles used to determine the nature and amount of remuneration B.
Details of remuneration C. Share-based compensation D. Additional Information In accordance with Section 421 of the Companies Act 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, the following sections of the Remuneration Report have been subject to audit: B Details of remuneration and C Share based compensation.
The remaining sections of the Remuneration Report are not subject to audit.
Principles used to determine the nature and amount of remuneration The objective of the Groups remuneration framework is to attract and retain executives of sufficient calibre to facilitate the efficient and effective management of the Groups operations and to ensure that executive remuneration is competitive and appropriate for the results delivered.
The Board reviews the remuneration packages of all Directors and executive officers on an annual basis and makes recommendations regarding the structure and value of those packages.
Remuneration packages are reviewed with due regard to competitiveness, performance, alignment with shareholders interests, capital management and other relevant factors.
The remuneration framework provides a mix of fixed and at risk compensation.
The remuneration framework is aligned to shareholders interests through: incentive payments, having as a core component growth in shareholder wealth, through growth in share price: incentive payments focusing on the production of gold, a key non-financial driver of economic profit: and attracting and retaining high calibre executives.
The Board has established a Remuneration and Nomination Committee which provides advice on remuneration and incentive policies and practices and specific recommendations on remuneration packages and other terms of employment for Executive Directors, other senior executives and NonExecutive Directors.
The Executive Directors are not present for any discussions relating to determination of their own remuneration.
NonExecutive Directors Fees payable to NonExecutive Directors reflect the demands which are made on, and the responsibilities of, the individual Director.
NonExecutive Directors fees and payments are reviewed annually by the Board.
During the period one NonExecutive Director received share options in accordance with a resolution approved by shareholders of Allied Gold Limited at its extraordinary general meeting on June 6, 2011.
Directors fees are denominated in Australian dollars AUD$.
The current base remuneration for NonExecutive Directors of AUD$110,000 per annum was last reviewed with effect from 1 November 2011.
In addition NonExecutive Directors receive additional fees per annum for serving on Board Committees as follows: Chairman Member Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee AUD$15,000 AUD$7,000 Remuneration and Nomination Committee AUD$8,000 AUD$5,000 Mr Harvey receives an additional AUD$15,000 per annum for acting as the Senior Independent Director.
