REPORT OF THE REMUNER ATION COMMIT TEE JOHN MCLEOD C H A I R M A N O F T H E R E M U N E R AT I O N COMMITTEE Dear Shareholder, On behalf of the Board and the Remuneration Committee, I am delighted to present this years Remuneration Report for Heritage.
Last year, I noted that executive remuneration remained a prominent The Remuneration Committee recognises that when Heritage first topic with shareholders, regulators, commentators and the general floated on the LSE in 2008, many aspects of the Executive Directors public.
The high level of focus on executive pay continues, resulting in remuneration arrangements were not UK best practice compliant but increased focus on remuneration and its link to risk management, were based on Canadian templates given we were a Toronto listed achievement of goals and strategic objectives.
Since 2008, the Committee has maintained its focus on governments proposed new plans regarding executive pay, we fully changing this, wherever it is practicable, and has progressed to make expect this level of interest to continue.
As a Committee, and together the Company more compliant to UK best practise.
These amendments with the rest of the Board, we are mindful of our obligations in these included the cessation of any further share option or bonus awards to areas and are committed to improving our arrangements where the Non-Executive Directors, the application of performance practicable.
We will be monitoring any changes in guidelines with conditions to our long-term incentive arrangements and amending the interest and remain committed to continuing to develop the Executive vesting schedule of these arrangements to ensure that, under normal Directors remuneration arrangements to be UK best practice conditions, no awards would vest sooner than three years after the date compliant.
You will see that we have continued to produce a report of award.
that aims to maintain and improve the quality of our dialogue with you as our shareholders by striving to be clear, transparent and That said, we recognise there are remaining legacy issues within the concise.
service contracts of the Executive Directors which are not fully compliant with UK best practice.
Having discussed with external The Remuneration Committee is keenly aware of its responsibilities to advisers and amongst the Remuneration Committee, we believe that, ensure that Heritages remuneration arrangements work in the best for commercial reasons discussed in this report on page 26, the current interests of the Company and the shareholders while balancing notice periods of the current Executive Directors remain appropriate in various statutory and best practice requirements of a Premium Listed order to best protect the interests of the Company and you the company in the UK.
shareholder, although we will continue to monitor this position.
HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance 20 Last year we introduced the 2011 LTIP which we consider to be both appropriate for Heritage and best practice compliant and with nearly 92% of your votes, you agreed.
The rules of this plan heralded a number of improvements on the previous Long Term Incentive Plan the 2008 LTIP.
For example, we will now be making annual awards of performance shares, rather than end-to-end awards.
We believe that this change in policy is now appropriate to Heritage given the Companys stage of development and maturity.
In addition, the consequent staggered vesting schedule will help us to better manage any recruitment or retention issues which may arise in future.
Further details of the 2011 LTIP are explained later in our report on page 25.
We believe that a well-structured remuneration policy should not only reward exceptional financial performance, but have sufficient flexibility to motivate, for example, the extensive background work in developing new markets necessary to ensure Heritages future success.
2011 was a challenging operational environment for all exploration and production companies in our sector.
We wish to ensure that Executive Directors are rewarded for making quality decisions that will be in the Companys, and your, best interests.
With that in mind, we are recommending a bonus payment of 75% of salary in acknowledgement of the work undertaken by your Executive Directors during the year.
A fuller explanation of performance achieved and the basis of the Committees decisions is set out later in this report.
In 2012 the Remuneration Committee is focusing on the issue of executive pay and alignment with risk which we will be looking to debate.
We will be seeking your approval of the report at the AGM on 21 June 2012.
Together with the rest of your Board, I will be available at the AGM to answer your questions on the Remuneration Committees activities and the Groups executive remuneration policy.
JOHN MCLEOD C H A I R M A N O F T H E R E M U N E R AT I O N COMMITTEE 17 APRIL 2 0 12 HERITAGE OIL PLC Corporate Governance
