Governance 77 Directors remuneration report Hochschild seeks to achieve a level of remuneration that is both fair and an incentive to achieve value-enhancing performance.
Introduction by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee I am pleased to present the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ending 31 December 2011.
My fellow members of the Committee and I do not underestimate the level of responsibility in ensuring that we oversee the implementation of a remuneration policy that rewards fairly and incentivises for good performance.
Whilst 2011 was dominated by continued weakness in the global economy, the Company has achieved its key operational objectives of meeting its annual production target, significantly increasing life-of-mine and, securing future value drivers through the delivery of two key feasibility studies.
Having been impressed by the Chief Executive Officers performance since his appointment in April 2010, it became clear to the Board that Ignacio Bustamante would play a critical role in securing the Groups future success.
For this reason, and mindful of the intense competition amongst international mining companies to recruit talented senior executives, the Committee designed an Enhanced Long Term Incentive Plan which would pay out over up to six years which was approved by shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
The issue of executive remuneration has fallen increasingly under the spotlight and justifiably, Remuneration Committees are having to consider the design and operation of their bonus plans and long-term incentive arrangements.
I can report that trends in these areas have been continually monitored by the Committee.
Driven by a desire to ensure fair remuneration which motivates and ensures alignment with shareholders interests, we have maintained claw backs in two principal elements of executive remuneration: the Annual Bonus Plan and the Long Term Incentive Plan.
Furthermore, during the year, the Committee has reviewed the market trends with respect to performance conditions incorporated within long term plans and as a result, we intend to supplement the current sole performance condition which we believe will make the plan more robust.
Further details can be found on page 83 of this report.
We have also endeavoured to make this report clearer through more focused disclosure and, for the first time, by highlighting the alignment of our Remuneration Policy with our strategic objectives.
I hope you find this report informative.
Sir Malcolm Field Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 19 March 2012 Hochschild Mining plc 78 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Overview Introduction This Directors Remuneration Report sets out information on the remuneration of the Directors of Hochschild Mining plc for the year ended 31 December 2011.
This report has been prepared in accordance with the relevant regulations made under the Companies Act 2006 and the requirements of the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules.
As required by law, the information provided in the tables in the sections entitled Directors LTIP awards and Directors Enhanced LTIP award and the table on Directors total remuneration and accompanying notes has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP as they contain the information upon which the auditors are required to report to the Companys shareholders.
Remuneration Committee Membership The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Sir Malcolm Field and its other members are Jorge Born Jr. Nigel Moore and Rupert Pennant-Rea who joined the Committee on his appointment to the Board on 1 September 2011.
All of the members of the Remuneration Committee are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The composition of the Remuneration Committee and its terms of reference comply with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and are available for inspection on the Companys website at www.
Members of senior management attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee.
During the year, such members included the Executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Vice President of Human Resources.
No Director or senior executive is present at meetings when his own remuneration arrangements are considered by the Committee.
The Committees terms of reference The duties of the Remuneration Committee are to determine and agree with the Board the broad policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the other members of senior management and the Company Secretary, as well as their specific remuneration packages including pension rights and, where applicable, any compensation payments.
In determining such policy, the Remuneration Committee shall take into account all factors which it deems necessary to ensure that members of the senior executive management of the Group are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage strong performance and are rewarded in a fair and responsible manner for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
Meetings The Committee held three meetings during the year under review at which all serving members were in attendance.
Activity during the year During the year, the Committee: considered and consulted with shareholders on the vesting of the 2008 LTIP Awards: having obtained the approval of shareholders at the last Annual General Meeting to the CEO Enhanced LTIP, approved the grant of an award of Conditional Shares to the CEO under the plan see page 84 for further details : considered the performance of the Executive Directors in office during 2010 and approved the associated bonus payments: considered the performance conditions to be attached to the 2011 LTIP Awards: approved the 2010 Directors Remuneration Report: adopted the rules of the Exploration Incentive Plan to incentivise the Groups team of geologists: considered a provisional assessment of the CEOs performance against his 2011 objectives: and considered an interim assessment of the Companys Total Shareholder Return performance for the purposes of the 2010 and 2011 LTIP grants.
Advisers The Remuneration Committee was advised during the year on remuneration matters generally by Kepler Associates who were appointed by the Committee and who did not provide any other services to the Group during the year.
Governance 79 Policy Remuneration policy The Remuneration policy of the Group as applied by the Remuneration Committee did not change in the year under review.
The principal objectives of the Groups policy are to attract, retain, and motivate its executives and senior management and to align management incentives with the creation of shareholder value.
The Group seeks to achieve this alignment over both the short and long-term through the use of annual performance-related bonuses which reward the achievement of a balanced mix of financial, operational and other relevant performance measures, and Total Shareholder Return TSR which determines the vesting of awards granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
This policy will continue to be applied by the Remuneration Committee in respect of the current financial year.
An additional incentive was designed during the year specifically for the Chief Executive Officer, the CEO Enhanced LTIP, which was put to, and approved by, shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee takes into consideration the remuneration arrangements for the wider employee population in making its decisions on remuneration for senior executives however, it is acknowledged that such decisions are driven by specific considerations not least, the global demand for talent.
Fixed and variable pay The following chart illustrates the split between fixed and variable pay of the Executive Directors at both target and maximum performance.
The maximum bonus percentages are set out in each Executive Directors service contract and or as subsequently determined by the Remuneration Committee and have been set to ensure that the majority of remuneration is performance-based, except in relation to the Executive Chairman whose remuneration arrangements were revised in early 2010 to exclude all performance related elements given his majority shareholding and strategic role with the Group.
Executive Director Pay Mix % of total remuneration LTIP Bonus Pension Salary Target Maximum 100 90 80 70 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Eduardo Hochschild Ignacio Bustamante Eduardo Hochschild Ignacio Bustamante Variable proportion: 0% 65% 0% 82% Components of fixed pay for the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2011 are detailed in the following table.
Base salary Pension supplement Total Director US$000 US$000 US$000 1 Eduardo Hochschild 1,100 200 1,300 2 Ignacio Bustamante 450 0 450 1 Eduardo Hochschild has a service contract with Hochschild Mining plc and Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. Ares, a Group subsidiary.
Salary paid by Ares includes all legal labour benefits and compensation such as, but not restricted to vacation salaries and compensation for time services ruled by Peruvian Legislative Decree 650 but excludes legal profit sharing.
2 Ignacio Bustamante has a service contract with Ares.
Base salary includes all legal labour benefits and compensation such as, but not restricted to, vacation salaries but excludes legal profit sharing and compensation for time services ruled by Peruvian Legislative Decree 650.
Hochschild Mining plc 80 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Alignment of remuneration policy with the Groups strategic objectives The Committee considers that the Remuneration Policy it seeks to apply to Executive Directors and senior management should be aligned with the long-term interests of shareholders and furthermore, should facilitate the achievement of key strategic objectives.
The table below indicates how this alignment is achieved.
Strategic Objectives for Growth Annual Bonus Long Term Incentive Plans Maximising Core Assets Extend Life-of-Mine Resource Life-of-Mine targets Optimise production Numerous measures focusing on the delivery of sustainable production targets and levels of profitability primarily through EBITDA and control of cash costs Exploration Developing a pipeline of high Targets set key milestones to be achieved with Underpinned by relative Total Shareholder quality projects respect to the Groups Advanced Projects and Return, the Long Term Incentive Plans their progress towards production indirectly reward sustained increases in operational performance over three year periods or in the case of the CEO Enhanced Non-Financial objectives requiring support for LTIP, over four, five and six year periods the Groups greenfields exploration programme Mergers & Acquisitions To seek early stage value accretive Non-Financial objectives set requiring the opportunities with strong identification and execution of M&A opportunities geological potential with a clear path to control With a commitment to Corporate Responsibility Stretching targets seeking to achieve a reduction Clawback provision entitles the in the Groups accident frequency rate Remuneration Committee to either refuse or reduce payment on the occurrence of an adverse event related to health & safety, the environment or community relations Our people Ensuring the continued service of Non-Financial objectives on the implementation of Given their time horizons, the Long Term key position holders and their the Groups key management succession tool, the Incentive Plans act as key tools in retaining professional development Talent Inventory Review plan participants Aligning remuneration with strategy is considered to be a crucial element in constructing remuneration packages that reward fairly.
For this reason, the rationale explained in the above table is reflected in the remuneration of management below Board level.
Governance 81 Elements of remuneration Base salaries Payment of base salaries Eduardo Hochschild has service contracts with Hochschild Mining plc and Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. Ares, a Group subsidiary.
Under these arrangements, one-fifth of his base salary is paid by the Company and fourfifths is paid by Ares.
Ignacio Bustamante has a service contract with Ares only and, as a result, his base salary is paid entirely by that company.
2011 Salary review As reported in last years Remuneration Report, following a review of the CEOs remuneration in late 2010, the Committee increased Mr Bustamantes salary from $370,000 to $450,000 with effect from 1 January 2011.
This decision was taken in light of the fierce competition amongst international mining companies to secure the employment of talented senior executives.
As previously reported, even at this revised level, Mr Bustamantes salary remains significantly below median for comparable roles at other mining companies of similar size.
2012 Salary review A salary review by the Remuneration Committee has concluded that, in the normal course, no salary increases will be awarded to the Executive Directors for 2012.
Subsequent to the year end, the Committee approved a proposal prompted by a recent and sustained strengthening of the Peruvian Nuevo Sol against the US dollar, to re-denominate the salaries of a number of senior employees, including the Chief Executive Officer who is based in Peru, from US dollars to Peruvian Nuevo Soles.
As a result, it was agreed that, with effect from 1 March 2012, Ignacio Bustamantes base salary shall be PEN 1,312,200 which incorporates an 8% increase relative to his US dollar denominated 2011 salary, to compensate for the appreciation of the Peruvian currency and the increase in living costs.
Short-term incentives Overview The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the objectives for the Executive Directors based on individual roles and responsibilities which include financial performance of the Group and achievement of key operational targets within the individuals scope of responsibilities.
The level of bonus paid depends on performance against these objectives and is subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Adjustments to reflect underlying business performance In line with the Committees usual practice, a review of the quality of earnings is conducted which may result in adjustments to reported profit to arrive at a level of profit for bonus payouts.
This ensures that bonus payments are not impacted by unbudgeted non-recurring or one-off items, or circumstances outside of managements control such as increased commodity prices that could distort the overall quality of earnings.
2011 Bonus award Ignacio Bustamante, being the only Executive Director entitled to an annual bonus, has a maximum bonus opportunity of 125% of salary.
A summary of the objectives set for Ignacio Bustamante for the year and performance against them is given below: achieving annual production of 22.5 moz which was within the range of targets set: maintaining adjusted cash cost of $10.3 Ag Eq Oz in line with the lowest of the targets set: achieving adjusted EBITDA of $315 million which was in the middle of the range set for the year: assuring future growth of the business by increasing resource life-of-mine and advancing the Groups greenfield exploration programme, in respect of which the highest target was exceeded: finalising the feasibility studies in respect of two of the Groups Advanced Projects the third, with respect to Azuca, having been delayed by the Board : contribution to the completion of the Groups Talent Inventory Review, which documents development and succession plans for the most senior employees: and an accident frequency rate for the year of 3.63 which was within the range set for the year.
In light of the performance against his specified objectives, and taking his very strong personal performance during the year into account, the Remuneration Committee has approved the maximum level of annual bonus payable equivalent to 125% of Mr Bustamantes salary.
2012 Bonus award With respect to 2012, the Committee has approved objectives for Mr Bustamante which will continue to reward the achievement of a wide range of targets relating to business growth, profitability, corporate responsibility and leadership.
Hochschild Mining plc 82 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Pensions, statutory profit sharing and benefits-in-kind The Group does not provide pension benefits to the Executive Directors however, in respect of the year under review, it did pay Eduardo Hochschild a cash supplement of $200,000 in lieu of pension.
Of this supplement, $160,000 was paid by Ares and $40,000 was paid by the Company.
In addition, under Peruvian law, mining companies with more than 20 employees must pay to employees an annual share of profits, in an amount equal to 8% of the companys taxable income for the year.
The amount receivable under this entitlement is determined with reference to seniority of the individual and length of service.
The Group provides the Executive Directors with medical insurance and allowances for the use of a car and driver, and personal security.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Overview In order to achieve its policy objective of motivating the CEO and senior employees over the long-term, the Company has adopted a cash-based LTIP which helps align selected executives long-term interests with those of shareholders.
LTIP Awards were initially granted in 2008 with the intention that awards would be made every three years.
In 2010, the Committee reviewed the plan and it was felt that the retentive and motivational aspects of the plan would be enhanced through the grant of annual awards.
For Executive Directors participating in the scheme, the maximum cash payment on vesting in any three-year period may not be more than six times salary or eight times salary in exceptional circumstances excluding interest on the deferred proportion of the 2008 LTIP Awards see table below.
The equivalents of these upper limits also apply to annual awards i. e. an annual grant limit of no more than two times salary in normal circumstances.
Subsisting awards A summary of the performance targets and other information with respect to the LTIP awards subsisting as at the date of this report is given below.
Plan 2008 LTIP 2010 LTIP 2011 LTIP Performance Period 1 January 2008 to 31 December 1 January 2010 to 1 January 2011 to 2010 47% vested 31 December 2012 31 December 2013 Vesting 50% on third anniversary and 100% on third anniversary 100% on third anniversary remaining 50%, together with of date of grant of date of grant notional interest, on fourth anniversary of date of grant Performance Conditions Relative TSR Performance Relative TSR Performance Relative TSR Performance Full Vesting: Upper Decile Full Vesting: Upper Decile Full Vesting: Upper Decile 75% Vesting: Upper Quartile 75% Vesting: Upper Quartile 75% Vesting: Upper Quartile 25% Vesting: Median 25% Vesting: Median 25% Vesting: Median Straight line between lower Straight line between lower Straight line between lower and mid thresholds, and mid and mid thresholds, and mid and mid thresholds, and mid and upper thresholds and upper thresholds and upper thresholds 2 TSR Comparator Group Tailored Peer Group The 2008 Comparator Group The 2008 Comparator Group plus Fresnillo plc, Centamin Egypt the 2008 Comparator Group Limited, African Barrick Gold plc and Randgold Resources Ltd Other Information 3 Clawback provisions Yes Yes Yes Basis of TSR calculation After shareholder consultation, Common currency Average of local and of Comparator Group local currency was used common currencies 1 Subject to meeting the relevant performance condition.
2 At the start of the plan, the tailored peer group comprised the following companies: Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd, Alamos Gold, AngloGold Ashanti Ltd, Apex Silver Mines Ltd, Barrick Gold Corp, Cia des Minas Buenaventura SA, Couer dAlene Mines Corp, Eldorado Gold Corp, Gold Fields Ltd, Goldcorp Inc, Highland Gold Mining Ltd, Iamgold Corp, Kinross Gold Corp, Minefinders Corp, Newmont Mining Corp, PAN American Silver Corp, Petropavlovsk Plc, Polymetal and Silver Standard Resources Inc. During 2009, one of these companies, Apex Silver Mines was fide-listed and was therefore removed from the comparator index.
3 Potential clawback if, before vesting, the Remuneration Committee determines either that i the overall underlying business performance of the Company is not satisfactory or ii an unacceptable position has occurred regarding safety, the environment, community relations, and or compliance with legal obligations of the Company.
Governance 83 Proposed 2012 LTIP awards During 2011 the Committee undertook a review of the LTIP with regard to the performance conditions governing the vesting of awards to help ensure the LTIP remains robust, competitive and aligned with shareholders.
In its review, the Committee took into account market practice amongst UK-listed and other global mining companies, the possibility of incorporating financial measures e. g. EPS, cash flow or non-financial measures to reinforce the achievement of our key business objectives, and the sensitivity of performance measures to uncontrollable factors such as commodity prices.
Following considerable discussion, the Committee concluded that relative TSR remains the most appropriate performance measure for the long-term incentive as it: helps ensure alignment with shareholders: is robust to commodity prices: is commonly used in long-term incentives in the mining sector: and is less sensitive to possible forecasting inaccuracies when setting long-term targets.
However, for the 2012 awards the Committee has made the following changes to the performance condition to improve its robustness: i The TSR benchmark will be based on two comparator groups: 70% of awards vest according to the Companys TSR relative to the existing TSR Comparator Group and 30% will vest on TSR relative to the constituents of the FTSE 350 Mining Index at the start of the performance period.
Rationale: The use of two benchmarks helps to ensure that LTIP vesting is not unduly sensitive to the TSRs of any one single company.
The Committee selected the FTSE 350 Mining Index on the basis that it represents an alternative investment in the UK-listed mining sector.
ii For the 70% of awards vesting on performance against the existing TSR Comparator Group, the vesting schedule will be such that full vesting is delivered at upper quintile, 75% for upper tercile and 25% vesting for median.
Rationale: The Committee has observed that the full-vesting performance level under the 2010 and 2011 LTIP Awards which demanded top decile is extremely stretching relative to that required at TSR-based LTIPs at other UK-listed companies, which generally set the full-vesting level at upper quartile.
The Committee considers the change in the full-vesting performance requirement from top decile to top quintile to be necessary to help ensure the LTIP remains motivational.
Furthermore, the pay levels of the Companys most senior executives are significantly below the median of the market and the Committee therefore felt that the imbalance was exacerbated by continuing to set the LTIP full vesting level at above-market levels of toughness.
iii For the 30% of the awards vesting on performance against the FTSE 350 Mining Index, vesting will be based on the Companys TSR percentage outperformance of the median TSR of the index constituents: with 25% vesting of this portion of the award occurring at Median TSR, and full vesting occurring at Median TSR 10% p. a.
Rationale: The Committee believes the use of TSR percentage outperformance is more appropriate when measuring performance against the FTSE 350 Mining Index as the index comprises companies with a greater diversity of mining operations than those comprising the existing TSR Comparator Group.
The Committee believes that setting the full vesting level on the basis of a fixed outperformance of median TSR will help ensure the full-vesting performance requirement is less sensitive to the relative movements in metals minerals prices than it would if a ranking were used.
At 10% p. a. the outperformance required for full vesting is consistent with market practice amongst UK-listed companies taking into account company size.
The Remuneration Committee believes the revisions described above are important to ensure the Company is able to motivate and retain its executives, and are in the interests of shareholders.
Hochschild Mining plc 84 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Directors LTIP awards Details of the LTIP awards held by Ignacio Bustamante, being the only Executive Director eligible to participate in the plan are given in the table below.
Value of maximum award held at 31 December 2010 or Value of maximum award Value of awards Awards surrendered or Value of maximum award held at Plan date of appointment, if later granted during the year vested during the year lapsed during the year 31 December 2011 1 2008 LTIP $1.6m $0.376m $0.848m $0.376m 2 2010 LTIP $0.74m $0.74m 3 2011 LTIP $0.9m $0.9m 1 The performance conditions attached to the 2008 LTIP award are summarised in the table on page 82 in the section entitled Subsisting awards.
The rules governing the award provide for equal vesting on the third and fourth anniversaries of the date of grant of the award.
Ignacio Bustamante will therefore be entitled to receive $376k together with notional interest, on 9 May 2012 subject to continued employment with the Group on that date.
2 The performance conditions attached to the 2010 LTIP award are summarised in the table on page 82 in the section entitled Subsisting awards.
3 The performance conditions attached to the 2011 LTIP award are summarised in the table on page 82 in the section entitled Subsisting awards.
Ignacio Bustamante is required to invest in the Companys shares at least 20% of any amount paid to him upon vesting of the 2011 LTIP award until such time as he has accumulated a shareholding with a value of two times salary.
Enhanced LTIP Introduction Ignacio Bustamante was appointed to the CEO role in March 2010.
His salary was set initially at US$370k and the rest of his remuneration package was in line with that offered to other senior executives i. e. annual bonus opportunity of up to 125 per cent of salary and an LTIP opportunity of up to two times his salary p. a.. Having reviewed relevant market pay benchmarks for the CEO based on three comparator groups comprising i FTSE 350 miners, ii international gold miners, and iii international mining companies, the Committee was concerned that the CEOs remuneration package was significantly below lower quartile against market.
Consequently, the Committee approved an increase in the CEOs salary as disclosed earlier in this report and received shareholder approval at the 2011 AGM for an enhancement to the CEOs 2011 LTIP award designed to reinforce his alignment with shareholder interests and to ensure his total remuneration package remained competitive.
The enhanced LTIP award is in the form of Conditional Shares with a value, on the date of grant, equivalent to six times the CEOs salary that vests over an extended performance period of four, five and six years.
Subsisting Enhanced LTIP award A summary of the performance targets and other information about the enhanced LTIP award subsisting as at the date of this report is given below.
Performance Periods 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2014 in respect of 25% of the Award 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2015 in respect of 25% of the Award 1 January 2011 to 31 December 2016 in respect of 50% of the Award Vesting 28 April 2015 in respect of 90,549 Shares 28 April 2016 in respect of 90,549 Shares 28 April 2017 in respect of 181,098 Shares Performance Conditions Relative TSR Performance Full Vesting: Upper Decile 75% Vesting: Upper Quartile 25% Vesting: Median Straight line between lower and mid thresholds, and mid and upper thresholds TSR Comparator Group As for the 2011 LTIP Awards Other Information 2 Yes Clawback provisions Basis of TSR calculation of Comparator Group Average of local and common currencies Shareholding requirement 50% of the after-tax vested shares is required to be retained until an overall beneficial shareholding equal to two times salary has been achieved 1 Subject to meeting the relevant performance condition.
2 Potential clawback if, before vesting, the Remuneration Committee determines either that i the overall underlying business performance of the Company is not satisfactory or ii an unacceptable position has occurred regarding safety, the environment, community relations, and or compliance with legal obligations of the Company.
Governance 85 Directors Enhanced LTIP award Details of the Conditional Shares held by Ignacio Bustamante under the Enhanced LTIP are provided in the table below.
Number of Number of Number of Market Value of Number of Conditional Shares Conditional Shares Conditional Shares Number of each share at Conditional Shares granted during vesting during lapsing during Conditional Shares held date of award at 31 December 2010 the year the year the year at 31 December 2011 Exercise Price pence Vesting of Awards 1 0 362,196 0 0 362,196 Nil 428 See note 2 1 Details of the performance conditions attached to the award of Conditional Shares are provided in the table on the previous page.
2 Details on the timing of vesting of awards are provided in the table on the previous page.
Other information Performance graph The following graph shows the TSR Total Shareholder Return for the Company compared to the FTSE 350 Index, assuming 100 was invested on 31 December 2006.
The Board considers that the FTSE 350 Index currently represents the most appropriate of the published indices for these purposes as it provides a view of performance against the broad equity market index of which the Company is a constituent.
Total shareholder return value of hypothetical 100 holding FTSE 350 Index Hochschild Mining plc 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 DEC 06 DEC 07 DEC 08 DEC 09 DEC 10 DEC 11 Source: Bloomberg Directors contractual arrangements Executive Directors As previously described, the contractual arrangements for Executive Directors appointed prior to the IPO in 2006 differ to those for the Executive Directors appointed subsequently.
Eduardo Hochschild is employed under contracts of employment with the Company and Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. Ares, a Group company, dated 16 October 2006 as subsequently amended.
The contracts have no fixed terms and may be terminated on 12 months notice in writing.
In setting the notice period for termination at 12 months, the Remuneration Committee reduced the likelihood of having to pay excessive compensation in the event of termination at the Companys behest and, to this end, a provision for immediate dismissal with no compensation payable in the event of unsatisfactory performance is included in the Directors contract.
Ignacio Bustamante was appointed a Director of the Company with effect from 1 April 2010 and is employed under a contract of employment with Ares dated 1 April 2007.
The contract is subject to Peruvian law and, as such, has no fixed term and may be terminated i by the executive on 30 days notice and ii by Ares without notice.
Under Peruvian law, termination by Ares other than termination for certain prescribed reasons such as gross negligence gives rise to an entitlement to compensation of no less than 1.5 times the monthly base salary for each year of service completed, up to a maximum of 12 months base salary.
Hochschild Mining plc 86 Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Governance Directors remuneration report continued Non-Executive Directors The Groups Non-Executive Directors serve under Letters of Appointment as detailed in the table below.
In accordance with their terms, the Non-Executive Directors serve for an initial period of three years which is automatically extended for a further three years.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, all Directors are subject to annual re-election by the Company in general meeting in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, and the appointments of Non-Executive Directors may be determined by the Board or the Director giving not less than three months notice.
The Non-Executive Directors fees have been set at a level to reflect the amount of time and level of involvement required in order to carry out their duties as members of the Board and its committees.
The fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company as at the date of this report are set out in the table below.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors was in office for the entire year under review with the exception of Dr Graham Birch and Rupert Pennant-Rea who were both appointed during the year, as detailed in the footnotes accompanying the following table.
Director Letter of Appointment dated Directors fee per annum 1 Sir Malcolm Field 16 October 2006 120,000 $192,000 Jorge Born Jr. 16 October 2006 100,000 $160,000 1 Nigel Moore 16 October 2006 120,000 $192,000 Dionisio Romero 16 October 2006 100,000 $160,000 Fred Vinton 9 July 2009 100,000 $160,000 Roberto Daino 11 January 2011 100,000 $160,000 2 Dr Graham Birch 20 June 2011 100,000 $160,000 3 Rupert Pennant-Rea 30 August 2011 100,000 $160,000 1 The fees payable to Sir Malcolm Field and Nigel Moore reflect the additional time commitment required, given their positions as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee respectively.
2 Dr Graham Birch was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 1 July 2011.
3 Rupert Pennant-Rea was appointed a Non-Executive Director of the Company with effect from 1 September 2011.
External appointments The Board recognises that Executive Directors may, in addition, serve as directors of other companies which can bring benefits to the Group.
The table below details the fees received by Eduardo Hochschild during the year, in respect of his other directorships, which are retained by him.
Name of Director Company Fees received Eduardo Hochschild Banco Crdito del Per PEN 275,100 $99,865 1 Cementos Pacasmayo S. A.
fide Seguros 1 The amount disclosed includes salary received by Eduardo Hochschild in his capacity as an Executive Director of Cementos Pacasmayo S. A.
A. a company of which he is the controlling shareholder.
Governance 87 Table of Directors total remuneration The following table sets out the remuneration of the Directors serving during the year in respect of the years ended 31 December 2011 and 31 December 2010.
Total remuneration from 1 January 2011 or date of appointment Total remuneration if later to from 1 January 2010 31 December 2011 or date of appointment Base Pension Statutory BenefitsPerformance Other or date of resignation, if later to salary fees supplement profit share in-kind related bonus payments if earlier 31 December 2010 Director US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 2,3, 4,5 Eduardo Hochschild 1,102 200 42 434 0 0 1,778 1,813 6 7 8 Roberto Daino 160 0 0 61 0 235 456 1,509 9 Ignacio Bustamante 488 0 48 22 562 0 1,120 822 Sir Malcolm Field 192 0 0 0 0 0 192 170 10 Dr Graham Birch 80 0 0 0 0 0 80 Jorge Born Jr. 160 0 0 0 0 0 160 155 Nigel Moore 192 0 0 0 0 0 192 186 11 Rupert Pennant-Rea 53 0 0 0 0 0 53 Dionisio Romero 160 0 0 0 0 0 160 155 Fred Vinton 160 0 0 0 0 0 160 155 Total 2,747 200 90 517 562 235 4,351 4,965 1 Amounts disclosed include sums paid by way of expense allowances.
2 Eduardo Hochschild has a service contract with both Hochschild Mining plc and Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. a Group subsidiary.
3 One-fifth of Eduardo Hochschilds salary was paid by the Company with the balance paid by Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. In addition, US$40,000 of his annual pension supplement was paid by the Company with the balance paid by Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. 4 Salaries paid by Compaa Minera Ares S. A. C. include all legal labour benefits and compensation such as, but not restricted to, family allowance, vacation salaries and compensation for time services ruled by Peruvian Legislative Decree 650 but exclude legal profit sharing.
5 Following a review of Eduardo Hochschilds remuneration conducted during 2010, it was agreed that he would receive an increased salary but he would not be entitled to participate in any Long Term Incentive Plan or Bonus Plans in respect of 2010 and subsequent years.
6 Benefits-in-kind relate to the benefits provided to Mr Daino pursuant to his engagement as a Special Adviser to the Chairman and Senior Management team see note 7 below for further details which include transportation and out-of-pocket expenses.
7 The amount represents the fee of 150,000 per annum payable to Mr Daino in respect of his engagement as Special Adviser to the Chairman and the Senior Management team pursuant to a contract between Mr Daino and Compania Minera Ares S. A. C. Ares dated 28 December 2010.
The contract provides for a one-year term which renews automatically for further one-year periods and can be terminated by either party on 30 days written notice.
In the event that Ares terminates the contract before 31 December 2015, Mr Daino is entitled to receive 30% of the fee payable to him in the period from the date of termination until 31 December 2015.
8 Reflects the remuneration received by Mr Daino in respect of his role as an Executive Director of the Company in 2010.
9 Ignacio Bustamante was appointed a Director of the Company with effect from 1 April 2010.
The amount of the base salary disclosed in respect of 2010 relates to the period from his appointment and includes all legal labour benefits and compensation such as, but not restricted to, vacation salaries and compensation for time services ruled by Peruvian Legislative Decree 650 but excludes legal profit sharing.
The amount disclosed in respect of 2010 also includes the amount of CAD 39,900 US$39,593 received by him during that year in his capacity as a Hochschild-nominated director of Lake Shore Gold Corporation.
10 Dr Graham Birch was appointed a Director of the Company on 1 July 2011.
11 Rupert Pennant-Rea was appointed a Director of the Company on 1 September 2011.
Directors interests in shares The interests of the Directors in the Companys shares are set out in the Directors Report on page 62.
Approval This report has been approved by the Board of Directors of Hochschild Mining plc and is signed on its behalf by Sir Malcolm Field Chairman, Remuneration Committee 19 March 2012
