Remuneration Report Commentary from the Chairman of the Remuneration Contents Committee Committee 48 This Report The challenges for a Remuneration Committee include balancing prudence against appropriate reward for good performance, 48 Chairmans commentary particularly so in the current economic environment.
However, I am pleased to say that the Groups results for 2011 as set out 48 The Committee in the financial pages of this Annual Report have been such 49 Policy on Remuneration that we have been able to recommend good rewards for the exceptional performance achieved.
Interteks successful 49 Advisors growth strategy has been achieved by the continuing excellent 50 Executive Directors and other executives remuneration performance of management and we believe that the agreed remuneration appropriately rewards that effort.
50 Salaries As previously explained, in 2011 we altered the performance 51 Other benefits criteria for future performance-related long term share awards for our forty or so most senior executives.
These awards are 51 Pensions based half on relative Total Shareholder Return TSR and half on absolute Earnings Per Share growth EPS.
Following 51 Cash bonuses the acquisition of Moody International Moody we 52 Share Plan awards subsequently increased the previously declared EPS targets to take into account the expected earnings enhancement 53 Policy on share retention arising from that significant acquisition.
53 Service contracts and appointment arrangements We continue to focus on ensuring that our remuneration policy is appropriate for the size and complexity of the Group, 53 Policy on external appointments encourages our employees in the development of their careers 54 Non-Executive Directors and is directed to deliver the continued growth of the Group.
54 TSR performance graph The Committee On behalf of the Board, the Committee: 55 Information required to be audited t determines the Companys policy on the remuneration of the Chairman, and the remuneration and incentives for Executive Directors and other senior executives mainly the Intertek This Report Operations Committee the IOC which comprises the Group This Report sets out the Groups policy and disclosures in relation and Executive Vice-Presidents as listed on pages 12 and 13 : to Directors remuneration for the year ended 31 December t determines the remuneration packages of the above, 2011.
It will be subject to a separate shareholder vote at the including any compensation on termination of office: forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
t reviews the remuneration arrangements for the wider The Report has been prepared on behalf of the Board and employee population and considers issues relating to complies fully with the requirements of the Companies Act remuneration packages that may have a significant impact 2006 and Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-sized Companies on the Group: and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 the t provides advice to, and consults with, the Chief Executive Regulations and the UK Corporate Governance Code the Officer on major policy issues affecting the remuneration Code as applicable for the financial year and the elements of other executives: and specifically stated as having been audited, have been audited t keeps remuneration policy under review in the light of by KPMG Audit Plc in compliance with the requirements of regulatory and best practice developments and shareholder the Regulations.
Due regard is given to the interests of shareholders and the requirements of the Listing Rules The Group has applied the Principles of Good Corporate and associated guidance.
Governance relating to the remuneration of its Directors and this Report outlines how the Group has already complied with The Committee met seven times during 2011.
Attendance the provisions of the Code as well as the latest guidelines issued statistics appear in the Corporate Governance Report on page or proposed by institutional shareholder bodies.
41: the Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website at www.
com Remuneration Report The following Non-Executive Directors of the Company served Each year the Committee approves the overall reward strategy on the Committee in 2011: David Allvey Chairman, Gavin Darby, for the Group and considers the individual remuneration until his resignation in May 2011, Christopher Knight and Vanni packages of the Executive Directors and certain senior executives.
Following David Allvey and Vanni Treves retirements, the There are no executives whose remuneration exceeds that of the Committee comprises Christopher Knight, now Chairman, Alan Executive Directors.
The Committee reviews the balance between base salary and David Allvey was independent in accordance with the Code and performance-related remuneration against the key objectives and Vanni Treves was independent at the time of his appointment as targets so as to ensure performance is appropriately rewarded.
In the current Committee, Alan Brown It also ensures outcomes are a fair reflection of the underlying and Christopher Knight are independent in accordance with the performance of the Group.
Code and Sir David Reid was independent at the time of his As a global service business, success is critically dependent on appointment as Chairman of the Board.
the performance and retention of our key people.
Employment None of the Committee members have had any personal costs represent the major element of Group operating costs.
financial interest, except as shareholders, in the matters decided.
As a global group our pay arrangements take into account Where executives are in attendance in an advisory capacity at a both local and international markets.
We operate a global Committee meeting, they will absent themselves for matters Remuneration Policy Framework to achieve our reward strategy, relating to their own remuneration.
with each operation retaining the freedom to navigate within that framework to find the best local solution.
The remuneration of the Committee members is shown on page 55.
When determining salaries for our executives we take account of pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group, as well as the relevant general market.
This is achieved by reviewing Policy on remuneration detailed information for the four areas mainland China, USA, Our remuneration strategy is to: UK and Hong Kong in which the Group employs the greatest t align and recognise the individuals contribution to success number of employees.
in our strategy and long-term business goals: Our peer groups for the majority of our employees consist of t attract, engage, motivate and retain the best available people international industrial or business service organisations and by positioning total pay and benefits to be competitive in similar-sized businesses.
In respect of our more senior executives the relevant market and in line with the ability of the business we base our pay comparisons on a blend of factors, including to pay: sector, job complexity, location, responsibilities and performance, t reward people equitably for the size of their responsibilities whilst recognising the Company is listed in the UK.
and performance: and t engage motivated high performers and, through variable We believe that a significant proportion of remuneration for bonus schemes and long-term incentive plans, share the senior executives should be related to performance, with part Groups success with those who build and lead Intertek of that remuneration being deferred in the form of shares and as a world class business and encourage them to increase subject to continued employment.
We also believe that shareshareholder value.
based remuneration should form a significant element of senior executives compensation so there is a strong link to the sustained future success of the Group.
Advisors To ensure that the Groups remuneration practices drive and support achievement of strategies and are market competitive, we obtain advice from various independent sources.
The Committee has appointed and taken independent advice on ensuring that remuneration is fit for purpose, on share incentive arrangements and remuneration benchmarking from Kepler Associates KA, on remuneration matters from AON Hewitt New Bridge Street AON, and on UK pension matters from Premier Pensions Management Limited PPM.
During 2011, PPMs associate company provided additional FSA-regulated services in respect of UK pension and employee matters.
PPM, KA and AON have no other connection with the Company or its senior officers.
Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 49 Remuneration Report Executive Directors and other executives remuneration The following table sets out the elements that make up the remuneration of the two Executive Directors and other senior executives: 1 Fixed Base salary The base salary takes account of the size of the job in the appropriate market and the competence and contribution of the job holder.
2 Fixed Other benefits These include car allowances, life and private medical insurance and annual medicals.
3 Fixed Pension Pension arrangements reflect the appropriate market.
4 Performance: Annual cash performance bonus The cash bonus serves to drive and recognise short-term short-term performance against targets which are a mix of shareholder, business and personal objectives, both numeric and nonnumeric.
The criteria and targets are reviewed each year for strategic alignment and to fit changing business objectives and the economic environment.
5 Performance: Share Plan awards For the purposes of retention, and to link reward clearly to long term shareholders interests in the long-term success of the Company, a significant element of reward is determined by business performance, and has a value dependent on our share price at the end of the deferral period.
In addition there are holding requirements for the duration of employment.
In 2011 the total remuneration for our Executive Directors and the balance between the above elements was: Wolfhart Hauser 2,875k 23% 2% 6% 28% 23% 18% Lloyd Pitchford 1,413k 27% 2% 6% 23% 23% 19% Base salary Benets Pensions Cash bonus Share Awards Performance Awards The base salary, benefits, pensions, cash bonus and Share Awards are shown in the table on page 55.
The Performance Award is half the fair value of the maximum potential number of Performance Shares that may vest subject to performance.
Details of how the fair values of the share plan awards have been calculated are set out in note 17 to the financial statements.
The remuneration for Lloyd Pitchford excludes the mirror share awards described on page 53.
The separate elements of remuneration are shown below: Salaries for the Executive Directors were increased in 2011 and in 2012 see the table below.
Salaries we considered that the performance of the individuals, taken Salaries are reviewed annually, in accordance with the in conjunction with the continuing growth and financial success Groups Remuneration Policy Framework.
The policy is for of the Group, justified the increases.
In the case of Wolfhart salaries to reflect: Hauser, the Board regards his leadership of the Group as t the growth in size, reach and complexity of the business: exemplary.
Lloyd Pitchford joined the Group in 2010 and his t demonstrable and sustained contribution of the executive salary increase reflects the strong performance he is delivering to the development of Interteks strategy, and to driving in the role.
increased synergy and efficiency: t retention: and The Executive Directors salaries are: t market movement.
Base salary Base salary Base salary Where a decision is made to increase a senior executives base from 1 April from 1 April % increase 2011 2012 over 2011 salary we will require the individual, taking into account levels 000 000 salary of experience and scale of responsibilities, to have demonstrated Wolfhart Hauser 667 694 4% strong leadership combined with a results-orientated approach.
Lloyd Pitchford 400 436 9% Whilst the Committee takes benchmarking information into account, its discussions are based primarily on the performance Elsewhere in the Group, salary increases were also awarded of the individual concerned against the above factors to ensure where justified by the growth and performance of the relevant that there is no unintended or unjustified upward ratchet in businesses, not just by market conditions.
Other benefits process and annual budgets for the Group, which form the Other benefits include annual medicals, life assurance cover of cornerstone of the Groups results-focused culture.
The divisional four times base salary, allowances in lieu of a company car or elements of bonus are based upon financial performance other benefits and private medical insurance.
indicators appropriate to that division.
The effect of exchange rate movements on earnings is one of the elements we consider 3.
Pensions before finalising bonus outcomes.
The pension arrangements for Executive Directors are as follows: The proportions of bonus elements in 2011 were: Group Company Contribution Contribution Executive Directors Pension % Base 2011 2010 Member salary 000 000 80% 20% Wolfhart Hauser No 25% 163 143 Lloyd Pitchford No 20% 78 48 Divisional EVPs Intertek also operates a number of pension arrangements around 40% 40% 20% the world for other executives and employees.
Material schemes Group Function EVPs are disclosed in note 16 to the financial statements.
Cash bonuses 50% 30% 20% The Executive Directors and senior executives are eligible for annual cash incentive payments for performance against Group performance financial and strategic goals set for the Group and its businesses.
Divisional performance job-specic objectives These bonuses are not pensionable.
They are based on a blend General contribution to strategy and synergies of financial and non-financial measures and are reviewed The weightings and outcomes for the Group financial bonus each year.
criteria for 2011 were: The annual cash bonus potential set for 2011 and 2012 is: Business outcome % of bonus Percentage of base salary 2011 2012 Adjusted diluted earnings per share 21% 50% 1 Wolfhart Hauser 130% 130% growth 1 Lloyd Pitchford 90% 100% Adjusted operating profit growth 24% 25% Executive Vice Presidents 75% 75% Operating cash flow % of adjusted 87% 15% 1 operating profit The award of the bonus in respect of 2011, to be paid in March Return on invested capital 17% 10% 2012, is as follows: 1 Calculated using constant 2010 exchange rates.
2011 Award Percentage of base salary 000 Max % % of salary The non-financial general contribution element of up to 20% Wolfhart Hauser 798 130% 120% of total bonus has been determined by taking into account the Lloyd Pitchford 331 90% 83% overall personal contribution of the executive to the goals and results of the Group for the year, the development of the Group and divisional bonus targets are established and reviewed medium-term strategy of the Group, the achievement over the by the Committee each year.
They are set to ensure they are year of strategic objectives and demonstrable efforts and results linked to strategic and immediate current business goals, and in team-building and leadership.
are sufficiently demanding, taking full account of economic The Committee can award additional discretionary payments conditions and risk factors.
Achievement of business targets to recognise very exceptional performance or to recognise that typically delivers half of the bonus opportunity so as to circumstances have occurred which were beyond the direct encourage and reward performance above expectations.
responsibility of the executive and the executive has managed The stretch targets, when met, reward exceptional achievement and mitigated the impact of any loss, or to address key retention and contribution well beyond expectations.
The Committee has the ability to reduce bonus payments Executive Directors bonus criteria for 2011 comprised the if it believes that short-term performance has been achieved at following: i Group performance elements: and ii non-financial the expense of the Groups long-term future success and it also elements.
Senior executives bonus criteria for 2011 comprised retains the discretion to reclaim payments if the performance the following: i Group performance elements: ii divisional achievements are subsequently found to have been significantly performance elements, where the executive is responsible for misstated: no discretion was exercised in respect of the bonuses divisional results, or function-specific objectives: and iii nonpaid in 2011. financial elements.
The goals derive from the three-year planning Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 51 Remuneration Report 5.
Share plan awards The Committee considers that EPS is an appropriate Executive Directors and other executives are awarded shares in measure of Interteks long-term performance as it is a well the Intertek 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan the Plan and are recognised and well understood indicator of the Companys subject to share holding requirements.
Intertek share plans EPS is fully diluted and adjusted for separately disclosed items.
Executive Directors and other key employees are eligible to It will be calculated on the basis of foreign exchange rates participate in our share plans.
adopted at the start of the cycle for internal budgeting purposes.
In 2011 we replaced our Deferred Bonus Plan DBP with the This is an appropriate basis given the wide spread of operating Plan.
The purpose and design of the Plan is similar to the DBP but currencies across the Groups global activities.
it includes more flexible rules.
We also changed the basis of the Awards will vest as follows in respect of the EPS condition: performance requirements to include a significant EPS element % of Performance as described below.
EPS growth outturn Award that vests i Intertek 2011 Long Term Incentive Plan Below threshold None The purposes of this Plan are the reward and retention of senior Threshold EPS 25% executives and key specialists and the alignment of their interests Between threshold and Pro-rata on a straight with shareholders by linking rewards to Interteks long term upper target line between 25% and 100% performance.
Upper target 100% The Plan has two elements: The TSR condition in 2011 was based on the Companys TSR t Share Awards are made to executives based on their annual ranking relative to a peer group of companies in the FTSE Index.
For the Executive Directors and the members For grants made in 2011 the peer group of FTSE Index members of the IOC, who form the senior management of Intertek, 51 to 150 excluding investment trusts and banks was used.
the value of Share Awards will normally be equal to their For the grant in 2012 the peer group of FTSE index members cash bonus.
We believe that this provides a simple and 31 to 130 excluding investment trusts and banks will be used.
The awards normally vest three years after grant, on the condition that the participant The Committee considers that relative TSR is an appropriate is still employed in the Group.
measure of long-term performance as it is an indicator of t Performance Awards, which are subject to long-term earnings growth, the quality of earnings and dividends relative performance requirements, are, at the discretion of the to Interteks FTSE comparators, and it aligns the interests of Committee, awarded to the most senior executives.
executives with those of Intertek shareholders.
Performance Awards for the Executive Directors and IOC are For the TSR element to vest, the Committee will also need to granted at the maximum ratio of two Performance Shares be satisfied that the resulting outcome is a true reflection of for every Share Award.
For members of the Intertek Council underlying performance which in general, we expect to be Performance Awards are granted at the maximum ratio of determined by reference to EPS growth.
one Performance Share for every Share Award.
Performance Awards vest after three years, once the Committee has Awards vest as follows in respect of the TSR condition: determined the extent to which the applicable performance % of Performance conditions have been satisfied and on the condition that the TSR Ranking Award that vests participant is still employed in the Group.
Below median None Median 25% At the Groups discretion, awards may be satisfied by the issue Between median and Pro-rata on a straight line of new shares, by purchasing shares in the market, or in cash.
upper quartile between 25% and 100% In respect of Share Awards and Performance Awards granted Upper quartile 100% in 2012, further amounts, equivalent to dividends paid and payable during the vesting period, will be paid in cash or shares The Committee can set different performance conditions from at vesting.
those described above for future awards.
Any such new targets will not, in the reasonable opinion of the Committee, be The vesting of half of each Performance Award is conditional materially less challenging in the circumstances than those on achieving an EPS target and half is conditional on achieving described above.
ii Deferred Bonus Plan 2005 The EPS performance condition is set as a compound annual Awards were granted under this plan between 2006 and 2010. percentage growth over three years, measured against the base Both Deferred Awards and Matching Awards which were year, which is the year prior to the start of the measurement performance related were granted.
Vesting takes place three period.
For each three-year cycle the Committee will determine years after grant.
a threshold level and an upper vesting target for EPS growth.
For the 2011-2013 performance period, exceptionally, as a result of the mid year acquisition of Moody, the threshold level was set at 11% per annum and the upper target at 20% per annum.
For the 2012-2014 performance period, the threshold level will be set at 6% per annum and the upper target at 16% per annum.
com Remuneration Report The performance condition for these earlier Matching Awards Service contracts and appointment arrangements comprises only TSR ranking relative to a peer group of FTSE Index Wolfhart Hauser has an executive service contract, effective from companies.
The peer groups selected have varied from year to 1 March 2005, which is subject to 12 months notice on either year to reflect the rise in Interteks ranking in the FTSE index.
It contains provisions by way of compensation for loss of Matching Award will vest unless an EPS underpin of 2% in excess office, limited to payment of salary over a 12-month period in of average growth per annum of UK Retail Prices Index is met.
The contract permits payments in lieu of notice to be made, at the Companys election, either i in full on Awards vest as follows in respect of the TSR condition: termination or ii on a monthly basis, but only for so long as he receives no remuneration from any other business.
If he does TSR Ranking % of Matching Award that vests receive any such remuneration, the monthly amount payable Below median None will be reduced by that remuneration, determined on a monthly Median 25% basis.
The service contract contains no provisions regarding a Between median and Pro-rata on a straight line change of control.
upper quartile between 25% and 100% Upper quartile 100% Lloyd Pitchford has an executive service contract, effective from 26 April 2010, which is subject to 12 months notice on either The Company has undertaken to limit to 5% of the Companys side.
It contains provisions by way of compensation for loss of issued share capital the number of awards satisfied by newly office, limited to payment of salary and pension contributions issued shares under the Plan and the DBP in each ten-year over a 12-month period in lieu of notice.
The contract permits period, from the time the DBP was adopted.
As at 31 December payments in lieu of notice to be made, at the Companys 2011, outstanding awards represented 1.66% of the Companys election, either i in full on termination or ii in the amounts issued share capital and 0.81% of issued share capital has been and at the times it would have been paid if he had continued issued in satisfaction of awards.
to work throughout the period of notice but only for so long as he receives no remuneration from any other business.
If he does iii Mirror share awards receive any such remuneration, the monthly amount payable As part of the arrangements made in respect of the hiring of will be reduced by that remuneration, determined on a monthly Lloyd Pitchford, the Company agreed to compensate him for basis.
The service contract contains no provisions regarding a the loss of share incentive awards made to him by his previous change of control and permits bonus payments to be reclaimed employer by replacing each of his outstanding awards with an in the event that performance achievements are found to have award a mirror share award over an appropriately adjusted been significantly misstated.
number of Intertek Group plc shares.
Details of these awards, and their performance criteria, were explained in detail in the 2010 Annual Report.
Policy on external appointments The Company recognises that, during their employment with Policy on share retention the Company, Executive Directors may be invited to become A shareholding retention requirement continues to be operated Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that such duties by the Committee.
Executive Directors and the members of the can broaden their experience and knowledge.
Executive Directors IOC, who form the senior management of Intertek, are required may, with the written consent of the Company, accept such to build up a shareholding in the Company worth at least 100% appointments outside the Company, and the policy is that of base salary within five years.
To assist in the building of any fees may be retained by the Director.
Wolfhart Hauser this holding, we require that, after allowing for tax and similar is a Non-Executive Director of Logica plc.
His earnings for liabilities, all the shares subject to each vested award under this appointment in 2011, which he retained, were 52,000. the Intertek Share Plans will be retained by the executive until the ownership target is attained.
Executive Shareholding retention Director Number of shares held requirement met?
Wolfhart Hauser 87,677 Lloyd Pitchford 22,197 Intertek Annual Report 2011 | 53 Remuneration Report Non-Executive Directors Annual basic fee Amount of from 1 April basic fee used 2011 or Additional Total annual to purchase Current Non-Executive date of Audit and committee fees from shares Directors appointment Original Expiry of appointment Remuneration Risk Nominations SID fee 1 January 2012 each year and fees appointment appointment Committee Committee Committee Edward Astle 1 September 31 August 55,000 7,500 62,500 10,000 2009 2012 Alan Brown 15 April 14 April 55,000 5,000 60,000 10,000 2011 2014 Christopher Knight 30 March 29 March 55,000 20,000 75,000 10,000 2006 2015 Sir David Reid 1 December 30 November 300,000 300,000 30,000 2011 2014 Michael Wareing 15 April 14 April 55,000 29,500 84,500 10,000 Senior Independent 2011 2014 Director SID Senior Independent Director Pursuant to the policy of aligning directors interests with those of shareholders, a proportion of the fees due to the Non-Executive Directors is used each year to purchase shares in the Company.
A summary of the Non-Executive Directors fees and the pre-tax amounts of those fees used to purchase shares in the Company each year is shown in the table above.
With effect from 1 April 2011 the base fee for Non-Executive Directors was 55,000.
Other than Sir David Reid, who receives a car allowance of 25,000 per annum, no other benefits are provided.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
The letter of engagement for each Non-Executive Director states that they are appointed for an initial period of three years and all appointments are terminable by one months notice on either side.
At the end of the initial period the appointment may be renewed for a further period, usually three years, if the Company and the Director agree and subject to annual reappointment at the AGM.
Each letter of engagement states that if the Group were to terminate the appointment, the Non-Executive Director would not be entitled to any compensation for loss of office.
TSR performance graph TSR, comprising the changes in value of a share and dividends distributed, can be represented by the value of a notional 100 invested at the beginning of a period and its change over that period.
The graph below shows the TSR in respect of the Company over five years.
The TSR for the Company is compared with the TSR for the FTSE 100 Index.
The Company joined the FTSE 100 in March 2009.
Intertek Group v FTSE 100 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Intertek Group FTSE 100 Source: Thomas Reuters Datastream Information provided by J. P. Morgan Cazenove and calculated according to methodology that is compliant with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The performance of the Company, as indicated by the graph, is not indicative of vesting levels under Interteks Share Plans.
com Remuneration Report Information required to be audited The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the following section of the Report.
The table below summarises Directors remuneration and pension contributions for 2011 and the prior year for comparison.
The Share Awards normally vest three years after the date of grant, on condition that the participant is still employed in the Group.
These figures exclude amounts relating to Performance Awards granted under the Plan.
Details of those awards and their performance criteria are given on pages 52 and 53.
Debra Rade and Gavin Darby each received an extra payment of 2,500 in recognition of work undertaken in connection with the Chairmans succession planning.
Directors interests in ordinary shares The interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company as at the year-end are set out below.
Save as stated in this report, during the course of the year, no Director nor any member of his or her immediate family had any other interest in the ordinary share capital of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
No changes in the above Directors interests have taken place between 31 December 2011 and the date of this report.
Awards made are based on a share price obtained by averaging the closing share prices for the five dealing days before the date of grant.
On the grant date 8 March 2011 the share price was 19.55.
No payment is made by participants in the Plan or the DBP.
Awards vested on 11 March 2011, on which date the closing market price of shares was 19.13 having been granted on 11 March 2008 on which date the closing market price was 9.595.
Awards normally vest three years after grant.
The vesting of Matching and Performance Awards is subject to additional performance conditions described on page 52 and 53.
The aggregate gain made by Directors on the vesting of awards was 1,511,503.
Mirror share awards On 14 May 2010 Lloyd Pitchford was granted conditional rights to acquire 49,039 1p shares in Intertek Group plc under a one-off arrangement as a condition of his recruitment as Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
The principal terms of the awards are summarised below.
The award comprised eight parts tranches A to H. Tranche A vested in 2010.
The number of Intertek Group plc shares within each tranche is noted in the table below together with details of each tranches normal vesting date: 31 December 2010 Vested in 2011 Lapsed in 2011 31 December 2011 Vesting date Number of shares Number of shares Number of shares Number of shares of award Tranche B 8,497 6,315 2,182 March 2011 Tranche C 1,378 1,378 September 2011 Tranche D 4,429 4,429 September 2011 Tranche E 2,730 2,730 September 2011 Tranche F 1,723 1,723 September 2012 Tranche G 5,170 5,170 September 2012 Tranche H 3,006 3,006 September 2012 Total 26,933 14,852 2,182 9,899 Each tranche will ordinarily vest on its normal vesting date subject to Lloyd Pitchfords continued employment with Intertek.
In addition, in the case of tranche G the extent to which such tranche may vest is also contingent on the satisfaction of performance criteria.
The awards may only be satisfied with market purchased shares or cash.
No newly issued shares or treasury shares will be used in connection with the awards.
The gain made on vesting during 2011 was 297,048.
Share information On 30 December 2011 the last working day of the year the closing market price of Intertek Group plcs ordinary shares was 20.35.
The highest and lowest prices of the shares during the year were 21.48 and 17.15 respectively.
Approval of the Remuneration Report The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board on 2 March 2012.
Christopher Knight Chairman, Remuneration Committee 56 | www.
