This Report sets out the remuneration policy operated by the Group in respect Directors of the Executive Directors, together with disclosures on Directors remuneration required by The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts Remuneration and Reports Regulations 2008 the Regulations.
The auditor is required to report on the auditable part of this Report and to state whether, in their Report opinion, that part of the Report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Report is therefore divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
The Board have reviewed the Groups compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance June 2008 the Code on remuneration related matters.
It is the opinion of the Board that the Group complied with all remuneration related aspects of the Code during the year.
The Report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the Annual General Meeting AGM on 23 June 2011.
UNAUDITED INFORMATION Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee the Committee comprises two independent Non-Executive Directors, being Colin Archer and Chris Bird.
Colin Archer is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee assists the Board in determining the Groups policy on Executive Directors remuneration and determines the specific remuneration packages for senior executives, including the Executive Directors, on behalf of the Board.
Peter Cowgill, the Executive Chairman, Barry Bown, the Chief Executive Officer, and Brian Small, the Group Finance Director have assisted the Committee when requested with regards to matters concerning key executives below Board level.
The Committee can obtain independent advice at the Companys expense where they consider it appropriate and in order to perform their duties.
The Committee is formally constituted with written Terms of Reference, which are available on the Companys corporate website www.
The Committee is willing to engage with any of the major shareholders or other representative groups where appropriate concerning remuneration matters.
The Committee is mindful of the Companys social, ethical and environmental responsibilities and is satisfied that the current remuneration arrangements and policies do not encourage irresponsible behaviour.
The Committee has met four times during the year under review with each member attending all the meetings.
Details of attendance at the Committee meetings are set out on page 42.
Remuneration Policy The Group operates in a highly competitive retail and distribution environment and the Committee seeks to ensure that the level and form of remuneration is appropriate to attract, retain and motivate Directors and senior managers who are the cornerstone of the continued success of the Company.
Whilst it is inevitable that policies and practice in respect of remuneration will evolve over time, it is the Committees belief that the key principles described below, which applied in the year to 29 January 2011, remain appropriate and will continue for the financial year to 28 January 2012: The total remuneration which can be earned should be set at a level which ensures the retention and motivation of key executives of the necessary calibre required to execute the business strategy and enhance shareholder value Remuneration should be aligned with the key corporate metrics that drive earnings growth and increased shareholder value with significant emphasis on performance related pay measured over the longer term Incentive arrangements for key individuals should provide an appropriate balance between fixed and performance related elements and be capable of providing exceptional levels of total payment if outstanding performance is achieved 45 Cash based long term incentive plans Components of Remuneration In 2008, the Committee proposed the introduction of a cash based Long Term Incentive Plan 2008 LTIP in order to: The main components of the current remuneration package are: Provide the Committee with the necessary mechanism with which to retain Base salary the Executive Directors who are critical to driving shareholder value The following factors are taken into account when determining base salary levels: Provide the Executive Directors with the opportunity to earn competitive Remuneration levels at comparable UK retail companies rewards which was previously severely restricted by the absence of any long term incentive plan The need for salaries to be competitive Align the Executive Directors interests more closely with those of the shareholders The performance of the individual Executive Director and their contribution to the business Focus the Executive Directors on sustaining and improving the long-term financial performance of the Company and reward them appropriately for Experience and responsibilities doing so Pay and employment conditions throughout the Group Ensure a more appropriate balance in the Executive Directors compensation between fixed and performance related elements The policy of the Committee is that the salaries of the Executive Directors should be reviewed annually, although it reserves the right to review salaries The 2008 LTIP was subsequently approved by shareholders at the Annual on a discretionary basis if it becomes apparent that the Group is at risk of General Meeting held on 26 June 2008 and consisted of two separate awards losing a key Board member or other senior executive, or if it believes an that would pay out in cash after two and three years respectively, subject to adjustment is required to reflect market rates or performance.
The Committee continued employment and meeting performance targets which would drive the exercised this discretionary right twice in the year.
Firstly, the salary of the creation of shareholder value.
The Committee gave considerable thought as to Executive Chairman was increased from 422,742 to 700,000 with this whether the awards should pay out in cash or shares and decided that given increase being applied retrospectively to 1 April 2010.
The Committee believes the current shareholder structure and the lack of a large free float, the delivery that this salary reflects the personal contribution that the Executive Chairman mechanism should be in cash although all payments would be has made to the turnaround of the Group since 2004, its outstanding non-pensionable.
performance since then and the Executive Chairmans substantial increased time commitment.
The Committee firmly believes that this salary increase The following table outlines the structure of the 2008 LTIP: was necessary to ensure the retention of the Executive Chairman and that his ongoing retention is critical in enhancing shareholder value.
Secondly, the salary of the Group Finance Director was increased from 191,941 to 1st Award 2nd Award 200,000 with this increase being applied from 1 October 2010.
Performance To 30 January 2010 29 January 2011 000 000 The Committee have determined that salaries for the Executive Directors should be increased effective from 1 April 2011 as follows: Amount Payable: P Cowgill 400 450 Position B Bown 350 394 Previous New Against Executive Salary Salary Percentage Comparator B Small 250 281 Director 000 000 Increase Group Other Key Executives 1,500 1,625 P Cowgill 700 700 0.0% Upper 2,500 2,750 Quartile B Bown 302 310 2.5% Lower The targets for these awards were average headline earnings of 40 million Quartile for the three year period ending 30 January 2010 and 48 million for the three B Small 200 205 2.5% Lower year period ending 29 January 2011.
Consequently these awards have been Quartile paid in full.
Headline earnings are defined as profit before tax and exceptional items including the share of exceptional items of the joint venture.
The Comparator Group for these purposes is the FTSE 250 companies.
To ensure the continued retention and motivation of the Executive Directors These salary increases are consistent with pay increases implemented and other Key Executives the Board put forward a new cash based Long Term throughout the Group.
Incentive Plan 2010 LTIP to the Annual General Meeting held on 9 June 2010.
This proposal, which was for a single payment only, was approved with Annual bonus the structure set out below: The Group offers Executive Directors and senior executives the opportunity to earn performance related bonuses through the achievement of challenging Performance To 2 February 2013 EPS targets.
The Committee reviews these targets at the beginning and end 000 of each financial year to ensure that they remain fair and challenging and are appropriate to the current market conditions and position of the Group.
Amount Payable: P Cowgill 500 Whilst the normal maximum bonus potential is 100% of salary, the Committee has the discretion to pay bonuses above that level for exceptional performance.
B Bown 437 This discretion was utilised in the year to 29 January 2011 with awards of B Small 313 120% of salary awarded to the Executive Directors.
The Committee feels that this award is fully justified given that the Groups performance was Other Key Executives 2,750 considerably above market expectations early in the financial year.
4,000 Special retention payment The 2010 LTIP will be payable in full in 2013 if the following performance At the 2011 AGM, the Board will be proposing a special retention scheme for conditions are both satisfied: the Executive Chairman designed to ensure that he is retained until at least 31 March 2014 and focused on driving shareholder value.
The proposed Average headline earnings defined above of 74 million over the three year retention scheme has been discussed with two of the Companys three performance period from 31 January 2010 to 2 February 2013 largest shareholders, Pentland Group Plc and Aberforth Funds, who are supportive of it.
Full details are set out in the 2011 Notice of Annual Absolute headline earnings of at least 74 million in the year to 2 February 2013 General Meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
Lower awards to a minimum of 40% will be paid on a sliding scale if the performance on either of these criteria is in the range of 70 million to 74 million.
If the performance under either of these criteria is below 70 million then no award will be payable.
46 Again, the Committee determined that, given the current shareholder structure Total Shareholder Return and the lack of a large free float, the delivery mechanism for the 2010 LTIP will be in cash although all payments will be non-pensionable.
The following graph shows the Total Shareholder Return TSR of the Group in comparison to the FTSE All Share General Retailers Index over the past five An amount of 2,250,000 has been recognised in the Consolidated Income years.
The Committee consider the FTSE All Share General Retailers Index a Statement for the period ended 29 January 2011 2010: 1,750,000 being relevant index for total shareholder return comparison disclosure required under one-third of the 2nd award of the 2008 LTIP payable 2010: one-third of 1st the Regulations as the index represents the broad range of UK quoted retailers.
award and one-third of 2nd award and one-third of the 2010 LTIP payable 2010: nil.
These amounts are consistent with the vesting profile of a three TSR is calculated for each financial year end relative to the base date of year performance period.
31 January 2006 by taking the percentage change of the market price over the relevant period, re-investing any dividends at the ex-dividend rate.
Other benefits The Company makes contributions into individual personal pension schemes 400 for Barry Bown and Brian Small at a defined percentage of salary, excluding 350 bonus and other forms of remuneration.
300 Other benefits vary from director to director and include entitlement to a fully expensed car, private health care for the Executive Director and immediate 250 family and life assurance to provide cover equal to four times the Executive Directors salary.
Car benefits have been calculated in accordance with HM % 200 Revenue and Customs scale charges.
150 The Executive Chairman does not receive any pension contribution 100 or car allowance.
50 The Committee actively reviews the levels of benefit received to ensure that they remain competitive in the UK quoted environment.
0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Service Contracts JD Sports Fashion Plc Details of the contracts currently in place for Executive Directors are as follows: FTSE All Share General Retailers Index Notice Period Date Of Contract Months Unexpired Term P Cowgill 16 March 2004 12 Rolling 12 months B Bown 20 February 2009 12 Rolling 12 months B Small 10 March 2004 12 Rolling 12 months Each service contract includes provision for compensation commitments in the event of early termination.
For each of the Executive Directors, these commitments do not exceed one years salary and benefits.
The Committee consider these levels of compensation for loss of office appropriate in light of the levels of basic salary levels and prevailing market conditions.
In the event of gross misconduct, the Company may terminate the service contract of an Executive Director immediately and with no liability to make further payments other than in respect of amounts accrued at the date of termination.
The service agreements and letters of appointment are available for inspection by shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and during normal business hours at the Companys registered office address.
In accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the 2011 AGM.
Non-Executive Directorships The Board recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other businesses and that the knowledge and experience which they gain in those appointments could be of benefit to the Company.
Prior approval of the Board is required before acceptance of any new appointments.
During the year to 29 January 2011, only Peter Cowgill held Non-Executive positions through his role as Non-Executive Chairman of United Carpets Group Plc and MBL Group Plc.
He has retained earnings of 372,000 in respect of these offices.
Non-Executive Directors The Non-Executive Directors have entered into letters of appointment with the Company which are terminable by the Non-Executive Director or the Company on not less than three months notice.
Non-Executive Director remuneration is determined by the Board taking into account the scope and nature of their duties and market rates.
The NonExecutive Directors do not participate in the Companys incentive arrangements and no pension contributions are made in respect of them.
Details of their fees are set out in the audited information on page 48.
47 AUDITED INFORMATION Individual Directors Emoluments Directors salaries and benefits charged in the period to 29 January 2011 are set out below together with comparatives for the period to 30 January 2010.
The final payment under this arrangement was made in March 2010.
The emoluments for 2011 reflect the increased salary which was determined during the year.
ii Andrew Leslie joined the Board on 1 May 2010.
His emoluments therefore reflect the nine month period to 29 January 2011.
The pension contributions represent amounts payable to defined contribution pension schemes.
Cash Based Long Term Incentive Plans In addition, the following amounts have been provided in the period ended 29 January 2011 in respect of the Long Term Incentive Plans.
The amounts recognised comprise one third of the amount proposed for the 2nd award of the 2008 LTIP based on Group performance in the final year of the three year vesting period and one third of the 2010 LTIP based on Group performance in the first year of the three year vesting period.
The 2010 LTIP will be payable in 2013 subject to the Group reaching certain performance targets over the three year performance period to 2 February 2013 as described above.
Colin Archer Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 13 April 2011 48 Bank, Trafford Centre, Manchester 49 50 The final dividend has been increased by 31% South Africa international and Canterbury Brand Ambassador, Bryan Habana, wearing Canterbury technical Base Layer garments 51
