Directors Report: Corporate Governance Governance Framework continued Lord Renwick of Clifton, KCMG The attendance of Directors at scheduled meetings of the Appointed to the Board: 2005 Board which they were eligible to attend and the number Nationality: British of meetings attended during 2011 is shown below: Skills and experience: Lord Renwick has had a diplomatic Number of Number of career spanning over 30 years, including serving as British scheduled Board scheduled Ambassador to the United States and to South Africa.
meetings eligible Board meetings Directors during the year to attend attended He was a non-executive director of BHP Billiton plc, SABMiller plc, British Airways plc, Liberty International Vladimir Kim 6 5 plc, Fluor Corporation and Harmony Gold Mining Oleg Novachuk 6 6 Company Limited.
Lord Renwicks diplomatic, financial 1 David Munro 33 and mining experience make him a valuable contributor 2 Eduard Ogay 43 to the Board.
Philip Aiken 6 6 Other appointments: Deputy chairman of Fleming Clinton Dines 6 6 Family & Partners Limited and a non-executive director of Compagnie Financire Richemont SA and Bumi plc.
He is Simon Heale 6 6 3 also vice chairman, Investment Banking of J. P. Morgan Peter Hickson 32 Europe and vice chairman of J. P. Morgan Cazenove.
Lord Renwick 6 5 Committee memberships: Chairman of the 4 Charles Watson 22 Remuneration Committee and a member of the Daulet Yergozhin 6 5 Nomination Committee.
1 David Munro retired as a Director on 13 May 2011.
Charles Watson 2 Eduard Ogay was appointed as a Director on 13 May 2011.
Appointed to the Board: 2011 3 Peter Hickson retired as a Director on 13 May 2011.
Nationality: British 4 Charles Watson was appointed as a Director on Skills and experience: Charles Watson has an extensive 24 August 2011. background in both operational management and major Vladimir Kim, Eduard Ogay, Peter Hickson and Lord project delivery, having spent 29 years at Shell during Renwick missed one Board meeting each due to a which time he held a number of senior executive conict in schedules and Daulet Yergozhin missed one positions throughout the world, culminating in his Board meeting due to a conict in schedules arising from appointment as executive vice president covering Russia his commitments as a minister in the Government of and the CIS, including oversight of Shells activities in Kazakhstan.
They provided any comments to the Kazakhstan, chairman of Shell Russia and chairman of Chairman or Company Secretary on matters to be theboard of directors for the Sakhalin Energy Investment discussed in advance of those meetings they missed.
Committee memberships: Member of the Audit, and In addition to the six scheduled meetings of the Board Group Health, Safety and Environment Committees.
during the year, two further meetings were arranged at short notice to deal with specic matters and it was not Commitment always possible for all Directors to attend such meetings.
All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting Furthermore, two meetings were held during the year and each meeting of the committees of which they are which focused solely on a review of the Groups strategy.
members, unless there are exceptional circumstances which prevent them from doing so.
Scheduled Board and Development committee meetings are arranged at least a year in advance Following appointment to the Board, all new Directors to allow Directors to manage their other commitments.
receive a comprehensive and structured induction tailored to their individual requirements.
The induction All Directors are provided with the papers for programme, which is arranged by the Company consideration and other relevant information in advance Secretary, includes visits to some of the Groups of each meeting.
If a Director is unable to attend a businesses and meetings with senior managers and meeting because of exceptional circumstances, he will advisers as appropriate.
The programme is designed still receive the papers and other relevant information tofacilitate their understanding of the Group, the key inadvance of the meeting and will have the opportunity drivers of business performance, the role of the Board to discuss with the chairman of the meeting or the and its committees, the Companys corporate Company Secretary any matters he wishes to raise to governance practices and procedures, and provides ensure his views are given due consideration and, if them with appropriate training and guidance as to their necessary, follow up with the decisions taken at the duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a director of meeting.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Company apublic limited company.
Secretary are always available for the Directors to discuss any issues relating to a Board or committee meeting or To assist Directors in the performance of their duties, other matters.
Reasons for non-attendance are generally there are procedures to provide them with appropriate prior business and personal commitments or illness.
and timely information, including information between meetings about developments in the Groups business and financial performance, so that they can discharge their duties on strategic, financial, operational, compliance and governance issues.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 98 5 Where appropriate, additional training and updates on non-executive Directors by each Director excluding particular issues are arranged.
For example, over the last Charles Watson who was appointed on 24 August 2011, 12 months, members of the Board have made visits to which were completed in 2011, and will be followed by the Groups operations in Kazakhstan and have received one-to-one interviews between the external consultant specic briengs by management on the introduction of and each Director and the preparation by the external the UK Corporate Governance Code and the UK Bribery consultant of a composite written report.
All Directors are provided with the opportunity, the performance evaluation report will be presented and and encouraged to attend, for training to ensure they discussed at the May 2012 Board meeting and will be are kept up to date on relevant legal and financial disclosed in next years Annual Report and Accounts.
developments or changes in best practice, and changing commercial and other risks.
Typical training for Directors The performance evaluation process undertaken in early includes attendance at seminars, forums, conferences 2011 in respect of the calendar year 2010 concluded and working groups as well as receiving e-mail alerts that the Board and its committees continue to operate from relevant bodies providing updates on various legal, effectively and each Director is contributing effectively regulatory and corporate governance matters.
and demonstrates commitment to his role, although there were certain areas identied for improvement in relation to To ensure the Board as a whole remains fully informed a greater focus by the Board on risk oversight and strategy.
of the views of shareholders, the Board receives regular The Board has taken steps during the year to address reports on shareholder sentiment from the Head of these areas identied for improvement by receiving more Corporate Communications.
Although not part of their detailed, regular reports from the Audit Committee on the induction programme, all non-executive Directors have Groups key risks, in advance of the Boards annual review a standing invitation to attend shareholder meetings of internal control and risk management, and a greater and analyst presentations, and shareholders may meet focus on monitoring the strategic issues and the informally with Directors at the Annual General Meeting.
challenges facing the mining industry.
Information and support During the year, the Chairman held a number of meetings The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, is with non-executive Directors without executive Directors responsible for advising the Board on all governance being present.
The Senior Independent Director also matters and for ensuring that Board procedures are led the non-executive Directors in evaluating the followed, that applicable rules and regulations are performance of the Chairman.
As part of the evaluation complied with and that due account is taken of relevant of the performance of the Chairman, the Board remains codes of best practice.
The Company Secretary is also satisfied that the Chairman is able to full all of the responsible for ensuring good information ows within commitments required of his role.
the Board and its committees and between senior management and non-executive Directors.
All Directors Re-election have access to the advice and services of the Company New Directors appointed by the Board must submit Secretary and, in appropriate circumstances, may obtain themselves for election by shareholders at the Annual independent professional advice at the Companys General Meeting following their appointment.
The appointment and removal of the Company Watson having been appointed by the Board on Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
24 August 2011, will retire and submit himself for election atthe forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The UK The Company Secretary is Robert Welch, who joined the Corporate Governance Code requires that all Directors Group in 2006 as Deputy Company Secretary and was be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The appointed to his current position in March 2007.
He is Board has decided to adopt this requirement as part of an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries the Boards commitment to shareholder accountability.
and Administrators and is secretary to all of the Board Accordingly, all other Directors will be submitted for committees except the Audit Committee.
The secretary re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
to the Audit Committee is Stephen Hodges, Deputy Company Secretary, who joined the Group in 2007 and is Conicts of interest also an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries From 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 and Administrators.
introduced a new statutory duty requiring a director to avoid a situation in which he has or can have a direct or Performance evaluation indirect interest that conicts or possibly may conict In line with the Companys policy and in compliance with with the interests of the Company.
This duty is in addition the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, a to the existing duty that a Director owes to the Company full Board performance evaluation process, facilitated by to disclose to the Board any transaction or arrangement an external consultant, Lintstock Ltd, was undertaken in under consideration by the Company.
The Companys late 2011 early 2012, the previous externally facilitated Articles of Association include provisions giving the Board performance evaluation having been performed in Directors authority to approve such situations and to 2008.
The process was carefully structured but pragmatic, allow conicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar tailored to bring about a genuine debate of issues that are way to the position that existed prior to the coming into relevant, aiming to assist in identifying any potential for force of this legislation.
There is no breach of duty if the improvement in the Companys processes.
It entails the relevant situation has been so authorised in advance.
completion of detailed questionnaires on the performance of the Board, its committees and its executive and www.
com 99 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Governance Framework continued The Board has a procedure when deciding whether to Anti-Bribery and Corruption Code, Facilitation Payments authorise a conict or potential conict of interest.
Under Policy, Gifts and Hospitality Policy, Third Party Due this procedure, Directors are required to declare all Diligence Compliance Programme, Conicts of Interest directorships or other appointments outside of the Policy and Speak-Up Policy.
Group and which could give rise to a conict or potential conict of interest.
In consideration of each conict or In order to disseminate the Group Anti-Bribery and potential conict of interest declared by a Director, rstly, Corruption Compliance Programme across the Group, a only independent Directors i. e. those who have no training, monitoring and assurance programme has been interest in the matter being considered will be able to developed.
Owing to the size of the Group, the Group take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Compliance Programme is decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in being rolled out on a staggered basis with those areas of good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys the business with the greatest bribery and corruption risk success.
In addition, the Directors will be able to impose being implemented first.
A bespoke face-to-face training limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think programme has been initially rolled out to senior staff in this is appropriate.
the areas of greatest risk with new staff being provided with details of the Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption The Company Secretary minutes the consideration of any Compliance Programme as part of their induction.
conict or potential conict of interest and authorisations Furthermore, a number of articles are being placed in granted by the Board are recorded by the Company internal newsletters highlighting the new policies and Secretary in a register of conicts of interest.
On an procedures and an Anti-Bribery and Corruption portal ongoing basis, the Directors are responsible for has been established to provide all employees with informing the Company Secretary of any new, actual or areference tool.
potential conicts that may arise or, if there are any changes in circumstances that may affect an authorisation Accountability previously given.
Even when provided with authorisation, Internal control a Director is not absolved from his duty to promote the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups success of the Company.
system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
Such a system Furthermore, the Companys Articles of Association is designed to identify, evaluate and manage the include further provisions relating to condential significant risks associated with the Groups achievement information, attendance at Board meetings and of its business objectives, with a view to safeguarding availability of Board papers to protect a Director being shareholders investments and the Groups assets.
This inbreach of duty if a conict of interest arises.
These system is designed to meet the Companys particular provisions will only apply where the position giving rise needs and the risks to which it is exposed, and is tothe potential conict has previously been authorised designed to manage rather than eliminate risk.
of the limitations inherent in any system of internal control, such a system can provide reasonable, but not UK Bribery Act 2010 absolute, assurance against material misstatement The UK Bribery Act 2010 came into force on 1 July 2011 orloss.
The Board confirms that, throughout the year and establishes criminal offences of bribing another ended 31 December 2011 and up to the date of approval person, being bribed, bribery of foreign ofcials and the of this Annual Report and Accounts, there have been failure of a commercial organisation to prevent bribery.
processes in place for identifying, evaluating and Inresponse to the new legislation, the Group established managing the significant risks faced by the Group in an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Steering Group, chaired accordance with the Turnbull Guidance as amended by the Company Secretary, which reviewed the Groups bythe Flint Review.
internal guidelines on anti-bribery and corruption and developed and implemented a Group Anti-Bribery and The Board has adopted a risk-based approach in Corruption Compliance Programme to assist in the establishing the Groups system of internal control and prevention of involvement of individuals or Group inreviewing its effectiveness.
To identify and manage key entities in unlawful activities.
The Board has adopted risks, the Board has established a number of Group-wide aclear position on bribery and corruption and attaches procedures, policies and standards, has set up a the utmost importance to the Group Anti-Bribery and framework for reporting matters of signicance, has Corruption Compliance Programme in clarifying the authorised the Audit Committee to review the Groups standards expected of all employees of the Group approach to risk management and the effectiveness of wherever it does business.
the Groups financial reporting, internal control and assurance systems, has developed a system of regular The Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Compliance reports from management and has reserved specic key Programme includes: a clear statement of an anti-bribery matters for its decision.
The process is designed to and anti-corruption culture fully and visibly supported by provide assurance by way of cumulative assessment.
the Board, corruption risk assessments across the Group, clear and practical policies and procedures, due diligence of business partners, training, monitoring and assurance.
As part of the Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Compliance Programme, a number of new Group policies have been established including: Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 100 5 Risk governance structure Board oversight Board Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management Approves overall Group risk appetite Assurance Internal audit programme Internal audit Audit Committee Group Health, Safety and Remuneration Committee department Environment Committee Establishes a remuneration policy Reviews the adequacy and for the Groups senior management effectiveness of the Groups Reviews reports of significant Assesses management which enables them to share in internal control system health, safety and environmental assurance processes the long-term success of the risks and actions being taken to Reviews reports on significant Group without encouraging remove or mitigate them Advises on the excessive risk taking risks and controls adequacy and effectiveness of Receives and reviews reports systems to manage from internal audit business risk Identication, assessment and mitigation Risk Proling Site Assessment Risk proling exercises are conducted by operational Risk assessments of key sites conducted by the management in conjunction with Group Risk Manager Group Risk Manager and independent experts to identify assess and control business risks from internal audit Key elements of the Groups system of internal control t regular reports to the Audit Committee on the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control: and which have operated throughout the year are: t a remuneration policy for executives which motivates t Group financial, treasury, operating and administrative them, without delivering excessive benets or policies and procedures which incorporate statements encouraging excessive risk taking.
of required behaviour: The Board, in conjunction with management, continues t continuous review of safety, operating and financial to review and further develop the internal control performance of the Groups businesses: environment where appropriate.
Details of initiatives in t regular reports to the Board and Group Health, Safety the area of financial risk management can be found in the and Environment Committee on health, safety and Financial Review commencing on page 71, and initiatives environmental matters: in the area of health, safety and the environment can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Report commencing t monitoring by the Board of a comprehensive reporting on page 76. system, including monthly results, periodic short-term forecasts, annual budgets and long-term plans: All acquired businesses will be brought within the Groups t well-dened procedures for appraisal, approval, system of internal control as soon as practicable and in control and monitoring of major capital projects, any event within 12 months of acquisition.
ENRC PLC, in including acquisitions and disposals: which the Group has a 26% shareholding, has not been incorporated into the Groups system of internal control.
t an established methodology for ranking the level of risk in each of its business operations and the significant risk issues associated therewith: t implementation of appropriate strategies to deal with significant risks, including measures such as insurance and use of external specialists: t a centrally coordinated internal audit programme to support the Board in its role of ensuring a sound control environment: www.
com 101 M o n i t o r s s e s s A R e s p o n Directors Report: Corporate Governance Governance Framework continued Internal audit Risk management Internal audit advises management on the extent to The Group, in the course of its business activities, is which systems of internal control are adequate and exposed to strategic, financial, operational and compliance effective to manage business risk, safeguard the Groups risks.
Overall management of these risks is vested in the resources, and ensure compliance with legal and Board, with the Audit Committee having delegated regulatory requirements.
It provides objective assurance authority for reviewing the Groups risk management on risk and controls to senior management, the Audit framework.
The Board has approved a formalised but Committee and the Board.
pragmatic Group risk management framework.
This framework is designed to provide assurance that risks are Internal audits work is focused on areas of greatest risk being identied and managed in a manner appropriate to to the Group and its mandate and programme of work the Groups circumstances.
It comprises risk identication, is approved by the Audit Committee.
Based on the assessment and management processes, together with risk approved audit plan, internal audit has undertaken a response and monitoring activities.
number of audits across the Groups operations and functions to facilitate improvement of the Groups The Group Risk Manager coordinates the risk assessment internal controls and reports findings to relevant and identication activities, and facilitates the development operational management.
The Head of Internal Audit of appropriate responses to identied risks.
Details of the reports regularly to the Audit Committee and the process for identifying and managing the Groups risks is chairman of the Audit Committee reviews the set out on page 101 and further information of the risks remuneration of the Head of Internal Audit.
identied with mitigating actions where relevant are set out in the Principal Risks section on pages 34 to 37.
The Audit Committee receives reports from the Head of Internal Audit on the departments work and findings and Risk prole the effectiveness of the internal audit function is reviewed Once the Groups significant risks have been identied, and discussed on an annual basis with the Head of each risk is then assessed as to its probability of Internal Audit.
occurrence and impact on the Group.
Each risk is then placed on to the Group risk map and regularly reviewed Internal audit reports include recommendations to to ensure that its positioning continues to be an accurate improve internal controls together with agreed representation as to its probability and impact on the management action plans to resolve the issues raised.
There are also other risks which have been Internal audit follows up on the implementation of identied by management but which are not considered recommendations and reports progress to senior as one of the Groups significant risks at the current time.
management and the Audit Committee.
These risks are also placed onto the Group risk map but are identied as risks being closely monitored by A review of the internal audit function was performed management.
A graphic representation of the Group during the year by an external consultant which covered risk map is shown below.
key areas related to the operation of the internal audit department including: i managing internal audit How we prole our risk reporting activities: ii quality assurance: iii engagement planning and performance: iv communicating results: and v monitoring progress of the implementation of recommendations.
The review concluded that the internal audit function continued to operate effectively although there were certain areas identied for improvement in relation to the implementation of recommendations, follow up procedures, audit planning, internal audit responses, internal audit reporting and quality assurance.
The internal audit function is currently in the process of implementing a number of actions, agreed by the Audit Committee, to address the areas identied for improvement.
02 1 3 Probability Risk significant risks Closely monitor ed risks Management Framework Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 102 s e y f i t n e d I M a n a g e Impact 12 3 5 Relations with shareholders Shareholder by region % by number of shares held Dialogue with shareholders United 73.3% Kingdom The Board recognises the importance of good communications with shareholders and maintains an Republic of 26.5% active dialogue with its key financial audiences, including Kazakhstan institutional shareholders, sell-side analysts and potential Rest of the world 0.2% shareholders.
The Chief Executive and the Chief Financial officer are closely involved in investor relations and the Head of Corporate Communications has day-to-day responsibility for such matters.
The Company has approved a communications policy which has been adopted throughout the Group.
The executive Directors are available, through the Head of Shareholder by sector % by number of holders Corporate Communications, to discuss the concerns of major shareholders at any time during the year and the Private 34.7% Chairman is available to discuss governance and strategy shareholders with major shareholders.
Non-executive Directors, and in Banks nominees 62.8% particular the Senior Independent Director, will continue to make themselves available to attend meetings with Other shareholders 2.5% shareholders in order to develop an understanding of their views.
During the year, Philip Aiken, Senior Independent Director, attended a number of meetings with institutional shareholders to discuss their views on the Group and received feedback on the Chairmans performance following the annual Board performance evaluation process.
The Company responds as necessary to requests General Meetings from individual shareholders on a wide range of issues.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is circulated to all shareholders at least 20 business days prior to such There is regular dialogue with key institutional a meeting and it is Company policy not to combine shareholders and sell-side analysts to discuss strategy, resolutions.
All shareholders are invited to attend the financial performance and investment activities Annual General Meeting at which there is an opportunity throughout the Group, who also from time to time visit for individual shareholders to question the Chairman the Groups operations.
During 2011, executive Directors and, through him, the chairmen of the principal Board and senior management met with institutional investors committees.
After the Annual General Meeting, in the United Kingdom, continental Europe, Canada, shareholders can meet informally with the Directors.
United States of America, China, Hong Kong and Furthermore, all shareholders are entitled to receive Singapore and attended several conferences in United dividends, when declared, to appoint proxies to attend Kingdom, Europe and North America providing a any general meeting of the Company and to exercise comprehensive dialogue with shareholders.
None of the Companys shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company The Company issues quarterly production updates andthere are no restrictions on voting rights.
Major normally in January, April, July and October and interim shareholders have the same voting rights per share as management statements normally in April and October all other shareholders.
These, together with copies of institutional analyst presentations each half year, the Groups All members of the Board excluding Peter Hickson and preliminary and half-yearly results and all announcements Eduard Ogay who were unable to attend due to conicts issued to the London Stock Exchange and the Hong Kong in schedules attended the 2011 Annual General Stock Exchange in English and in Chinese, are available Meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting, the Chairman on the Companys website www.
provides a brief summary of the Companys activities for Furthermore, the Company has taken full advantage of the previous year to the shareholders.
All resolutions at the provisions within the Companies Act 2006 allowing the 2011 Annual General Meeting were voted by way the website to be used as the primary means of of a poll.
The procedure for voting on a poll follows communication with shareholders where they have not best practice and allows the Company to count all votes requested hard copy documentation.
The Company rather than just those of shareholders attending the now produces an annual Super Summary which is sent meeting.
As recommended by the New Code, all to all shareholders who have not requested hard copy resolutions were voted separately and the voting results, documentation to advise them of the availability of the which included all votes cast for, against and those Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of Annual withheld, together with all proxies lodged prior to the General Meeting on the Companys website.
meeting, were announced to the London Stock Exchange and made available on the Companys website as soon The Shareholder Information section on pages 207 to 209 aspracticable after the meeting.
As in previous years, the contains further details on electronic communications Form of Proxy made it clear that a vote withheld is not together with more general information of interest to avote in law and will not be counted in the calculation shareholders which is also included on the Companys ofthe proportion of votes for or against a resolution.
The Directors responsibility statement for the preparation of the Annual Report and Accounts is set out on page 124. www.
com 103 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Governance Framework continued Board committees Safety and Environment, Nomination and Remuneration The four principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Committees and the Deputy Company Secretary, Group Health, Safety and Environment, Nomination and Stephen Hodges, is secretary to the Audit Committee.
Board committee members The terms of reference of each committee are available are appointed by the Board upon the recommendation on the Companys website www.
com and on of the Nomination Committee, which reviews the request from the Company Secretary at the Companys composition of each committee regularly.
The terms of reference of each members are expected to attend each committee committee are reviewed annually.
Each committee meeting, unless there are exceptional circumstances reports on its activities to the next Board meeting which prevent them from doing so.
The Company following its meeting.
Secretary, Robert Welch, is secretary to the Group Health, Board of Directors Group Health, Audit Safety and Nomination Remuneration Committee Environment Committee Committee Committee Board committee membership The current membership of the Boards committees is shown in the table below: Group Health, Safety and Audit Environment Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Vladimir Kim C Oleg Novachuk Eduard Ogay Philip Aiken C M M Clinton Dines M M Simon Heale C M M Lord Renwick M C Charles Watson M M Daulet Yergozhin C: Chairman of committee M: Member of committee Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 104 5 The Committee has decided to commence a formal, Audit Committee competitive tender process for the provision of external audit services.
It is intended that the chosen external auditor will be in place in time for the review of the Groups half-yearly results due to be released in August 2012 and therefore also for the audit in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012.
Ernst & Young LLP, the Groups current external auditor, will be considered for the role as part of the tender process.
Attendance at Audit Committee meetings The attendance of members at scheduled meetings of the Audit Committee which they were eligible to attend, including two scheduled meetings which were convened to discuss one item of business only, being the financial disclosures in the Interim Management Statements, and the number of meetings attended during 2011 is shown below: Number of Number of scheduled scheduled Audit Audit Committee Committee The Board relies on the Audit Committee to meetings eligible meetings Members during the year to attend attended provide effective governance over financial Simon Heale 7 7 reporting and internal control, together with Clinton Dines 7 7 the identi cation and management of risk.
1 Peter Hickson 33 2 Simon Heale Charles Watson 22 Chairman, Audit Committee 1 Peter Hickson retired as a member of the Committee on 13 May 2011.
Other members 2 Charles Watson was appointed as a member of the Committee Clinton Dines on 24 August 2011.
Peter Hickson to 13 May 2011 Charles Watson from 24 August 2011 In addition to the seven scheduled meetings of the Audit Committee during the year, one further meeting was The Committee is primarily responsible for reviewing arranged at short notice to deal with speci c matters.
and monitoring the integrity of financial reporting by the Company, for reviewing the Groups internal control Role of the Audit Committee and risk management systems, for monitoring the Key roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function and include: for overseeing the relationship with the external auditor.
t monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of Governance the annual and half-yearly results, interim management Simon Heale has recent and relevant financial experience: statements and any other formal announcement his biography is set out on page 93.
The other members relating to financial performance, including a review of of the Committee, Clinton Dines and Charles Watson, the financial reporting judgements which they contain: have broad commercial experience and knowledge t reviewing the Companys internal financial controls, of international businesses which they bring to the internal control and risk management systems: Committees deliberations.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Of cer, Company Secretary, Head of t monitoring the role and effectiveness of the internal audit function: Internal Audit and the external auditor are normally invited to attend Committee meetings.
t establishing and overseeing the Companys relationship with the external auditor, including the At the end of each meeting the Committee normally monitoring of their independence and expertise, the meets separately with both the external auditor and Head terms of reference of their engagement and fees, and of Internal Audit, without management present, to discuss assessing the effectiveness of the audit process: any matter relating to its remit and any issues arising from t agreeing the scope of the external auditors annual external and internal audits.
Arrangements have also audit plan and reviewing the output: been adopted to ensure that the Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Committee chairman and is t considering and making recommendations to the accountable to the Committee.
Furthermore, the chairman Board on the appointment and re-appointment of of the Committee meets from time to time with the the external auditor: and external auditor and senior management to ensure t reviewing annually the Committees own performance, a full understanding of relevant issues.
constitution and terms of reference.
com 105 Directors Report: Corporate Governance Governance Framework continued Activities in 2011 External auditor: t approved the terms of engagement of the external At its meetings in 2011, the Committee considered, auditor, the fees paid to them and the scope of work amongst other matters, the following: carried out by them: Financial reporting: t performed an annual review of the policies on the t reviewed annual and half-yearly results and interim independence and objectivity of the external auditor, management statements, including accounting the employment of former employees of the external policies, significant financial reporting estimates and auditor, and the use of the external auditor for judgements applied in preparing them and the non-audit services: transparency and clarity of the disclosures within them: t assessed the independence and objectivity of the t reviewed the financial disclosures in the listing external auditor and in this process reviewed a report documents for the secondary listing on the Hong Kong from the external auditor on all relationships that Stock Exchange: might reasonably have a bearing on their independence and the audit partner and staffs t received reports from management and the external objectivity, and the related safeguards and procedures: auditor on accounting, financial reporting and taxation issues: and t received reports on the findings of the external auditor during their half-yearly review and annual audit and t reviewed the basis for preparing the Group accounts reviewed the recommendations made to management on a going concern basis.
by the external auditor and managements responses: Internal control: t reviewed the quality assurance processes of the t received reports from management on the external auditor: implementation of enhanced financial reporting procedures and controls: t reviewed letters of representation to the external auditor: t reviewed the design and effectiveness of the Groups t assessed the effectiveness of the external auditor: and system of internal control as set out on page 101 and t recommended the re-appointment of the external auditor.
the disclosures made in the Annual Report and Accounts on this matter: Other matters: t received reports from management on the t reviewed and recommended to the Board establishment of a Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption amendments to the Group Treasury Policy: and Compliance Programme which includes updated t reviewed the Groups processes for disclosing Speak-Up arrangements by which staff may, in information to the external auditor and the statement confidence, raise concerns about possible legal, concerning such disclosure in the Annual Report regulatory or other improprieties in matters of financial andAccounts.
reporting and other matters: Risk management: t received a presentation on the controls and assurance t reviewed and challenged the Groups significant risks plan over geological reserves and resources: identied by management in the Group risk map, t reviewed the methodology for producing the disclosure and reviewed the effectiveness of the Group risk of the mining reserves and resources and other relevant management framework as described on page 102, disclosures in the Annual Report and Accounts: and reports arising out of the risk management process: t reviewed its terms of reference and the results of t monitored the Groups significant insurance the performance evaluation of the Committee: arrangements and reviewed the Groups insurance broking arrangements: and t reviewed the training requirements of the Committee members: t received a presentation on a risk management review of the Kazakhmys Power business.
t received a presentation on the changes to the structure, resources and succession planning of Internal audit: the finance function: t reviewed the results of an external report of the performance and effectiveness of the internal audit t received a presentation by the external auditor on function commissioned by the Committee in late 2010: the economic, financial and legal developments in Kazakhstan: and t approved the internal audit departments three-year strategic and annual operational plans and reviewed t received an update from management on the latest reports from the internal audit department relating to technical accounting and regulatory issues.
control issues: and reviewed the level of resources allocated to the internal audit department to ensure The Committee also receives reports on developments the annual operational plan could be delivered as part in financial reporting practices, legislative and regulatory of the overall assessment of the effectiveness of the changes and other relevant matters so as to assist it in internal audit department.
Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2011 106 5 In light of the publication by the Financial Reporting Nomination Committee Council FRC of a revised version of its Guidance on Audit Committees, the Committees policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit services was reviewed and amended to include statements of principle and revisions to the list of those non-audit services which may and may not be provided by the external auditor.
The Committees policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor and their associates includes the identi cation of certain non-audit services which may or may not be provided and a process through which other non-audit services may be approved.
The policy requires any new engagement with the external auditor for non-audit services in excess of 100,000 that may be provided by the external auditor to be approved in advance by the Chief Financial Of cer and the Committee chairman or a sub-committee of any two members, with any non-audit services up to a limit of 100,000 being approved by the Chief Financial Of cer.
The Nomination Committee has had a busy year, Any project or engagement with the external auditor securing the appointment of two Directors.
It has in excess of 20,000 that is not included in the list of focused on ensuring Kazakhmys has the best those non-audit services which may be provided by the external auditor must be approved in advance by the Board to support its business going forward.
Committee or a sub-committee of any two members of the Committee, with any such services up to a limit of Vladimir Kim 20,000 being approved by the Chief Financial Of cer.
In Chairman, Nomination Committee addition, any such non-audit services in excess of 100,000 must be subject to a competitive tender process.
Other members Philip Aiken The non-audit services of the external auditor will only be Simon Heale used where the Group bene ts in a cost-effective manner Lord Renwick and the external auditor maintains the necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
Details of all non-audit services are reported to the Committee twice a year.
The The Committee is primarily responsible for leading the policy will be kept under review and may be amended process for Board appointments and for keeping under from time to time as necessary.
review the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board to ensure the orderly evolution of Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor the membership of the Board.
for audit and non-audit services for the year ended 31 December 2011 and information on the nature of The Committee, which provides a formal and transparent non-audit fees appear in note 13 to the consolidated procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the financial statements on page 163.
Board, generally consults external consultants and advisers on prospective Board appointments.
The As part of the implementation of the Group Anti-Bribery Committee keeps under review the planned and and Corruption Compliance Programme, a revised formal progressive refreshing of the Board and its committees, Speak-Up policy has been introduced.
The Speak-Up prepares a description of the speci c experience and policy is designed to encourage employees to report skills needed for an appointment, considers candidates alleged or actual malpractices or misconduct, to ensure put forward by external consultants, and recommends to that all allegations are thoroughly investigated and the Board the appointment of all Directors after having suitable action taken where necessary.
The policy met short-listed candidates.
It also supervises and puts includes a number of procedures relating to reporting into place succession planning for non-executive including the provision of a dedicated con dential Directors and certain senior managers and reviews and, helpline operated by a third party in a number of where appropriate, recommends to the Board for languages and investigation procedures.
authorisation Directors con icts of interest.
The Groups internal audit function makes an important Governance contribution to the Committee in discharging its The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman responsibilities.
The Committee reviewed and agreed of the Company.
Whilst he is not deemed to be the three year internal audit strategic plan and the independent, the majority of the members of the internal audit functions performance and effectiveness Committee are independent non-executive Directors in was evaluated through an external review of the function, accordance with provision B.
2.1 of the UK Corporate the quality of reports provided to the Committee, Governance Code.
When dealing with any matters management responses to audit findings, the timeliness concerning the Chairman of the Company, the chairman of the implementation of recommendations and interviews of the Committee will absent himself from meetings, as with management and members of the Committee.
required, and Lord Renwick would take the chair.
The level of skills and expertise of the members of the internal audit department, including staff numbers, were also reviewed.
